29-07-2021||Vijay Arora
||Submit data of govt land encroached: Himachal  HC||Shimla, July 28 The Himachal Pradesh High Court today took serious note of encroachments on government land in Chamba district and directed the government to provide data pertaining to such cases in the entire state within four weeks. A division Bench comprising Acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Jyotsna Rewal Dua passed the order on a petition filed by Tek Chand of Chamba district. The petitioner has alleged that initially a few miscreants encroached upon government land in Panjoi gram panchayat and now over 50 people have built houses/ shops there and have also taken electricity connections for the shops without submitting the requisite documents.  He alleged that he had filed complaints against several persons and eviction proceedings were ordered against them. However, the proceedings are going on for years without any action against the encroachers.  The petitioner stated that he filed a writ petition and a contempt petition in this regard and the government issued eviction orders against the encroachers following court orders, but has not yet dispossessed them of government land.  During the course of hearing, the court was informed by the Deputy Commissioner, Chamba, through an affidavit that eviction orders were passed against 47 encroachers. However, the orders were executed against 26 persons only as 21 persons filed appeals before the Appellate Authority-cum-Divisional Commissioner, Kangra, and got stay orders. However, the counsel for the state assured the court that in all similar matters in the entire state, the data would be submitted as to the number of cases that had been filed against the government in any capacity whatsoever, where interim orders were in operation against the government, from what date they were operating and what efforts the government had made to get its land vacated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/submit-data-of-govt-land-encroached-himachal-hc-289817
29-07-2021||ibune News Service
||Court complex stone laid at Arki||Solan, July 28 Acting Chief Justice of the Himachal Pradesh High Court Justice Ravi Vijaykumar Malimath laid the foundation stone of a judicial complex at Arki. The complex will be constructed at a cost of Rs 11.49 crore. Justice Sandeep Sharma of the state High Court chaired the programme, while Bhupesh Sharma, District and Sessions Judge, Solan, Prashant Negi, Judicial Magistrate, Arki, and SDM Sahzad Alam were also present. The Public Works Department (PWD) will soon award tenders for the work, which is slated to be completed within 18 months. The four-storey building will have a parking at the basement with other facilities such as Bar rooms, waiting area for the litigants, new courts, a computer room and a library, besides other facilities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/court-complex-stone-laid-at-arki-289818
29-07-2021||---||Rules bent to favour Dehra MLA’s kin: Bharatiya Kisan Morcha leader||Dharamsala, July 28 Jasvir Singh, district president of the Bharatiya Kisan Morcha (BKM) from Dehra, while addressing mediapersons here on Tuesday, alleged that Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board officials were giving undue benefits to the brother of Independent MLA from Dehra Hoshiar Singh. With information taken under the RTI Act, Jasvir alleged that the Power Department had installed 14 poles and laid power lines of about 1 km free of cost to the property of the MLA’s brother. He alleged that if any person wanted to get a power connection, the department asks him to deposit charges in advance. He alleged that only after he filed a complaint the department asked the MLA’s brother to deposit Rs 3.77 lakh as installation charges for the poles and the power line. However, he did not deposit the amount. Dehra SDO Ravi Sharma said that an estimate for installing the poles and the power line was sanctioned by the office of the Executive Engineer. However, after some people lodged a complaint, the Electricity Board constituted a committee to probe the matter. The committee observed that since the line was laid for an individual, property the party should pay the  charges.  “We have given four notices to the owner of the property to deposit Rs 3.77 lakh. He is yet to deposit the amount,” he said. Jasvir alleged that the Soil Conservation Department had spent Rs 14 lakh on building the retaining walls to his property while many farmers, who had lost their agriculture land to erosion, had been denied the benefit. Hoshiar Singh said the property belonged to his brother and he had nothing to do with it. “The Electricity Department had asked him to deposit Rs 3.77 lakh but he was fighting a case in the state Electricity Regulatory Commission.” Asked about Rs 14 lakh spent by the Soil Conservation Department on the property, he said, “My brother owned the property and he has a right to seek the benefits under government schemes”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rules-bent-to-favour-dehra-mlas-kin-bharatiya-kisan-morcha-leader-289819
29-07-2021||ibune News Service
||Illegal firecracker unit sealed in Baddi||Solan, July 28 The Baddi police today   sealed  an illegal firecracker factory at Thana village in the  industrial area and seized a huge cache of crackers and chemicals.  Factory owner Daya Karan was arrested last evening but workers managed to flee.  The SP, Baddi, Rohit Malpani, said, “A team of about 25 policemen, led by Baddi  DSP Navdeep Singh, raided the factory following a tip-off about illegal operations. There was  no signboard outside the factory and it was found  locked though  some workers were seen  working inside”. Alarmed at  seeing the police, the workers locked the factory from inside and escaped from the other door. The police broke open the locks and found a large cache of firecrackers in various stages of manufacturing, 18 drums  of nitric acid, seven drums of alcohol, 28 packaging machines,  and other machinery on the premises. As many as 646 firecracker boxes, and 15 tonnes of silica sand were also found. The factory owner, who was also present there, failed to produce the required licence to manufacture the  firecrackers. The firecrackers bore the label Original Colours and there was no other detail on the packets.  A case under Section 286 of the IPC and Section 13 of the Explosives Act has been registered against him. He was produced before a local court, which remanded him in five days’ police custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/illegal-firecracker-unit-sealed-in-baddi-289820
29-07-2021||Shimla||116 new Covid cases, two deaths in Himachal||As many as 116 cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 205,499. Besides, two persons died of the virus in Mandi and Chamba. The highest number of 32 cases was reported in Mandi. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/116-new-covid-cases-two-deaths-in-himachal-289821
29-07-2021||Ambika Sharma||Recurring landslips in Himachal no deterrent to tourists||Tribune News ServiceSolan, July 28A slew of fatal landslides in hilly terrains have failed to deter tourists from rushing to hilly areas in the monsoons.Vehicles can be seen lined up along the Kalka-Shimla National Highway (NH)-5 where the excavation work is under way for its four-laning. Since the highway leads to Solan, Shimla and Kinnaur districts, a huge influx of vehicles is usually witnessed.The incidents of stones rolling down onto the highway is a recurring problem. Excavation is under way near Timber Trail Resorts, where a bridge is being constructed. The stretch between Solan and Kandaghat is vulnerable.One can estimate the traffic influx from the toll collected at the Parwanoo inter-state barrier. A toll of Rs 4.05 lakh was collected last Sunday while the figure had touched Rs 4.07 lakh in the previous weekend, said officials of the State Taxes and Excise.Keeping in view the landslides, officials of the National Highways Authority of India have also put in place preventive measures.Project Director, NHAI, Suresh Sharma, said, “The work has been deferred at 15 or 16 sites on the Parwanoo-Kaithlighat section where the strata is fragile and the probability of landslides is high. Specific measures have been suggested by the Geological Survey of India to stabilise the slope, especially near the toll plaza at Sanwara. An estimate of about Rs 6 crore has been worked out and, if approved, the work will be initiated soon. Depending on its success, similar measures can be adopted at other slopes where landslides are reoccurring.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/recurring-landslips-in-himachal-no-deterrent-to-tourists-289822
29-07-2021||Rajiv Mahajan||Roads flooded, 15 Indora villages lose connectivity||NURPUR, JULY 28Torrential monsoon rain has snapped link road connectivity of 15 villages in the mand area of Indora subdivision in Kangra district.Three link roads — Ulherian to Mand Miyani, Ulherian to Mand Sanour and Thakurdwara to Malkana — in the Mand area have been damaged due to heavy rains and waterlogging, forcing local people either to travel 25 to 30 km more and use Gagwal to Mand Sanour link road or cross local tributaries of the Beas.Culverts on small seasonal khuds or nullahs were washed away due to flash floods. Some portions of these link roads, too, have suffered damage due to rain in the past 10 days.People are still risking their lives while wading through flooded tributaries of the Beas to reach their native places. They use these tributaries as a shorter approach to their villages. Commuters, who earlier had to travel only 7 km from Thakurdwara to Paral and Haler villages, are now forced to travel over 25 km to reach their destinations.Baldev Singh, Executive Engineer, PWD division, Indora, said due to heavy rains these link roads had been shut for vehicular traffic and as and when water recedes the department would repair these roads for public use. He said signboards were being installed to caution people against crossing flooded tributaries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/roads-flooded-15-indora-villages-lose-connectivity-289823
29-07-2021||---||Rain wreaks havoc in Lahaul, Kullu, Kangra||Shimla, July 28Nine deaths have been reported in rain-related incidents in various parts of the state in the past 24 hours, raising the death toll in the current monsoon season since June 13 to 202 while 11 persons are missing. Seven casualties have taken place in Lahaul and Spiti, while two persons have lost their lives in Chamba district.Rain wreaked havoc in Lahaul and Spiti, Chamba and Kullu and damaged property in Kangra, Shimla and Solan districts. As many as 387 roads were blocked in the state due to heavy rain and landslides.The maximum roads were blocked in Kullu (70), followed by Sirmaur (69), Shimla (59), Lahaul-Spiti (55), Chamba (47), Mandi (38) and Solan (34). About 240 transformers were damaged and 175 water schemes were disrupted.Dodra-Kwar in Shimla district was cut off from the rest of the state. A bridge near Gumma, in the Chirgaon area of Rohru was washed away. A vehicle was also washed away in a nullah by the gushing waters and mud on the Chhaila–Mahuri road in Theog while three other vehicles were damaged. A vehicle was buried under debris following a landslide near the Tenzin hospital on the Vikasnagar-Panthaghatti road in Shimla town. A landslide occurred near Dhnot on the Sainj-Deha road.The MeT office has issued an orange warning of heavy to very heavy rain, lightning and thunderstorm in 10 districts, barring Kinnaur and Lahaul & Spiti, on July 29 and 30 and an orange warning of a thunderstorm, lightning and heavy rain in 10 districts on July 31 and August 1. Awet spell is likely till August 3.Moderate to heavy rains lashed several parts of Himachal. Dharamsala received 122 mm of rain, followed by Una 119 mm, Kasauli 115 mm, Nalagarh 106 mm, Shimla, Jatton Barrage and Jogindernagar 93 mm each, Kangra 91 mm, Renuka and Jubbarhatti 90 mm each, Gohar 89 mm, Kufri 82 mm, Amb 79 mm, Kandaghat 74 mm, Paonta Sahib 70 mm, Gaggal 67 mm, Mandi 65 mm, Nahan 61 mm, Nurpur 60 mm, Dharampur 55 mm, Solan and Hamirpur 54 mm, Tinder 52 mm, Palampur 51 mm, Naina Devi and Banjar 49 mm each, Baldwara 47 mm, Rohru 43 mm, and Sangrah 40 mm. The minimum and maximum temperatures dipped by 1 to 3 degrees.Orange warning for today in 10 districts||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rain-wreaks-havoc-in-lahaul-kullu-kangra-289824
29-07-2021||---||Landslips hit Sirmaur roads||Solan, July 28As many as 64 roads in far-flung areas of Sirmaur district were blocked due to landslides following a downpour since Tuesday evening. Normal life was badly hit.The roads include Millah-Digwa, link road to Jamna village, Gummat-Lani Borar, Korga-Shakholi, Chandni-Kathwar, Renuka-Sataun, Rast Manal-Chunoti and Nanidhar-Shakholi among others. A maximum of 38 roads in Shillai subdivision were closed, while 12 in Sangrah, 11 in Nahan, two in Rajgarh and one road in Sarahan were blocked.A major landslide occurred at Kacchi Dhank in the Rajban area while the Rohnat-Haripurdhar Road was closed near Gumrah village. As many as 89 water schemes were also affected.Sirmaur Deputy Commissioner RK Gautam said of 64 roads that were blocked on Wednesday, traffic on 48 was restored till evening and 16 would be cleared by Thursday. The PWD had rushed in their resources to restore connectivity in rural areas. Meanwhile, the driver of a truck that got stuck in the mid of a raging Kanda Nullah on the Rajgarh-Nohradhar Road had a narrow escape on Wednesday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/landslips-hit-sirmaur-roads-289825
29-07-2021||Palampur||Palampur: Despite warning, tourists venture close to rivers||Tourists visiting Palampur and its adjoining areas seem to have learnt no lesson from the recent tragedy in Kinnaur and continue to venture into rivers across the valley. On Sunday, nine tourists were killed in Kinnaur when they had stopped their vehicle on the bridge of the Baspa river when the landslide hit them.Although the administration has issued a warning requesting tourists not to go near rivers, the latter pay no heed. A number of boards have also been put up along rivers asking the visitors to stay away from the river banks where a sudden rise in water level can prove fatal.Despite seeing the warning boards, tourists go down to the river banks, especially to get clicked. A number of tourists can be seen getting their pictures clicked on the Neugal riverbed. The river, which runs between Palampur and Sujanpur, attracts hundreds of tourists. Saurabh Van Bihar, a major tourist attraction, is also situated on the banks of the Neugal river.A senior official of the state government said warnings had been issued by the police asking tourists not to go near the Neugal river. “The visitors, however, do not pay attention and keep venturing into the riverbed,” he added. —OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/palampur-despite-warning-tourists-venture-close-to-rivers-289826
29-07-2021||---||Shimla set to face water crunch||Shimla, July 28Even as the region has been under a persistent spell of rain over the last few days, Shimla is set to face water crunch in the next few days.“The turbidity in the water bodies from where we draw water has spiked a lot. The filtration rate has gone down, so the water supply will be affected,” said Harmesh Bhatia, assistant general manager (AGM), Shimla Jal Prabandhan Nigam Limited (SJPNL).Bhatia expects a significant drop in the availability of water for distribution in the city. “We are expecting a shortfall of 10-15 million litres per day (MLD). At the moment, we are drawing around 45 MLD. We should be able to get around 30-32 MLD,” said Bhatia.That’s not sufficient for the city, even without the floating population. “We will resort to the rescheduling of the timings to tide over the shortage. We will try and supply water to all households every day. In case some areas are left out, they will be covered on priority the next day,” Bhatia said.The monsoon season has affected the Giri and Gumma water schemes the most, with the turbidity rate in both the water sources being recorded over 4,000 this evening. The turbidity rate, earlier in the day, was much higher and the pumping was stopped altogether at Gumma.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-set-to-face-water-crunch-289827
29-07-2021||Hamirpur||Skill development lab opened at Dr Radhakrishnan Government Medical College and Hospital in Hamirpur||A skill development lab was inaugurated by Dr Rajnish Pathania, Director, Medical Education, at Dr Radhakrishnan Government  Medical College and Hospital here on Wednesday.  The lab is equipped with latest equipment and will help students and pramedical staff in gaining skills and awareness on human anatomy. Dr Pathania said manikins with automated simulator would help students in understanding the basic life support system.   College principal Dr Suman Yadav said more manikins would be added to the lab  for making it more useful for various departments of the college. She said such labs had been added to the colleges as per the guidelines of the National Medical Council. oc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/skill-development-lab-opened-at-dr-radhakrishnan-government-medical-college-and-hospital-in-hamirpur-289828
29-07-2021||Vijay Arora||Smart City project: HC notice to Centre, Himachal on forest clearance||Shimla, July 28The High Court today issued notices to the Central and state government, Municipal Corporation, Shimla and Shimla Smart City Mission in the matter regarding grant of forest clearance for Shimla Smart City Project.While issuing notices, the court also directed a division bench comprising Acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Jyotsna Rewal Dua passed these orders on a petition filed by Namita Maniktala contending therein that Shimla town is facing traffic hazards and various other problems pertaining to the pedestrians and commissioning of these projects is intimately connected with the right to life of the residents of Shimla.The petitioner has alleged that a news item dated 22, June, 2021 was published in the newspaper “The Tribune” under the title “Key Shimla projects delayed, forest clearance awaited”, the gist of which was that some of the developmental projects, which were required to be undertaken as part of Smart City Project, were held up for want of forest clearance under the Forest Conservation Act.The petitioner has contended that Smart City Projects include the Lift and an escalator at Lakkar Bazar, escalator to Jakhu Top, smart path from Sanjauli to Indira Gandhi Medical College, Shimla, vending zone in Khalini, Krishna Nagar-Combermere Nallah and widening of work in the Dhalli area.The petitioner has alleged that these projects are being funded under the Smart City Missions of the Government of India and the lapse of deadline for completion of these projects would cause irreparable loss. In case the same is not processed and decided, the funding for these vital projects may also lapse.She has further alleged that as the deadline for completion of these projects would be ending next year, the applications for grant of forest clearance under the Forest Conservation Act are required to be considered expeditiously by the Central government.Treating this petition as Public Interest Litigation, the court further directed the government authorities to file replies within a period of four weeks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/smart-city-project-hc-notice-to-centre-himachal-on-forest-clearance-289829
29-07-2021||Mandi||Illegal construction along highway in Mandi stopped||The Mandi Municipal Corporation on Sunday stopped the illegal construction of a building along the national highway in Mandi district.  The MC authority had received a complaint that a person was constructing a building along the national highway illegally near Jhamad Baag on the Mandi-Kullu highway.  The HP High Court has already directed the state government to ensure that all encroachments along highways are removed within three months. The HC directed the state to file the compliance report by October 25.  After receiving the complaint, Commissioner of MC and Additional District Magistrate, Mandi, Rajiv Kumar sent an MC team along with the police for spot investigation in Jhamad Baag. During the investigation, it was found that the person concerned was encroaching on the highway land while constructing the building. The MC team stopped the construction with immediate effect and confiscated the construction material too. Meanwhile, MC Commissioner Rajiv Kumar said, “We got a complaint about the illegal construction along the highway in the area, on which the action was taken against the person by the MC.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/illegal-construction-along-highway-in-mandi-stopped-289830
29-07-2021||Lalit Mohan||Kangra paintings to adorn sarees||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, July 28The dying art of Kangra painting may get a fresh lease of life. The Kangra Arts Promotion Society has experimented in producing a commercial form of Kangra art that could help sustain artists. For the first time, the society has got a Kangra painting commission on sarees.The president of the Kangra Arts Promotion Society, Akshay Runchal, told The Tribune that the owner of the Hyderabad-based Indian emporium, Gaurang Shah, had commissioned the work of Kangra painting on sarees. Kangra painting artist Monu Kumar, a resident of Khaniara village, was asked to paint on a saree. He completed the work using acrylic paints in 22 days. “The sarees are being sent to the emporium with an expectation that people will like it and Kangra painters will get more work,” he said.Runchal said that a very few people were coming forward to learn the Kangra style of painting these days due to the lack of financial incentives. “By trying to bring art on sarees, we hope that it will open up new avenues of earning for Kangra painters. If this experiment is successful and people appreciate the real Kangra art on sarees, we hope more people will come forward to keep the art alive,” he said.The Kangra miniature paintings, though influenced by the Rajasthan miniature paintings, evolved as a unique form of art under the aegis of the rulers of the former Kangra state. However, with no government patronage, the unique art form that is part of the heritage of Kangra is dying a slow death.Colours made from natural sourcesNineteen natural colours, generated from locally available sources are used to create a Kangra miniature painting. They are created from stones and plants found in the Kangra valley. It takes about a year to create the required colours, as they can be generated only from natural sources existing at particular times of the year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kangra-paintings-to-adorn-sarees-289831
29-07-2021||A||Efforts on to popularise medicinal herb farming: UNA DC||DC Raghav Sharma has said farm clusters are being created in the district to cultivate medicinal plants under the Sanjeevani Yojana. He was speaking at Behar Jaswan village in Amb subdivision after inaugurating a plantation drive in a cluster of 22 beneficiary farmers as part of the scheme.   With the convergence of the MGNREGA scheme, 17,400 saplings of moringa and 68,450 of ashwagandha are being planted in Behar Jaswan to popularise the cultivation of medicinal plants. Moringa leaves are considered a super food, while ashwagandha is known for its ayurvedic properties and the two species grow well in Una. He said the state provides the saplings to farmers.  Sharma said medicinal plant products have a global market and the government was making efforts to popularise the cultivation of these species in areas where these are best suited. He said a cluster of 22 farmers in Behar Jaswan village had been identified for the cultivation of moringa and ashwagandha. He added that more clusters had been identified in other parts of the district for some other medicinal species and this would help boost farm income. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/efforts-on-to-popularise-medicinal-herb-farming-una-dc-289832
29-07-2021||ibune News Service||VC: Work on CUHP Dehra campus to commence soon||Dharamsala, July 28The new VC of the Central University Himachal Pradesh (CUHP) Sat Prakash Bansal on Wednesday took charge at Dharamsala-based head office of the institute.Addressing a press meet, the VC said the construction of permanent campus of the university would be his first priority. He said the construction of campus at Dehra where land had already been transferred in the name of university would be started soon.The VC said he had talked to the Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting, Sports and Youth Affairs Anurag Thakur about the development of campus at Dehra. The campus would be developed as a sports centre. Anurag has assured to provide all financial help for creating a sports centre in Dehra. An MoU in this regard would be signed with the Union Ministry for Sports, he said.Bansal said on academic front his first priority would be implementing the new national education policy in the institute. The new education policy proposes to create two types of educational institutes in higher education. These include the colleges that would concentrate on teaching and universities that would focus on research. “I feel that without doing research there was no validity of creating a university. My focus would be on building up CUHP as a research institute,” he added.“Our effort would be to ensure that the university gets good NAAC rating. The university should have its own journals and newsletters and all faculty members should produce national and international research papers,” the VC said.He said efforts would be made to start community radio and training and development of faculty. The VC also performed a Shanti Havan in campus at Dharamsala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/vc-work-on-cuhp-dehra-campus-to-commence-soon-289833
29-07-2021||---||Himachal apple growers  seek MIS rates on par with Kashmir||Shimla, July 28“The National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India (NAFED) should procure apple from Himachal through the Market Intervention Scheme (MIS) and at rates on par with Kashmir,” said Harish Chauhan, president, Fruit, Vegetable and Flower Growers’ Association of Himachal Pradesh.Raising the demand, Chauhan also brought out the anomaly in the prices offered to the growers of the two states through MIS. “Even though the scheme is same, Kashmiri apple growers get Rs 24for their Grade C variety,while their counterparts in Himachal get only Rs 9.50. The difference is huge.” he said.Not just Grade C, NAFED also buys Grade A and Grade B apple in Kashmir. In Himachal, the MIS is applicable only to Grade C apple. Chauhan said last year, NAFED offered Rs 60 per kg, Rs 44 and Rs 24 for Grade A, B and C, respectively, to Kashmiri growers. “At the moment, only Grade C apple is bought through the MIS in Himachal. Like in Kashmir, Grade A and Grade B apple should also be bought through this scheme here as well,” he added.Chauhan further said if the MIS was applied on similar lines as in Kashmir, it would exert some check and control on private players operating in the state. “The private companies fix rates, colour grading and sorting system in an arbitrary manner, with no intervention or participation of farmers and government officials.”“If we have a robust MIS scheme offering competitive rates, the growerswill be saved from being exploited,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-apple-growers-seek-mis-rates-on-par-with-kashmir-289834
29-07-2021||The ABVP has demanded another chance for students who could not appear for exam on Wednesday due to heavy rainfall in various parts of the state. The ABVP said several roads were blocked due to heavy rain and landslides||Another chance sought for students who missed exams due to heavy rain in Himachal||Book released for researchersHimachal Pradesh University (HPU) Vice Chancellor Sikander Kumar released a book titled 'Research Methods' (Research Design and Method) on Tuesday. Written by Rajiya Sultan, the book highlights how various sources of error lead to different types of results, which are reflected in a response pattern assessed through various empirical procedures. The Vice Chancellor praised the efforts of the author and hoped that the book would prove helpful to the researchers.ABVP seeks faster net in HPUThe ABVP has asked the Himachal Pradesh University (HPU) to ensure that admissions are given through entrance tests and its schedule is released, Internet speed is enhanced, online system is strengthened and hostels are opened. It said students were facing a lot of issues because of the slow speed of Internet, so the administration should fix it at the earliest. “The WiFi instruments were more than a decade old but the university has not made any effort to upgrade them.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/another-chance-sought-for-students-who-missed-exams-due-to-heavy-rain-in-himachal-289858
29-07-2021||Despite tall claims of the state government about sheltering abandoned stray cattle in gaushalas||No end to stray cattle menace on Shimla-Solan national highway||— Ashish, SolanGrowing addiction to make videos It seems people just can’t resist making videos or clicking photographs of extraordinary events, even if they are not pleasant. At Panthaghati in Shimla on Wednesday, a landslide occurred in which a car got damaged. People crossing the site, on foot or in vehicles, would invariably pull out their phones and make videos. In the process, many a time they slowed down the already slow-moving traffic at the site. — Rakesh Sharma, KasumptiIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-end-to-stray-cattle-menace-on-shimla-solan-national-highway-289859
29-07-2021||Shimla||Himachal CM interacts with Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Grameen Kaushalya Yojana beneficiaries||Two SDO offices opened in Jubbal-Kotkhai areaShimla: A delegation of the Jubbal-Kotkhai area called on CM Jai Ram Thakur on Wednesday and thanked him for opening two SDO offices in their constituency in a day. The CM said this would not only save time and money of the public but also help in grievance redressal at the earliest. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-interacts-with-deen-dayal-upadhyaya-grameen-kaushalya-yojana-beneficiaries-289861
29-07-2021||---||14 dead as cloudbursts lead to flash floods in Lahaul, Kishtwar||Mandi/Jammu, July 28Fourteen persons were killed and 20 reported missing after cloudbursts triggered flash floods in tribal district of Lahaul-Spiti in Himachal and Kishtwar in J&K.In Lahaul-Spiti, seven persons died and three went missing after a cloudburst late last evening. At least 12 labourers were washed away.Rescue teams comprising police, BRO and ITBP personnel managed to save two labourers. The victims, both critically injured, were rushed to district hospital in Keylong. Six of the deceased were identified as Sher Singh (62), Mehar Chand (50), Nirath Ram (42) and Room Singh (41), all of Mandi, and Mohd Sharif and Mohd Ajam of Reasi (J&K).The flash floods also damaged Jahlama bridge on the Tandi-Udaipur-Killar road in the district. Manav Verma, SP, said it would take at least five days for the BRO to restore the road for traffic. The road leading to Udaipur from Keylong, Manali-Leh highway and Gramphu-Kaza highway were blocked at several locations. Nearly 60 vehicles were stranded at different locations. Several people living in low-lying areas were evacuated from Darcha village after water level rose in the Bhaga river.In Kullu district, four persons were washed away in the overflowing Bramganga nullah in Manikaran valley today. Kullu Superintendent of Police Gurdev Sharma said the victims were identified as Poonam (26) and her son Nikunj (4) of Brahmganga village, Vinita (25) of Ghaziabad and Virender of Sangana village.Due to landslides, the Chandigarh-Manali highway was blocked for hours near Hanogi temple in Mandi. Another 34 roads were blocked in Mandi and 70 in Kullu.In Kishtwar district of Jammu and Kashmir, seven persons died and 17 went missing following a cloudburst at Hunzar village in the remote Dachhan area of the district of Jammu and Kashmir. Another 17 persons sustained injuries. The Army has started the rescue operation.Roads damaged, 15 HP villages cut offNurpur: The rain-triggered landslides have blocked the link roads to 15 villages in Mand area of Indora in Kangra district, causing hardships to the residents. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/14-dead-as-cloudbursts-lead-to-flash-floods-in-lahaul-kishtwar-289601
29-07-2021||Chandigarh||Monsoon 16% deficient in Punjab, surplus in Haryana, Himachal||Widespread rain in the region notwithstanding, monsoon in Punjab continues to remain below the long period average for the month of July. On the other hand, monsoon in Haryana and Himachal Pradesh, which had turned deficient from June-end to mid-July, has now turned surplus.Rain has been deficient in July by 16 per cent in Punjab, according to data released by the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) today. In Haryana and HP, rain in July has been above the long period average by 31 per cent and 2 per cent, respectively.During the past 24 hours, rain was excess by 297 per cent in Punjab as compared to the average for this period. In Haryana and Himachal Pradesh, it has been above average by 273 per cent and 189 per cent, respectively. Data compiled by the IMD shows that Punjab, Haryana and HP received 23.1 mm, 26.1 mm and 29.2 mm rain, respectively, in the past 24 hours. The long period average for this period for these states is 5.8 mm 7 mm and 10.1 mm, respectively.The weatherman has predicted that the current spell of widespread rainfall is likely to continue over J&K, HP, Punjab and Haryana till July 30, and reduce thereafter. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/monsoon-16-deficient-in-punjab-surplus-in-haryana-himachal-289639
29-07-2021||Mandi/Shimla||9 feared dead in flash floods in Himachal; 7 missing in Lahaul-Spiti||At least nine people are killed and seven reported missing in flash floods triggered by heavy rainfall in Himachal Pradesh, an official said on Wednesday. State Disaster Management Director Sudesh Kumar Mokhta said seven people died in Lahaul-Spiti flash floods triggered by a cloudburst over Tozing Nullah in Udaipur.Two men are dead in Chamba district, he added.In Kullu district, four people, including a hydro project official and a Delhi tourist, are missing and feared dead.In Lahaul-Spiti’s Udaipur, 12 labourers were washed in flash floods around 8 pm on Tuesday, Mokhta said. Seven bodies were recovered, two rescued with injuries and three are still missing, he added.Four of the dead are from Himachal Pradesh’s Mandi while one is from Reasi of Jammu and Kashmir. Two bodies are yet to be identified.The dead have been identified as Sher Singh (62), Mehar Chand (50), Nirath Ram (42) and Room Singh (41), all from Mandi; and Mohamed Slaim of Kunderdhan in Reasi, J-K.Lahaul-Spiti Deputy Commissioner Neeraj Kumar told PTI that a team of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) had been requisitioned for rescuing the labourers trapped under the debris of the landslide. However, the NDRF team coming by road is yet to reach the spot. According to latest reports, it has just crossed Kullu.In Chamba, a helper on an earth-moving machine, Nikku of Salooni, was washed away in a flash flood. Sunil Kumar of the district died after he suddenly fell from a cliff. In Kullu, 26-year-old Poonam and her four-year-old son Nikunj were swept away in the Brahamganga, a tributary of the Parvati river, near Manikaran around 6.15 am on Wednesday due to a sudden surge in the water level, Mokhta said. Another woman, Dineeta, a tourist from Delhi, and hydro project official Vijender were also swept away in flash floods, he added. In Lahaul-Spiti, several roads have been blocked and around 60 vehicles are stranded due to multiple landslides, he said. Many roads in parts of the state have been blocked due to landslides.A car was damaged in a landslide at Vikas Nagar in Shimla city, he said. Since yesterday, the road leading to Udaipur from Keylong side, Manali-Leh highway and Gramphu - Kaza highway are blocked for vehicular movement at several locations due to flash floods, landslides and heavy inflow of water from rivulets. Officials said that traffic movement has been impacted in all of Lahaul Spiti.He said police and Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) teams were dispatched to search for the missing people but the heavy flow of water hampered the search operation on Tuesday night. The search operation resumed on Wednesday morning.Lahaul-Spiti Deputy Commissioner Neeraj Kumar said a team of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has been requisitioned for rescuing the labourers trapped under the debris of landslides."The NDRF team is on its way and is likely to reach the spot by afternoon," he said.The district administration is arranging the necessary equipment at the spot for a prompt rescue operation by the NDRF, he added.In Chamba, a JCB helper was washed away in the flash floods in Chaned tehsil, Mokhta said.In Lahaul-Spiti, several roads have been blocked and around 60 vehicles are stranded due to multiple landslides, he said.Many roads in various other parts of the state have been blocked due to landslides. A car was damaged in a landslide in Vikas Nagar in Shimla city, he said.Meanwhile, heavy rains continued to lash various parts of the state. The Shimla Meteorological Centre has issued a 'red' weather warning.Earlier on Tuesday, several people were evacuated from Lahaul-Spiti's Darcha village after water levels rose in the Bhaga river following a heavy spell of rain, Mokhta said.According to the Darcha police check-post, the water level in the river increased considerably due to the heavy rainfall, damaging three shops near the river bank.People living near low-lying areas have been safely evacuated by police, Mokhta said. — PTI/TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/9-feared-dead-in-flash-floods-in-himachal-7-missing-in-lahaul-spiti-289436
