30-07-2021||Shimla||Three trekkers missing in Himachal's Lahaul-Spiti||Three trekkers have gone missing in Himachal Pradesh's Lahaul-Spiti district, a senior official said here on Friday.State Disaster Management Director Sudesh Kumar Mokhta said a Rajasthan trekker, Nikunj Jaiswal, and his two companions went missing at Ghepan Peak.  Details of the two others are not available so far, he added.As per information received from the Sissu police check-post, Nikunj Jaiswal of Bikaner in Rajasthan and his two companions were staying at Hotel Triveni in the village.7 still missing in Kullu, Lahaul & SpitiThey left for trekking to Ghepan Peak Lake on Monday and were supposed to come back on July 29, he added.However, they did not reach their destination.  The search for the missing tourists has been initiated, he added. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/three-trekkers-missing-in-himachals-lahaul-spiti-290600
30-07-2021||Dipender Manta||150 stranded tourists evacuated from Lahaul and Spiti||Tribune News ServiceMandi, July 30As many as 150 stranded tourists were on Friday evacuated from the flood-hit areas of Lahaul and Spiti district, while 168 tourists are still marooned. Four bridges on the Tandi-Udaipur-Killar road were damaged and a few stretches of the road were washed away in flash floods three days ago. As a result, traffic was blocked and tourists were stranded at Triloknath, Udaipur and Thirot in the district.Inclement weather impacted the rescue operation in Lahaul and Spiti today. The district administration could not engage a helicopter to evacuate the stranded tourists out of the valley due to the bad weather. Even Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur could not visit flood-affected Lahaul and Spiti to meet the affected people.Lahaul and Spiti Deputy Commissioner Neeraj Kumar said 150 tourists were evacuated from Udaipur with the help of a temporary bridge at Shansha on the Keylong-Udaipur road. He said the Shansha bridge was damaged in the flash flood. Around 168 people are still stranded at different locations in Lahaul and Spiti, he added.“Technical Education Minister Ram Lal Markanda today supervised the evacuation operation which lasted till noon. The operation was carried out by a joint team of police, Home Guard jawans and firefighters led by Keylong DSP Hemant Kumar,” the Deputy Commissioner said.He said the damaged roads and bridges in the district were being restored. He added that if the weather remains favourable, the district administration would evacuate the remaining stranded people with the help of the helicopter service.The Deputy Commissioner said the government had made all arrangements to evacuate people. He added that a helicopter was present at the Annadale helipad in Shimla and as soon as clouds get cleared over the Rohtang Pass and the weather becomes favorable for flight, tourists and other stranded people would be rescued on priority.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/150-stranded-tourists-evacuated-from-lahaul-and-spiti-290590
30-07-2021||Dharamsala||Not afraid, says Himachal CM Jai Ram Thakur over SFJ threats||I’m not afraid, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said on Friday—hours after he allegedly received threats from the outlawed separatist group Sikhs of Justice.Thakur, who arrived in Dharamsala on Friday evening, said police were still investigating the veracity of the threats. He was referring to calls that several Himachal-based journalists allegedly received earlier in the day saying that Thakur would be prevented from hoisting the Indian Tricolour in the hill state on August 15, Independence Day. The caller allegedly identified himself as Gurpatwant Singh Pannun, the general counsel for the SFJ.Pro-Khalistan group Sikhs for Justice says Himachal once part of Punjab, won’t allow CM Jai Ram to hoist national flagSome parts of the erstwhile state of Punjab such as Shimla were merged into Himachal when it became a union territory in 1956 and later became the 18th state of India on January 25, 1971.“I want to clarify that we live in Independent India. When we have strong leadership at the centre in the form of PM Narendra Modi, we’ll do everything possible for the respect of the Indian national flag,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/not-afraid-says-himachal-cm-jai-ram-thakur-over-sfj-threats-290579
30-07-2021||---||Pro-Khalistan group Sikhs for Justice says Himachal once part of Punjab, won’t allow CM Jai Ram to hoist national flag||Shimla, July 30Pro-Khalistan group Sikhs for Justice has purportedly issued a threat that Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur will not be allowed to hoist the national flag in the hill state.The threat was made through a recorded phone call to a majority of Shimla-based journalists simultaneously from 10:30 am to 12:30 pm on Friday. The caller identified itself as Gurpatwant Singh Pannun, the general counsel for SFJ."We will not allow Jai Ram Thakur to hoist Indian tricolour," he said, adding it was from the general counsel of Sikhs for Justice from Washington DC."We will not allow Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur to hoist Indian Tricolour," the call further stated that, “Himachal Pradesh was part of Punjab and we are seeking a referendum in Punjab. Once we liberate Punjab, we will make sure that we take over areas of HP which were part of Punjab."Pannun also asked farmers and pro-Khalistan Sikhs to not allow Jai Ram Thakur to hoist the tricolour.Some of the general public in Himachal Pradesh also claimed that they have received similar phone call.The Himachal Pradesh Police in a tweet said: “We are in receipt of pre-recorded message from Pro Khalistani elements from oversees sent to some journalists. HP police is fully capable of securing the state and preventing anti-national elements to thwart peace and security in the state in corporation with the central security and intelligence agencies.”Himachal Pradesh Police is fully capable of securing the State & preventing anti-national elements to thwart peace & security in HP. pic.twitter.com/hmpPiDyTttUS-based SFJ pushes for Sikh Referendum 2020 as part of its separatist agenda. The group's primary objective is to establish an "independent and sovereign country" in Punjab. It openly espouses the cause of Khalistan and in that process challenges the sovereignty and territorial integrity of India.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pro-khalistan-group-sikhs-for-justice-says-himachal-once-part-of-punjab-wont-allow-cm-jai-ram-to-hoist-national-flag-290516
30-07-2021||Ambika Sharma||Watch: NH 707 closed after 100-metre stretch of road caves in due to heavy landslide in Himachal's Sirmaur||Tribune News ServiceSolan, July 30The Paonta Sahib-Shillai national highway 707 was closed for vehicular traffic on Friday after about a 100 metre stretch of the road caved near kali Dhank Badwas following heavy downpour for the last 2 days in Sirmaur district.Police sources said that a heavy landslide occurred on the highway where a group of villagers ran helter-skelter to save themselves.Another 200 metre stretch of the road also caved in near Kachi Dhank near Rajban between Rajban and Sataun. The road has been facing incessant damage in the rains for the last several years, inconveniencing residents.Commuters going from Paonta Sahib to Shillai have been directed to follow Puruwala- Kilod- Jong- Kafota- Shillai route.Policemen have been posted at the entry of these roads from Paonta Sahib, Shillae, Rajban, Sataun, etc. to inform commuters about alternate routes informed DSP Paonta Sahib Bir Bahadur.Those going to Shimla and Ronhat have been directed to use Puruwala- Kilod -Menas road.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/watch-nh-707-closed-after-100-metre-stretch-of-road-caves-in-due-to-heavy-landslide-in-himachals-sirmaur-290495
30-07-2021||Shimla||e-classes on, over 18K Himachal students have no access to smartphones||As many as 18,294 students are without smartphones and students of 225 schools with poor or no internet connectivity are at the receiving end.They have little access to online teaching and are lagging behind others. A maximum number of 5,314 students (Class VI to XII) are without smartphones in the backward district of Chamba, followed by Mandi (2,723), Una (2,251) Sirmaur (1,838), Hamirpur (1,698), Kullu (1,560), Shimla (1,355), Kangra (1,047), Kinnaur (548), Solan (310), Bilaspur (185) and Lahaul and Spiti (95).Even 225 schools have no or poor internet connectivity and 46 such schools are in Sirmaur district, followed by Kullu (45), Lahaul and Spiti (23), Chamba and Una (19 each), Mandi (18), Bilaspur (17), Hamirpur (15), Kangra (12), Kinnaur and Solan (5 each) and Shimla (1).The issue was brought to the knowledge of Education Minister Govind Thakur during a virtual interaction with teachers and parents that a segment of students did not have smartphones while the internet connectivity is a problem in some remote areas, following which he launched the “donate a mobile” campaign to provide phones to students and over 1,000 mobiles had been distributed, said Director, Higher Education, Amarjeet Sharma. The students, who were deprived of online education, were provided computer-generated and hand-written copies of lessons. Teachers had been assigned the duty to deliver the lessons at home or at common distribution centres at regular intervals, he said.To start with, students studying in Class X and XII would be provided smartphones in the first phase.“Talks are also being held with the BSNL and other telecom service providers to set up towers in places where the internet facility is not available or the network is weak,” he said.There are network issues in Kullu, Sirmaur, some parts Pangi and Bharmour in Chamba, Lahaul and Spiti, Kinnaur and a few pockets of Mandi and Una, besides Dodra Kwar of Shimla district, as per the report submitted by the Deputy Directors, education, principals and headmasters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/e-classes-on-over-18k-himachal-students-have-no-access-to-smartphones-290270
30-07-2021||Shimla||Pay power bills at fair price shops now||Now, electricity consumers can pay their bills at ration depots and fair price shops under Public Distribution System (PDS). The decision has been taken to reduce the footfall of consumers in sub divisional cash counters or outdoor cash counters, and to facilitate the payment at the nearest locations of the consumers.According to a spokesperson of the HPSEBL, out of total 26 lakh consumers, about 50-60 per cent are paying the bill digitally. “But some consumers still visit the sub-divisions offices and offline counters for the payment of bills in cash. About 3.18 lakh consumers are paying their electricity bills at the sub divisional cash counters and about 1.2 lakh at the outdoor cash counters. About 1.35 lakh consumers depositing the bills at Lok Mitra Kendras,” he said.The HPSEBL has started various online facilities for the payment of electricity bills and to apply for new connections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pay-power-bills-at-fair-price-shops-now-290271
30-07-2021||The ABVP staged a demonstration outside the Higher Education Directorate||Resume sports quota in colleges: ABVP||ICAR entrance exams from Sept 7The seats for various undergraduate, postgraduate and doctorate programmes at Dr YS Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry, Nauni, for the academic session 2021-22, would be filled on the basis of the score of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) entrance exam, which will be conducted by the National Testing Agency (NTA). Candidates who wish to apply for self-financing seats (UG) and MBA (General) are not required to apply for the ICAR exam. However, they are required to fill the online application form of the university. The AIEEA (UG) exam will be held on September 7, 8 and 13, while the AIEEA (PG) and AICE-JRF/SRF (PhD) test will be held on September 17.Student shines in poetry recitationCadet Maanika Sethi of St Bede’s College, under 7HP (I) Coy NCC Shimla, has brought laurels by bagging the first position in a self-composed poetry recitation competition. The competition was organised by the Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh Directorate under the chairmanship of ADG Maj Gen JS Sandhu and has won a cash prize of Rs 3,000.Global conference at APG varsityTradepreneur Global Academic Platform, UK, along with the APG University, Shimla, organised the 5th international conference online in collaboration with the CT University, Ludhiana, and other foreign universities from July 26 to 28. APG university Registrar Anil Paul Singh welcomed the participants to the conference on how to use science and technology to handle the crisis the humanity is facing at the moment. This conference provided a platform to address, exhibit and explore the knowledge of science, technology and management.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/resume-sports-quota-in-colleges-abvp-290272
30-07-2021||Shimla||Shimla: Cottonians virtually celebrate 162nd founder’s day||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-cottonians-virtually-celebrate-162nd-founders-day-290274
30-07-2021||Shimla||Met predicts wet spell in Himachal till August 4||The death toll in the rain-related incidents during the current monsoon season has reached 209 while 11 persons are still missing.As many as 94 roads are blocked in the state, 91 transformers are damaged and 71 water schemes disrupted. A maximum of 30 roads are closed in Kullu district, 24 in Mandi and 12 in Shimla.The local Met Department has issued yellow warning of heavy rain, thunderstorm and lightning at isolated places in 10 districts barring Kinnaur and Lahaul and Spiti for the next four days from July 30 to August 2 and predicted wet spell in the region till August 4.Cautioning that landslides and uprooting of trees may occur due to continuous rains and heavy spell, the department advised the general public and tourists not to venture near river banks as water levels could rise.Moderate to heavy rains lashed parts of Himachal today. Ghamroor with101 mm of rains was wettest in the state followed by Una 83 mm, Naina Devi 76 mm, Nadaun 67 mm, Amb 61 mm, Guler 56 mm, Dehra Gopipur 54 mm, Baldwara 52 mm, Sujanpur Tira 51 mm, Kasauli 41 mm, Mehre 38 mm, Nagrota Suriyan 29 mm, Bangana and Gaggal 27mm each, Shimla 26 mm, Banjar and Tinder 25 mm each, Dharamshala and Kheri 23 mm each.There was no significant change in the minimum temperatures. Narkanda was coldest at night recording a low of 13.0°C. Maximum temperatures rose by 1 to 2 degrees and Una recorded a high of 30.8°C during the day. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/met-predicts-wet-spell-in-himachal-till-august-4-290275
30-07-2021||Mandi||Flower growers of Patan valley in Lahaul and Spiti in lurch, demand transport facility||Floriculturists of the Patan valley in Lahaul and Spiti district have urged the Deputy Commissioner to provide facilities to transport their produce to distant markets.The early variety of flowers, known as Asiatic lily bulbs, is ready in the valley for marketing but the growers do not have any facility to transport their produce to the markets in time.They say that the flowers are in demand mostly in Delhi, where these fetch good prices every year. However, last year, they suffered huge losses due to the pandemic.Pritam Singh, a floriculturist of Fuda village in Jahlma panchayat in Lahaul and Spiti, says, “Generally, the farmers of the region transport their flowers in Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) buses to Delhi from the Patan valley but this year, we are facing an acute shortage of transport facilities. Due to the pandemic, the HRTC has not resumed the bus service from Jahlma to Reckong Peo”.“If the HRTC resumes its service, we will be able to transport our produce to Manali, from where we can take another bus for Delhi,” he said.Another floriculturist Surender Kumar says, “To transport flowers in private vehicles to distant markets is a costly affair. So, we are fully dependent on HRTC buses for transportation”.“We have apprised Lahaul Deputy Commissioner Neeraj Kumar of our problem and urged him to do the needful in time. Otherwise, our flower crop will be of no use,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/flower-growers-of-patan-valley-in-lahaul-and-spiti-in-lurch-demand-transport-facility-290276
30-07-2021||Shimla||Shimla police’s Aabhar Yojana for armed forces personnel a hit||The Aabhar Yojana, a gratitude scheme, started by the Shimla police to redress issues of Army jawans and paramilitary personnel has received an overwhelming response from them.The news, published in The Tribune, was circulated in various groups of Army jawans, paramilitary personnel and ex-servicemen and suggestions are pouring in, said district police sources.Action within 24 hrsSome suggestions read, “Also send the information to all Dogra regiments through the Army ADC as a large number of Himachalis are in the regiment.” “Compliments for the initiative, I request if the scheme could be implemented in all districts of the state,” said another.A large number of ex-servicemen have asked to include them in the scheme while others said small gestures could make a huge difference. It would definitely lift the morale of the forces, said others.“Aabhar is the gratitude to all security personnel serving the nation. It motivates us to take care of their families while they are performing their duties to safeguard the nation,” said SP Shimla Mohit Chawla.The scheme would be extended to ex-servicemen also, said Chawla and added that the police aimed at providing a hassle-free, effective and one-stop solution to Army jawans, paramilitary personnel and their family members and they could directly approach the police through mobile no 88947-28012.The call would be treated as a complaint and would be referred to the police station within 24 hours and the feedback and status of the complaint would be communicated to the complainant.“A special register has been introduced to deal with complaints and issues of family members of armed and paramilitary forces and the data will also be analysed to take preventive steps to resolve the issues,” he maintained.Sources said the police headquarters was evaluating the scheme and contemplating implementing the scheme throughout the state. The scheme was launched two days back.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-polices-aabhar-yojana-for-armed-forces-personnel-a-hit-290277
30-07-2021||Rajiv MahajanNURPUR||Hamsafar Society in Kangra, a ray of hope for needy||The Hamsafar Society in Kangra district is serving humanity with a difference by extending help to the poor and needy patients with contributions by its members.In collaboration with Nurpur Blood Donors’ Club, this society has collected 3,000 blood units. It is also playing a crucial role in sensitising the masses about public welfare schemes launched by the central and state governments.Started in 2009During the pandemic, its members distributed ration kits, face masks and hand sanitisers. They also assisted people in preparing e-passes for their movement.New society president Suman Kaushal said she would do her best to carry out the prime agenda i.e. to serve humanity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hamsafar-society-in-kangra-a-ray-of-hope-for-needy-290278
30-07-2021||Rainwater has accumulated on the Chandigarh-Manali highway near the front gate of the Industrial Training Institute building in Mandi due to the poor drainage system. The place has become a breeding ground for mosquitoes||Mandi: Faulty drainage bane of commuters||Vehicles aplenty, but parking space scarce A car was crushed in a landslide in Shimla on Wednesday, but vehicles are still being parked at the same spot. Even though there is a risk of another landslide, people have no place to park their vehicles safely. The MC and other authorities should work on war footing to create more parking lots in the city. — Surender Kanwar, SanjauliIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mandi-faulty-drainage-bane-of-commuters-290279
30-07-2021||Mandi||7 still missing in Kullu, Lahaul & Spiti||National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) personnel today led the search operation to trace the three persons, who were reportedly washed away in the Tozing Nullah in Lahaul and Spiti district three days ago. Police and ITBP personnel and the Lahaul and Spiti administration assisted in the search operation. Four persons are also missing in Kullu district. However, no headway was achieved till the filing of the report.As many as 185 tourists are still stranded in Lahaul and Spiti since Tuesday after a flash flood snapped the road connectivity in the region.On Tuesday night, 12 persons were washed away in the Tozing Nullah. Two persons were rescued the same night, while seven bodies were recovered yesterday. Three persons are still missing.The Tandi-Udaipur-Killar road, Manali-Leh highway and the Gramphu-Kaza highway were damaged due to the flash flood. However, the Gramphu-Kaza highway was restored to traffic today. Four bridges at Shansha, Jahlama, Thirot and Madgran were also damaged in the flash flood, disrupting traffic movement.Technical Education Minister Ram Lal Markanda also visited the Tozing Nullah today to review the search operation. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur would visit Lahaul and Spiti tomorrow to review the losses suffered.Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner, Lahaul and Spiti, Neeraj Kumar said, “The Border Roads Organisation is making all efforts to restore the Madgran bridge that connects Udaipur to the Pangi valley in Chamba district by tomorrow. The damaged road to Shansha and Thirot bridges will also be restored as soon as the water level recedes”.“The Jahlma bridge was washed away in the flash flood. The work to construct a ropeway and a paedestrian path as an alternative arrangement will be expedited. The Pattan valley has been affected due to heavy rains and the flash flood that have caused considerable losses to the agriculture sector. Remedial steps are being taken under the action plan to restore normal life,” he said.“As many as 185 pilgrims, who were stranded due to the flood, are safe and have been accommodated at the Triloknath temple complex. The temple trust is making arrangements for their stay and food. Pilgrims belonging to the Pangi area will be able to easily go back after the Madgran bridge is restored. Most of the devotees belong to Kullu district and arrangements are also being made for their return,” said Neeraj.In Kullu district, no breakthrough has been made in tracing the missing persons. SP, Kullu, Gurdev Sharma said that the search operation was continuing in Manikaran valley to trace four persons, who were washed away in the Bramganga Nullah, a tributary of the Parbati river yesterday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/7-still-missing-in-kullu-lahaul-spiti-290280
30-07-2021||Shimla||229 new Covid cases, no death in Himachal||As many as 229 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 205,728. However, no death due to the virus was recorded.The highest 74 cases were reported in Mandi, followed by 34 in Chamba, 33 in Kullu, 21 in Kangra, 20 in Solan, 13 in Shimla, 11 each in Bilaspur and Hamirpur, nine in Una and three in Kinnaur. The total active cases crossed 1,000 once again. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/229-new-covid-cases-no-death-in-himachal-290282
30-07-2021||Chamba||Mother, son found dead in Chamba||Two members of a family, a woman and her son, were found dead in their house in Rei panchayat of Pangi tribal subdivision of Chamba district last night, according to a police report received here this evening.On receiving information from the Rei panchayat pradhan about the deaths, a police team reached their house and found Pyar Dei (40) hanging while her son Prem Jeet (18) was lying in a skeletal condition in the home at Majraun village of Rei panchayat in Pangi.The bodies were brought to Killar hospital for postmortem, from where the doctors referred these to the Government Medical College and Hospital, Chamba.In view of the seriousness of the case, a team of Regional Forensic Science Laboratory, Dharamsala, was summoned. Neighbours and relatives of the deceased were being questioned, SP, Chamba, Arul Kumar said.The preliminary inquiry revealed that the family did not interact with the villagers. No one used to visit them, he said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mother-son-found-dead-in-chamba-290283
30-07-2021||Shimla||Retaining wall at Himachal CM’s Shimla residence sinks||The Chief Minister’s residence, too, bore the brunt of the continuing ranis lashing several parts of the state. Following persistent rains over the past several days, a retaining wall on the premises of Oakover, the official residence of the Chief Minister, sunk early this morning.“The retaining wall on the rear of the CM’s residence sunk around 5 am. Thankfully, it did not cause any damage or threat to the CM’s residence,” said Aditya Negi, DC Shimla.However, the two buildings just a few metres from the retaining wall have been evacuated as a precaution. “There are 10-12 families in these two buildings and all of them have been shifted to circuit house,” said Negi. “Seeped-in water seems to have swept away the soil below the wall, causing the 10-15 m-long portion to sink. The sunk wall has stacked up against the adjacent houses,” said Negi.Meanwhile, the PWD staff is working on a war-footing to resurrect the sunk wall. “We are on the job and hopefully should be able to fix this soon,” said a PWD executive engineer overseeing the restoration work. “We are taking every possible measure to ensure that the houses are not damaged. The residents, however, have been shifted as a precautionary measure,” an XEN said.“We heard a massive thud as if some building had collapsed. When we saw what has happened, we went to the CM House. The CM was not there but his wife promptly ensured that the affected families were shifted and the restoration work was started immediately,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/retaining-wall-at-himachal-cms-shimla-residence-sinks-290287
30-07-2021||Our CorrespondentUNA||Rs 10,000 cr investment to be finalised in Himachal: Minister||Industries Minister Bikram Thakur has said the second ground-breaking ceremony will be held in September during which new industrial units with a total investment of about Rs 10,000 crore will be finalised in the state.Bikram Thakur was speaking at the Mehatpur industrial area last night after launching public works estimated at Rs 1.6 crore. The works included the inauguration of a drinking water pump house, an overhead water storage tank, high mast lights and some other infrastructure. He also laid the stone for the construction of a shopping complex in the industrial area on which Rs 19 lakh will be spent.The minister said that during the first ground-breaking ceremony, investment to the tune of Rs 13,000 crore was actually came, adding that in the second ceremony, MoUs for investment to the tune of Rs 10,000 crore were expected.Bikram Thakur said not a single industrial area was linked to any national industrial corridor, which was hindering the investment. He said with the sustained efforts of the government, the approval to include Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh industrial area in the Kolkata Industrial Corridor loop had been received from the Union Government.Satpal Singh Satti, Chairman of the State Finance Commission, said since Una has a broad gauge rail line connectivity, the approval for setting up a terminal of Hindustan Petroleum, rail fed petroleum oil and lubricants terminal and grain based ethanol plant had been received and Rs 700 crore would be invested in Una to set up these facilities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rs-10-000-cr-investment-to-be-finalised-in-himachal-minister-290289
30-07-2021||Mandi||Kaul Singh spreading lies against govt, says Himachal CM Jai Ram Thakur||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur has started targeting leaders of opposition parties aggressively as the Mandi Lok Sabha byelection is approaching.He toured the Karsog Assembly segment in Mandi district today. He said that Kaul Singh was misguiding the people of Mandi district by spreading canards against the state government. He added that the people of the state would not get carried away by his false propaganda.“The state Congress leaders did not spare even their own party and raised bills of Rs 12 crore in name of distributing masks and sanitizer to the people during the pandemic,” he added.“The state government took effective steps to tackle Covid but Congress leaders did not refrain from politiciding even this sensitive issue. They desperately tried to get political mileage but the people of the state were wise enough to understand that the present state government had made every effort to contain the pandemic and provided all possible facilities during this hour of crisis,” he said.At a public meeting at Churag, the Chief Minister announced opening of horticulture extension officers offices at Mahog and Mahunag, upgrade of Government High School, Kahana, to Senior Secondary School and the opening of a developmental block at Churag.He announced the opening of an extension counter of the HP State Cooperative Bank Extension Counter, Rs 10 lakh for a playground in Government Senior Secondary School and Rs 3 lakh for a community centre, all at Kheel in the Karsog area.At Bagsaid, six development projects worth Rs 37 crore were dedicated yesterday for this area from Karsog which included laying the foundation stones of roads worth Rs 20.30 crore and a Lift Irrigation Scheme worth Rs 2 crore.He announced construction of Kisan Bhawan in the area and opening of sub tehsil at Bagsaid to facilitate the people of the area.At Mahunag, the Chief Minister said that the area was not only important from the religious point of view but was also blessed with scenic beauty. The area would be developed from tourism point of view under the Nai raahein nai manzilein scheme. He said that efforts would be made to open a bank branch at Mahunag. He announced opening of junior engineer section of Jal Shakti Vibhag at Mahunag.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kaul-singh-spreading-lies-against-govt-says-himachal-cm-jai-ram-thakur-290293
30-07-2021||Abhinav VashishtKullu||Baralacha-Sarchu road needs repairs||A few vehicles were stuck between the Baralacha Pass and Sarchu on the Manali-Leh national highway after they broke down recently due to the poor condition of the road.Lahaul and Spiti SP Manav Verma said that all stranded vehicles had been brought safely to Sarchu and Darcha with the help of local units. He added that the BRO 70 RCC authorities had been asked to repair the stretch, as frequent incidents of vehicle breakdown between Baralacha and Sarchu were being reported.A large number of vehicles carrying essential supplies to border areas take this route, which is accessible only during the summer. Many tourists, including foreigners, travel on this route during the summer to visit Leh and Ladakh. Commuters said that the poor condition of the road from Baralacha to Sarchu caused frequent vehicle breakdown. They added that the stranded vehicles then caused a heavy congestion of vehicles on the road. The road should be repaired, as it is also very important from the strategic point of view also. Improving the condition of the road would boost tourism in the region.The Border Roads Organisation (BRO) has the responsibility of maintaining the road, which is damaged due to snow every year. Frequent landslides in the fragile terrain and slush from various nullahs often disrupt the movement of vehicles.The 425-km Manali-Sarchu-Leh road gained strategic important after the Kargil War in 1999. It is given priority because instead of the Jammu-Srinagar-Leh route, it was far away from the eyes of the enemy. Most of the military supplies to the border areas were transported through this road during the Kargil War.The BRO is widening the highway. The road work that commenced in 2008 is 80 per cent complete. The BRO has constructed many permanent double-lane bridges and replaced old ones. The remaining bridges are also being constructed. The BRO claims that the task will be accomplished in the next three to four years.Besides the Rohtang Tunnel, three more tunnels are proposed underneath the Baralachala (4,883 m), Lachalungla (5,065 m) and the Tanglangla (5,328 m) on this road to make it motorable for all seasons. Once these tunnels are completed, the distance to Leh will be reduced considerably, saving a lot of travel time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/baralacha-sarchu-road-needs-repairs-290297
30-07-2021||Shimla||Furnish details of medical facilities, Himachal High Court orders DCs||The HP High Court has directed all Deputy Commissioners to furnish information regarding the medical facilities available in every town in their districts, the number of doctors posted and the vacancies.The court has also directed them to furnish the details of the paramedical and other staff and the infrastructure facilities, beds, and furniture fittings available in every medical facility in the districts. They were told to submit information regarding the demands made by the districts to the government.A division Bench comprising Acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Jyotsna Rewal Dua passed the orders on a petition taken up suo motu as a PIL and another writ petition highlighting inadequate facilities for the treatment of Covid patients.The Deputy Commissioners sought a week’s time to furnish the required information. The court listed the matter for further hearing on August 4. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/furnish-details-of-medical-facilities-himachal-high-court-orders-dcs-290298
30-07-2021||Mandi||Mandi bypoll: Ticket aspirants in a dilemma||Ticket aspirants in the BJP and the Congress are in a quandary as the parties are yet to declare their candidates for the Mandi Lok Sabha byelection. The BJP has already intensified its election campaign for the byelection to ensure victory.In the BJP, there is a long list of ticket aspirants for the byelection. Brig Khushal Thakur (Retd), Chairman-cum-MD of the HP Ex-Servicemen Corporation, is eying the ticket while Ajay Rana, BJP leader from Sundernagar, is also lobbying for pushing his candidature. Jal Shakti Minister Mahender Singh Thakur is also keen to contest the byelection if the BJP agrees to give ticket to his son Rajat Thakur to contest the Assembly election from his home constituency Dharampur in Mandi.Another BJP leader Maheshwar Singh from Kullu wants to contest the Mandi byelection. He is struggling for political survival after he lost the last Assembly election from Kullu. Ambika Sood, former chairperson of the HP State Commission for Women, is also seeking ticket. Besides, there are many other ticket aspirants in the party.Except Mahender Singh Thakur and Maheshwar Singh, most ticket aspirants are close aides of former CM Prem Kumar Dhumal. The BJP leadership has not given any indication about the prospective candidate.Ashray Sharma is seeking the Congress ticket. In the last Lok Sabha elections, Ashray had lost badly to BJP candidate Ramswaroop Sharma. The party is also considering senior leader Kaul Singh Thakur for the ticket, though he is not keen to contest the byelection. Amit Pal Singh, a close aide of former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh, is also eyeing the Congress ticket. The name of Shimla (Rural) MLA Vikramaditya is also under the consideration of the party.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mandi-bypoll-ticket-aspirants-in-a-dilemma-290299
30-07-2021||Solan||Experts dwell on ways to tackle water pollution||To address the problem of pollution on surface water, a virtual networking event was organised by MS Swaminathan School of Agriculture, Shoolini University, in association with Lancaster University, UK, on Thursday.Dr Binoy Sarkar, Lancaster University, UK, proposed a plan to implement data-informed research encompassing technology development and assessment, outreach, engagement and educational activities in the Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh region, which is known as the pharmaceutical and personal care hub.Vice-Chancellor Atul Khosla said techniques to make sewage water drinkable should be developed by the university scientists. Chancellor Prof PK Khosla stressed the need to undertake research on climate change in the Himalayas and water conservation.The panel also deliberated upon the global issue of water pollution along with methods and techniques to tackle it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/experts-dwell-on-ways-to-tackle-water-pollution-290301
30-07-2021||Our CorrespondentPalampur||A first: I-Day function at Bara Bhangal||The Baijnath administration will hold the Independence Day function at Bara Bhangal this year, for the first time since Independence.Kangra Deputy Commissioner Nipun Jindal has directed SDM Salem Aazam to unfurl the National Flag at Bara Bhangal. It will take two days for an administration team to reach Bara Bhangal by covering a distance of 60 km on foot. They will have to cross the Thamsar Pass, the highest peak, on the way to the valley.Reaching Bara Bhangal is not an easy task. The track is considered one of the toughest in the state. A number of casualties are reported on the track every year.The SDM and his team will also hold a “Khula Darbar” in Bara Bhangal to listen to public grievances.Prem Kumar Dhumal was the first Chief Minister to visit Bara Bhangal in 2010 and listen to the problems of locals.The total population of the valley is around 660. Most of the residents migrate to Bir and Baijnath before the onset of the winter. The valley remains snow-covered for nine months. There is no electricity supply in the valley during this time. The state government has provided a generator to the villagers but that is out of order.Information gathered by The Tribune reveals that Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur is also keen to meet the residents of Bara Bhangal in September.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/a-first-i-day-function-at-bara-bhangal-290303
30-07-2021||Solan||Cough syrup Coldbest-PC samples found substandard||Two batches of the Coldbest-PC syrup, made by the Kala Amb-based Digital Vision pharmaceutical company, were declared substandard by the Central Drug Laboratory, Kolkata, in a drug alert issued by the Central Drug Standard Control Organisation yesterday.The syrup had claimed the lives of 12 infants in Udhampur district of Jammu and Kashmir in February 2020 after an adulterant, DEG, was found in its samples. Its manufacturing was put on hold by the local licensing authorities last year.The two batches, declared substandard now, were manufactured in January 2020 and September 2019 and its DEG content was 1.27 per cent w/w (weight of solute by weight of solution) and 7.71 per cent w/w. The Drug Control Department of Andhra Pradesh got these samples tested.The working of the company has again come under scanner as it had challenged some laboratory reports after the death of the infants. The DEG is a solvent used to prepare cough syrup.Assistant Drug Controller Garima Sharma said the permission to manufacture the cough syrup was cancelled last year after the case involving infants’ deaths had come to light. All product permissions involving the use of DEG had also been withdrawn from the manufacturing company. The cough syrup samples seized by the Andhra Pradesh authorities pertain to the batches manufactured earlier.The Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) had cited a complaint made by a professor of the Department of Paediatrics, PGI, Chandigarh, where he had indicated the presence of toxic chemical DEG in this cough syrup. A two-year-old girl from Baddi was admitted in the PGI in July last year for treatment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cough-syrup-coldbest-pc-samples-found-substandard-290304
30-07-2021||Balkrishan PrasharBharmour||Covid: Manimahesh Yatra to be symbolic this year too||In the wake of the ongoing Covid pandemic, the Manimahesh Yatra has been cancelled this year too and will be held symbolically.The decision was taken at a meeting of the Manimahesh Trust held here under the chairmanship of Bharmour Additional District Magistrate (ADM) Sanjay Kumar Dhiman on Wednesday.Normally during the yatra, lakhs of devotees from within and outside Himachal Pradesh visit the sacred Manimahesh lake to take a holy dip and pay obeisance to Lord Shiva.However, in view of the religious feelings of the public, all customary activities would be organised. Also, the movement of public and vehicular traffic will be regulated by setting up checkpoints at Langera, Hadsar, Tunnuhatti and other places as per the requirement.Meanwhile, Chamba DC, SSP and senior officers of PWD, electricity, Jal Shakti, health and education departments had been requested to render support to make the event a success under the Covid guidelines of the Centre and state, the ADM said.This year, the Manimahesh Yatra will start on August 30 (Janmashtami) and end on September 12 (Radhashtami). But due to Covid, the participation has been restricted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-manimahesh-yatra-to-be-symbolic-this-year-too-290307
30-07-2021||Mandi||Bhararu-Chhamb road in a shambles||The poor condition of the Bhararu-Chhamb road in Jogindernagar of Mandi district poses a risk to the lives of area residents.Though only 4.5-km stretch falling between Bhararu and Chhamb of the 15 km proposed road has been constructed, it is in a pathetic condition. The road, once constructed, will provide connectivity to three panchayats of Bhararu, Bihun and Nahuli.Residents allege that the PWD is constructing the road for the past two years. “Due to lack of drainage along the road, it gets damaged during the rainy season,” say residents of Manaru, Chhamb and Banah villages.Kushal Bhardwaj, vice-president, Himachal Kisan Sabha, says, “Owing to the poor condition of the road, people face a lot of problems while commuting. Farmers use the road to transport their agriculture and horticulture produce to distant markets. In case of a medical emergency, residents face difficulty in taking patients to the nearby hospital”.Sanjiv Sood, Executive Engineer, PWD, Jogindernagar, says, “I have directed the contractor concerned to maintain the 4.5-km stretch from Bhararu to Chhamb for vehicular traffic. The remaining stretch falls in a forest area, for which clearance was a must to construct the road. Now that the department has received the clearance, the work will start soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bhararu-chhamb-road-in-a-shambles-290309
30-07-2021||Rajesh SharmaUna||Una siblings give up jobs to take up fish rearing||Siblings Anil Rana and Akhil Rana quit their well-paid jobs in the corporate sector in 2013 and took to fish rearing in their native Panjawar village, a part of Haroli subdivision. They started cultivating fish on two hectares of pond and doubled it to four hectares two years ago.Anil says that they wanted to work and grow on their own and so they came back to their ancestral village. They have taken technical and financial assistance under the Union Government-funded National Mission for Protein Supplement Scheme and made two fish ponds on their property, each measuring one hectare.Akhil says that they introduced 10,000 fingerlings in one pond and in one year, they harvested 10 metric tonnes of fish from each pond, giving them adequate profit and motivation to expand their venture. In 2018, they took advantage of the benefits under the Blue Revolution Scheme and constructed two more ponds of one hectare each.The brothers say that they rear rohu, katla, mrigul, common carp and grass carp species, most of which reach up to 5 kg in weight. They have formed an organisation of about 150 fish farmers and registered it as the first Farmer Produce Organisation of the state.Anil and Akhil were given the Best Inland Fish Farmer of India award in 2019 by the National Fisheries Development Board, Hyderabad. The brothers have ambitious expansion plans to set up a bioflock fish farm, a processing unit and a sales outlet under the Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Scheme. “We have applied for financial assistance under the scheme and are hopeful of getting it,” says Akhil.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/una-siblings-give-up-jobs-to-take-up-fish-rearing-290310
30-07-2021||Chamba||25 youths trained to run homestays||As many as 25 youths were imparted training about the business practices and service to be provided to tourists in the homestays at a three-day training camp organized by the HP Tourism Department at Rajnagar in Chamba district on Wednesday.Presiding over the concluding day event of the training camp, District Tourism Development Officer Vijay Kumar gave detailed information about the homestay scheme of the state government and appealed to young entrepreneurs to derive optimal benefits from the incentives provided by the government for the promotion of homestays.Vijay said about 214 homestays had been registered in the district during the past one-and-a-half years.“Chamba is endowed with natural scenic beauty, gorgeous high-altitude passes with trekking routes for adventure tourism and religious shrines in its mountains which are often visited by tourists and visitors. Therefore, the movement of tourists in the region has the potential for home stays”, Vijay said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/25-youths-trained-to-run-homestays-290311
30-07-2021||Chamba||Drunk man kills wife in Chamba||A drunk man has allegedly thrashed his wife to death in Himgiri of Chamba district, SP Arul Kumar said.The woman had been identified as Kanchi Devi of Dayotnar village of the district. Her husband Jai Singh has been arrested. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/drunk-man-kills-wife-in-chamba-290316
30-07-2021||Shimla||175 tourists stuck in Himachal’s Lahaul-Spiti after cloudburst, landslides||As many as 175 tourists are stranded in Himachal Pradesh’s Lahaul-Spiti following a cloudburst and landslides triggered by heavy rainfall, a senior disaster management official said on Thursday.Deputy Commissioner Neeraj Kumar has sought helicopter support from the state government for their evacuation, a district spokesperson said.State Disaster Management Director Sudesh Kumar Mokhta said sorties with a state government helicopter have been planned for Friday due to weather conditions.  He said among the 175 stranded in Udaipur’s Pattan Valley are 60 women and 16 children.Their evacuation through road seems difficult as the route via Pangi is not expected to be ready by Friday evening, he said. Several roads and bridges have been damaged in the district due to bad weather.In an SMS to PTI, a tourist from Punjab’s Hoshiarpur, Ravindra Sood, said, “More than 100 tourists have been stranded in Trilokinath and 35 in Fudan villages due to recent cloudburst in Jhalman, Shansha and Thirot areas in Lauhal Valley.”Sood said the number of people stranded at Jhalwan and Udaipur villages is yet to be known and the road was damaged at several places between Kirting and Thirot. Earlier Sood told PTI that the telephone network was not working properly. When contacted, Lahaul-Spiti Deputy Commissioner Neeraj Kumar said those stranded have taken shelter at a temple and are getting adequate food.According to the list provided by the DC, 72 people are stuck at Trilokinath.Of them, 57 are from Kullu, seven each from Punjab and Mandi and one from Ladakh. Of the seven from Punjab, five are from Hoshiarpur and two from Sangrur, he added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/175-tourists-stuck-in-himachals-lahaul-spiti-after-cloudburst-landslides-290101
