15-09-2021||Editorials||India’s farmers need a ‘new deal’||The average farmer in India earns ₹27 per day from cultivation, according to statistics from the latest Situation Assessment Survey (SAS) which covers the period from July 2018 to June 2019. An analysis of these numbers, in this newspaper, found that unskilled manual work on Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) work sites would pay more than farming. This is exactly why wage labour has replaced cultivation incomes as the biggest source of earnings even for agricultural households. If farming does not generate adequate incomes, India’s farmers cannot be blamed for not making investments in augmenting production and sustainability techniques. India is still a laggard vis-à-vis other important producers in yields for most crops. The climate crisis will pose a growing danger to the sustainability of farming practices.
15-09-2021||Editorials||A lifeline for the telecom sector||One way of looking at the Union Cabinet’s decisions on the telecommunications sector announced on Wednesday is to say that these should have been taken long ago. The more pertinent way of looking at them would be that they have come just in time to offer relief to a beleaguered sector. The redefinition of adjusted gross revenue (AGR), prospectively, not retrospectively, the enhancement of the life of spectrum by 10 years, the removal of a financial constraint to spectrum sharing, and, more importantly, a four-year moratorium on all spectrum and AGR dues come as a lifeline to the sector. It should ensure that the sector does not become a duopoly and encourage companies to invest in customer service and new technology. Sure, companies have to pay an interest on the dues during the moratorium, but they have the option of doing this through equity (an option some of them will actively consider). And the government has retained the option of converting remaining dues at the end of the moratorium period too, to equity. Vodafone Idea is the biggest beneficiary of the new announcements; it owes the government around ₹50,000 crore . Bharti Airtel owes the government around ₹26,000 crore.
