28-09-2021||Editorials||The incoherence in the Congress||The Congress leadership — which in the current context primarily means the brother-sister duo of Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra — invested their political capital and authority in Punjab. They first decided that Captain Amarinder Singh would not be able to lead the party to victory in 2022 and appointed his arch-rival Navjot Singh Sidhu as party president. The leadership thought this would neutralise anti-incumbency, but all it did was deepen the factional divide. Then, within weeks, they decided that a dual power arrangement won’t work and orchestrated a situation which made Captain Singh’s continuation untenable. After a series of names did the rounds as replacements — Ambika Soni, Sunil Jakhar, and Sukhjinder Randhawa — the party appointed Charanjit Singh Channi, a Dalit leader, as the new chief minister (CM). It patted itself on the back for what it thought was a masterstroke in creating a Jat Sikh-Dalit Sikh alliance with Mr Sidhu as party chief and Mr Channi as CM, but as this newspaper pointed out last week, the party had possibly sown the seeds of a deeper divide. From two major factions, that of Captain Singh and Mr Sidhu, five factions emerged — that of Mr Sidhu, Mr Jakhar, Mr Randhawa and Mr Channi, besides that of the former CM.
28-09-2021||Editorials||Germany’s political churn is significant||In Germany, a closely contested election has seen the Social Democrats (SPD) pull marginally ahead of Chancellor Angela Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union (CDU). Both parties are in a race to form coalitions though, by most accounts, SPD’s Olaf Scholz is seen as having an edge through his efforts to forge an alliance with the Greens and the Free Democratic Party (FDP). The race to choose Ms Merkel’s successor is happening at a time when, across Europe, states are looking to Germany and France to play a larger role in shaping the European Union (EU)’s response to a range of challenges, from the climate crisis to China’s growing assertiveness. Germany is also keen to see France patch up its differences with the United States (US) over AUKUS.
