13-08-2020||World||UAE, Israel to set roadmap towards establishing bilateral ties: Mohammed Bin Zayed||Israel and the United Arab Emirates reached an agreement to work toward fully normalized relations, a potentially historic breakthrough that US president Donald Trump said will facilitate peace in the Mideast.The move means the UAE would join Egypt and Jordan as the only Arab countries with normal ties with Israel, signaling the nations will send ambassadors and open more direct commercial relations. According to a joint statement on Thursday, the UAE and Israel will begin a range of talks in the “coming weeks,” while Israel also agreed to suspend efforts to declare sovereignty over parts of the West Bank.As part of the deal, Israel also agreed to suspend controversial moves to annex portions of the West Bank, an effort that was widely seen as having put any final peace agreement further from reach.The deal is a “significant” step toward peace in the Mideast, Trump told reporters in the Oval Office, while the joint statement said a signing ceremony will take place at the White House.Ties between Israel and Gulf Arab states have warmed in recent years, in large part due to a shared distrust of Iran. But they haven’t ripened into open relations, let alone normalization.“The announcement is big and the White House will be able to claim that it has achieved a breakthrough in the traditional wall of divide in Arab-Israeli relations,” said Ayham Kamel, a Mideast expert at the Eurasia Group. Aaron David Miller, a senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment and former Mideast official at the State Department, called the accord a “win for all 3” nations.Comments from the leader of the UAE, Crown Prince Mohammed Bin Zayed, were more nuanced than the remarks from Trump and in the joint statement issued by the White House.“During a call with President Trump and Prime Minister Netanyahu, an agreement was reached to stop further Israeli annexation of Palestinian territories,” bin Zayed wrote on Twitter. “The UAE and Israel also agreed to cooperation and setting a roadmap towards establishing a bilateral relationship.”Nevertheless, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, called it “a historic day” in Hebrew on Twitter and said he would speak publicly later in the day. Egyptian President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi wrote on Twitter that he followed the agreement and its efforts to foster peace “with attention and appreciation.”Pushback came swiftly from Palestinian officials. Hanan Ashrawi, a member of the Palestine Liberation Organization’s executive committee, writing on Twitter that “Israel got rewarded for not declaring openly what it’s been doing to Palestine illegally & persistently since the beginning of the occupation. The UAE has come out in the open on its secret dealings/normalization with Israel. Please don’t do us a favor. We are nobody’s fig leaf!”‘More Aggression’Officials with Hamas, the US-designated terrorist organization that runs the Gaza Strip, were more blunt. Hamas spokesman Fawzi Barhoum told Al Jazeera that the move was a “stab against the Palestinian cause and will encourage the Israeli occupation to commit more aggression against our people.”The joint statement published by the White House suggested the move will reverberate across the Mideast, and Trump said there is “a lot more to come.”“This historic diplomatic breakthrough will advance peace in the Middle East region and is a testament to the bold diplomacy and vision of the three leaders and the courage of the United Arab Emirates and Israel to chart a new path that will unlock the great potential in the region,” according to the statement from the US, Israel and the UAE.The announcement could be a diplomatic coup for Netanyahu at a time when he is under intense fire at home from mass protests against his government’s mishandling of the coronavirus and his continued leadership while under indictment in three criminal cases.A White House signing ceremony would also help Trump -- lagging in the polls ahead of November’s election -- evoke the spirit of the original peace deal between Israel, Egypt and Jordan, facilitated by then President Jimmy Carter as part of the Camp David accords in 1978.Trump later joked to reporters in the Oval Office that he wanted the new agreement “to be called the Donald J. Trump accord.”The president has long sought a Mideast breakthrough that would allow him to withdraw U.S. troops from the region and get out of what he called “endless wars.” He’s also sought to strengthen an anti-Iran alliance in the region, led by Saudi Arabia.At the beginning of his term in 2017, Trump called upon his son-in-law, Jared Kushner, to help broker a big Mideast deal, though his efforts had largely stalled. Trump’s move early in his term to move the U.S. embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem, and his decision to recognize Israeli sovereignty of the Golan Heights, quickly alienated Palestinian officials and much of the Arab world, leaving Kushner’s peace plan -- which effectively sanctioned Israeli annexation of much of the West Bank -- with few champions in the region.The backdown on the West Bank may have helped seal the agreement, analysts said.“The timing of the move also allows Netanyahu and Trump to climb elegantly down the annexation tree, when neither leader has the stomach to follow through on what would likely have been be a destabilizing move in the region,” said Shalom Lipner, a senior fellow at the Atlantic Council who has served seven Israeli prime ministers.The decision by the UAE may also be seen as a prelude for its far bigger neighbor, Saudi Arabia, which has close ties with the UAE and has been viewed as informal contacts with Israel. Trump has made the U.S. relationship with Saudi Arabia the centerpiece of his Mideast strategy.Kamel of the Eurasia Group said Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman will inevitably follow the UAE’s lead but that will take longer as “his society is more conservative and succession politics adds a layer of complications. However, Riyadh will eventually move in a similar direction, albeit at a slower pace and with hesitation given the risks.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uae-israel-to-set-roadmap-towards-establishing-bilateral-ties-mohammed-bin-zayed/story-EZL0S3KR1OS817TxiOn85I.html
13-08-2020||World||US designates Confucius Institute ‘foreign mission’||The United States on Thursday designated the Confucius Institute US Center (CIUS) as a foreign mission calling it an “entity advancing Beijing’s global propaganda and malign influence campaign” on American campuses and schools.“The goal of these actions is simple: to ensure that American educators and school administrators can make informed choices about whether these CCP-backed programs should be allowed to continue, and if so, in what fashion,” secretary of state Mike Pompeo said in a statement.As a “foreign mission” CIUS will be subject to the same administrative rules and restrictions that apply to the Chinese diplomatic missions on a reciprocal basis. The Trump administration shut down the Chinese mission in Houston recently alleging it has become a den of spies.The United States has also designated Chinese media outlets operating here as ‘“foreign missions”, subjecting to the same treatment as diplomats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-designates-confucius-institute-foreign-mission/story-MvYHYO9mtJEQGE4YAb51iP.html
13-08-2020||World||Covid-19: Italian prosecutors ask to drop pandemic probe into Premier Conte||Rome prosecutors sought permission to drop a probe into Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte and members of his cabinet after complaints were filed by several citizens on how the government handled the coronavirus pandemic, according to a note from the premier’s office.Prosecutors notified the premier and ministers that they are under investigation following complaints from all over the country. Prosecutors also included a note, which specified that they considered the allegations “unfounded” and “to be dismissed,” according to a statement sent by Conte’s office.The complaints include crimes such as causing an epidemic, offenses against health, manslaughter, abuse of office, and acts against the constitution and political rights, according to the statement.In Italy, prosecutors are obligated to follow up on criminal complaints made by the public. After a preliminary investigation, they have to go to a judge for permission to drop the case or proceed to a more in-depth probe.The prosecutors’ request to drop the case will now be reviewed by a judge who will decide whether to accept the dismissal or order a full investigation. In Conte’s case, the decision will be taken by a court that deals specifically with investigations into ministers.Conte said in a Facebook post that he always acted in Italy’s best interest and based on advice from scientists and experts.The other officials charged are Justice Minister Alfonso Bonafede, Foreign Minister Luigi Di Maio, Finance Minister Roberto Gualtieri, Defence Minister Lorenzo Guerini, Interior Minister Luciana Lamorgese and Health Minister Roberto Speranza.Italy was among the first countries to be hit by the coronavirus pandemic and to implement a strict lockdown of its population and businesses. The lockdown began in late February in some parts of the North and was later extended to the entire country in early March. Over 35,000 people died in Italy due to coronavirus, about half of them in the Northern part of the country.Conte has been criticized by political opponents both for not doing enough to stop the spread of coronavirus and for doing too much to limit citizen’s rights with a draconian lockdown measures that paralyzed the economy. While businesses and people are once again free to work and move around, the government recently extended emergency powers until October arguing that coronavirus is still present and can pose a risk to the country.“Conte should be arrested,” political opponent and League party leader Matteo Salvini said, according to Ansa newswire. “He didn’t close the red zones when it was needed and he closed Italy when he shouldn’t have. That’s a crime.”Salvini’s attacks potentially pose a threat to political stability in Italy as Conte tries to drag the economy out of its worst recession since World War II with 100 billion euros worth of stimulus measures passed by the cabinet since the start of the pandemic. The European Commission forecasts an 11% contraction of Italian GDP this year, which along with the extra spending will push the country’s debt well over 150% of output.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-italian-prosecutors-ask-to-drop-pandemic-probe-into-premier-conte/story-MTY2CNPmF1pHpBmtBW9dMN.html
13-08-2020||World||Donald Trump announces ‘historic’ peace deal between Israel, UAE||US President Donald Trump announced Thursday Israel and the United Arab Emirates have agreed to a “full normalization” of relations, including re—establishing diplomatic ties.“This historic diplomatic breakthrough will advance peace in the Middle East region and is a testament to bold diplomacy and vision of the three leaders and the courage of the United Arab Emirates and Israel to chart a new path that will unlock the great potential of the region,” said a joint statement by the United States, the UAE and Israel released by theWhite House.The leaders referred in the statement are President Trump, Israel’s Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and UAE’s Crown Prince Sheikh Mohammad Bin Zayed.“This is a truly historic moment,,” Trump said in Oval office. “Not since the Jordan-Israel peace treaty was signed more than than 25 years ago that so much progress has been made towards peace in the Middle East”.He added: “Now that the ice has been broken I expect more Arab and Muslim countries will follow the United Arab Emirates.”The UAE and Israel will sign an agreement at the White House some time in the future, and will follow that up with other agreements over the next few weeks setting up embassies reciprocally and on investments, tourism, direct flights, security, telecommunications, technology, healthcare and culture.As a result of the the joint statement said Israel will “suspend declaring sovereignty over areas outlined” in the President’s Vision for Peace unveiled earlier and focus its efforts now on expanding ties with other countries in the Arab and Muslim world. As the US president said, the joint statement the three countries are “confident that additional diplomatic breakthroughs with other nations are possible, and will work together to achieve this goal.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-announces-historic-peace-deal-between-israel-uae/story-FySr4s3pjqwgJHvdZdRGAI.html
13-08-2020||World||‘Truly historic moment’: Trump announces peace agreement between Israel and UAE||President Donald Trump said on Thursday that the United Arab Emirates and Israel have agreed to establish full diplomatic ties as part of a deal to halt the annexation of occupied land sought by the Palestinians for their future state.The announcement makes the UAE the first Gulf Arab state to do so and only the third Arab nation to have active diplomatic ties to Israel.Trump tweeted a statement from the countries, acknowledging the deal. He then told reporters in the Oval Office that it was “a truly historic moment.” HUGE breakthrough today! Historic Peace Agreement between our two GREAT friends, Israel and the United Arab Emirates!“Now that the ice has been broken I expect more Arab and Muslim countries will follow the United Arab Emirates,” he said. Joint Statement of the United States, the State of Israel, and the United Arab Emirates pic.twitter.com/oVyjLxf0jdThe recognition grants a rare diplomatic win to Trump ahead of the November election as his efforts to see an end to the war in Afghanistan have yet to come to fruition while efforts to bring peace between Israel and the Palestinians have made no headway.For Israel, the announcement comes after years of boasting by Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu that his government enjoys closer ties to Arab nations than publicly acknowledged. Netanyahu has sought to build settlements on lands sought by the Palestinians and embraced a Trump proposal that would allow him to annex large parts of the occupied West Bank while granting Palestinians limited autonomy in other areas.For the UAE, home to skyscraper-studded Dubai and the rolling, oil-rich sand dunes of Abu Dhabi, it further burnishes its international campaign to be seen as a beacon of tolerance in the Middle East despite being governed by autocratic rulers. It also puts the UAE out first in a regional recognition race among neighboring Gulf Arab states.And for the Palestinians, who long have relied on Arab backing in their struggle for independence, the announcement marked both a win and setback. While Thursday’s deal halts Israeli annexation plans, the Palestinians have repeatedly urged Arab governments not to normalize relations with Israel until a peace agreement establishing an independent Palestinian state is reached.A joint statement from the U.S., the UAE and Israel was issued immediately after Trump’s tweet. It said delegations would meet in the coming weeks to sign deals on direct flights, security, telecommunications, energy, tourism and health care. The two countries also will partner on fighting the coronavirus pandemic.“Opening direct ties between two of the Middle East’s most dynamic societies and advanced economics will transform the region by spurring economic growth, enhancing technological innovation and forging closer people-to-people relations,” said the statement by Trump, Netanyahu and Abu Dhabi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the day-to-day ruler of the UAE. It said the leaders had a three-way call discussing the deal.U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo praised the deal.“This is a remarkable achievement for two of the world’s most forward leaning, technologically advanced states, and reflects their shared regional vision of an economically integrated region,” he said in a statement. “It also illustrates their commitment to confronting common threats, as small — but strong — nations.”He added: “Blessed are the peacemakers. Mabruk and Mazal Tov.”Among Arab nations, only Egypt and Jordan have active diplomatic ties with Israel. Egypt made a peace deal with Israel in 1979, followed by Jordan in 1994. Mauritania recognized Israel in 1999, but later ended relations in 2009 over the Israel’s war in Gaza at the time.In addition to Trump, the main U.S. mediators for agreement were the president’s senior advisor and son-in-law Jared Kushner, special Mideast envoy Avi Berkowitz and David Friedman, the U.S. ambassador to Israel.The UAE is a U.S.-allied federation of seven sheikhdoms on the Arabian Peninsula. Formed in 1971, the country like other Arab nations at the time did not recognize Israel over its occupation of land home to the Palestinians.“Arab oil is not dearer than Arab blood,” the UAE’s founding ruler, Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, once pronounced when agreeing to an oil boycott over U.S. military support to Israel in the 1973 Mideast war.The UAE relied on white-collar Palestinians in creating its nation. Over time, it maintained its stance that Israel allow the creation of a Palestinian state on land it seized in the 1967 war.But in recent years, ties between Gulf Arab nations and Israel have quietly grown, in part over their shared enmity of Iran and the Lebanese militant group Hezbollah. Prince Mohammed also shares Israel’s distrust of Islamist groups like the Muslim Brotherhood and the militant group Hamas that holds the Gaza Strip.It remains unclear what prompted Israel and the UAE to make the announcement now. In June, the United Arab Emirates’ ambassador to the U.S. warned in an Israeli newspaper op-ed that Israel’s planned annexing the Jordan Valley and other parts of the occupied West Bank would “upend” Israel’s efforts to improve ties with Arab nations.The agreement gives Netanyahu a domestic boost at a time when Israel’s shaky coalition government is plagued by infighting and facing the possibility of early elections in the coming months. Netanyahu has seen his popularity plummet as the country grapples with a renewed coronavirus outbreak and skyrocketing unemployment as the result of earlier lockdown measures.Netanyahu also delivered a valuable diplomatic achievement to his good friend, Trump, ahead of U.S. elections.Still, by dropping the annexation plan Netanyahu may be hedging his bets ahead of a possible change in the White House. Joe Biden, the presumptive Democratic nominee, has made clear that he would oppose any moves by Israel to unilaterally redraw the Mideast map and annex lands sought by the Palestinians.Netanyahu also risked criticism inside his own hard-line Likud Party, whose members strongly supported annexation. Netanyahu appears to be betting that Likud members — and the small, but influential settler movement — will agree the peace agreement delivers more benefits than unilateral annexation. Opinion polls have shown that annexation is not a high priority for the vast majority of the Israeli public.Abandoning its annexation plan changes little on the ground. Israel already holds overall control of the West Bank and continues to expand its settlements there, while granting the Palestinians autonomy in a series of disconnected enclaves. Some 500,000 Israelis now live in the rapidly expanding West Bank settlements.Next year, Israel will take part in the UAE’s delayed Expo 2020, the world’s fair being hosted by Dubai. A secret synagogue also draws practicing Jews in Dubai. The UAE also has announced plans to build the Abrahamic Family House in Abu Dhabi, which will house a mosque, a church and a synagogue.Israelis traveling with Western passports routinely enter the UAE without a problem, though one still can’t make a phone call between the two countries. Israelis also work in Dubai’s gold and diamond trade as well.Emirati officials also have allowed Israeli officials to visit and the Israeli national anthem was played after an athlete won gold in an Abu Dhabi judo tournament. Israel also has a small mission representing its interests at the International Renewable Energy Agency in Abu Dhabi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/truly-historic-moment-trump-announces-peace-agreement-between-israel-and-uae/story-yaoNey10Rz6hd60eM9hWYL.html
13-08-2020||World||Irish PM sees ‘landing zone’ for Brexit deal after meeting UK’s Johnson||Ireland’s Prime Minister Micheál Martin said on Thursday he believes there is a “landing zone” to reach a post-Brexit trade deal between the United Kingdom and the European Union.Martin, speaking after meeting British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, said they had agreed on the absolute necessity for a tariff and quota-free trade agreement between Britain and the European Union.“It seems to me that there is a landing zone if that will is there on both sides, and I think it is,” said Martin, who became prime minister in June.“My own gut instinct is that there is a shared understanding that we don’t need another shock to the economic system that a sub-optimal trade agreement would give alongside of the enormous shock of Covid,” he told reporters in Belfast.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/irish-pm-sees-landing-zone-for-brexit-deal-after-meeting-uk-s-johnson/story-sVhE1X6Q8SnXHAqTBw465I.html
13-08-2020||World||Covid-19 vaccine trial likely to conclude by Nov, production may start in early 2021: AstraZeneca||Mexico and Argentina have reached agreements to produce the UK drugmaker AstraZeneca Plc’s promising Covid-19 vaccine for Latin America, the nations’ governments said.The countries will make 150 million to 250 million initial doses of the potential Covid-19 vaccine designed by scientists at the University of Oxford after the required trials, Argentine president Alberto Fernandez and Mexican foreign minister Marcelo Ebrard said in messages on Twitter on Wednesday night. Billionaire Carlos Slim’s foundation is helping finance the plan, Ebrard said.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The goal is to produce the vaccine as of the first half of next year, and there will be no profits from it during the pandemic, Fernandez said in his statement following a meeting with representatives of AstraZeneca. His health minister said Argentina will prioritize getting the vaccine to the elderly, medical professionals and people with pre-existing conditions.The vaccine’s phase 3 results are due as early as November, and Mexicans will have universal access to the vaccine, which will be free, Ebrard said at President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador’s news conference on Thursday morning. Lopez Obrador said the cost to Mexico will be less than 25 billion pesos, ($1.12 bilion).“This is a deal for production in Mexico of the vaccine that today is considered the most advanced in the world,” Ebrard said. Manufacturing is scheduled for the first quarter of 2021, according to AstraZeneca’s Mexico country chief, Sylvia Varela.Mexico is third in the world in confirmed Covid-19 deaths with more than 53,000, trailing only Brazil and the US, and Latin America accounts for half of the 10 countries with the most cases globally.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Slim’s son, America Movil chairman Carlos Slim Domit, also joining the news conference, said that the collaboration will allow Mexico to obtain the vaccine one year early. Biotechnology company mAbxience will produce the active substance in Argentina and Mexican laboratory Liomont will complete the process of formulation, Fernandez said Wednesday. The finished vaccine will then be exported to the rest of Latin America.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-vaccine-trial-likely-to-conclude-by-nov-production-may-start-in-early-2021-astrazeneca/story-4dydUIc1qkfwtesCWCWBJO.html
13-08-2020||World||Senior US diplomat heads to Lebanon to stress need for ‘urgent’ reform||The US State Department said its No. 3 diplomat will head to Lebanon on Thursday and stress the ‘urgent need’ for Lebanon to embrace fundamental reform, in the aftermath of a devastating warehouse blast that killed 172 people and injured thousands.In planned meetings with political leaders, civil society, and youth groups, Undersecretary for Political Affairs David Hale will also underscore America’s willingness to support any government that is “genuinely committed” to and acting upon such a reform agenda, the agency said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/senior-us-diplomat-heads-to-lebanon-to-stress-need-for-urgent-reform/story-ItIvg6hCpREdkb9ifB6D5O.html
13-08-2020||World||Trump holds up coronavirus aid to block Democrats’ bid for election funding||Funding for the US Postal Service and to shore up election infrastructure became a major sticking point in congressional talks on coronavirus relief, as President Donald Trump on Thursday vowed to block any money to facilitate mail-in voting.The Republican president has been railing against mail-in ballots for months as a possible source of fraud, although there is little evidence it takes place and millions of Americans - including much of the military - have used the post office to cast absentee ballots for years. Trump said his negotiators have resisted Democrats’ calls for additional money to help prepare for presidential, congressional and local voting during a pandemic that has killed more than 165,000 Americans and presented severe logistical challenges to organizing large events like the Nov. 3 election.“The items are the post office and the $3.5 billion for mail-in voting,” Trump told Fox Business Network, saying Democrats want to give the post office $25 billion. “If we don’t make the deal, that means they can’t have the money, that means they can’t have universal mail-in voting. It just can’t happen.”The amount of money in question is less than 1% of either party’s current proposed response, with Senate Republicans having unveiled a $1 trillion response while the Democratic-controlled House of Representatives in May passed a $3 trillion bill.Democrats have cried foul, accusing Trump and his party of trying to make it harder for Americans to vote, as opinion polls show him trailing his Democratic rival, former Vice President Joe Biden.“I initially was hopeful this wasn’t an intentional effort to throw the election. I am gravely concerned given the recent changes in the leadership of the Postal Service that we’ve seen by the postmaster general, who I’ll remind you was a major Trump campaign contributor,” Democratic Senator Chris Coons said on MSNBC.The ability to vote without going to a polling place is especially important this year as Americans look for ways to vote without risking being infected by the novel coronavirus.The White House negotiating team of Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin and Chief of Staff Mark Meadows has not met with House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer in six days.Pelosi said any coronavirus relief bill should include billions of dollars to protect not just Americans’ right to vote but also essential services, like mailing prescription medicines, during the pandemic.“The president has stood in the way of any money for the Postal Service,” Pelosi said on MSNBC.When the congressional Democrats and Trump’s negotiators last met in person on Friday, they were some $2 trillion apart in their negotiating positions. A Reuters/Ipsos poll this week showed that Americans blame both parties for the standoff, which has led to the expiration of a $600-per-week lifeline to unemployed people.New Postmaster General Louis DeJoy, who has donated $2.7 million to Trump and his fellow Republicans since 2017, has ordered operational changes and a clampdown on overtime in a bid to fix the financially troubled Postal Service, which reported a net loss of $2.2 billion in the last quarter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-holds-up-coronavirus-aid-to-block-democrats-bid-for-election-funding/story-OmNe5q76yitS4qX7253OhO.html
13-08-2020||World||US jobless claims fall below 1 million but remain high||The number of laid-off workers applying for unemployment aid fell below 1 million last week for the first time since the pandemic intensified five months ago yet still remains at a high level. The viral pandemic keeps forcing layoffs just as the expiration of a $600-a-week federal jobless benefit has deepened the hardships for many.The Labor Department said applications fell to 963,000, the second straight drop, from 1.2 million the previous week. The decline suggests that layoffs are slowing, though last week’s figure still exceeds the pre-pandemic record of just under 700,000.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The pandemic, the shutdowns that are meant to fight it and the reluctance or inability of many people to shop, travel or eat out are continuing to weaken the economy and force companies to cut staff. Twenty-three states have paused or reversed their business re-openings. In a hopeful sign, the rate of new confirmed viral cases has declined in the past couple of weeks, though it remains far above the rates that prevailed in May and June.All told, fewer people are also continuing to receive state jobless aid. That figure dropped to 15.5 million, from 16.1 million the previous week.For months, the unemployed had also been receiving the $600 a week in federal jobless aid on top of their state benefit. But the federal payment has expired, and negotiations in Congress to extend that benefit, likely at a lower level of payment, have collapsed in rancor.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage The supplemental federal aid had enabled many jobless Americans to afford rent, food and utilities, and its expiration threatens to weaken consumer spending and further slow the economy. Unemployment benefits have accounted for roughly 5 per cent of national income since April, a larger share than even Social Security. The loss of the $600 has shrunk benefits for the average recipient by one-half to three-quarters.Michelle Meyer, an economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, says that the loss of the additional aid will reduce Americans’ incomes by $18 billion a week.“That’s a big hit to purchasing power,” she said.Last week, President Donald Trump issued an executive order that would provide $300 a week in federal aid to the jobless to replace the expired $600-a-week benefit. But experts say it would take weeks for the states to implement that payment.In addition to people who applied last week for state benefits, nearly 489,000 others sought jobless aid under a new program that has made self-employed and gig workers eligible for the first time. That figure isn’t adjusted for seasonal trends, so it’s reported separately.But including that group, the Labor Department says 28.2 million people are receiving some form of unemployment benefits, though that figure may be inflated by double-counting by some states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-jobless-claims-fall-below-1-million-but-remain-high/story-S6QmV5e6NVTtjdKC0SHekO.html
13-08-2020||World||Lebanon parliament grants military power in stricken Beirut||Lebanon’s Parliament approved on Thursday a state of emergency in the capital, Beirut, in its first session since the tragic explosion last week, granting the military sweeping powers amid rising popular anger and political uncertainty.The blast that killed more than 170 people and injured at least 6,000 others changed the face of the capital and forced the government to resign.Before resigning, the government declared a state of emergency in Beirut that granted the military sweeping powers including the power to declare curfews, prevent public gatherings and censor media as well as refer civilians to military tribunals for alleged security breaches.The move has been criticized by rights groups and other critics who say the civilian government was already operating with increased powers because of the coronavirus outbreak. Some pointed to the heavy military crackdown on protesters last week, fearing extended power could lead to increased use of force to silence dissent.The state of emergency required parliamentary approval.Parliament is convening outside its regular location to observe social distancing amid a coronavirus surge and because of protests outside the Parliament building by angry Lebanese who want the entire political class to step down. More protests were expected Thursday.The session opened with a moment of silence for those killed in the blast. It then moved to discuss the resignation of nearly a dozen lawmakers who quit last week in protest of the government’s handling of the Aug. 4 blast. A major Christian party bloc is boycotting the session.It still was not known what caused the fire responsible for igniting nearly 3,000 tons of ammonium nitrate stored in Beirut’s port. But documents have emerged in the wake of the explosion that show the country’s top leadership and security officials were aware of the chemicals being stored in the city port.The explosion has fueled outrage and protests against top political leaders and led to the resignation of the government Monday. The Cabinet is now in a caretaker capacity.Parliament is required to approve the state of emergency eight days after it is imposed. But it wasn’t clear if the body had technically extended the government decision for 15 days or simply imposed the state of emergency starting Thursday, said rights lawyer Nizar Saghieh.“There is incredible chaos,” Saghieh said. He said the state of emergency’s only justification is to extend the power of the state and security agencies and “control the opposition.”“We were waiting for the army to help in reconstruction not be an extension of power,” he said.Lawmaker Simon Abi Ramieh protested that Parliament was convened to vote on the state of emergency while it was still in effect and called instead for forming a parliamentary committee to investigate the blast.“We are living in a state of institutional blunder,” he said. “We are in a place and the Lebanese people are somewhere else. ... The public wants to know the truth behind the negligence that led to the explosion.”Lebanon’s political landscape has been shaken by the blast. Before resigning, the caretaker prime minister proposed early elections, an idea that was not supported by the Parliament speaker and other political groups.Since the resignation, there has been a flurry of closed-door meetings and political haggling to form a government that meets the approval of domestic and international powers. Lebanon’s complicated sectarian-based political system requires the prime minister to be chosen from among Sunni Muslims. It wasn’t clear if there would be a national unity government — which would mean the participation of all political parties — or an emergency transition government.France’s defense minister was due to arrive in Beirut on Thursday amid a flurry of foreign visits to the stricken country. France has been leading efforts to help Lebanon emerge from the drastic blow, including talking to political parties to hasten the formation of a new government.Also on Thursday, U.S. Under Secretary for Political Affairs David Hale was due to arrive in Lebanon for a two-day visit. Hale is expected to “reiterate the American government’s commitment to assist the Lebanese people in recovering from the tragedy and rebuilding their lives,” a statement by the U.S. Embassy said. He will also stress the “urgent need” for embracing fundamental reforms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/lebanon-parliament-grants-military-power-in-stricken-beirut/story-d8neuxDr5DEQObNNsPJliL.html
13-08-2020||World||Thousands in Belarus form ‘lines of solidarity’ in protest||Thousands of people were back on the streets of Belarus’ capital on Thursday to keep protesting against a vote that extended the 26-year rule of the country’s authoritarian leader, and against a brutal crackdown on peaceful demonstrations.In several areas of Minsk, hundreds of women formed long “lines of solidarity,” carrying flowers and portraits of loved ones detained during protests. The human chains grew quickly, and by early afternoon filled the main central squares and avenues. Motorists blared horns in support.Nearly 7,000 people have been detained and hundreds have been injured in a ruthless police clampdown on demonstrators protesting the official results of Sunday’s ballot that gave President Alexander Lukashenko 80% of the vote, and his top opposition challenger only 10%. Police have cracked down in full force, breaking up the protests with stun grenades, tear gas and rubber bullets and severely beating many.“Belarusians have seen the villainous face of this government. I argued with my husband and voted for Lukashenko. And this is what I got in the end — I can’t find my relatives in prisons,” said Valentina Chailytko, 49, whose husband and son were detained during protests on Sunday.“I wonder how Lukashenko could keep ruling,” said Chailytko who has been unable to find any information about their whereabouts.One protester died Monday in Minsk, and scores were injured. The authorities confirmed that a detainee also died in the southeastern city Gomel, but the circumstances of his death weren’t immediately clear.The brutality and scope of the police crackdown was remarkable even for Lukashenko’s iron-fisted rule. He has won the nickname of “Europe’s last dictator” in the West for his relentless suppression of dissent.The Interior Ministry reported 700 new detentions late Wednesday and overnight, bring the total number of detainees to 6,700 since Sunday. Belarus’ Investigative Committee launched a criminal probe into the organization of mass rioting — a charge that could carry prison terms of up to 15 years for those found guilty.The ministry said 103 police officers have been injured since Sunday and 28 of them were hospitalized. In Minsk and Baranovichi, unidentified suspects ran over traffic policemen with their vehicles on Wednesday before being detained.The brutal suppression of protests drew harsh criticism in the West.European Union foreign policy chief Josep Borrell said that the 27-nation bloc would review its relations with Belarus and consider “measures against those responsible for the observed violence, unjustified arrests and falsification of election results.”U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said the election in Belarus wasn’t free or fair and urged the government to refrain from violence against peaceful protesters.After three days of ruthless crackdown, police scaled down their response on Wednesday. In many parts of Minsk, the all-female “lines of solidarity” stood unchallenged for some time before police dispersed some of them without violence. Such peaceful demonstrations swarmed the city Thursday, but police refrained from immediately dispersing them.Lukashenko has derided the political opposition as “sheep” manipulated by foreign masters and vowed to continue taking a tough position on protests. “The core of these so-called protesters are people with a criminal past and (those who are) currently unemployed,” he said Wednesday.This year the economic damage caused by the coronavirus and the president’s swaggering response to the pandemic, which he airily dismissed as “psychosis,” has fueled broad anger, helping swell the opposition ranks and posing an unprecedented challenge to Lukashenko.Protesters on Thursday said they were undeterred by police violence. “We’re not afraid, there’s no fear,” Alla Pronich, 38, told The Associated Press.“To audacious rigging (of the election), to violence, to flash-bang grenades the authorities use we respond with solidarity and a peaceful protest. It is all we have,” Pronich said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/thousands-in-belarus-form-lines-of-solidarity-in-protest/story-uaNlXNLtYECu8FnQmo1ecN.html
13-08-2020||World||US says Iran briefly seizes oil tanker near Strait of Hormuz||The Iranian navy boarded and briefly seized a Liberian-flagged oil tanker near the strategic Strait of Hormuz amid heightened tensions between Tehran and the US, a US military official said Thursday.The US military’s Central Command published a black-and-white video showing what appeared to be special forces fast-roping down from a helicopter onto the MT Wila, whose last position appeared to be off the eastern coast of the United Arab Emirates near the city of Khorfakkan.The Iranian navy held the vessel for some five hours before releasing it Wednesday, said a US military official who spoke to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity to discuss details not yet made public. The Wila made no distress calls before, during and after the seizure, the official said.The Iranian helicopter involved appeared to be a Sikorsky SH-3 Sea King, which only Iran’s navy operates. The Iranian navy also handles all operations in the Gulf of Oman on the eastern side of the Strait of Hormuz, through which 20% of all oil traded passes. Two other Iranian naval vessels took part in the seizure, Central Command said.The US military officials did not offer any reason for Iran seizing the vessel. Iranian state media and officials did not acknowledge the seizure or offer a reason for it.Officials in the UAE, a US-allied federation of seven sheikhdoms on the Arabian Peninsula, did not respond to a request for comment.The Wila’s registered owner is a Liberian firm called Bandit Shipping Co., managed by Greek firm IMS SA, according to United Nations records. Bandit Shipping could not be reached, while IMS did not respond to requests for comment.The Wila had been off Khor Al Zubair, Iraq, in early July before traveling to near Dubai and later Khorfakkan, where it’s been for around a month, according to data firm Refinitiv. It wasn’t immediately clear what cargo it carried.Private maritime intelligence firm Dryad Global said it suspected two other ships had been harassed by Iran’s paramilitary Revolutionary Guard in the Persian Gulf over the last week as well, based on the ships’ behavior.As tensions between Iran and the US heated up last year over America’s unilateral withdraw from its 2015 nuclear deal, tankers plying the waters of the Mideast became targets, particularly near the strait, the Persian Gulf’s narrow mouth. Suspected limpet mine attacks the US blamed on Iran targeted several tankers. Iran denied being involved, though it did seize several tankers.In July, a US-sought oil tanker was “hijacked” off the coast of the United Arab Emirates after allegedly smuggling Iranian crude oil. The vessel later ended up back in Iranian waters, suggesting Iran itself seized the vessel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-says-iran-briefly-seizes-oil-tanker-near-strait-of-hormuz/story-KyoIvfO3KjNnnePE7gM5GO.html
13-08-2020||World||Joe Biden raises $26 mn in 24 hours after Kamala Harris VP announcement||Joe Biden raised $26 million in the 24 hours after he named Kamala Harris as his running mate, doubling his previous one-day record and signaling enthusiasm among Democrats following the selection of the first Black woman on a major party’s presidential ticket.“It’s really palpable, the excitement,” Biden said Wednesday.The campaign hopes the haul is the beginning of a prolific fundraising push in the final stretch before Election Day. Democrats are close to matching, if not surpassing, the massive $300 million cash stockpile President Donald Trump and Republicans reported in July.Harris is expected to play a key role in that effort. She joined Biden in Delaware on Wednesday for their first fundraiser together as running mates and talked to grassroots donors about how her parents’ activism inspired her interest in politics.“This is a campaign that really fuels my hope because it is about knowing that this is fighting for something and not against something and it’s fighting for the best we are as a nation,” Harris said. “It’s fighting for the best of who we can be.”With large in-person events out of the question because of the pandemic, the campaign has an aggressive schedule of online fundraisers planned for Harris. That could play to one of her political strengths and offset an area where Biden has sometimes struggled.Harris already has a robust network of donors in her native California, a state that has long been referred to as the ATM of the Democratic Party. She can rake in cash from Wall Street. And Harris, who is also of Asian descent, has the potential to bring new money into the Democratic fold because of the historic nature of her candidacy.“To have someone on the ticket whose mother is from the south of India is a dream come true,” said Swadesh Chatterjee, a businessman from North Carolina who also raises money for political candidates. “You will see more fundraising from the Indian American community.”Lisa Hernandez Gioia, who was a deputy finance director for Hillary Clinton’s 2016 campaign, called Harris a “fundraiser’s dream.”“Donors already have an eagerness,” she said. “She adds the star power that will be like an afternoon shot of espresso to the campaign’s fundraising.”Before it was clear he would win the Democratic nomination, Biden was never a particularly successful fundraiser. As a longtime senator from Delaware, a small, solidly blue state, he never had to cultivate a national network of donors. And party fundraisers have long grumbled that he lacked the same touch with donors that he has shown when working a rope line.Biden’s campaign was virtually broke the time he won the South Carolina primary, which revived his prospects and powered his way to the Democratic nomination. And while his clinching of the nomination has led to a flood of campaign contributions, some believe Harris can juice totals even higher.Yet Harris, who dropped out of the Democratic primary last year, has had her own struggles with fundraising.She launched her presidential bid in early 2019 and raised $15.5 million by mid-March, an impressive showing at an early stage in the race. But her campaign hemorrhaged money. And while she wowed well-heeled donors, she struggled to develop a competitive base of grassroots contributors who chip in small amounts online, a phenomenon that fueled the fundraising success of rivals Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren.But there are also big differences between a primary and the general election, where agreements struck between the nominee and the party enable massive checks to be raised from individual donors.Already there are signs that suggest Harris is seeing some success.Act Blue, the left’s online fundraising arm, reported taking in almost $11 million in the hours after the Harris announcement. And Biden aides later said the flood of money generated by the Harris announcement broke the online fundraising platform’s all-time one-day record for a campaign.“The primary campaign folding early was not indicative of a lack of fundraising ability,” said Bakari Sellers, a CNN commentator and prominent Harris supporter from South Carolina. “Kamala is going to raise money and it’s going to be money that wouldn’t otherwise be raised.”The connections Harris makes fundraising now will serve her well in the future. At 55, she has years left in her political career. That could give her a leg up on the competition in 2024 or later.Steve Westly, a Silicon Valley venture capitalist who has known Harris for over 20 years, said her dynamic presence serves her well in the staid world of political fundraising.“She’s animated, she’s smart and she’s lively. And this is in a world of bland, cautious, older Caucasian men,” said Westly. “She is going to do very well.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-raises-26-mn-in-24-hours-after-kamala-harris-vp-announcement/story-k38WCERGvS4lXKmqiuSWbL.html
13-08-2020||World||Trump says Hong Kong can ‘never succeed’ under China control||US President Donald Trump said Thursday that Hong Kong’s global financial center will “go to hell” under tightened Chinese rule.“Hong Kong can never succeed having China as opposed to the thousands of geniuses that ran it, having China run it,” Trump told Fox Business news. “The Hong Kong markets will go to hell. Nobody’s going to do business.”Trump announced in May that he was ending the special US trading relationship with Hong Kong in retaliation for Beijing’s clampdown on the previously largely autonomous territory.Trump told Fox Business that the end to the special status meant that Hong Kong would lose its ability to attract business and serve as one of the world’s chief financial hubs, along with New York and London.Trump said he had approved of the longstanding relationship, which amounted to a “tremendous amount of money in the form of incentives to make Hong Kong free.”But “once China got aggressive and took it over, I took everything back. Everything’s back now and it will fail,” he said.Trump has made a trade war with China, followed by a truce at the start of this year, a pillar of his foreign policy. However, hopes for a follow-up “phase two” trade deal that would resolve some of the underlying issues in the rivalry between the world’s two largest economies have been dashed by tensions over the coronavirus pandemic.Trump has seen his election chances seriously hurt by fallout from the pandemic and is increasingly focussing blame on China, where the virus first appeared.“My mindset has changed on China since they allowed the plague,” he said.“It’s before plague and after plague. Right now I view China differently than I did before plague.”Asked, however, if he agreed with critics that President Xi Jinping should step aside, he answered: “Look, they’re running their country. We’re running our country.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-says-hong-kong-can-never-succeed-under-china-control/story-ekEScYYt1LEgjUDoFvvkYO.html
13-08-2020||World||Vietnam reports 25 more Covid-19 infections, 3 additional deaths on Thursday||Vietnam’s health ministry reported 25 more coronavirus infections and three additional deaths on Thursday, bringing the total number of cases in the Southeast Asian country to 905, with 20 fatalities.More than 430 of the total cases are linked to the central city of Danang, where the new outbreak began late last month.The ministry said 133,340 people are being quarantined in the country, including 5,361 at hospitals, 25,043 at centralised quarantine centres and the rest at home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/vietnam-reports-25-more-covid-19-infections-3-additional-deaths-on-thursday/story-EHS9iLRpMje9wcHzubWewM.html
13-08-2020||World||TikTok and WeChat expose big tech’s lack of innovation | Opinion||The jockeying by Microsoft Corp. and possibly other U.S. companies to buy TikTok’s U.S. operations shines a harsh light on how domestic technology giants are falling behind on innovation in social media and other areas of opportunity. Both ByteDance Ltd.’s TikTok and Tencent Holdings Ltd.’s WeChat are living on borrowed time in the U.S. after President Donald Trump signed executive orders last week effectively banning the apps after 45 days. The renewed focus brings to the forefront how badly American social media apps have lagged their Asian counterparts. Consider Twitter Inc., for example. Despite spending roughly $700 million a year in research and development, the microblogging company’s main offering has stayed virtually the same over the past decade. Amazingly, its biggest innovation may be doubling the character count for each tweet in 2017. That’s not an impressive return on large amounts of investment spending. Similarly, Facebook Inc.’s and Google’s platforms haven’t been much better. The core functionality of Instagram’s photo-sharing scrollable feed and YouTube’s video search interface hasn’t changed much over the past few years.In contrast, TikTok has brought significant innovations to short-form videos. Its personalization algorithm surfaces the most-relevant entertaining content for its users, driving the app to be the most-downloaded in the world this year; it now reaches 100 million Americans. And while U.S. services languished, WeChat has also become a super-app, expanding from messaging to payment, shopping, gaming and many other features.Nowhere is the gap more apparent than in the critical and attractive growth market of video games. Demand has soared as consumers turn to video games for in-home entertainment under shelter-in-place orders. According to the NPD Group, U.S. video-game sales rose 30% in the second quarter compared with those a year earlier. And the industry growth spurt may just be starting. Coming technology advances from cloud computing, semiconductors and gaming engines are positioning the industry to be on the cusp of a multiyear wave of innovation. Research firm Newzoo projects the gaming market will grow from roughly $160 billion this year to nearly $200 billion by 2023.To take advantage of the next level of growth, Chinese and Japanese companies have prudently invested in some of the industry’s best assets around the world. Tencent now owns stakes in the preeminent mobile games leader Supercell, Los Angeles-based Riot Games — the maker of the tremendously successful “League of Legends” PC game, which has tens of millions of players — and Fortnite-developer Epic Games Inc. Last month, Sony Corp. also made a strategic investment in Epic, citing collaboration benefits of the studio’s industry-leading Unreal game engine, which powers many of industry’s best multiplayer game experiences.While Asian companies have made smart moves, American companies aren’t doing so well. For example, in May Amazon.com Inc. introduced its first big-budget game, “Crucible,” only to pull it from the market just weeks later after it failed to gain traction with players. Likewise, Google’s cloud-gaming service Stadia and Apple Inc.’s Arcade subscription service haven’t taken off with consumers. Further, the initial feedback from the gaming community points to another victory for Sony over Microsoft in the coming next-generation console war. In a stunning development, Microsoft announced on Tuesday that its critical anchor game “Halo Infinite” would be delayed to next year because of development issues, further complicating the company’s fall hardware launch. As a result, Sony now has a clear advantage with its lineup of exclusive games. To be sure, Big Tech’s core business franchises are still thriving financially. Last month, the companies all posted better-than-expected financial results for their latest reported quarters, demonstrating their ability to generate tens of billions of dollars in profits even amid a pandemic. But the technology industry’s history is littered with examples from Yahoo to Blackberry in which dominance in one era can disappear suddenly in the next. The key signal before the declines is lackluster innovation. With the rise of Chinese internet apps and Big Tech’s inability to invest properly in gaming, cracks are appearing in some of Silicon Valley’s giants.(Tae Kim is a Bloomberg Opinion columnist covering technology. He previously covered technology for Barron’s, following an earlier career as an equity analyst.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tiktok-and-wechat-expose-big-tech-s-lack-of-innovation-opinion/story-sVTlhtRFHdguZvZ7KIF4CO.html
13-08-2020||World||Hooked in UK: Something is fishing in times of Covid-19||A record number of Britons have been hooked to fishing after lockdown restrictions were eased, with tens of thousands flocking the banks of the Thames and other rivers following what officials called a ‘boom’ in people applying for rod licences.Experts have encouraged people to take advantage of mental health and other benefits from fishing, which is a ‘Covid-secure’ activity that includes social distancing as well as allows friends and family to gather with social distancing norms.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Heidi Stone, fisheries manager at the Environment Agency said on Thursday: “Fishing licence sales have risen to an exceptional high against the last few years and we’re seeing a true revival for the sport as people recognise all it has to offer”.“As lockdown restrictions have eased there has been a boom in licence sales as now, more than ever, people have a desire to get outdoors and escape their daily stresses. Fishing is a sport that can be done by a person of any age or ability and it provides a great opportunity for families to try something new during the school holidays”.A licence is needed to fish for salmon, trout, freshwater fish, smelt or eel with a rod and line. Failure to carry it while fishing could lead to a fine up to £2,500. Fishing retailers have reported a spike in demand for beginners’ kits and tackle since restrictions eased on May 13.Experts list several benefits of fishing. In a survey by the Angling Trust, 99% of respondents agreed angling benefits their mental health and well-being. Since restrictions eased, 91% of respondents have been out angling, enjoying the social distancing benefits of fishing.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage The benefits of fishing to mental health and well-being include creating bonds with friends and family – re-connecting after the intensity of the lockdown period can help combat loneliness, anxiety and depression.It has also allowed discovery of new places, with tens of thousands ‘staycations’ and short UK-based trips planned this summer. The Mental Health Foundation backed the Environment Agency’s call to go fishing.Antonis Kousoulis of the foundation said: “Growing evidence suggests that spending time in ‘green’ and ‘blue’ spaces has a very positive effect on our mental health, providing protective and restorative benefits”.“Fishing remains one of the most popular outdoor activities in England and it is important for people’s mental health that they can continue to pursue this activity in a safe way both during and after the pandemic”.The Canal & River Trust, which runs over 150 introductory courses for newcomers as part of its ‘Let’s Fish’ campaign, believes demand for fishing has skyrocketed.John Ellis of the trust said: “We’ve seen record numbers of people take up fishing since lockdown, many of whom are completely new to the activity and some of whom have taken up the sport through family members and friends at local clubs”.The Environment Agency said it works to promote fishing and make it as accessible as possible. The income generated from fishing licence sales funds work to maintain, improve and develop fisheries, fish habitats and angling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hooked-in-uk-something-is-fishing-in-times-of-covid-19/story-4PVySRfBxeJAO0B7oxJUIN.html
13-08-2020||World||Trump administration to roll back curbs on methane from oil, gas operations||The Trump administration on Thursday will roll back regulations aimed at reducing emissions of the potent greenhouse gas methane from oil and gas operations, its latest move to unwind environmental rules ahead of November’s presidential election.During a visit to election swing state Pennsylvania, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Andrew Wheeler will formally rescind 2016 Obama administration limits on oil and gas industry emissions of methane, a move criticized by environmentalists when initially proposed last August.The EPA is expected to retain some of the rules issued in 2012 that control methane emissions and also limit those of so-called volatile organic compounds (VOC) that cause smog.But it is also expected to remove sources of emissions, including the transport and storage of oil and gas, from regulation as well as requirements for companies to install equipment to detect methane leaks, according to a source familiar with matter.It would also prevent any future regulation of methane from facilities built before 2015.Congressman Guy Reschenthaler, a Republican representing a district at the heart of Pennsylvania’s fracking industry, welcomed EPA’s decision to “remove burdensome regulations” and “commitment to supporting Pennsylvania gas and oil operators.”The American Petroleum Institute, a powerful fossil fuel lobby, has said it supports the final rule even if some of its larger members like Exxon, BP and Shell have called for mandatory methane regulations. Smaller drillers say the rule is too costly for them to comply with.“We support this revision,” API regulatory affairs director Frank Macchiarola told Reuters. “But we understand that this rule has drawn diverse viewpoints across our industry.”The API said existing VOC regulations have led to methane emissions falling 60% from 2011-2018.Environmental groups said the move comes as scientific reports highlight the major role methane emissions play in worsening climate change. “Eliminating these safeguards would ignore the overwhelming body of scientific evidence documenting the urgent need to reduce methane pollution,” said Peter Zalzal of the Environmental Defense Fund.The rollbacks will be challenged in court, environmental groups and some state attorneys general have said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-administration-to-roll-back-curbs-on-methane-from-oil-gas-operations/story-Cu8y3FJWjX2qaL589ryySP.html
13-08-2020||World||German infections rise; new Covid-19 cases of reactivations||Two patients in China who recovered months ago tested positive for Covid-19, raising concern about the the virus’s ability to linger and reappear in people who it previously infected. Germany recorded the highest number of new cases in more than three months.The Philippines will join the final phase of clinical trials for Russia’s coronavirus vaccine. President Rodrigo Duterte is willing to be inoculated after the vaccine’s likely approval from the Philippines’ Food and Drug Administration by April.The recession gripping Sweden may be much softer than first predicted, with economists pointing to the absence of a full lockdown as a key reason. India’s virus death toll has surpassed that of the U.K., pushing it to the No. 4 spot globally.Key Developments:Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click CVID on the terminal for global data on coronavirus cases and deaths.London City Airport Pauses Expansion (5:37 p.m. HK)London City Airport Ltd. will pause the building of the next stage of a 480 million pound ($628 million) expansion due to a slower-than-expected recovery of the U.K. aviation industry from the Covid-19 pandemic.The airport operator will postpone plans to extend its passenger terminal and new east pier from the end of this year, the company said in a statement on Thursday. The construction of eight new aircraft stands and a full-length parallel taxiway by the end of 2020 will still be completed.Hong Kong Cases Re-Accelerate (4:51 p.m. HK)Hong Kong reported 65 local virus cases on Thursday, with 33 of unknown origin, according to the financial hub’s health department. Infections are rising again after Tuesday’s tally of 32 local cases saw the lowest number of new local infections since a resurgence began early July.Sweden Recession May Be Much Milder Than Forecast (4:04 p.m. HK)The recession gripping Sweden may be much softer than first predicted, with economists pointing to the absence of a full lockdown as a key reason behind the development.In a fresh set of forecasts released on Thursday, Sweden’s National Institute of Economic Research said GDP will probably contract 4.8% this year. That’s down from a previous estimate of 5.4% and considerably better than the 7% slump the government once feared was likely.IEA Cuts Oil-Demand Forecasts (4:00 p.m. HK)The International Energy Agency cut forecasts for global oil demand as air travel suffers from the coronavirus crisis even more than previously expected.The IEA reduced estimates for almost every quarter through to the end of 2021, with the second half of this year taking the steepest downgrades. Air travel remained two-thirds lower than last year in July, normally a peak month because of holiday flying, it said in a monthly report.Finland Reports Increase in Covid-19 From Low Level (3:58 p.m. HK)Finnish authorities reported a “clear increase” in the number of confirmed Covid-19 cases. In the most recent monitoring period of Aug. 3-9, a total of 139 new infections were recorded, an increase from 81 in the week before. Cases are rising especially in the Helsinki-region.Key Indian Ministers Infected (3:50 p.m. HK)Several Indian ministers in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s cabinet have tested positive for Covid-19 in the past few days, underscoring the spread of the virus in the world’s second most populous nation.Five ministers including Modi’s key aide and minister for internal security, Amit Shah, have contracted the virus which has infected nearly 2.4 million Indians. The south Asian nation has the highest death toll after U.S., Brazil and Mexico. Some of the ministers, including Shah, are in hospitals while others are recovering at home.Spanish Regions May Curb Smoking to Combat Virus (3:07 p.m. HK)Some of Spain’s autonomous regions are studying joining Galicia in restricting smoking in the street in order to contain the growing rise in Covid-19 cases, El Pais reported.Galicia from Thursday banned smoking in public if a two-meter distance can’t be guaranteed, claiming experts agree it will help limit infections. The regions of Andalusia, Castilla y Leon and Castilla-La Mancha may follow its lead, the newspaper said, citing local government spokespeople.Covid-19 can affect smokers more and increases the likelihood they develop pneumonia, El Pais said, citing Alberto Fernandez Villar, an expert on lung conditions, who is advising the Galician government. Smokers tend to touch their mouths more than non-smokers, he said.Philippines to Join Human Trials for Russian Virus Vaccine (2 p.m. HK)The Philippines will join the final phase of clinical trials for Russia’s coronavirus vaccine starting in October, presidential spokesman Harry Roque said Thursday.A panel of Philippine experts will review the results of Russia’s initial findings on the vaccine developed by Moscow’s Gamaleya Institute before large-scale human trials are started, Roque said. Russia will fund the phase 3 clinical trial in the Philippines, he said.The Russian vaccine is likely to win approval from the Philippines’ Food and Drug Administration by next April, and President Rodrigo Duterte is willing to be inoculated as early as May, Roque said.German Cases Rise the Most in More Than Three Months (1:54 p.m. HK)Germany recorded the highest number of new coronavirus cases in more than three months, with daily infections staying above 1,000 for three straight days.There were 1,319 new cases in the 24 hours through Thursday morning, the most since May 1 and bringing the country’s case total to 220,859, according to data from Johns Hopkins University. The number of new infections reached almost 7,000 at the peak of the pandemic at the end of March and in early April.India’s Virus Death Toll Becomes World’s Fourth Largest (1:35 p.m. HK)India’s Covid-19 death toll grew to the fourth largest globally as the disease’s spread continues to accelerate through the world’s second most populous country.India added 942 deaths from the novel coronavirus in the past 24 hours, topping the U.K. with a total of 47,033 fatalities. Now India is only behind the U.S., Brazil and Mexico in the overall number of deaths. Its total number of confirmed cases, almost 2.4 million, is the third largest in the world.Thailand Reports Three Imported Cases (1:20 p.m. HK)Thailand confirmed three new cases on Thursday, all in state quarantine after arriving from Singapore and India, according to the Covid-19 center. They reported that 132 people are currently hospitalized and 3,169 have recovered.Two Chinese Patients Test Positive Months After Virus Recovery (1:16 p.m. HK)Two patients in China that recovered from Covid-19 months ago tested positive again, raising concern about the virus’s ability to linger and reappear in people who it previously infected. A 68-year-old woman in the central Chinese province of Hubei, where the virus first surfaced in December, tested positive on Sunday, six months after she was diagnosed with Covid-19 and recovered. Another man found to have contracted the disease in April after returning from abroad tested positive in Shanghai on Monday.The two cases are the latest addition to a growing number of “virus reactivation” anecdotes found among patients believed to have recovered from the viral infection. While it is rare, the phenomenon raises questions over why some patients suffer from long-term symptoms, and whether any immunity to the disease might be too ephemeral to protect against re-infection.Chinese City Says Chicken Wings From Brazil Test Positive for Virus (12:05 p.m. HK)Consumers in the Chinese city of Shenzhen have been urged to exercise caution when buying imported frozen food after a surface sample of chicken wings from Brazil tested positive for coronavirus, according to a statement from the local government.The positive sample appears to have been taken from the surface of the meat, while previously reported positive cases from other Chinese cities have been from the surface of packaging on imported frozen seafood. The chicken came from an Aurora Alimentos plant in the southern state of Santa Catarina, according to a registration number given in the statement.New Zealand to Quarantine Virus Cases as Auckland Cluster Grows (11:58 a.m. HK)New Zealand, amid reporting 13 new cases, said it will transfer anyone infected into quarantine facilities as the government attempts to stamp out the nation’s first outbreak in more than three months.The cluster of infections in the largest city of Auckland now stands at 17 people and the government will decide Friday whether to extend a three-day lockdown there. Health Director-General Ashley Bloomfield told reporters in Wellington that he expects the number of infections to grow, and the mandatory quarantine would help stop the spread.Australia Jobs Surge as Economy Absorbs Victoria’s Virus Relapse (11:54 a.m. HK)Australia added almost four times as many jobs as forecast in July as the economy’s recovery in areas where the coronavirus pandemic is under control withstood Victoria’s renewed lockdown and concern about the infection spreading.Employment surged by 114,700 from June, when it advanced an upwardly revised 228,400, compared to an expected gain of 30,000, data from the statistics bureau showed Thursday in Sydney. The jobless rate edged up to 7.5%, the highest level since November 1998.Venezuela Information Minister Contracts Virus, Fourth Maduro Ally to Be Infected (10:55 a.m. HK)Venezuela’s Information Minister Jorge Rodriguez said he’s tested positive for Covid-19, becoming the fourth close ally of President Nicolas Maduro to become infected.Besides Rodriguez, during the last month Oil Minister Tareck El Aissami, the president of the powerful Constituent Assembly Diosdado Cabello, and the governor of Miranda state Hector Rodriguez have become infected. All have said that they have recovered.New Zealand Reports 13 New Community Cases Amid Outbreak (9:50 a.m. HK)New Zealand reported 13 new community virus cases on Thursday from the previous day as the nation reels from a new outbreak. Health Director-General Ashley Bloomfield told reporters in Wellington that he expects the covid cluster to increase.The nation also reported a case from an overseas arrival on Thursday, and now has 36 active cases. All confirmed cases will be quarantined. The latest outbreak has thrown the largest city, Auckland, back into lockdown and threatens to dent the economic recovery.Singapore Finds Virus in Cleared Worker Dorm, 800 Quarantined (8:58 a.m. HK)About 800 migrant workers have been quarantined after a case of Covid-19 was discovered in a dormitory that had been cleared, Singapore’s Ministry of Health said in a statement.Singapore earlier this week said it was “actively monitoring the dormitories to manage the risk of new outbreaks,” as there had been instances where new cases were discovered at previously cleared dorms.U.S. Cases Rise 1.1% (4 p.m. NY)Coronavirus cases in the U.S. increased 1.1% as compared with the same time Tuesday to 5.17 million, according to data collected by Johns Hopkins University and Bloomberg News. The increase matched the average daily gain over the past week. Deaths rose by 0.7% to 165,328.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/german-infections-rise-new-covid-19-cases-of-reactivations/story-4zNOaFLtfzHfQqaDx6kIBL.html
13-08-2020||World||Pak women journalists accuse Imran Khan’s govt of instigating online abuse||Pakistani women journalists and social media activists have said that government officials were instigating online attacks against them over their reports critical of the ruling Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf leadership.“The online attacks are instigated by government officials and then amplified by a large number of Twitter accounts, which declare their affiliation to the ruling party,” said a joint statement signed by over 40 women journalists and commentators.The joint statement said that personal details of women journalists and analysts have been made public in a “well-defined and coordinated campaign”.“In some instances, our pictures and videos have been morphed,” the statement said. “We demand that the government immediately restrain its members from repeatedly targeting women in the media.”“Last July, Shireen Mazari, the minister for human rights, promised to take notice of threats against journalists and to address the climate of abuse, bullying, fear, and censorship. Ms. Mazari, we are waiting,” the statement said.Responding to the concerns raised by the women journalists, Human Rights Minister Dr Shireen Mazari said that it is disturbing to learn of women journalists being targeted and abused for their views.“Abusing women because they are critical is never acceptable. Journalists do their job and to target them, especially gender-based abusive attacks on women journos, is absolutely unacceptable and disgusting,” the minister wrote on Twitter.Meanwhile, Pakistan People’s Party chairman Bilawal Bhutto Zardari also noted with concern the threats faced by women journalists.In a tweet, the PPP leader said: “Have taken notice of threats to women journalists as chair of human rights committee. Would like to invite you all to come brief our committee on the issue.”Benzair Shah, an award-winning journalist and an analyst, told a local news channel that she has been trolled and faced online abuse in the past as well, but the attacks have become more relentless after her reporting of coronavirus in the country.“This has been happening so often that I can now recognize the accounts which target me and other women in the media,” Shah said. “The names have become familiar. Most, if not all, declare their support for the ruling party.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pak-women-journalists-accuse-imran-khan-s-govt-of-instigating-online-abuse/story-Q5aHfDLFgKVL2b1LVuzAhJ.html
13-08-2020||World||Lebanese judiciary to question former finance ministers on blast||Lebanon’s judiciary will question finance and public-works ministers who were in office since late 2013, when the stockpile of ammonium nitrate that caused last week’s devastating explosion was first unloaded at Beirut’s port.Former finance ministers Mohammed Safadi and Ali Hasan Khalil, as well as Ghazi Wazni -- who was appointed in January and continues on a caretaker basis after the government resigned this week -- will be quizzed, according to an official in the judiciary who declined to be named while discussing a sensitive investigation.They will appear before an investigating panel after the ministers of public works, the official said. The two ministries are responsible for port operations.The blast killed more than 170 people and injured thousands, exacerbating the country’s worst economic and political crises in decades.Special courtNone of the group of past and present finance ministers was immediately available for comment. A person in Wazni’s office said the minister had nothing to do with the explosion and wouldn’t be questioned.Lawmaker Ghazi Zeaiter, who served as public-works minister between 2014 and 2016, said in a televised press conference Thursday that he was ready to appear in court and had asked the speaker, Nabih Berri, to lift his parliamentary immunity.In the event that ministers are implicated in the case, a third of parliament’s lawmakers would have to approve their referral to a court that specializes in trying members of the government and presidents.The blast that was heard in Cyprus rocked the capital on Aug. 4, severely damaging surrounding neighborhoods and wiping out the port, the country’s lifeline. Authorities say that 2,750 tons of ammonium nitrate had been kept at the port since 2013 despite repeated safety warnings.At least 20 people are already in custody, including the current and former general managers of the Lebanese Customs and port officials. State prosecutors have also questioned officers in the army and state security, as well as other officials.Blast in Lebanon’s Port Capped Deadly Game of Pass the BuckThe Supreme Judicial Council on Wednesday turned down the caretaker justice minister’s proposed pick to lead the investigation, citing possible close ties to the president’s party, according to a different judiciary official.The council, which was asked to look into the explosion last week, said Judge Samer Youness is close to Gebran Bassil, the head of the largest Christian bloc in parliament and the son-in-law of the president, the second official said. Other people are now being considered to head the probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/lebanese-judiciary-to-question-former-finance-ministers-on-blast/story-g1g6TchMkNfSSta4tEAOjL.html
13-08-2020||World||Nearly a quarter of Nepal’s workers lose jobs due to Covid-19: Central Bank||Nepali businesses have laid off 22.5% of their workers as measures to contain the novel coronavirus hit tourism and other activities, a senior central bank official said on Thursday, citing a study of the economic impact of the outbreak.The study of nearly 700 enterprises in 52 of the Himalayan nation’s 77 districts, conducted by the central bank in June, showed most jobs lost in hotels and restaurants followed by agriculture, forestry, fisheries, and the wholesale and retail sectors.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageNepal imposed a nationwide lockdown in March after reporting two confirmed cases of the novel coronavirus. That put an end to its spring climbing and hiking season, which draws visitors from around the world.The containment measures were partially eased in June but economic activity would take some time to recover, even if the coronavirus was eliminated, said Gunakar Bhatta, an executive director of the Nepal Rastra Bank, who led the study.“Businesses, specially the hotels, said it will take them 13 months to return to a pre-Covid-19 situation,” Bhatta told Reuters.Workers faced average salary cuts of more than 18%, the study found, while the virus forced 61% of business to close completely.Production and turnover of those that stayed open were on average up to 73% lower, the report said.Nepal, wedged between China and India, has reported 24,432 coronavirus cases with 91 deaths and health workers say the peak of infections could still be weeks away.Following the outbreak, Nepal lowered its forecast for growth for the fiscal year that ended in mid-July to 2.3% from 8.5%.About 20% of Nepal’s 30 million people live on a daily income of below $2 and are heavily dependent on the informal sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nearly-a-quarter-of-nepal-s-workers-lose-jobs-due-to-covid-19-central-bank/story-obLnZBAvAPWJQCipa7XCrJ.html
13-08-2020||World||Bhutan imposes first nationwide virus lockdown||The Himalayan kingdom of Bhutan has imposed its first nationwide lockdown due to a virus infection in a returning traveler who had been released from quarantine.The government issued a stay-at-home order for its approximately 750,000 people, and all schools, offices and commercial establishments were closed.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe government’s statement said the lockdown would be enforced from five to 21 days “to identify and isolate all positive cases, immediately breaking the chain of transmission.” The 27-year-old Bhutanese woman returning from Kuwait tested negative in mandatory quarantine for arriving travelers. But between her discharge from quarantine and her positive test result Monday, she is believed to have traveled extensively in Bhutan.The tourism-dependent country closed its borders to foreign travelers in March after an American tourist was hospitalised with Covid-19. Bhutan’s 113 reported infections were all quarantined travelers, except for one with conflicting test results.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bhutan-imposes-first-nationwide-virus-lockdown/story-SKsdfPRMGfIeXstzHx7IFK.html
13-08-2020||World||Indian restaurant owner in Malaysia linked to fresh Covid-19 outbreak jailed for 5 months||A Malaysian court jailed an Indian man for five months on Thursday for violating a home quarantine order, leading to dozens of new coronavirus infections, the Bernama state news agency reported.The 57-year-old, who resides in Malaysia and owns a restaurant in the northern state of Kedah, pleaded guilty to four charges of violating a mandated 14-day home quarantine order upon his return from India in July.He was also fined 12,000 ringgit ($2,864) by the Alor Setar Magistrate’s Court, which held a special hearing at a Kedah hospital where the accused was undergoing treatment, Bernama reported.Authorities had earlier said the man, who initially tested negative for the coronavirus, had left his home during the quarantine period to visit his restaurant.After a second test came back positive, dozens of people, including the man’s family members, restaurant workers and customers, were found to have been infected.A total of 45 cases linked to the cluster have since been reported in at least three Malaysian states.Malaysia has gradually lifted strict lockdown measures since May after successfully containing the spread of the pandemic, but has warned that curbs may be reimposed after more than a dozen new clusters emerged in recent weeks.The Southeast Asian country has reported 9,129 infections, including 125 deaths.Authorities reintroduced a requirement last month for people entering the country to undergo the mandatory two-week quarantine at hotels and government isolation centers, after hundreds of incoming travellers were found violating orders to self-isolate at home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indian-restaurant-owner-in-malaysia-linked-to-fresh-covid-19-outbreak-jailed-for-5-months/story-I1A0UBKI0Ye6tUouNpu5TM.html
13-08-2020||World||Iran’s coronavirus death toll passes 19,000 as new cases spike||Iran recorded 174 deaths from coronavirus and 2,625 new cases on Thursday to take its death toll to more than 19,000 and total cases to 336,324, the Health Ministry said.“In the past 24 hours 2,625 new cases have been recorded,” ministry spokeswoman Sima Sadat Lari told state TV.Iran is one of the worst-hit countries from the outbreak in the Middle East.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-s-coronavirus-death-toll-passes-19-000-as-new-cases-spike/story-8HEJg7p0u9vHvWYsfOPXgL.html
13-08-2020||World||‘Do something’: Kamala Harris applauds her mother for inspiring her to join public service||Appearing with Joe Biden, the presumptive Democratic nominee for president, for the fist time after he named her his running mate, Senator Kamala Harris on Wednesday credited her Indian-born mother for inspiring her into a life in public service that led her to this historic moment.“Don’t just sit around and complain about things,” Harris said her mother, Shyamala Gopalan, would tell her and younger sister Maya Harris, growing up. “Do something.” Gopalan, who came to the United States from Chennai and because a breast cancer researcher, passed away in 2009. But she has remained the most enduring influence in Harris’s life in her telling, in public remarks and an autobiography she wrote ahead of her failed White House bid in 2019. Harris made history Tuesday as the first Indian American and and Black woman to run for vice-president.“Kamala is smart. She’s tough. She’s experienced. She’s a proven fighter for the backbone of this country, the middle class and those struggling to get into the middle class,” Biden said in his first public explanation for why he picked Harris, over the 11 other women candidates he considered for the job.And, after listing out her accomplishments and experiences as a public prosecutor, district attorney and attorney general in California, the former vice-president said, “As the child of immigrants, she knows personally how immigrant families enrich our country, as well as the challenges of what it means to grow up Black and Indian American in the United States.”He added: “Her story is an American story – different from mine in many particulars, but also, not so different in essentials. “The former vice-president then went on to frame his pick in a larger context of a changing America he had previewed earlier, but now in his typically folksy manner: “And this morning, all across this nation little girls woke up – especially little Black and Brown girls who so often may feel overlooked and undervalued in our society — but today, maybe they’re seeing themselves for the first time in a new way. As the stuff of Presidents and Vice Presidents.”Biden and Harris used their first public appearance to launch a blistering attack on President Donald Trump’s term in office. “As someone who has presented my fair share of arguments in court, the case against Donald Trump and Mike Pence is open and shut,” said Harris.Their first appearance together after a historic announcement on Tuesday — making Harris the first Black woman and Indian American on a presidential ticket — was a quiet affair, held at school gymnasium in Wilmington, Delaware, which is Biden’s home-state. There were no on-stage hand-shakes or hugs, and stayed socially distanced for the photo-op with spouses. And they put on their masks as they left the stage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/do-something-kamala-harris-applauds-her-mother-for-inspiring-her-to-join-public-service/story-wNkTLfbiQgcvKmwkJGWcOL.html
13-08-2020||World||Facebook, Twitter step up fight against misinformation on US elections||Social media platforms stepped up fight against misinformation on the US elections, with Facebook starting a hub to help users with poll-related resources and Twitter expanding rules against misinformation on mail-in ballots and early voting.The move comes as online social networks have been drawing flak for what has been called a lax approach to fake news reports and misinformation campaigns, which many believe affected the outcome of the 2016 presidential election.Twitter’s move will involve coming up with new policies “that emphasize accurate information about all available options to vote, including by mail and early voting.”“We’re focused on empowering every eligible person to register and vote through partnerships, tools and new policies,” Jessica Herrera-Flanigan, Twitter’s vice president for public policy in the Americas, told Reuters in an email.Facebook, meanwhile, launched a Voting Information Center to help users with accurate and easy-to-find information about voting wherever they live.The company said in a blog it was also speaking with officials about misinformation surrounding election results as an emerging threat.Twitter said it would roll out measures on new tools, policies and voting resources in the next month. It is exploring how to expand its “civic integrity policies” to address mischaracterizations of mail-in voting and other procedures. The finer details of the step are still being finalized.US President Donald Trump has repeatedly claimed without evidence that voting by mail, which is expected to increase dramatically due to the coronavirus outbreak, is susceptible to large-scale fraud.The process is not new in the United States — nearly one in four voters cast 2016 presidential ballots that way. Many experts have said that routine methods and the decentralized nature of US elections make it very hard to interfere with mailed ballots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/facebook-twitter-step-up-fight-against-misinformation-on-us-elections/story-xmdJOLjlbegNpWiPrkTGkO.html
13-08-2020||World||Belarus says police detained about 700 protesters overnight||Belarusian police detained about 700 people on a fourth night of protests following President Alexander Lukasheko’s contested election victory, the former Soviet republic’s interior ministry said on Thursday.Security forces have clashed daily with protesters since Lukashenko claimed a landslide re-election victory in a vote on Sunday that his opponents say was rigged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/belarus-says-police-detained-about-700-protesters-overnight/story-O0QAbib5LiHgccMf3XE1UK.html
13-08-2020||World||Major antibody test study shows 6% England infected by Covid-19||People living in London and those of Indian and Asian background are most likely to have been infected by coronavirus, a large study by Imperial College London published on Thursday said, adding that 6% of England’s population has been infected so far.The 6% reflects 3.4 million people, the study in which over 100,000 volunteers took part, said. Billed as the ‘world’s largest home antibody testing programme for coronavirus’, the study tracked the spread of infection across England after the first peak.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here People living in London were most likely to have been infected, as were those working in care homes and health care, and people from Black, Asian and other minority ethnic groups and people living in larger households, it said.Officials said it is the first mass antibody surveillance study to be rolled out across the UK using a finger prick test that can be used by individuals at home, if given approval in the future.While research showed several finger prick tests were accurate enough for large-scale surveillance studies to monitor the spread of coronavirus, no antibody fingerpick test has yet met the regulator’s criteria for individual use, which means none are currently approved for use outside of surveillance studies.Health minister Edward Argar said: “Large scale antibody surveillance studies are crucial to helping us understand how the virus has spread across the country and whether there are specific groups who are more vulnerable, as we continue our work to drive down the spread of the disease”.“We don’t yet know that antibodies provide immunity to coronavirus, but the more information we can gather on this virus, and the easier we can make it for people to participate in these studies, the better equipped we will be to respond”.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Key findings of the report study include: In London, 13% of people had antibodies while in the South West of England it was less than 3%; there were far higher rates in people from Black (17%), Asian (12%) and other (12%) than white (5%) ethnicity.Almost everyone with a confirmed case of the virus was found to have antibodies (96%).Those aged 18 to 34 were most likely to have antibodies (8%) with the lowest prevalence in those over 65 (3%).Graham Cooke, who led the research at Imperial College, said: “There are still many unknowns with this new virus, including the extent to which the presence of antibodies offers protection against future infections”.“Using the finger-prick tests suitable for large scale home testing has given us clearest insight yet into the spread of the virus in the country and who has been at greatest risk. These data will have important implications as decisions to ease lockdown restrictions in England”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/major-antibody-test-study-shows-6-england-infected-by-covid-19/story-QHDQ56P1ToQc5fEjzqJLoJ.html
13-08-2020||World||China’s Confucius Institutes under radar of US state department: Report||The US State Department may announce as soon as Thursday a requirement for Chinese government-funded cultural centers at US universities to register as foreign missions, Bloomberg News reported, a development that would be signal further deterioration in ties with Beijing.The move would amount to a conclusion that the so-named Confucius Institutes are “substantially owned or effectively controlled” by a foreign government and subject them to administrative requirements similar to those for embassies and consulates, the report said, citing sources familiar with the matter.The State Department and other US government agencies did not immediately respond to requests for comment. One Congressional source, who did not want to be identified, said he had heard such an announcement was coming.Last year, the US State and Education Departments promised stricter monitoring of the institutes, which have been criticized in Congress and elsewhere as de facto propaganda arms of China’s Communist government.In June, the State Department announced it would start treating four major Chinese media outlets as foreign embassies, calling them mouthpieces for Beijing.US-China relations are at their lowest ebb in decades, with President Donald Trump taking a tough line on Beijing ahead of his Nov. 3 re-election bid.The world’s top two economies are at loggerheads on issues ranging from handling of the coronavirus pandemic to China’s crackdown on freedoms in Hong Kong and what US officials say is rampant espionage activity to steal US business and military secrets.According to the US non-profit organization, the National Association of Scholars, there were 75 Confucius Institutes in the United States as of June, including 66 at colleges and universities.The NAS charges that they compromise academic freedom, defy Western norms of transparency, and are inappropriate on campuses. China rejects criticism of the institutes, calling it politicized and baseless. (Reporting by David Brunnstrom; Editing by David Gregorio)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-s-confucius-institutes-under-radar-of-us-state-department-report/story-Ih2GRPOVWkgzTjSJCy5GwO.html
13-08-2020||World||Recent drills near Taiwan were ‘necessary’ to safeguard sovereignty: China’s military||China’s military recently held drills directed at Taiwan, a People’s Liberation Army spokesman said on Thursday, after a high level visit by the United States to Taiwan. The drills were a ‘necessary action’ to safeguard sovereignty, Senior Colonel Zhang Chunhui, spokesman for the Eastern Theater Command of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA)said in a statement.The statement said the drills were held in the southern and northern ends of the Taiwan strait.China sees Taiwan as part of its territory and has not ruled out the use of force to bring the island under its control.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/recent-drills-near-taiwan-were-necessary-to-safeguard-sovereignty-china-s-military/story-u40GESKMKNUvEJuOczd4dJ.html
13-08-2020||World||Israel launches fresh strikes on Hamas targets in Gaza Strip||Israel’s military said Thursday it had carried out fresh overnight strikes on Hamas targets in the Gaza Strip, in response to incendiary balloons launched across the border from the Palestinian enclave.The latest round of hostilities has seen firebombs attached to bunches of balloons floating into Israel, setting scrubland ablaze. Sometimes kites are used in the makeshift attacks.In response, Israel has closed a goods crossing with Gaza and slashed the territory’s permitted coastal fishing zone, as well as launching air strikes on sites owned by the enclave’s Islamist rulers Hamas.“Over the last week, explosive balloons are being launched from the Gaza Strip into Israeli territory,” the Israeli Defence Force (IDF) said in a statement early Thursday.“In response, a short while ago, IDF fighter jets and tanks struck a number of Hamas military targets in the Gaza Strip.”The army said the strikes were aimed at a military compound and observation posts used by Hamas militants, who also fired a volley of rockets into the sea this week after repeated exchanges of fire.A Gaza security source said Israeli warplanes had carried out several strikes on Hamas sites.They said the strikes caused severe damage to the sites and some damage to citizens’ homes, but did not report any injuries.Israeli fire services in the south of the country reported 60 fires caused by balloons on Tuesday, and 24 on Wednesday, without recording any casualties.Hamas and Israel have fought three wars since 2008.Despite a truce last year backed by the UN, Egypt and Qatar, the two sides clash sporadically with rockets, mortar fire or incendiary balloons.The Gaza Strip has a population of two million, more than half of whom live in poverty, according to the World Bank.Palestinian analysts say fire from Gaza often aims to pressure Israel to give the green light for the transfer of Qatari financial aid into the strip.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israel-launches-fresh-strikes-on-hamas-targets-in-gaza-strip/story-DrX5fpyq7CFPvJNG2sZoGN.html
13-08-2020||World||Australia on course for lowest one-day rise in Covid cases in more than 3 weeks||Australia was poised to post its lowest one-day rise in new Covid-19 cases in more than three weeks on Thursday, stoking hopes that a second wave of new infections gripping Victoria state is finally being brought under control.Australia, once heralded as a global leader in combating Covid-19, has struggled to contain an outbreak in the country’s second most populous state, which has seen triple digit daily new cases for weeks.Victoria reported 278 new infections in the past 24 hours, down from 410 a day earlier. Australia’s most populous state, New South Wales (NSW) reported 12 new cases, while Queensland state said it has found no new Covid-19 infections in the past 24 hours.Barring a large rise in cases from states that have an effectively eliminated the virus, that means Australia’s total of 290 cases would be the lowest one-day rise in new coronavirus cases since July 20. Australian authorities cautiously welcomed the decline.“I think we have to wait and see what happens over the coming week just to make sure that downward slope continues over the days ahead,” Australia’s Deputy Chief Medical Officer Michael Kidd told Australia’s Channel 9.Australia has identified about 22,500 Covid-19 cases while the death toll rose on Thursday to 361 after nine fatalities from the virus were recorded in Victoria and NSW.The slowdown in new cases comes a week after authorities imposed a total lockdown across Melbourne, Australia’s second largest city, including a night curfew, restrictions on people’s daily movements and large parts of state economy ordered to close. Nearly 5 million people in Melbourne have been confined to their homes except for essential reasons for nearly a month.Neighbouring New South Wales state is also on alert, having reported daily new infections in the teens for the past several weeks. Officials warned a failure by people there to observe social distancing guidelines could fuel community transmission, as they scrambled to trace several clusters stemming from schools and restaurants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australia-on-course-for-lowest-one-day-rise-in-covid-cases-in-more-than-3-weeks/story-RCFcHxT7yrsnPnjfij1cPP.html
13-08-2020||World||Indian Ambassador discusses eastern Ladakh, bilateral ties with senior CPC official||Indian Ambassador to China, Vikram Misri on Wednesday held talks with a senior official of the country’s ruling Communist Party here and discussed the situation at the border in eastern Ladakh and overall bilateral relations. Misri’s meeting with Liu Jianchao, Deputy Director of the Office of the Communist Party of China Central Committee Foreign Affairs Commission came amidst diplomatic and military-level talks between India and China on disengagment of troops from all friction points in eastern Ladakh. “Ambassador @VikramMisri today met H.E. Liu Jianchao, Deputy Director of the Office of the CPC Central Committee Foreign Affairs Commission and briefed him on India’s stance vis-a-vis the situation on the borders in eastern Ladakh UT and overall bilateral relations”, the Indian Embassy tweeted. No further details of the meeting were available. Misri’s meeting with Liu comes against the backdrop of reports that the disengagement process between the troops of the two countries has not moved forward as expected along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. At the latest round of military talks, the Indian side insisted forcefully on complete disengagement of Chinese troops at the earliest, and immediate restoration of status quo ante in all areas of eastern Ladakh prior to May 5 when the standoff began following a clash between the two armies in Pangong Tso. The Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has pulled back from Galwan Valley and certain other friction points but the withdrawal of its troops has not moved forward from the Finger areas in Pangong Tso, Gogra and Depsang as demanded by India, according to sources in New Delhi. India has been insisting that China must withdraw its forces from areas between Finger Four and Eight. The mountain spurs in the area are referred to as Fingers. The formal process of disengagement of troops began on July 6, a day after a nearly two-hour telephonic conversation between National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi on ways to bring down tensions in the area. PTI KJV AKJ GSN AKJ||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indian-ambassador-discusses-eastern-ladakh-bilateral-ties-with-senior-cpc-official/story-IvHVajlxsHVjryOuolp27H.html
13-08-2020||World||Singapore detects Covid infection in cleared worker dorm, 800 migrants quarantined||About 800 migrant workers have been quarantined after a case of Covid-19 was discovered in a dormitory that had been cleared, Singapore’s Ministry of Health said in a statement.Singapore earlier this week said it was “actively monitoring the dormitories to manage the risk of new outbreaks,” as there had been instances where new cases were discovered at previously-cleared dorms.The discoveries could mark a setback for the country that this week said all its workers’ dorms have been cleared of infections. This paves the way for the majority of these labourers to return to work by the end of the month. Migrant workers, who live in cramped quarters, have accounted for the vast bulk of Singapore’s confirmed Covid-19 cases, sparking questions about how the wealthy city-state treats these low-paid foreigners.Singapore is cautiously reopening after locking down most activities in a two-month “circuit breaker” designed to halt the spread of the virus. Schools have reopened, masks are mandatory, and restaurants are back to business. Yet life isn’t fully back to normal -- gatherings are generally limited to five people, large events have been canceled and international travel restrictions mean Singapore’s jewel of an airport is largely empty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/singapore-detects-covid-infection-in-cleared-worker-dorm-800-migrants-quarantined/story-hwAEhrUC0oACWwUKDFtVHO.html
13-08-2020||World||Islamic State threat in west Syria growing, warns US Commander||Elements of the Islamic State group are working to rebuild in western Syria, where the US has little visibility or presence, the top US commander for the Middle East warned on Wednesday.In the region west of the Euphrates River where the Syrian regime is in control, “conditions are as bad or worse” than they were leading up to the rise of the Islamic State, said Gen. Frank McKenzie. “We should all be concerned about that.” McKenzie said insurgents are operating with some degree of freedom, and he said the US and its allies have little hope the Syrian regime will do anything to tamp down the group there.Speaking online to a United States Institute of Peace from his US Central Command office in Tampa, McKenzie said that the slow-moving effort to transfer people out of Syrian refugee camps has been further complicated and delayed by the coronavirus pandemic. And that, he said, fuels concerns about the radicalisation of people — particularly the youth — in the camps, which officials worry are breeding grounds for IS insurgents.The al-Hol camp in northeastern Syria is home to as many as 70,000 people — mostly women and children — who were displaced by the ongoing civil war in Syria and the battle against IS. Many fled as the US-backed Syrian Democratic Forces cleared out the last pockets of land held by IS last year.Leanne Erdberg Steadman, the USIP director for countering violent extremism, said getting people out of the camps is key to having them abandon violence and secure a new future. Officials said that there have now been the first few reported cases of Covid-19 at al-Hol.McKenzie said concerns about blocking the spread of the virus among European allies and other nations in the region has complicated efforts to repatriate camp residents to their home nations.Repatriation is the key to clearing out the refugee camps, and the US has aggressively pushed to get allies to take their own citizens back. Most nations, however, are reluctant to take in potential IS insurgents. And the potential spread of Covid-19 is now an added fear.Humanitarian groups say many of the women and children are not risks, but officials also note that there are a lot of women who were radicalized and active in the insurgency.McKenzie said that unless political leaders find a way to deradicalise and repatriate the displaced people in the camps, there will be another IS resurgence in the future.“As young people grow up, we’re going to see them again unless we can turn them in a way to make them productive members of society,” he said. “We can either deal with this problem now or deal with it exponentially worse a few years down the road.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/islamic-state-threat-in-west-syria-growing-warns-us-commander/story-UJ58lQguw9D2HAJ2hZcq4O.html
13-08-2020||World||Covid-19 pandemic threatens peace, risks new conflicts: UN chief Guterres||UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres warned Wednesday that the Covid-19 pandemic not only threatens gains in fighting global poverty and building peace but risks exacerbating existing conflicts and generating new ones.The UN chief told a Security Council meeting on the challenge of sustaining peace during the pandemic that his March 23 call for an immediate cease-fire in conflicts around the world to tackle the coronavirus led a number of warring parties to take steps to de-escalate and stop fighting.“Yet, regrettably, in many instances, the pandemic did not move the parties to suspend hostilities or agree to a permanent ceasefire,” Guterres said.His predecessor as secretary-general, Ban Ki-moon, told the council: “It is truly astonishing that in response to this pandemic, the world has placed billions of people under lock-down, closed international borders, suspended trade and migration, and temporarily shut down a whole variety of industries – but has not managed to suspend armed conflicts.”Ban criticized the UN Security Council for wasting valuable months “in arguments over the details of the text” and not adopting a resolution until July 1 demanding an “immediate cessation of hostilities” in key conflicts including Syria, Yemen, Libya, South Sudan and Congo to tackle Covid-19.“This has weakened the message that this council needs to send to all warring parties: now is the time to confront our common enemy,” Ban said.And he said delayed council action “further aggravated the current volatile global security situations.”“The impact of Covid-19 on conflict-affected settings has been much worse than initially thought,” said Ban, who is a co-chair of the group of prominent world leaders founded by Nelson Mandela known as The Elders.He pointed to health and humanitarian ramifications, social cohesion, governance, the rule of law and threats to multilateralism which are jeopardizing ongoing efforts to sustain peace, “or may even cause a reversal in hard-won peace and security gains to date.”While governments try to confront the pandemic, some groups have seen an opportunity to ramp up violence, Ban said, citing as examples Boko Haram and other militants in Nigeria, growing mob violence in Congo and murders by drug cartels in Mexico.He also warned that the economic impacts of the pandemic “will be both long-lasting and severe, with ripple effects for many fragile and conflict-affected states.”As examples, Ban said Lebanon’s political and economic crisis, exacerbated by last week’s deadly explosion at Beirut’s port, is being compounded by COVID-19’s impact on two key money-earners, tourism and trade, while Iraq’s budget is being stretched thin because of the collapse in oil prices.Secretary-General Guterres said the pandemic has raised growing questions about the effectiveness of health systems, social services, trust in institutions and systems of governance.“All of this means that our commitment to sustaining peace is more urgent than ever,” he said.Guterres pointed to three key dangers: erosion of public trust, destabilization of the global economic order, and weakening of “the social fabric.”“The perception that authorities are mishandling the crisis, or not being transparent or favoring political allies can lead to public disillusion in government and its institutions,” he said.The UN chief also warned that “without concerted action, inequalities, global poverty and the potential for instability and violence could grow for years.”While there have been many peaceful protests, Guterres said, “in a number of countries, Covid-19 has been an excuse for harsh crackdowns and a spike in state repression.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-pandemic-threatens-peace-risks-new-conflicts-un-chief-guterres/story-KayZSFV53k7Q65tvnS82aO.html
13-08-2020||World||Covid-19: Hundreds quarantined in schools that followed Trump’s advice||President Donald Trump is pushing US schools to open classroom doors wide. In some districts that have followed his instructions, they’re slamming shut again.Schools that reopened fully and early are seeing hundreds of students, staff and teachers put into quarantine as Covid-19 spreads. Some are closing buildings opened just days ago. Others are frantically looking for workarounds -- and for the money to pay for them. In Memphis, Tennessee, and Irvine, California, teachers must sign liability waivers in case they get sick.Nationally, most districts are ignoring Trump’s full-speed-ahead advice. New Jersey on Wednesday reversed course on mandatory in-person classes, and Boston won’t attempt them. Still, too many insist on putting educators and communities at risk, said Lily Eskelsen Garcia, president of the National Education Association and a sixth-grade teacher in Salt Lake City.“There is no one, maybe besides parents, who wants kids back in school as much as teachers do,” Eskelsen Garcia said. “We hate online learning, too. We’re throwing our computers against the wall, too. But we want to do it when and where we can do it without killing anybody.”Trump has been demanding schools reopen so that parents are able to work -- part of a bid to restart the economy and create the impression the US is returning to normal ahead of the November election. Yet the virus is continuing to rage across parts of the US, with the country’s death toll at about 165,000.Test subjectsThe president has tried to force reopenings by saying that half the money for schools in the next round of stimulus legislation should be reserved for those that open their doors. On Wednesday, at an event with parents and educators, he criticized districts trying to use halfway measures to bring students back to class, like combining virtual learning with class time, and having fewer kids in the school at a time.At a later briefing, the White House released simple advice for reopening: Students and staff should assess their own health, understand the symptoms of Covid-19, wash their hands, socially distance around vulnerable people, and maintain good ventilation. The guidelines also said schools should “encourage” wearing masks.Trump said there’s no substitute for traditional schooling.“When you have students sitting at home playing with a computer, it’s not the same,” he said at the briefing. “When you sit at home in a basement looking at a computer, your brain starts to wither away.”Nationally, just over half of students in kindergarten through high school will attend school virtually in the fall, while 44% will take classes in person in some form, according to a survey of public-school districts by Burbio, a New York-based data service. And many of those going back to in-person classes won’t be going back full-time, with schools staggering attendance to groups small enough to maintain social distancing. Some 66% of students across the 200 largest districts are taking virtual-only classes, Burbio found.School’s outLarge urban districts that are starting the year online include Atlanta, Houston, Boston, Los Angeles and Chicago. Some have written off the entire semester for in-person classes. Boston Mayor Marty Walsh announced Wednesday that public-school students will not be showing up in person in the fall.In New Jersey, Governor Phil Murphy abandoned a requirement that New Jersey’s 2,500 public schools conduct in-person teaching, allowing some to use distance-only learning when the academic year begins in early September.Others are setting dates for students to come back to class that may roll forward, depending on the pandemic’s spread. In metro Atlanta, Fulton County schools -- in March the first in Georgia to shut down -- will bring in the youngest children and special-education students for limited hours in September, and then phase in the rest. But that’s only if the infection rates in the county are low enough and dropping, said Superintendent Mike Looney.He said he’s taken heat from parents and teachers alike, but will follow health guidelines about what’s safe.When students do return, they will be required to wear masks, he said. The district is also working to reconfigure its physical plant to allow proper distancing.Vanishing studentsOther metro Atlanta districts have pushed forward with reopening and paid an immediate price in an area with high community spread.In Cherokee County, north of the city, more than 900 people -- most of them students, but also teachers and staff -- are in quarantine just nine days after the school opened its doors because students reported infections. The high school had to close again.The district required masks of teachers and staff but not of students, spokeswoman Barbara Jacoby said.Nearby Paulding County also had to close its high school for cleaning this week, after students, teachers and staff tested positive. The district’s Aug. 3 opening day became briefly famous after a student sent out a photo of a throng of maskless students in a hallway there. She was promptly suspended and then un-suspended.Trump has asserted that children are “virtually immune” to the coronavirus. The president appears to be referring to the notion that children are less likely to become ill from the virus, even though they can spread it to adults.Relatively little is known about how Covid-19 is transmitted to and from children. On one hand, some early evidence has suggested that children -- and especially younger children -- don’t transmit it as frequently as adults or even older children.But children can certainly still contract the virus, and a growing number have as the virus has surged throughout the country. Covid-19 infections among US kids grew 40% in the second half of July, according to a report this week from the American Academy of Pediatrics and the Children’s Hospital Association.And while children do appear to be at a lower risk of getting very ill, a federal study published last week found that a growing number require hospitalization.Lasting damageAdvocates for reopening schools often point to regions that have already done so successfully, or never closed schools to begin with, such as several nations in Northern Europe. Experts, though, stress that those regions have had far less viral transmission than the US.Paul Peterson, director of the Program on Education Policy and Governance at Harvard University, said at the White House that students who miss school likely will earn less money when they’re older.To Eskelsen Garcia, the NEA president, the superiority of in-school teaching isn’t in question. “This is not about pedagogy,” she said. “This disease kills people.”Eskelsen Garcia said she’s been heartened by the number of districts resisting Trump’s pressure and that schools should reopen only when the community infection rate is low.Her advice: “Listen to what Trump says. Then do the exact opposite of whatever comes out of his mouth.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-hundreds-quarantined-in-schools-that-followed-trump-s-advice/story-DxGblr1aT9S9vzdK78IS8O.html
13-08-2020||World||Kamala Harris reflects on her Indian and Jamaican parents in first campaign speech||In her opening remarks during first campaign appearance as Joe Biden’s choice for vice president in Delaware, California Senator Kamala Harris on Wednesday talked about her parents, Jamaican and Indian immigrants, and discussed the importance of family in her life.“I have had a lot of titles over my career and certainly vice president will be great. But ‘Momala’ will always be the one that means the most,” CNN quoted Harris as saying.Harris talked about how her parents, Jamaican and Indian immigrants, met while protesting for civil rights in Oakland in the 1960s.“My mother and father, they came from opposite sides of the world to arrive in America. One from India and the other from Jamaica in search of a world-class education. But what brought them together was the civil rights movement of the 1960s. And that is how they met as students in the streets of Oakland marching and shouting for this thing called justice in a struggle that continues today,” she said.Harris accused US President Donald Trump of the mishandling of coronavirus. The US leads the world with more than 5 million coronavirus cases “because of Trump’s failure to take it seriously from the start,” Harris said“His refusal to get testing up to and running, his flip-flopping on social distancing and wearing masks. His delusional belief that he knows better than the experts. All of that is a reason and the reason that an American dies of Covid-19 every 80 seconds,” Harris said regarding Trump.Harris also honoured the women who helped pave the way for her and acknowledged the work needed to curb the coronavirus pandemic.“After the most competitive primary in history, the country received a resounding message that Joe was the person to lead us forward and, Joe, I am so proud to stand with you. And I do so mindful of all the heroic and ambitious women before me whose sacrifice, determination and resilience make my presence here today even possible,” Harris said.The California Democrat said she was “incredibly honoured by this responsibility” and that she was “ready to get to work.” “I am ready to get to work,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kamala-harris-reflects-on-her-indian-and-jamaican-parents-in-first-campaign-speech/story-AXDm51OaESd4XAB1B9pRRL.html
13-08-2020||World||New Zealand registers 13 new coronavirus cases||New Zealand reported 13 new coronavirus cases in the community on Thursday from the previous day as the nation reels from a new outbreak.Health Director-General Ashley Bloomfield told reporters in Wellington on Thursday that he expects the Covid cluster to increase.The nation also reported a case from an overseas arrival on Thursday, and now has 36 active cases. All confirmed cases will be quarantined.New Zealand latest outbreak has thrown the largest city Auckland back into lockdown and threatens to dent the economic recovery.The country’s run of 102 days without community transmission ended this week with the announcement that four new cases had been detected in an Auckland household. A further four probable cases were identified Wednesday. Authorities are trying to stop the virus spreading to avoid the fate of nations like Australia, Japan and Vietnam, which after early successes in containing Covid-19 are now battling its resurgence.Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern has put Auckland, a city of 1.6 million people, into lockdown for an initial period of three days as health officials try to trace the origin of the infections. Social distancing rules and limits on gatherings have also been reimposed on the rest of the country.“I know this disruption to businesses is putting extraordinary pressure on you, but the best long-term economic response is for us to get this immediate response right,” Ardern said on Thursday.While Ardern said it was heartening that so far the outbreak was restricted to one cluster, she warned New Zealanders that the numbers would worsen.Health authorities are investigating whether the outbreak may have originated at a cold storage firm where one of the infected people worked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-zealand-registers-13-new-coronavirus-cases/story-LvdcdaTKGxFLAxxQNbmxhJ.html
13-08-2020||World||Donald Trump administration makes exception to visa ban, allows H-1B visa holders to enter US on conditions||The Trump administration has relaxed some rules for H-1B visas holders allowing them to enter the United States if they are returning to the same jobs they had prior to the proclamation of the visa ban.The US Department of State advisory said dependents (spouses and children) will also be allowed to travel along with primary visa holders.“Travel by applicants seeking to resume ongoing employment in the United States in the same position with the same employer and visa classification,” the state department advisory said.Also read| ‘Green Card waitlist for Indians runs into 200 years’: US senator on country capThe administration also allowed travel by technical specialists, senior-level managers, and other workers who hold H-1B visas and their travel is necessary to facilitate the immediate and continued economic recovery of the United States.On June 22, the US President Donald Trump had signed a proclamation that till the end of the year in the aftermath of the Covid-19 pandemic.The administration also allowed travel of visa holders who are working as public health or healthcare professional, or researcher to alleviate the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic, or to conduct ongoing medical research in an area with a substantial public health benefit. Also read: Trump signs order against hiring H-1B visa holders for US federal contracts“Travel supported by a request from a US government agency or entity to meet critical US foreign policy objectives or to satisfy treaty or contractual obligations. This would include individuals, identified by the Department of Defense or another US government agency, performing research, providing IT support/services, or engaging other similar projects essential to a US government agency,” the advisory stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-administration-makes-exception-to-visa-ban-allows-h-1b-visa-holders-to-enter-us-on-conditions/story-PfmhlLfLzBNSVBQKIUIOOL.html
13-08-2020||World||Israel says it foiled hackers targeting defence industry||Israel said Wednesday it foiled a cyberattack targeting its defence industry by a shadowy group that the US has linked to North Korea.The Israeli Defence Ministry said hackers with the Lazarus Group built fake profiles on the LinkedIn social network and posed as the CEOs and senior officials of international companies.They then offered job opportunities to employees at major Israeli defense firms in an attempt to gain access to their computers and networks to steal sensitive information.The ministry says the attacks were detected “in real time” and thwarted. It said there was no “harm or disruption” to the targeted networks.The ministry said the Lazarus Group is “backed by a foreign country,” without elaborating. It did not immediately respond to a request for further comment.The US Treasury Department announced sanctions against the Lazarus Group last September, saying it was controlled by the North Korean government.It said the Lazarus Group was behind the devastating WannaCry ransomware, which froze 300,000 computers across 150 countries in 2017, and the destructive cyber attack against Sony Pictures Entertainment in 2014.Ivan Kwiatkowski, a researcher at Kaspersky, a cybersecurity company, said that in the alleged attack on Israel, Lazarus appears to have been attempting technology theft rather than financial gain.“This is a very interesting development, because we tend to see Lazarus as an actor focused mostly on funds collection,” he said.“But as any other state-backed actor, its missions are diverse, and I think this is a prime example of other areas of interest the group has.” Israel said it thwarted a major cyberattack earlier this year targeting its water infrastructure, which was widely attributed to its archenemy Iran. Israel is suspected of retaliating two weeks later with a cyberattack on an Iranian port.Israel and Iran have engaged in years of covert battles that have included high-tech hacking and cyberattacks.Most famously, US and Israeli intelligence agencies are suspected of unleashing a computer worm called Stuxnet that disrupted Iran’s nuclear programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israel-says-it-foiled-hackers-targeting-defence-industry/story-C4PeeJLH173Qx8AYCCLi7O.html
13-08-2020||World||Covid-19 testing site begins operating on US-Mexico border||San Diego County started operating a coronavirus testing site Wednesday at the US-Mexico border, believed to be the first of its kind.The walk-up, no appointment site at the San Ysidro Port of Entry PedEast crossing will offer free tests and will focus on testing essential workers who cross the international border daily and American citizens who live in Tijuana, Mexico.It will be open from 6:30 a.m. to 10:30 a.m. Monday through Friday, and officials expect it will test roughly 200 people daily.San Diego County officials said no one will be asked for their immigration status at the testing site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-testing-site-begins-operating-on-us-mexico-border/story-ZkUslg3DU9nARxFAaGeC9I.html
13-08-2020||World||Picture perfect? Woman receives ID with photo of empty chair||Driver’s license photos aren’t always the best, but when a Tennessee woman received her new ID the picture was perfect — for a furniture store.Jade Dodd renewed her license online and received it last week, but to her surprise, the photo wasn’t a picture of her. It only showed an empty chair.“The lady at the DMV did not really believe me when I was like ‘hey, I need my license fixed,’” Dodd said.“Then, she looked it up in the system and goes, ‘oh, I need my manager for this.’” The chair ended up being the focal point of the license because it was the last photo taken and saved to Dodd’s file, the Tennessee Department of Safety and Homeland Security told WKRN-TV. The photo was taken accidentally, the department said.Dodd said she wasn’t upset by the mistake. Instead, she said it lightened the mood amidst the coronavirus pandemic and provided her and her coworkers with a few laughs.“My boss thinks it’s funnier than anyone,” Dodd added. “I was at work Friday and he pointed to a chair outside of his office door and was like, ‘I thought this was you, I waved at it this morning.’“ She posted the photo to Facebook on Aug. 6 and as of Wednesday, it had been shared more than 19,000 times and turned into several memes.Dodd received her new license Monday — without the chair.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/picture-perfect-woman-receives-id-with-photo-of-empty-chair/story-qwDj2oN5PpXhLpevJvprqM.html
13-08-2020||World||Gotabaya Rajapaksa family dominates Sri Lanka govt with 3 in cabinet||Sri Lanka’s President Gotabaya Rajapaksa named two more relatives to a new government unveiled Wednesday, further consolidating his family’s grip on power.His brother Mahinda will lead the government, formed after their nationalist party’s landslide win in a parliamentary election last week.Gotabaya and Mahinda will control the key defence and finance portfolios, respectively, in the new 26-member cabinet.Their elder brother Chamal kept his place in the cabinet and was joined by Mahinda’s eldest son, Namal, who was named sports minister.The growing dynastic imprint was strengthened by one of their nephews, Shasheendra Rajapaksa, who joined the government as a state agriculture minister though he will not be in the cabinet. Gotabaya Rajapaksa, 71, became president in November last year and named Mahinda, a 74-year-old former president, as prime minister.Pursuing a nationalist agenda, their party has won a two-thirds majority in parliament, which allows them to change the constitution and tighten their hold on power.The brothers want to scrap a 2015 constitutional amendment which transferred some executive powers from the president to the prime minister, along with independent institutions to run public services and the judiciary.In the new cabinet, Mahinda was given three portfolios -- finance, culture and housing -- while their eldest brother Chamal, 77, was given irrigation, a powerful position in largely rural Sri Lanka.Chamal was also made the state minister for defence, a non-cabinet position responsible for internal security and disaster management. The swearing-in of ministers was carried out at the Temple of the Tooth, the holiest Buddhist shrine, in the presence of saffron-robed monks and other guests in Kandy, 115 kilometres east of Colombo. The venue was carefully chosen to reinforce the Rajapaksa family’s appeal to their majority Sinhala-Buddhist constituency.The president took his oath after his November landslide in front of a pagoda built by a legendary Sinhala king known to have vanquished a rival from the minority Tamil community.Mahinda was sworn in as Prime Minister on Sunday at the Kelaniya temple which Buddhists in Sri Lanka believe to have been visited by the Buddha himself.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/gotabaya-rajapaksa-family-dominates-sri-lanka-govt-with-3-in-cabinet/story-qUHrDFf1J6nOJCPYZVE8DI.html
13-08-2020||World||UK in worst recession on record||Chancellor Rishi Sunak declared on Wednesday that “hard times are here” after official figures showed that the UK had fallen into deep recession - the GDP is down by 20.4% - as the coronavirus pandemic takes a heavy toll on lives, lifestyles and jobs.The Office for National Statistics (ONS) said the GDP fell in the April-June second quarter of 2020 by 20.4% compared with the previous three months - the biggest quarterly decline since comparable records began in 1955. It is the worst figure for any G7 nation in the three months to June.Sunak, who has been borrowing heavily to pay most of the wage bills of the private sector and the self-employed since March, said, “I’ve said before that hard times were ahead and today’s figures confirm that hard times are here. “Hundreds of thousands of people have already lost their jobs and, sadly, in the coming months, many more will. But while there are difficult choices to be made ahead, we will get through this and I can assure people that nobody will be left without hope or opportunity.”German government asked citizens to follow guidelines as health authorities reported 1,226 new infections. This is the highest number of infections since early May.Worried that the aftermath of last week’s blast will lead to Covid infections, the World Health Organization appealed for $76m in aid for Lebanon. The explosion in capital Beirut had severely damaged or destroyed hospitals, clinics and medical supplies.Australia recorded its deadliest day on Wednesday. The state of Victoria reported 21 deaths and 410 new cases in 24 hours.Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said she was weighing a delay in New Zealand’s September 19 election, as experts investigated whether the virus could have re-entered the country through freight shipments||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-in-worst-recession-on-record/story-y4B6Wa2aWhZqJlUPMgI6pL.html
13-08-2020||World||Google turning phones into earthquake detectors||Google added an earthquake alert system in California on Tuesday, saying it is working on letting Android-powered smartphones double as tremor detectors.Android phones will receive warnings triggered by a “ShakeAlert” earthquake early-warning system implemented on the West Coast by the US Geological Survey and partners.ShakeAlert uses signals from hundreds of seismometers across the state to trigger warning messages that “an earthquake has begun and shaking is imminent,” according to the system’s website.“We saw an opportunity to use Android to provide people with timely, helpful earthquake information when they search, as well as a few seconds warning to get themselves and their loved ones to safety if needed,” principal software engineer Marc Stogaitis said in a blog post.People anywhere with smartphones powered by Google’s Android operating software were also invited to let handsets be part of a crowd-sourced network for detecting earthquakes.Smartphones are typically equipped with tiny accelerometers that sense movement and can catch shaking caused by earthquakes, according to Stogaitis. “This means your Android phone can be a mini seismometer, joining millions of other Android phones out there to form the world’s largest earthquake detection network,” Stogaitis said.Phones that detect what might be earthquake activity can automatically send a signal to a data centre, where computers quickly determine whether a quake is happening, according to Google.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/google-turning-phones-into-earthquake-detectors/story-OIEvaPXNxTOEVXSzhXaTNN.html
13-08-2020||World||Colour, gender and Silicon: Why Kamala sits well with a cup of Joe||Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden received $10.8 million of campaign donations in the four hours after he announced Kamala Harris as his running mate - four times more than normal. Biden will see this as a sign that he and Harris, the first Indian-American and first black American woman to achieve such political prominence, will be greater than the sum of their parts. President Donald Trump is already tweeting hard to ensure Harris becomes a liability and undermines Biden’s 10-point lead in the polls.That Harris is black, Asian, and a woman, weighed heavily on Biden’s decision. He had promised to have a woman vice-president. He wanted to thank blacks for saving his candidacy. Her Indian background was arguably the least important factor in his choice. The choice of Harris is still more than just genes and gender. Biden says he will be a “transition” and “bridge” president, indicating he won’t run for a second term. His vice-president will be front-runner for the Democratic presidential candidacy in 2024. And being 77 years old, he wanted a running mate who had gone through the US election grinder, sought to be president, and had shown the steel to take on the Republican troll army. Harris alone fit the bill. Kamala Harris is the latest example of “Bay Area liberalism”. Arising out of San Francisco-Silicon Valley, these Democrats mix ardent identity and green activism with a belief in technology and business. Their clarion calls are climate and data, gay rights and internet rights. In Washington, Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Harris are the most prominent representatives. Harris on the ticket complements Biden’s more traditional base of East Coast liberals and union workers. These origins are also why one does not hear Harris talk of breaking up Big Tech and imposing a wealth tax. Politico.com argues that since San Francisco politics is blue vs blue it encourages politicians good at bridging ideological divisions. Harris “has demonstrated an ability to appeal to liberal voting blocs…without alienating moderate allies.” This would appeal to Biden who sees his main task as healing the social wounds left by Trump. Silicon pragmatism explains Harris’s record of “talk left, walk right” on many liberal issues. When seeking election as attorney general, she campaigned on criminal justice reform for minorities but once in office she made concessions to the police unions. As an Oval Office candidate, she signed up for nationalised health care but her platform supported a mix of public and private. As a senator, she scored close to socialist Bernie Sanders in sponsoring leftist legislation. But Harris never did the legwork to get any of the bills passed. Trump is already trying to turn Democrats against her, calling her “Phoney Kamala.” Biden, however, sees this as common sense politics. He has to win a lot of right-leaning independent voters to win. After he wins, he may have to work with a Republican Congress. A pragmatic vice-president is what he wants. How would a Vice-President Harris look at a Narendra Modi government? After India ended Kashmir’s special status, she reportedly said in a fund-raiser: “We are keeping track of the situation. There is a need to intervene if the situation demands.” However, the source is a single Pakistani television station. She declared support for another Indian-American lawmaker, Pramila Jayapal, who was rebuffed by Indian foreign minister S. Jaishankar for trying to score points with the Kashmir issue. Yet Harris has never taken any concrete moves against New Delhi and, as a candidate, her formal policy statements were silent on Modi. One can only surmise that a Bay Area politician would find resonance with the Indian Prime Minister’s digital focus, climate commitment, and actions on transgender rights. Harris, who was largely raised by her Tamil mother, has stayed close to her relatives in Chennai, and visits them almost every year. Her personal motto, adopted from her mother, is, “You may be the first, but make sure you’re not the last.” As US vice-presidential candidate she has already fulfilled the latter half of the motto. Come November, she may accomplish the earlier part as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/colour-gender-and-silicon-why-kamala-sits-well-with-a-cup-of-joe/story-62eywxSOJWEBEzheOjey4M.html
13-08-2020||World||Kamala: A woman of many firsts||It’s not Cam-el-uh. Not Kuh-mahl-uh, either. Or Karmel-uh. It’s Kamala. Kamala Harris.This is from an ad Harris, now 55, ran in 2016 when she was running for the US senate from California. It was meant for Californians to whom Harris was not exactly a stranger. She had been in public life for years in the state by then and was then serving the second of her two four-year terms as the state’s top law enforcement officer, the attorney general.On Tuesday night, four years after those ads and Harris’s successful senate run, Tucker Carlson, host of America’s highest-rated prime-time cable news show, lost it when a guest insisted on air that Carlson correctly pronounce the name of the person Joe Biden, the presumptive Democratic nominee for president, picked to be his running mate.“So it begins; you’re not allowed to criticize Ka-MAL-a Harris, or KAM-a-la Harris...or whatever?” Carlson said in exasperation, before conceding, “Ok look, I unintentionally mispronounced her name.”The Biden-Harris campaign might want to send Carlson a link to her senate race ad — which featured a bunch of children explaining how to get the name right — or just air it again.Born on October 20, 1964, Harris was named Kamala Devi by her mother, Shyamala Gopalan, who was from Chennai. “Our classical Indian names harked back to our Indian heritage and we were raised with a strong awareness of and appreciation for India culture,” Harris wrote in The Truth We hold: An American journey, her autobiography. Her only sibling — a younger sister — is named Maya Harris. Their last names are from their father Jonathan Harris, who is from Jamaica.The parents separated when Harris was seven, and five years later, the family moved to Montreal, Canada, where her mother had accepted a research position at a university.After graduating from Howard University, a predominantly Black university in Washington DC years later, Harris went on to study law at Hastings, University of Californian, in San Francisco. She became a lawyer in 1990. Harris returned to her hometown Oakland, and joined the Alameda county district attorney’s office as a deputy in 1991, to begin shortly a career that would set her on path to the vice-presidential nomination on Tuesday, as the first Indian-American, first South Asian-American and the first Asian-American male or female to ever make it onto a presidential ticket. That’s from her mother’s side. On her father’s side, she is the first African- American male or female to run for vice-president on a major party’s ticket. And, another series of “firsts” awaits her on November 3, election night, if the Biden-Harris ticket prevails.In 2003, Harris was elected district attorney in San Francisco. That would be the start of the “firsts”. Her election made her the first woman district attorney of the city, the first Black woman and the first South Asian woman in the state to hold that job and, of course, the first Indian-American, of any gender.That election also handed her one of her life’s most enduring controversies. On the first year on the job, a San Francisco police officer was killed on duty by a man using an automatic rifle. Harris, who had run for office as an opponent of the death penalty, did not seek capital punishment for the accused, which earned her the hostility of the police force in the city and the state. And it is an issue that is cited in almost every profile of her written since. The Trump campaign will not pass it up as an opportunity to portray the Biden-Harris ticket as weak on law enforcement, as a contrast to the president’s strong stand on the issue in the backdrop of the ongoing anti-racism protests and demand from certain quarters for defunding the police. It started Tuesday night, in fact. “She is now trying to bury her egregious record as a prosecutor in order to appease the anti-police extremists that are now controlling the radicalized Democrat Party,” said Katrina Pierson, a senior Trump 2020 adviser. “Kamala is in this for political convenience, it is clearly her primary motivator.”The Trump campaign and Republicans by and large understood well how formidable Harris can be. President Trump himself had conceded recently she would be a “fine choice” for Biden. Now, however, it’s different. “I thought she was the meanest, the most horrible, most disrespectful of anybody in the US senate,” Trump said to reporters, referring to senator Harris’s grilling of Brett Kavanaugh, the president’s nominee for the Supreme Court at a bruising confirmation hearing.Harris has built over the years a formidable reputation as, among other things, a tough and tenacious interrogator. From her seat on the senate judicial committee, she could nail squirming witnesses with a steady, unrelenting gaze and unwavering questioning,which invariably went viral.Mike Pence, the vice-president, might find himself in that seat next.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kamala-a-woman-of-many-firsts/story-ADf06n9mEscdJxNQXn5ihJ.html
13-08-2020||World||China’s Huawei, ZTE set to be shut out of India’s 5G trials||China’s Huawei Technologies Co. and ZTE Corp. are set to be kept out of India’s plans to roll out its 5G networks as relations between the two countries hit a four decade low following deadly border clashes.The South Asian nation will apply investment rules amended on July 23 that cite national security concerns to restrict bidders from nations it shares land borders with to keep out the companies, people familiar with the issue said, asking not to be identified citing rules.The Ministry of Communications will restart pending discussions on approvals for 5G trials by private companies including Bharti Airtel Ltd., Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd., and Vodafone Idea Ltd. that were delayed by the nationwide lockdown, they said.India’s decision echoes actions by the US, U.K. and Australia, which have raised red flags about the companies’ Chinese government links. The US Federal Communications Commission has officially declared both companies national security threats.The process to auction 5G may spill into next year, according to the officials. A decision on the ban is expected to be announced in a week or two after approval from the prime minister’s office, they said.A spokesman for the communications ministry and the prime minister’s office didn’t immediately respond to queries seeking comment.Border tensionsWhile India allowed Huawei to participate in its 5G trials earlier this year, its stance against Chinese companies hardened after China’s actions along their disputed border in early May. That military standoff, which turned deadly in June killing 20 Indian soldiers and an unknown number of Chinese troops, is now in its fourth month.Huawei and ZTE didn’t respond to emails seeking comments.Reliance could be a serious challenge to Huawei in the world’s second-biggest wireless market after Indian billionaire Mukesh Ambani on July 15 announced plans to soon roll out a 5G network for his Jio Infocomm using a technology developed in-house, without giving details.His conglomerate has said its carrier won’t need to spend much to switch to the new system, unlike some of its rivals, leaving it immune to political disputes linked to Chinese equipment vendors that global telecommunications companies are embroiled in.Yet, with its economy headed for a ‘deep slump’ amid a worsening Covid-19 pandemic, the government may not be in a position to push for a 5G spectrum auction in the near future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-s-huawei-zte-set-to-be-shut-out-of-india-s-5g-trials/story-cFF092tFHqC4A4FpnEYMfK.html
13-08-2020||World||China extends anti-dumping tariff for 5 years on India-made optical fibre||China has extended an anti-dumping tariff on optical fibre made in India, the ministry of commerce said in a notice published on its website on Thursday.The duties will be renewed from Friday and remain in place for five years.In the announcement, the MOFCOM “…decided to continue to impose anti-dumping duties on imported single-mode optical fibers originating in India from August 14 on the basis of the final review of the investigation results. The implementation period is 5 years”.Several Indian companies were named in the announcement.The ministry defined single-mode fibre as a fibre that transmits only a single-mode optical signal within a certain wavelength range.The punitive tariff on single-mode optical fibre takes effect from August 14 and lasts for five years, with tariffs ranging between 7.4 percent and 30.6 percent depending on the specific Indian manufacturers, the ministry said.The extension of the anti-dumping duties comes in the backdrop of the ongoing Sino-India border tension at Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh and the cooling of bilateral economic ties.“The decision came after MOFCOM evaluated the possible damage to Chinese industries if anti-dumping measures are terminated, at the request of the domestic single-mode optical fiber industry on 13 August, 2019,” state media reported.The Ministry of Commerce began to implement anti-dumping measures on imports of single-mode optical fibers from India in August 2014. In June 2019, the MOFCOM initiated the final review investigation in response to a domestic industry application, the announcement said.The Chinese ministry ruled if the anti-dumping measures were terminated, “…the dumping of imported single-mode optical fibers originating in India to China may continue or recur, and the damage to China’s domestic industries may continue or recur”.The Chinese order comes three days after India sought to impose provisional anti-dumping duty on imports of black toner in powder form originating in or exported from China, Malaysia and Taiwan (Chinese Taipei) for six months, a government order issued on Monday said.The duty on a tonne of black toner would range from $196 for imports from Chinese Taipie, $1,686 for imports from Malaysia and $834 for those originating in or exported from China, it said.On June 23, New Delhi had slapped anti-dumping duty on certain steel products imported from China, South Korea and Vietnam after an investigation found that these items caused injury to domestic producers.India-China bilateral trade in the year 2019 decreased by 2.93 percent year on year to reach $92.89 billion. India’s exports to China decreased by 4.55 percent year-on-year to $17.97 billion, and India’s imports from China also witnessed a drop by 2.54 percent to $74.92 billion, according to data from China’s customs departmentIndia’s trade deficit with China stood at US$ 56.95 billion, a minor year-on-year decline of 1.88 percent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-extends-anti-dumping-tariff-for-5-years-on-india-made-optical-fibre/story-w9YPufo6BXOMkk31qs4clL.html
