17-08-2020||World||At 54.4°C, Death Valley in US sees hottest temp since 1913||A thermometer at Death Valley’s Furnace Creek in the Southern California desert has soared to 54.4 degrees Celsius, the highest temperature in more than a century, the US National Weather Service said.“If verified, this will be the hottest temperature officially verified since July of 1913,” NWS Las Vegas said of the reading on Sunday afternoon, emphasising that it was preliminary. It will need to undergo a review before the record is confirmed, it said on its Twitter feed.The automated weather station close to the Furnace Creek visitors’ centre near the border with Nevada hit the high at 3.41pm local time.Death Valley’s all-time record high, according to the World Meteorological Organization, is (56.7°C) taken on July 10, 1913 at Greenland Ranch. It still stands as the hottest ever recorded on the planet’s surface, according to the WMO. Coming soon: Arctic Summer Without IceThere’s a standard image of the Earth as seen from space: vast blue seas, green bands of forests, and frozen white caps on the top and bottom. But by the summer of 2035, it may no longer be so. Scientists say that in just 15 years, Arctic summer sea-ice could disappear. The new research is the latest in a steady stream that has moved up the predicted time frame for the ice-free Arctic milestone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/at-54-4-c-death-valley-in-us-sees-hottest-temp-since-1913/story-5gmrGAlR6D83bYngRadMQK.html
17-08-2020||World||Workers heckle embattled Belarus leader amid strikes||Workers heckled and jeered President Alexander Lukashenko on Monday as he visited a factory and strikes grew across Belarus, raising the pressure on the country’s leader to step down after 26 years in power.On the ninth straight day of mass protests over the official results of the August 9 presidential election that demonstrators say was rigged, Lukashenko flew by helicopter to a factory in the capital of Minsk to rally support, but he was met by angry workers chanting, “Go away!” He told the workers, “I will never cave in to pressure.”Lukashenko said the country could have a new presidential election, but only after approving an amended version of its constitution - an apparent bid to buy some time amid the growing political crisis. He told the workers that those who intend to strike could leave if they want, but added the protests are ruining the economy and said the country would collapse if he steps down.“Some of you might have got the impression that the government no longer exists, that it has tumbled down. The government will never collapse, you know me well,” the 65-year-old former state farm director shouted.As he spoke, over 5,000 striking workers from the Minsk Tractor Plant marched down the streets of the city, joining an increasing number of state-controlled factories across the nation of 9.5 million in walking off the job.Miners at the huge potash factory in Soligorsk also said they were joining the strike. The giant Belaruskali factory that accounts for a fifth of the world’s potash fertilizer output is the nation’s top cash earner. The workers want Lukashenko to give way to Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya, the leading opposition candidate in the election.Tikhanovskaya, who fled to Lithuania after the elections, said she was willing to lead the country. Lithuania, a Nato member, said Belarus has started military drills on its western border.European Union leaders meeting over the latest developments in Belarus will send a message to the Russian government to stay out of the former Soviet republic, even as Britain said it rejected the results of the “fraudulent” polls.A senior US official said Russia must respect Belarus’ sovereignty and right of its people to freely elect their own leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/workers-heckle-embattled-belarus-leader-amid-strikes/story-fxd5vcX9YMuUJRKAUCamIN.html
17-08-2020||World||Donald Trump says he’ll send feds if NYC can’t stop bloodshed||President Donald Trump is again threatening to send federal agents to New York City if local authorities don’t stop a surge of violence that has left seven people dead and more than 50 people shot since Friday.Trump, who’s running for re-election on a law-and-order agenda as a counterweight to the police and criminal justice reform movement, reacted to the news of the mayhem in his hometown Sunday night on Twitter.“Law and Order,” Trump wrote, directing his message at the city’s Democratic mayor, Bill de Blasio. “If (he) can’t do it, we will!” It was the latest in a string of bloody weekends that have roiled the city in the wake of coronavirus-related shutdowns, rallies against police brutality and a month-long protest encampment in front of City Hall.According to police, 51 people were shot from Friday through Sunday, six of whom died from their injuries. Another man died after a physical altercation, police said.Eight people were shot and five people were killed over the same span last year.De Blasio on Monday dismissed Trump’s tweet as “bluster,” telling reporters that a recent uptick in gun arrests was a hopeful sign that the NYPD “will turn this tide.” De Blasio’s press secretary, Bill Neidhardt, noted that Trump sent his tweet hours after retweeting a pundit who said Democratic cities should be left to rot.Trump has used violent spikes in Democratic-led cities such as New York, Chicago and Philadelphia to justify claims that recent reforms and cuts to police budgets have handcuffed officers and allowed criminals to run amok. His re-election campaign has been airing farcical television commercials suggesting no one will be there to answer 911 calls if his Democratic rival, former Vice President Joe Biden, is elected president.“The only thing rotten is Trump’s mind,” Neidhardt tweeted in response.Trump, a Republican who grew up in Queens and built his namesake tower on Manhattan’s chic Fifth Avenue, backed off a threat last month to send federal agents to New York City to deal with protesters and increased violence, as he had in Portland, Oregon.De Blasio had said the city would take legal action to stop such a move and Gov. Andrew Cuomo said Trump told him by telephone that he wouldn’t send any extra federal law enforcement personnel to the city without discussing it with the governor first.Trump’s emphatic loyalty to the men and women in blue — “We love our police!” he’s bellowed at rallies — and his aversion to some of the many reforms enacted across the U.S. after the Minneapolis police killing of George Floyd in May has translated into increased support from the law enforcement community.On Friday, Trump received the endorsement of New York City’s largest police union, the Police Benevolent Association. At a ceremony with the union’s leaders at his New Jersey golf course, Trump said recent changes to state and city laws governing officer conduct and accountability have “totally taken away their incentive.” New York state lawmakers in June repealed a decades-old law that had kept police disciplinary records a secret. They also banned officers from using chokeholds. City lawmakers went a step further, ordering officers to avoid the torso while making an arrest.“They’ve taken away their lives, in a sense, because they don’t allow them to do their job,” Trump said.New York’s recent crime wave has upended years of at-or-near record lows that had city leaders touting it as the “Safest Big City in America.” Still, it remains far safer than in the early 1990s, when there were more than 2,000 killings per year.This year, the city has seen a 82.1% increase in shooting incidents and a 88.5% increase in shooting victims over last year, according to police. More than 1,000 people have been shot in the city from Jan. 1 through Sunday, police said.Homicides have climbed more than 30%, to 259 as of Sunday from 199 at the same point last year.What’s behind the rash of violence isn’t clear.Police have blamed bail reforms that went into effect at the start of the year, but there’s little evidence that police freed from jail are behind the new crimes. Mayor Bill de Blasio blamed pandemic-related courthouse closures, but court officials said they were functioning all along. (AP) PMS PMS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-says-he-ll-send-feds-if-nyc-can-t-stop-bloodshed/story-DhqjQzh68cvTsn9BPiFwSL.html
17-08-2020||World||‘Lies, dirty tactics’: Kamala Harris slams birther attacks floated by Donald Trump||Kamala Harris, presumptive democratic nominee for vice-president, rejected false and racist theory promoted by President Donald Trump questioning her eligibility, terming them as “lies” and “dirty tactics” to distract attention from the administration’s failures. “They are going to engage in lies. They are going to engage in deception. They are going to engage in an attempt to distract form the real issue that is impacting the American people,” Harris told TheGrio , a news focussed on covering Black Americans, on Sunday, addressing the issue for the first time.“I expect they will engage in dirty tactics and this is going to be a knock-down, drag-out and we are ready,” said Oakland, California-born Harris. President Trump has refused to reject a theory floated on the right, falsely arguing that Harris was not qualified to run for vice-presidential seat, because she was not a natural-born citizen as required constitutionally. As the theory went, her immigrant parents — mother from India and father from Jamaica — were probably not naturalised citizens at the time, 1964. And that she was an “anchor baby”, a term used for children born in the US for the express purpose of facilitating the immigration of the rest of the family.Harris, 55, was born in Oakland, California. And that makes her a natural-born US citizen and eligible to be president if she needed to step in.Trump has praised the writer of a Newsweek column, who first put out the falsehood in print, as a “brilliant lawyer”, but said Saturday, “It’s not something that I’m going to be pursuing.” And that it “does not bother me at all”. But he refused to say, when pressed by a reporter, if he believed Harris was eligible to run.Mark Meadows, the White House chief of staff, was clearer in an interview on CNN Sunday. “Sure,” he said when asked if he believed Harris was eligible to run, adding that, “And I think the president spoke to this yesterday. This is not something that we’re going to pursue.”On Thursday, the president had said, when asked about the conspiracy theory for the first time, “I have no idea if that’s right. I would have assumed the Democrats would have checked that out before she gets chosen for vice president.”Instead of dismissing the starkly false argument, Trump said. “That’s a very serious... they’re saying she doesn’t qualify because she wasn’t born in this country?” he had asked.President Trump claimed for years — birthing what came to be called the “birther” theory — that President Barack Obama was not eligible to be president because he was not born in the US. Obama, who was born in Hawaii, was forced to release his birth records to squash this theory. Trump, however, gave up in 2016, when he was running for president.The same year, however, Trump had launched another “birther” theory. This time about Ted Cruz, the Republican senator who raced Trump to the finish line for the Republican nomination for president before quitting. Cruz was born in Calgary, Canada to a father from Cuba and mother who was American.The president has reacted viciously to Harris. He has called her “nasty”, and claimed that though she is of Indian heritage, “I have more Indians than she has.”Harris’s mother Shyamala Gopalan was from Chennai — though she had also lived with her family in Delhi for years. She came to the United States in 1958, became a breast cancer researcher. She met and married Donald J Harris in 1963. Kamala Harris was born to them in 1964. Younger sister Maya Harris, was born in 1967.Harris has named Sabrina Singh, an Indian American, as her press secretary. “I’m so excited to join the #BidenHarris ticket as Press Secretary for @KamalaHarris! Can’t wait to get to work and win in November!,” Singh wrote in a tweet Sunday. He was formerly the spokeswoman for Michael Bloomberg’s primary campaign and New Jersey Senator Cory Booker, who is a close friend of Harris.Harris has also brought on to her team Rohini Kosoglu, her Sri Lankan-born chief of staff from her own presidential campaign that she discontinued last December, as a senior advisor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/lies-dirty-tactics-kamala-harris-slams-birther-attacks-floated-by-donald-trump/story-5yTNqcQAKJxyx4Jzd93gzM.html
17-08-2020||World||Italy sees drop in coronavirus cases and tests||Italy’s day-to-day new case numbers dropped for a second straight day, but so did the number of swab tests performed to detect coronavirus infections.According to Health Ministry figures on Monday, 320 coronavirus cases were registered since the previous day, and 30,666 swab tests were carried out at the end of Italy’s big summer holiday weekend. Two days earlier, when Italy registered 629 case —the first time the daily caseload had topped 600 since May— there were more than 53,000 swab tests performed.From the start of August, the number of hospitalized patients has climbed from just over 700 to 810 on Monday. Still, the situation is dramatically different than in the first weeks of the pandemic, when thousands of people in Italy were being hospitalized daily with Covid-19.Infectious diseases experts fear that Italy’s caseload will tick upward again as many holiday-goers return from vacations abroad, including in Spain, where the climbing number of coronavirus infections lately has been stirring alarm.Italy now records 254,235 confirmed Covid-19 cases. Four deaths were registered in the last 24 hours, raising the nation death toll in the pandemic to 35,400.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/italy-sees-drop-in-coronavirus-cases-and-tests/story-T1A3gewQ0hXtxEg6zpVoYN.html
17-08-2020||World||Kamala Harris calls birther attacks ‘lies’||Kamala Harris has lashed out at her critics over questions about her eligibility to run based on her parents’ immigration status at the time of her birth as “lies” and “dirty tactics” to distract attention from the Trump administration’s failures.“They are going to engage in lies. They are going to engage in deception. They are going to engage in an attempt to distract from the real issue that are impacting the American people,” Harris told the news outlet TheGrio, addressing the issue for the first time. “I expect they will engage in dirty tactics and this is going to be a be a knock-down, drag-out and we are ready,” she said on Sunday.President Donald Trump has refused to reject a theory floated by the right wing that falsely says Harris is not qualified to run for vice-president, claiming she is not a natural-born citizen as required by US Constitution. On Saturday, Trump said the issue is “not something that I’m going to be pursuing”, adding that it “does not bother met at all”. Mark Meadows, the White House chief of staff , told CNN on Sunday that he believed Harris was eligible to run.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kamala-harris-calls-birther-attacks-lies/story-xSNFuzn7sWbNQDKkIoNJmL.html
17-08-2020||World||Donald Trump’s plane nearly hit by small drone: Reports||President Donald Trump’s jet was nearly hit by what appeared to be a small drone as it approached an airport near Washington Sunday night, according to several people aboard Air Force One.The device, which was yellow and black and shaped like a cross, was off the right side of the plane. It was seen by several passengers on the jet, which occurred shortly before the plane touched down at 5:54 p.m.The Secret Service didn’t immediately respond on Monday to a request to confirm the reports. The North American Aerospace Defense Command, which coordinates air security issues in North America, referred questions to the Secret Service. The Federal Aviation Administration referred questions on the matter to the Air Force.While it has been notoriously difficult for aviation safety investigators to verify such fleeting events, it appears to be among the thousands of such safety incidents involving unmanned devices in the U.S. that have prompted calls by law enforcement and homeland security agencies for greater measures to rein in their use.Most civilian drones weigh only a few pounds and probably couldn’t take down a jetliner. But government research suggests the damage could be greater than that from a similar-sized bird, which could shatter a cockpit windshield or damage an engine.Trump was flying in the modified Boeing Co. 757 that is among the fleet of jets known as Air Force One when the president is aboard.The FAA receives thousands of reports per year in which drones fly too close to other aircraft or operate in restricted areas. Most of the reports come from pilots.Under current federal regulations, drones must be flown within sight of the operator and no higher than 400 feet (122 meters) above the ground without special waivers. While the most popular drone models are equipped with software designed to prevent longer range flights, incidents continue to pile up, according to government records.There have been a handful of instances in which drones actually struck aircraft, but none have resulted in a serious crash or injuries, according to National Transportation Safety Board data.A hobbyist drone being flown illegally near New York City struck an Army helicopter on Sept. 21, 2017, the NTSB found. The impact damaged the helicopter, but it was able to land safely.The NTSB last month concluded that a drone most likely struck a KABC-TV chopper flying above downtown Los Angeles on Dec. 4.Drone sightings have occasionally disrupted operations at major airports, such as when pilots nearing Newark Liberty International Airport reported nearly colliding with a small drone in January 2019.The FAA hopes to unveil regulations requiring that civilian drones transmit their location and identity by the end of the year. The new requirement is designed to help prevent the devices from being used by terrorists and to reduce the risks they pose to traditional aircraft.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-plane-nearly-hit-by-small-drone-reports/story-XniuHfLru6yYp9JS8UnNfJ.html
17-08-2020||World||Labour’s 2019 Kashmir motion not party policy, says India group||The September 2019 motion adopted at Labour’s annual conference, seeking international intervention in the Kashmir issue and a referendum, is not the party’s official policy, co-chairmen of the Labour Friends of India group within the party insisted on Monday.The resolution, adopted when Jeremy Corbyn was party leader, sparked a diplomatic row and cost the party many votes from the 1.5 million strong Indian community in the December 2019 elections. Under new party leader Keir Starmer, the party has been keen to win back support.Co-chairmen Labour MP Darren Jones and deputy mayor of London Rajesh Agarwal admitted to members of the Indian Journalists Association that the party lost ground in the community, but insisted that under Starmer the party has begun the long process of rebuilding trust.Labour has long been the party of preference of the Indian community, but younger, aspirational members have gravitated to the Conservative party in recent years, particularly after David Cameron assiduously wooed the community when he took over as party leader in 2005.Jones, MP for Bristol North-West, said“We have to be honest about this. We not only lost Indian votes but votes of others (in December 2019). Starmer has been keen to rebuild trust and the historic relationship with India and the community here”.“The Kashmir motion is not party policy. In future you won’t see that happening again. You will see a different style of leadership under Starmer, who is going around the country listening and engaging with people”, he added.According to Indore-born Agarwal, “all sorts” of motions are adopted at conferences. Labour MPs speak on behalf of their constituents, but that does not necessarily mean their perspectives become party policy. He said: “No doubt we have lost some Indian votes, we need to work harder. We have a long way to go, but we can do it”.“Starmer has already made it clear that we must not allow issues of the sub-continent to divide communities here. Any constitutional issues in India are a matter for the Indian Parliament and Kashmir is a bilateral issue for India and Pakistan to resolve peacefully,” he added.As part of the party’s efforts to regain support, a Mahatma Gandhi Future Leaders Programme is to be launched on October 2 to encourage people from the community to join politics at various levels. Starmer, Agarwal said, is keen to visit India next year.Set up in 1999, the Labour Friends of India group includes MPs as well as others. According to Agarwal, it is now a community-led group rather than one led by the “Westminster bubble”, though the distinction was not entirely clear.Labour has seven Indian-origin MPs in the current House of Commons, its highest from the community so far: Navendu Mishra (Stockport), Virendra Sharma (Ealing Southall), Slough (Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi), Seema Malhotra (Feltham and Heston), Preet Kaur Gill (Birmingham Edgbaston), Lisa Nandy (Wigan) and Valerie Vaz (Walsall South).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/labour-s-2019-kashmir-motion-not-party-policy-says-india-group/story-HpZgYWNcPWmvLsJIsC588H.html
17-08-2020||World||New French Covid-19 infections sharply down, hospitalisations edge higher||The French health ministry reported 493 new Covid-19 infections over the past 24 hours on Monday, sharply down from a caseload of above 3,000 each on the two previous days.However, the number of hospitalisations for the disease rose by 65 to 4,925, increasing for the third day running.France’s cumulative total of cases now stands at 219,029.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-french-covid-19-infections-sharply-down-hospitalisations-edge-higher/story-JqHYQbVayjAxmhCX3yxYHK.html
17-08-2020||World||Thousands of partygoers without masks pack into Wuhan water park in China||Thousands of partygoers packed out a water park over the weekend in the central Chinese city of Wuhan, where the coronavirus first emerged late last year, keen to party as the city edges back to normal life.The popular Wuhan Maya Beach Water Park was filled with people frolicking in swimsuits and goggles for an electronic music festival, many perched on rubber dinghies or wading up to their chest in water.The water park reopened in June after Wuhan gradually opened up after a 76-day lockdown and strict restrictions to try and control the spread of the virus.The park -- which local media says has capped attendance at 50 percent of normal capacity -- is offering half price discounts for female visitors.A performer in a stage show at the front of the water waved at the crowd, packed close and waving their arms back, some snapping photos on phones protected in plastic pouches round their necks.Another performer on a water jet board entertained his audience by hovering above them with sparks shooting from his back.Some of the crowd had donned life jackets, but none of the tightly-packed partygoers were seen to be wearing face masks as a DJ in bright yellow headphones played on stage.The first known cases of Covid-19 emerged in Wuhan late last year, a city of 11 million people, before the virus spread across the world, killing hundreds of thousands and crippling economies.The lockdown was lifted in April, and there have been no new domestically transmitted cases officially reported in Hubei province, where Wuhan is the capital, since mid-May.To try and boost the local economy, the Hubei government has been offering free entry to 400 tourist sites across the province.China has largely brought its domestic epidemic under control, but sporadic outbreaks and a summer of severe flooding have exacerbated the economic fallout.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/thousands-of-partygoers-without-masks-pack-into-wuhan-water-park-in-china/story-ZMeZ6197COeQpz7l58EBjP.html
17-08-2020||World||Democrats to kick off convention with Bernie Sanders, Michelle Obama’s addresses||US Democrats will kick off Monday night their first virtual convention yet with Senator Bernie Sanders stressing party unity as a lead speaker. Michelle Obama, the former first lady, will close the evening, possibly with an inspiring speech similar to her “we go high as they go low” in 2016.Sanders had been a hold out at the 2016 convention and only nominally offered truce after a bruising primaries in which party officials had brazenly worked to help Hillary Clinton clinch the ticket. He is truly on board this time and is expected to exhort his legions of supporters to rally behind Joe Biden.“I understand we do not agree with Joe Biden on all of the issues — believe me, I know that, I ran against Joe Biden,” Sanders told delegates in a call last month, as reported by The New York Times. “But at this moment, what we need to do is engage in coalition politics with the goal of defeating Trump.”Former first lady Obama remains extremely popular in the party and is an inspiring speaker. She had set up Clinton’s 2016 run as a glowing contrast to Donald Trump’s divisive campaign.“Our motto is, when they go low, we go high,” she had said. That phrase was all her own, her speech writer has said since, and continues to reverberate till this day.The four-day convention — to officially nominate Biden as the Democratic party nominee for president — will be a two-hour daily mix of pre-recorded videos and live speeches, all done virtually because of the Covid-19 epidemic that continues to ravage the US. It remains the worst-hit in the world with tens of thousands of new infections every day and hundreds of fatalities.The convention was preceded Sunday by an interfaith service that included Sikh leader Pardeep Kaleka and Hindu leader Neelima GonuguntlaThe Trump campaign will be stalking the convention with a plan called “The Real Joe Biden”, a mixture of on-ground activities, ads and live speeches. President Trump is expected to speak live just hours before the start of the convention on Biden’s “economic failures”. And the campaign will have live commentary till the end of the day. That’s the plan for the duration of the convention, with Trump expected to pick a new issue every day.The two parties continued to clash over the Trump’s attempts to curtail mail-in voting by overhauling the US postal service. The president has alleged, without proof, that mail-in voting is vulnerable to widespread fraud. Speaker Nancy Pelosi has called a session of the House to pass a legislation blocking Trump’s attempts to overhaul the US postal service.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/democrats-to-kick-off-convention-with-bernie-sanders-michelle-obama-s-addresses/story-tcHAGmRnA663knqmbMA98H.html
17-08-2020||World||US announces new restrictions on China’s Huawei to limit technology access||The Commerce Department announced further restrictions on Huawei Technologies Co. aimed at cutting the Chinese company’s access to commercially available chips, the latest move in an increasingly tense relationship between Beijing and Washington.The changes, which the department announced in a written statement on Monday, build on restrictions announced in May, adding 38 Huawei affiliates in 21 countries to an economic blacklist as the US seeks to limit adoption of the company’s 5G technology.“We don’t want their equipment in the United States because they spy on us,” President Donald Trump said Monday in an interview on “Fox and Friends.”The move is the latest tit-for-tat in escalating tensions between Washington and Beijing over everything from the origins of the Covid-19 pandemic to China’s increasingly tight grip over Hong Kong. Despite the US decision, Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross said on Fox Business that talks with China continue on various levels.Ross said the action was aimed at closing loopholes the company explored after previous U.S. actions. Secretary of State Michael Pompeo praised the move as a “direct blow” against the Chinese Communist Party.The company has long rejected accusations that its technology can be used to spy on foreign nations or companies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-announces-new-restrictions-on-china-s-huawei-to-limit-technology-access/story-r3BGk7DxJvyYWXaFgG1D5I.html
17-08-2020||World||Nancy Pelosi calls House back into session to vote on Postal bill||Speaker Nancy Pelosi is calling the House back into session over the crisis at the U.S. Postal Service, setting up a political showdown amid growing concerns that the Trump White House is trying to undermine the agency ahead of the election.Pelosi is cutting short lawmakers’ summer recess with a vote expected the Saturday on legislation that would prohibit changes at the agency as tensions mount. President Donald Trump’s new postmaster general, Louis DeJoy, has sparked nationwide outcry over delays, new prices and cutbacks just as millions of Americans will be trying to vote by mail to avoid polling places during the coronavirus outbreak.“In a time of a pandemic, the Postal Service is Election Central,” Pelosi wrote Sunday in a letter to colleagues, who had been expected to be out of session until September. “Lives, livelihoods and the life of our American Democracy are under threat from the president.”The decision to recall the House, made after a weekend of high-level leadership discussions, carries a political punch. Voting in the House will highlight the issue after the weeklong Democratic National Convention nominating Joe Biden as the party’s presidential pick and pressure the Republican-held Senate to respond. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell sent senators home for a summer recess.Earlier Sunday, Democratic lawmakers demanded that leaders of the Postal Service testify at an emergency oversight hearing Aug. 24 on mail delays.The House Oversight and Reform Committee said it wants to hear from DeJoy and from the chair of the Postal Service board of governors, Robert “Mike” Duncan.With heightened scrutiny of its operations, the Postal Service is requesting a temporary preelection rate increase, from mid-October through Christmas, although not for first-class letters.The agency did not immediately respond to requests for comment about whether the two men would appear before the House committee. But it said Sunday it would stop removing its distinctive blue mailboxes through mid-November following complaints from customers and members of Congress that the collection boxes were being taken away.“Given the recent customer concerns the Postal Service will postpone removing boxes for a period of 90 days while we evaluate our customers’ concerns,’‘ Postal Service spokeswoman Kimberly Frum said.House Democrats are expected to discuss the lawmakers’ schedule details on a conference call on Monday and were likely to be in session next Saturday, said a senior Democratic aide, speaking on condition of anonymity because the plans were private.The legislation being prepared for the vote, the “Delivering for America Act,” would prohibit the Postal Service from implementing any changes to operations or level of service it had in place on Jan. 1.DeJoy, a major Republican donor and ally of the president who took control of the agency in June, has pledged to modernize the money-losing agency to make it more efficient, and has eliminated most overtime for postal workers, imposed restrictions on transportation and reduced of the quantity and use of mail-processing equipment.Trump said last week that he was blocking a $25 billion emergency injection sought by the Postal Service, as well as a Democratic proposal to provide $3.6 billion in additional election money to the states. The Republican president worries that mail-in voting could cost him reelection. The money for the post office is intended to help with processing an expected surge of mail-in ballots. Both funding requests have been tied up in congressional negotiations over a new coronavirus relief package.On Saturday, Trump tried to massage his message, saying he supports increasing money for the Postal Service. He said he was refusing to capitulate to Democrats on other parts of the relief package, including funding for states weighed down by debt accumulated before the pandemic.But the president’s critics were not appeased, contending that Trump has made the calculation that a lower voter turnout would improve his chances of winning a second term.“What you are witnessing is a president of the United States who is doing everything he can to suppress the vote, make it harder for people to engage in mail-in balloting at a time when people will be putting their lives on the line by having to go out to a polling station and vote,” said Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt.In announcing the upcoming hearing, congressional Democrats said in a statement: “The postmaster general and top Postal Service leadership must answer to the Congress and the American people as to why they are pushing these dangerous new policies that threaten to silence the voices of millions, just months before the election.”The lawmakers included Pelosi of California and New York Rep. Carolyn Maloney, the committee chair, along with Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer of New York and Michigan Sen. Gary Peters, the top Democrat on the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, which oversees the Postal Service.Funding a cash-strapped Postal Service has quickly turned into a top campaign issue as Trump presses his unsupported claim that increased mail-in voting will undermine the credibility of the election and Democrats push back.Trump, who spent the weekend at his New Jersey golf club, derided universal mail-in voting as a “scam” and defended DeJoy as the right person to “streamline the post office and make it great again.”His chief of staff, Mark Meadows, tried on Sunday to counter criticism that Trump was trying to stifle turnout with national and battleground state polls showing him facing a difficult path to reelection against Biden.“I’ll give you that guarantee right now: The president of the United States is not going to interfere with anybody casting their vote in a legitimate way, whether it’s the post office or anything else,” Meadows said.But Democrats said changes made by DeJoy constitute “a grave threat to the integrity of the election and to our very democracy.”The agency in the meantime is now seeking a short-term, end-of-the-year rate increase, according to a notice filed Friday with the Postal Regulatory Commission. The reasons: increased expenses, heightened demand for online packages due to the coronavirus pandemic and an expected increase in holiday mail volume.The plan would raise prices on commercial domestic competitive parcels, including Priority Mail Express, Priority Mail, first-class package service, Parcel Select and Parcel Return Service.Most of the proposed increases would be less than 10%. They range from 24 cents for Parcel Select Service, which starts at $3.05, to a $1.50 increase for Priority Mail Express Commercial, which starts at $22.75. The regulatory commission is expected to decide on the proposals next month.The Postal Service is the country’s most popular government agency with 91% of Americans having a favorable opinion of the service, according to a Pew Research Center Survey published in April.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nancy-pelosi-calls-house-back-into-session-to-vote-on-postal-bill/story-BKrtQWCWNBdTiewoD32IpO.html
17-08-2020||World||‘Very worrying’: Few UK Asian volunteers in Covid-19 vaccine trials||Indians and Asians are among those who have been disproportionately affected by the coronavirus pandemic, but new figures released on Monday show that barely 3 per cent of over 1 lakh volunteers enrolled for vaccine trials come from these sections of the UK population.A targeted campaign in Punjabi, Gujarati, Urdu, Bengali and other minority languages is to be launched to encourage more people to enrol for future trials of several vaccine candidates currently being developed in the UK.Health officials said that researchers welcome people from all parts of society, especially those who are more likely to benefit from a vaccine, including those over 65, frontline health and social care workers, and those from Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic backgrounds.According to Bradford-based Dinesh Saralaya, consultant respiratory physician and one of the directors of the recruitment programme, only 3 per cent Asians enrolling for the trials is “very worrying”.“It’s very important that we dispel the myths in the Asian community that vaccines are going to be harmful. It’s perfectly safe. They are very, very closely monitored and there are very strict protocols. The standard of care is in fact better than what you would receive outside of a trial (and) the side effects are very, very minimal,” he told The Guardian.Business secretary Alok Sharma said: “Scientists and researchers are working day and night to find a vaccine that meets the UK’s rigorous regulatory and safety standards, but they need hundreds of thousands of people of all backgrounds and ages to sign-up for studies to speed up this vital research.“I urge everyone to play our part in the fight against coronavirus and join the 100,000 people who have already registered, so we can help save and protect millions of lives”, he added.The highest number of non-white patients infected by the virus and who died in England, are ‘British Indian’: 792, as of August 12. Indian and other non-white communities accounted for 15 per cent of the deaths in England by that date.Several trials in the UK are expected to begin this autumn. Launched on July 20, the Vaccine Research Registry is an online service allowing members of the public to register their interest in vaccine studies and be contacted to participate in future clinical trials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/very-worrying-few-uk-asian-volunteers-in-covid-19-vaccine-trials/story-DHJNWPU1buN70JxryQk7FM.html
17-08-2020||World||Japan’s leader visits hospital, raising health concerns||Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe went to a hospital on Monday for what Japanese media said was a regular health checkup, although the visit generated renewed concerns about his health.Videos of Abe being driven in a car to Keio University Hospital in Tokyo on Monday morning were widely shown on Japanese TV news reports. Public broadcaster NHK TV later showed him leaving the hospital at about 6 p.m.The Prime Minister’s Office declined to comment on the hospital visit, saying it was not on his official schedule. Abe has been on a summer break recently, as has much of Japan.A governing party lawmaker, Akira Amari, remarked on television over the weekend that Abe feels guilty about taking time off but needs rest.Abe, 65, has had health concerns before. He stepped down in 2007 during an earlier stint as prime minister, citing health problems.Kyodo News said the visit was part of a regular checkup Abe gets about twice a year.Although Abe sometimes goes to his summer home in the countryside about this time of year, he has stayed in Tokyo amid widespread concerns about the coronavirus pandemic, according to Kyodo.Abe is the longest-serving prime minister in Japanese history.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japan-s-leader-visits-hospital-raising-health-concerns/story-v1vicEIxKqNTTLPynhqtNK.html
17-08-2020||World||Ready to work with India to manage our differences: China||China on Monday said it is ready to work with India to enhance political mutual trust, properly manage their differences and safeguard the long-term development of bilateral ties. Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian said this at a regular briefing when a Western media journalist sought China’s reaction to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s remarks that the Indian armed forces have given a befitting reply to those challenging the country’s sovereignty. Modi, in his 74th Independence Day address to the nation from the ramparts of Red Fort, said the armed forces have given a befitting reply to those challenging the country’s sovereignty “from LoC to LAC”, in a veiled reference to Pakistan and China. “From LoC (Line of Control) to LAC (Line of Actual Control), anyone who casts an eye on the sovereignty of the country, the armed forces have responded in the language they understand,” Modi said. Modi’s comments came amid India’s bitter border row with China along the LAC in eastern Ladakh and rise in incidents of ceasefire violations along the LoC with Pakistan in the last few months. Responding to the question, Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Zhao said that “we have noted Prime Minister Modi’s speech.” “We are close neighbours, we are emerging countries with over one billion people. So, the sound development of bilateral ties not only serves the interest of the two peoples but also stability, peace, prosperity of the region and the whole world,” he said. “The right path for the two sides is to respect and support each other as this serves our long-term interests,” Zhao said. “So, China stands ready to work with India to enhance our political mutual trust, properly manage our differences, step-up practical cooperation and safeguard the long-term development of bilateral ties,” the spokesman added.  In his speech, Prime Minister Modi also said that “whether it is terrorism or expansionism, India is fighting both with determination.” Referring to the Galwan Valley clashes in eastern Ladakh in June, the prime minister said respect for India’s sovereignty is supreme and the world has seen in Ladakh what its brave jawans can do to maintain this resolve. “I salute all those brave soldiers from the Red Fort,” Modi said, adding the whole country is united in protecting the sovereignty of the country. Twenty Indian army personnel were killed during the clashes on June 15. The Chinese side also suffered casualties but it is yet to give out the details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ready-to-work-with-india-to-manage-our-differences-china/story-7Pb9Bgy9WFp4ZayPygE5LL.html
17-08-2020||World||Sharp rise in coronavirus cases in Lebanon after deadly port blast||Lebanon is facing a surge in coronavirus cases after a devastating blast at the Beirut port earlier this month killed scores and wounded thousands, prompting medical officials to urge Monday for a two-week lockdown to try to contain the pandemic.Virus numbers were expected to rise following the August 4, explosion of nearly 3,000 tons of ammonium nitrate stored at the port. Around 180 people were killed, more than 6,000 wounded and a quarter of a million left with homes unfit to live in. The blast overwhelmed the city’s hospitals and also badly damaged two that had a key role in handling virus cases.Ahead of the surge, medical officials had warned of the dangers of crowding at hospitals in the aftermath of the explosion, at funerals or as people searched through the rubble. Protests and demonstrations also broke out after the blast as Lebanese vented their anger at the ruling class and decades-long mismanagement.On Sunday, Lebanon registered 439 new virus cases and six fatalities. The new infections bring to 8,881 the total number of cases in the small country of just over 5 million, where Covid-19 has killed some 103 people.Separately, the UN agency for Palestinian refugees, UNRWA, said four Palestinians died of the virus over the weekend — doubling to eight the number of dead so far in Palestinian camps.Initially, strict measures had kept the numbers of cases under control in Lebanon but they surged after a lockdown and nighttime curfew were lifted and the country’s only international airport reopened in early July.Health Minister Hamad Hassan warned the true number could be far higher. Following a meeting Monday with medical officials who demanded another two-week lockdown, he urged everyone wear a mask, saying the virus has now spread in every city and almost every village in Lebanon.“It is a matter of life and death,” Hassan said, adding that soon private and public hospitals might not be able to take more patients.Lebanon’s health sector has been challenged by the pandemic that hit amid an unprecedented economic and financial crisis. The explosion in Beirut’s port only increased the pressure on the Lebanese capital’s hospitals, knocking out at least three of them.Dr Firas Abiad, director general of Rafik Hariri University Hospital which is leading the fight against coronavirus, described the situation as “extremely worrisome,” warning that without a lockdown, the numbers will continue to rise “overwhelming the hospital capacity.” Hassan urged every expatriate or foreigner returning to Lebanon not to leave their hotels until they are tested and cleared. People traveling to Lebanon will be required to be tested both before and upon arrival.He also called for field hospitals and said some public hospitals will exclusively handle virus patients.Petra Khoury, medical adviser to outgoing Prime Minister Hassan Diab tweeted that Covid-19 positive rate has increased from 2.1% to 5.6% in just four weeks.“The virus doesn’t differentiate between us. A rate 5% is real threat to all our nation,” she warned.Meanwhile, Iran, which has the region’s largest and deadliest outbreak of the coronavirus, reported 165 more deaths from Covid-19, bringing the overall death toll to 19,804.Health ministry’s spokeswoman Sima Sadat Lari said Iran has so far confirmed 345,450 cases of the virus. (AP) SCY SCY||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sharp-rise-in-coronavirus-cases-in-lebanon-after-deadly-port-blast/story-bjzkVpACO7gYJDYQvtKLgL.html
17-08-2020||World||Southeast Asia detects mutated coronavirus strain sweeping the world||Southeast Asia is facing a strain of the new coronavirus that the Philippines, which faces the region’s largest outbreak, is studying to see whether the mutation makes it more infectious.The strain, earlier seen in other parts of the world and called D614G, was found in a Malaysian cluster of 45 cases that started from someone who returned from India and breached his 14-day home quarantine. The Philippines detected the strain among random Covid-19 samples in the largest city of its capital region.The mutation “is said to have a higher possibility of transmission or infectiousness, but we still don’t have enough solid evidence to say that that will happen,” Philippines’ Health Undersecretary Maria Rosario Vergeire said in a virtual briefing on Monday.The strain has been found in many other countries and has become the predominant variant in Europe and the U.S., with the World Health Organization saying there’s no evidence the strain leads to a more severe disease. The mutation has also been detected in recent outbreaks in China.There’s no evidence from the epidemiology that the mutation is considerably more infectious than other strains, said Benjamin Cowling, head of epidemiology and biostatistics at the University of Hong Kong. “It’s more commonly identified now than it was in the past, which suggests that it might have some kind of competitive advantage over other strains of Covid-19,” he said.As Southeast Asian countries take various steps to prevent a resurgence while reopening limited travel, they struggle with people breaching quarantine rules after returning from overseas as well as false negative test results at borders.The man who returned from India had tested negative when he arrived in Malaysia. He has since been sentenced to five months in prison and fined for breaching quarantine.People’s Cooperation“People need to be wary and take greater precautions because this strain has now been found in Malaysia,” the country’s Director-General of Health Noor Hisham Abdullah wrote in a Facebook post, saying the strain can make it 10 times more infectious without citing a study. “The people’s cooperation is very needed so that we can together break the chain of infection from any mutation.”The strain “might be a little bit more contagious. We haven’t yet got enough evidence to evaluate that, but there’s no evidence that it’s a lot more contagious,” University of Hong Kong’s Cowling said.Noor Hisham warned that the strain could mean existing studies on vaccines may be incomplete or ineffective against the mutation. That’s even as a paper published in Cell Press said the mutation is unlikely to have a major impact on the efficacy of vaccines currently being developed.While Malaysia has largely managed to prevent a resurgence of the virus seen elsewhere in the world, the number of new cases found in the country has been picking up. The country reported 26 new cases on Saturday, the most since July 28.Confirmed cases in the Philippines have surged 76% from the end of July to a total of 164,474 as of Monday. It overtook Indonesia more than a week ago to become the country with the largest outbreak in Southeast Asia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/southeast-asia-detects-mutated-coronavirus-strain-sweeping-the-world/story-Bevk1WS7ffdmaqJSLMglpL.html
17-08-2020||World||Tehran says tankers seized by US were carrying Iranian fuel||Four tankers seized by the U.S. while en route to Venezuela were carrying cargoes of gasoline loaded in Iran, Iranian Oil Minister Bijan Namdar Zanganeh said.His acknowledgment is the first public statement by an Iranian official that the ships were transporting fuel from Iran when the U.S. confiscated them last week. The seizure was an unprecedented step by Washington and could destabilize global oil shipments if Iran retaliates.“The cargoes were loaded from Iran, but neither the ships nor the cargoes belonged to Iran, and the U.S. declared victory for itself in the middle of this,” Zanganeh said on Monday at a briefing in Tehran. “The fuel was Iranian, but it had been sold to Venezuela and its payment had been cleared.”Retaliatory action by Iran could disrupt energy markets if Tehran interferes with international oil tankers transiting the Strait of Hormuz, the world’s most critical choke point for oil shipments. However, the impact on oil prices may be less pronounced than what it once might have been given lower fuel consumption in the face of pandemic-driven lockdowns.Benchmark Brent crude gained 0.5% and was trading at $45.02 a barrel at 8:31 a.m. in London, down 32% this year.The tankers were transporting 1.1 million barrels of petroleum, the U.S. Justice Department said in a statement Friday. It’s not clear where the ships were at the time of the seizures because they had all turned off their satellite-tracking systems to avoid detection between May and July, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.Iran has been exporting gasoline to fuel-starved Venezuela in defiance of U.S. sanctions that are intended to choke off both nations from oil revenue. The Justice Department said the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps, which the U.S. designates as a foreign terrorist organization, was behind the shipment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tehran-says-tankers-seized-by-us-were-carrying-iranian-fuel/story-lY7UXUpgc8NMLdDqMzDioJ.html
17-08-2020||World||Millions of beetles are wiping out forests all across the world||A plague of tiny mountain pine beetles, no bigger than a grain of rice, has already destroyed 15 years of log supplies in British Columbia, enough trees to build 9 million single-family homes, and are chewing through forests in Alberta and the Pacific Northwest. Now, an outbreak of spruce beetles is threatening to devour even more trees in North America just as similar pests are decimating supplies in parts of Europe, creating a glut of dead and dying logs.The bugs are thriving as climate change warms winters that would normally keep them at bay, destroying a swath of the world’s timber supplies. That may eventually spur shortages for the global housing market. Right now, lumber prices are soaring to record highs thanks to a  surge in pent-up repair, renovation and housing demand sparked by the coronavirus pandemic.All told, the beetles felled 730 million cubic meters of pine between 2000 and 2015 in British Columbia, Canada’s largest exporter of timber to the U.S. housing market. That’s erased more than a decade of lumber supplies and and will reduce the allowable production in the B.C. Interior by a staggering 40%, said David Elstone, owner of Vancouver-based Spar Tree Group. Provincial modeling indicates about 55% of B.C.’s marketable pine trees will be dead by 2020.Squashing these bugs is no easy feat, according to Caroline Whitehouse, a forest health specialist for the province of Alberta. Helicopters scour areas of Alberta’s northern timberland looking for signs a pine tree’s green needles have turned a ghastly red. Whitehouse’s team on the ground then ferrets out pines oozing a creamy, reddish resin to confirm the beetles have bored into the bark and overwhelmed their host.Finally, infected trees are cut down with chainsaws before they are chopped into bits and burned with fuel to destroy any chance the larvae could spread.“You’ve got to utilize these dramatic, very effective techniques of cut and burn,” said Whitehouse, noting Alberta’s efforts have reduced the area that could have been impacted by the mountain pine beetle by 30%. Still, the pests have affected more than 2.2 million hectares (5.4 million acres) and the outbreak is unlikely to subside for another five or six years. “Certainly it’s a difficult thing. When you have an outbreak you have millions and millions and millions upon millions of beetles in the forest.”Decades ago, the mountain pine beetle was part of the forest’s normal cycle of death and regrowth. The pests would feast on mature trees, providing fuel for forest fires that would then spur new growth. But by 1950, humans became very good at putting out forest fires, leaving a ‘smorgasbord’ of older trees for the insects to attack, said Allan Carroll, professor of insect ecology and director of the Forest Sciences Program at the University of British Columbia.Temperatures have climbed in the province more quickly than across the world in general. The nighttime minimum average temperature in winter rose by 3.1 degrees Celsius (5.6 degrees Fahrenheit) between 1900 and 2013, according to provincial records. As winters warmed, more of the beetles were able to survive and extend their reach into areas that used to be too cold to live.The wily insects chew through the bark and convert the tree’s only defense mechanism—a toxic sticky, resin—into pheromones to alert thousands of their friends to join in on the mass attack, using it as a place to lay their eggs and eventually killing it.The only way to stop the rapid spread is to find and destroy infected trees. The epidemic, which took off in the early 2000s, spurred a massive salvage operation in B.C. as sawmills raced to process and export timber before the dying trees lost market value. Since 2005, about 40 sawmills have gone out of business following the collapse of the U.S. housing market and as timber shortages emerged from the fallout of the bugs. Further closures are expected to occur in the coming years, Elstone said.The beetles have spread to neighboring Alberta, where they have destroyed chunks of forest normally harvested for timber in addition to valuable caribou habitat. At the same time, the bug’s cousin, the spruce beetle, is threatening to take a bite out of B.C.’s spruce tree supplies.The situation is even worse in Europe, where several years of hot summers and dry winters has left drought-stressed trees ripe for the spread of bugs. About a dozen European countries have outbreaks of the spruce bark beetle, including significant infestations in Germany and the Czech Republic, said Russ Taylor, managing director of FEA Canada. The amount of lumber destroyed in the outbreak could surpass how much the mountain pine beetle killed in B.C. should existing climate conditions persist, according to an FEA report.“In the Czech Republic the beetle kill is bigger than their total harvest capacity,” Taylor said. “They’re fighting a losing battle.”It’s a vicious cycle. As a result of climate change, forests are more easily attacked and killed by beetles as older, more mature trees are the most affected by drought, Taylor said. The bugs in turn, impact the ability of forests to absorb carbon and emit oxygen, indirectly creating more climate change and carbon dioxide in the atmosphere.The situation has already upended normal trade flows. Central Europe is now one of the world’s lowest cost suppliers, sending a surge of cheap, damaged timber to China. Eventually, Europe will be in the same boat as B.C., tightening supplies just as U.S. housing starts recover and need more wood, Taylor said.To be sure, there is still an ample supply of lumber down in the southern U.S. and forest inventory could grow as parts of the world become more adept at using technology to plant and grow faster-maturing trees, said Mark Wilde, an analyst at BMO Capital Markets in New York. Right now, it can take as many as 80 years for a pine tree in B.C. to reach maturity.Canadian producers have already shifted their sights to the U.S. South, where they have bought mills and expanded their operations. Less than half of Canfor’s lumber capacity comes from Canada, down from 88% just seven years ago, according to a company spokeswoman.Meanwhile, scientists like Carroll say increased climate variability and warmer temperatures are going to boost the number of outbreaks of beetles and other insects in the decades to come. The bugs are able to thrive as forests become stressed and the markets often don’t accommodate what he calls the solid and beautiful truth: “ecology trumps all.”“I’m astonished how an animal the size of a grain of rice could alter the ecological landscape,” Carroll said. “That’s the craziness of this whole thing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/millions-of-beetles-are-wiping-out-forests-all-across-the-world/story-Z6LY6Wixjx5dyH61wxPUHK.html
17-08-2020||World||The first Arctic summer without ice is coming in just 15 years||There’s a standard image of the Earth as seen from space that we carry in our heads: vast blue seas, green bands of forests, and frozen white caps on the top and bottom. By the summer of 2035, it may not be accurate. Scientists estimate that in just 15 years Arctic summer sea-ice could disappear for the first time since primitive humans left Africa. “The point is, this is happening soon,” says Maria-Vittoria Guarino, an Earth system modeler at the British Antarctic Survey and lead author of a study published earlier this month in the journal Nature Climate Change. “We will have less and less time to get ready for it, or less time to act upon it if we want to do something about it.”The new research is the latest in a steady stream that has moved up the predicted timeframe for the ice-free Arctic milestone. The amount of sea-ice floating atop the Arctic Ocean at summer’s end has fallen about 13% per decade since 1979. The 13 years with the smallest ice extents on record have all happened over the previous 13 years—and this summer is a sure bet to be No. 14. The 2035 estimate made by Guarino and her colleagues is based on what’s known about past climates. Scientists over the years have assembled evidence about previous eras from chemical traces in ice, rocks, and sediment. The new Arctic study looks specifically at a period 130,000 years ago, called the Last Interglacial. That period was 4° Celsius hotter than than the pre-industrial era—a plausible preview of conditions humans are creating for the future. Current warming on average is already around 1°C, and the Arctic is warming more than twice as fast as the rest of the planet.Guarino’s research joins a debate about the pace of global heating that has drawn in climate scientists this year. Some newly updated models, like the one Guarino’s team used, now suggest that warming will occur much, much faster than previously thought. There remains disagreement among scientists over modeling results that show accelerated warming. But, as Guarino sees it, the fact that at least one of these models with hotter-than-expected results has successfully matched physical evidence from the Last Interglacial period makes it difficult to dismiss the findings. Earlier climate models struggled to match the geological evidence from the Last Interglacial.Estimates like these come with lots of uncertainty, which leaves open the possibility that ice may stick around longer, according to Zachary Labe, a postdoctoral researcher in Atmospheric Sciences at Colorado State University. “I’m also hesitant to focus on the year 2035 too much,” he says. “It’s challenging to predict the first ice-free Arctic.”Scientists from North Carolina State University and the US National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration earlier this year used a different model to arrive at a similar 2035 target for the ice-free Arctic summer. By “ice-free,” scientists usually mean an extent of less than 1 million square-kilometers. The lowest it has reached is 3.4 million km² in 2012.Ge Peng, research scholar on the North Carolina State University team, also noted that unexpected events could alter the timeline. The eruption of a large volcano, which spews chemicals into the atmosphere that block sunlight and lower temperatures, could push the estimates out a few years. Whichever summer is the first to lose its sea ice, Peng and her colleagues warn that businesses, governments, and people living in the Arctic need to prepare now for changes in regional geopolitics, transportation, and food availability.Once the pandemic has lifted, Peng hopes to travel to the still-frozen Arctic and find it the way we imagine it with our eyes closed. “I want to do that soon,” she says, “because I don’t want the sea ice to be gone by the time I take the cruise.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/the-first-arctic-summer-without-ice-is-coming-in-just-15-years/story-nTS5z2VJR9AgDvaUdoZ7AN.html
17-08-2020||World||Malaysia detects coronavirus strain that’s ten times more infectious||Malaysia has detected a strain of the new coronavirus that’s been found to be 10 times more infectious.The mutation called D614G was found in at least three of the 45 cases in a cluster that started from a restaurant owner returning from India and breaching his 14-day home quarantine. The man has since been sentenced to five months in prison and fined. The strain was also found in another cluster involving people returning from the Philippines.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe strain could mean that existing studies on vaccines may be incomplete or ineffective against the mutation, said Director-General of Health Noor Hisham Abdullah.“People need to be wary and take greater precautions because this strain has now been found in Malaysia,” he wrote in a Facebook post on Sunday. “The people’s cooperation is very needed so that we can together break the chain of infection from any mutation.”While Malaysia has largely managed to prevent a resurgence of the virus seen elsewhere in the world, the number of new cases found in the country has been picking up. The country confirmed 26 new cases on Saturday, the most since July 28, and added 25 cases on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/malaysia-detects-coronavirus-strain-that-s-ten-times-more-infectious/story-b1WAvfgMBrEDqY4rO6LL8M.html
17-08-2020||World||A fifth billionaire emerges from Malaysia’s glove-making industry. But the boom may fade||Malaysia has long been a place where vast fortunes have been amassed over time. The Kuoks, Tehs and Queks are custodians of palm oil, property and banking empires that stretch back decades.That was until Covid-19, when the country’s low-key rubber industry -- or more precisely, glove making -- became one of the hottest on the planet.Wong Teek Son, who co-founded Riverstone Holdings Ltd. in the 1980s after working as a research chemist, last month became the fifth billionaire in the country from manufacturing gloves. He’s now worth $1.2 billion as shares of his company rallied almost sixfold from a low in March, thanks to growing demand for protective products during the coronavirus pandemic.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageA Riverstone spokesman declined to comment on Wong’s net worth.The speed and strength of the gloves boom has been extraordinary, but there are signs the rapid rise could reverse, especially as research for a Covid-19 treatment and vaccine progress.Glove companies were hammered last week when Russia’s president said his nation had cleared the world’s first Covid-19 vaccine for use, while Moderna Inc. and Johnson & Johnson are among those reaching deals with governments to supply their shots. Riverstone slumped 13% in its worst week since March and slipped another 2.2% by 9:25 a.m. in Singapore on Monday.Even though a vaccine may not result in lower demand for gloves, investors may sell their shares in anticipation that it’ll reduce the number of cases, RHB Research Institute analyst Alan Lim noted in an Aug. 13 report.Malaysia KingWhen it comes to gloves making, Malaysia is king: It produces about 65% of the world’s supply for rubber gloves, and the Plantation Industries and Commodities Ministry estimates exports will climb 45% this year.Riverstone peers Top Glove Corp. and Hartalega Holdings Bhd. are now among the five most-valuable companies on Malaysia’s equity benchmark index. Their shares have jumped more than 192% this year, lifting the net worth of their billionaire founders, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index.Fortunes in the country are booming even as the economy contracted by the most since the Asian financial crisis. That’s exacerbating already wide inequality. Knight Frank estimates wealth creation is the 10th fastest in the world -- while the mean income was 7,901 ringgit ($1,882) last year. The firm’s 2020 wealth report projected that the number of Malaysians with more than $30 million will swell by 35% between 2019 and 2024, compared with 2% between 2018 and 2019.The glove industry’s rise to global dominance has created a huge need for foreign workers, leading to controversy over their treatment. The U.S. last month barred imports of the products from two Top Glove units due to “reasonable evidence of forced labor.”The world’s largest glove producer said last week that while it’s continuing discussions with the U.S., demand is picking up in many other countries where the outbreak is resurfacing.Singapore listingUnlike its rivals, when Riverstone decided to go public in 2006, it picked neighboring Singapore. That’s because Malaysia had stricter currency controls and the funds raised in the city-state were more easily transferable to China and Thailand, where the company was expanding, according to its spokesman.Riverstone has an annual production capacity of about 9 billion gloves, according to its latest annual report. Its profit more than doubled to 137.5 million ringgit in the first half of the year.Wong co-founded the maker of nitrile gloves in 1989 after working as a research and development chemist in a company that supplied cleanroom products. He hadn’t planned to venture into building his own business.“The opportunity presented itself only because the company I worked for shut down, and we were able to use their production lines,” he said in an interview with the Singapore Exchange in 2016. With the competition being strife, many peers in Malaysia had to close down. “We realized we needed to provide a service to our customers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/a-fifth-billionaire-emerges-from-malaysia-s-glove-making-industry-but-the-boom-may-dade/story-5MCGczetQ0Nl5C2WkDas4J.html
17-08-2020||World||Over $700K raised for slain boy’s funeral in North Carolina||More than $700,000 has been raised for the funeral service expenses of a slain 5-year-old boy in North Carolina whose death has captured national attention.The donations poured into a GoFundMe page organized by Gwen Hinnant, who identifies herself on the website as Cannon Hinnant’s grandmother.“This family has faced unimaginable pain because of this senseless act of violence,” the post read, “We offer our sincerest appreciation in this extremely difficult time, #justice for Cannon.”Cannon’s funeral service was held Thursday, days after the 5-year-old was fatally shot in the family’s driveway as he rode his bike, news outlets reported. A neighbor, 25-year-old Darius Nathaniel Sessoms, has been charged with first-degree murder in his death.A day before the funeral, police in North Carolina warned about false information circulating on social media about the case, including posts that resembled news releases from investigators.“These are fraudulent posts,” the Wilson Police Department said in a statement while encouraging people to report the fake Facebook posts to the social media company. The department repeated the ask on its Facebook page Saturday and told people to avoid sharing the posts.Some have taken to social media to claim that race was a factor in Cannon’s death. Cannon was white and Sessoms is Black. Cannon’s father, Austin Hinnant, said he had been disturbed by these posts.“This is no racial issue,” Austin Hinnant told The Wilson Times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/over-700k-raised-for-slain-boy-s-funeral-in-north-carolina/story-DSwgDcGRHnhXpGF6cCJeTJ.html
17-08-2020||World||Britain encourages at-risk groups to sign up for Covid-19 vaccine trials||Britain on Monday urged elderly people and volunteers from Black and Asian minority groups to sign up to a Covid-19 vaccine trial registry to boost efforts to find a working vaccine against the disease that offers protection against higher risk groups.No Covid-19 vaccine candidate has yet been proven effective against the disease, but around 20 are in clinical trials.Over 100,000 people have volunteered to take part in vaccine trials, Britain’s business ministry said, but more volunteers are needed to make sure candidate shots work for everyone.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know today“Protecting those at risk is the only way we will end this pandemic,” said Kate Bingham, chair of the UK Vaccines Taskforce.“Getting 100,000 volunteers on board is a great start but we need many more people from many different backgrounds that we can call on for future studies if we are to find a vaccine quickly to protect those who need it.”Click here for complete coronavirus coverage The government said it was particularly keen for over 65s, frontline health and care workers and people from Black, Asian and minority ethnic backgrounds to sign up.A study last week showed that minority ethnic groups were two to three times more likely to have had Covid-19 compared to white people in England. Disproportionate numbers of people from minority groups have also died from the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/britain-encourages-at-risk-groups-to-sign-up-for-covid-19-vaccine-trials/story-Lp6blu34OrMPj6pPSyyvRJ.html
17-08-2020||World||Protesters chanting ‘step down!’ pack Belarus capital, Russia says military help available||Belarusians chanting “Step down!” filled the centre of the capital Minsk on Sunday in the biggest protest so far against what they said was the fraudulent re-election a week ago of longtime president Alexander Lukashenko.Russia said it would offer Lukashenko military help if necessary, but there was no visible police presence at the protest, which attracted around 200,000 people, a Reuters reporter estimated. At least two protesters have died and thousands have been detained in a crackdown since the vote.The atmosphere at the rallies, which wrapped up late into the evening, was celebratory on the whole, with people carrying the red and white flags used in Belarus after the 1991 breakup of the Soviet Union before Lukashenko restored the Soviet version four years later.“We all want Lukashenko to step down,” said a 31-year-old worker who gave his name as Alexei. “For now we are asking, but we will get sick of asking.”Opponents of Lukashenko, in power for 26 years, say the vote was rigged to disguise the fact that he has lost public support. He denies losing, citing official results that gave him just over 80% of the vote.The Kremlin said Russian President Vladimir Putin had told Lukashenko Moscow was ready to assist Belarus in accordance with a collective military pact if necessary and that external pressure was being applied to the country. It did not say where from.Russia is watching closely as Belarus hosts pipelines that carry Russian energy exports to the West and is viewed by Moscow as a buffer zone against NATO. Lukashenko and Putin have spoken twice this weekend.Shortly before the opposition protest, there was tight security as Lukashenko’s supporters gathered in central Minsk for the first time since the election to watch him give a fiery speech.Lukashenko, who has alleged a foreign-backed plot to topple him, said NATO tanks and planes had been deployed 15 minutes from the Belarusian border. NATO said it was closely monitoring the situation in Belarus, but that there was no military build-up at the country’s western border.“NATO troops are at our gates. Lithuania, Latvia, Poland and our native Ukraine are ordering us to hold new elections,” Lukashenko said, adding that Belarus would “die as a state” if new polls were held. “I have never betrayed you and will never do so.”The Belarusian army will hold drills in the west of the country from Aug. 17-20, Russia’s RIA news agency reported.‘JOIN US’Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya, Lukashenko’s opposition rival in the contested election, fled to neighbouring Lithuania on Tuesday. She had called for the “March of Freedom” through Minsk and in other towns and cities on Sunday in support of an election recount and is forming a national council to facilitate a power transfer.Maria Kolesnikova, an opposition politician who has allied with Tsikhanouskaya, referred to Lukashenko as “the former president”, said he should quit, and appealed to state officials to abandon him.“This is your final chance to overcome your fear,” she said. “We were all scared too. Join us and we will support you.” Thousands of people took part in anti-Lukashenko protests in other towns and cities. Crowds also gathered in Prague and Warsaw.The Belarus Interior Ministry said there were no arrests at the rallies, although local media reported a few people had been detained.State employees, including some police officers and state TV staff, have come out in support of the protests and some of the country’s biggest state-run plants, the backbone of Lukashenko’s Soviet-style economic model, have been hit by protests and walkouts.Around 5,000 people attended an earlier pro-Lukashenko protest, a Reuters reporter estimated. The Belarusian Interior Ministry put the number at 65,000. ‘MOTHERLAND IN DANGER’“The motherland is in danger!” one speaker told the crowd, who chanted: “We are united, indivisible!”“I’m for Lukashenko,” said Alla Georgievna, 68. “I don’t understand why everyone has risen up against him. We get our pensions and salaries on time thanks to him.” The first leader of independent Belarus who helped oversee the Soviet breakup told Reuters Lukashenko, a one-time manager of a Soviet-era collective farm, had been badly shaken but could still hang onto power with Kremlin backing.Stanislav Shushkevich, 85, an old opponent of Lukashenko, dismissed the idea of Russia sending in troops to prop Lukashenko up, saying he had a large, obedient army and well paid loyalists around him.The Czech prime minister urged his EU counterparts to help, recalling the crushing of Czech protests by a military invasion led by Moscow in 1968 as well as the peaceful overthrow of communism in 1989.“Belarus must not experience what we had in 1968,” Andrej Babis tweeted. “(The) EU must be active, support Belarusians (and) not to be afraid to stage a similar velvet revolution model (as in) 1989.”The EU is gearing up to impose new sanctions on Belarus in response to the crackdown. (Reporting by Andrei Makhovsky in Minsk; additional reporting by Vladimir Soldatkin and Anastasia Teterevleva in Moscow and Robert Muller in Prague; Writing by Andrew Osborn; Editing by Frances Kerry, Philippa Fletcher and Alison Williams)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/protesters-chanting-step-down-pack-belarus-capital-russia-says-military-help-available/story-P70CUWLwbB5i9WcEQJGFjP.html
17-08-2020||World||Biden, Harris offer condolence to President Trump after his brother’s death||Democratic Party’s presidential candidate Joe Biden and his running mate Kamala Harris offered condolences on Sunday to Donald Trump after the President’s younger brother died.Robert Trump, 71, died Saturday at a New York hospital, Donald Trump announced in a statement.Former vice president Biden and his wife, Indian-American Senator Harris and her husband condoled the death of the US president’s brother in separate statements.“Mr. President, Jill and I are sad to learn of your younger brother Robert’s passing,” Biden said on Twitter.”I know the tremendous pain of losing a loved one — and I know how important family is in moments like these. I hope you know that our prayers are with you all,” he said.“Doug and I join the Biden family in sending our deepest condolences and prayers to the entire Trump family during this difficult time,” Harris tweeted.”Losing a loved one is never easy but know that we are thinking of you,” she wrote.Biden and Harris will challenge Trump and Mike Pence from the Republican Party in the November 3 US presidenial election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-harris-offer-condolence-to-president-trump-after-his-brother-s-death/story-lZZRuzTB8nP6PfA3gkEw1O.html
17-08-2020||World||11 killed in Somalia hotel attack claimed by Al-Shabaab||Ten civilians and one police officer were killed in a gun and bomb attack by Al-Shabaab fighters on an upscale beachfront hotel in Somalia’s capital on Sunday, an official told AFP.Security forces took four hours to regain control of the Elite Hotel in the Lido beach area of Mogadishu after five assailants stormed it early Sunday evening, said information ministry spokesman Ismael Mukhtaar Omar.“Ten people were dead and five militants were also killed, plus one Somalia special police officer,” Omar told AFP. It was not clear how Somali security forces managed to end the siege on the hotel and kill the assailants, who at one point were said to have taken hostages. Earlier on Sunday, while the siege was still ongoing, a security source told AFP on condition of anonymity that one of the assailants had died in the car bomb explosion that kicked off the attack and two others had died in a shootout.Ambulance workers at the scene reported that at least 28 people were wounded. There is chaosWitnesses said the attack began with a heavy explosion and people ran from the area as gunfire could be heard from the hotel, which is frequented by government officials. “The blast was very heavy and I could see smoke in the area. There is chaos and people are fleeing from nearby buildings,” said witness Ali Sayid Adan. The dead included government official Abdirasak Abdi, who worked at the information ministry, his colleague Hussein Ali said. Al-Shabaab said they carried out the attack, according to a statement translated by the SITE Intelligence Group. The statement claimed its fighters “took control over the hotel” in the “martyrdom-seeking operation”.Hotels targeted Somalia plunged into chaos after the 1991 overthrow of then-President Siad Barre’s military regime, leading to years of clan warfare followed by the rise of Al-Shabaab which once controlled large parts of the country and Mogadishu. Al-Shabaab was driven out of the capital in 2011, but its militants continue to wage war against the government, carrying out regular attacks. Last week four Shabaab fighters held in Mogadishu’s central prison were killed in an intense shootout with security forces after they somehow managed to get their hands on weapons within the facility. The group has targeted hotels multiple times over the years, including in February 2019 when it killed at least 20 people in a car bomb and gun attack on a hotel in Mogadishu that lasted for nearly 24 hours. A month before that, Al-Shabaab killed 21 people in a siege on an upscale hotel in the Kenyan capital Nairobi, an assault that highlighted its ability to expand its network beyond Somalia’s borders. Its last major attack in Mogadishu was in December 2019, when it slaughtered 81 people by detonating a vehicle packed with explosives. It is difficult to say whether the relative lull this year reflected improved capacity on the part of Somali security forces or a change in strategy by Al-Shabaab, said Omar Mahmood, Somalia senior analyst for International Crisis Group. For the past year Somali forces have been engaged in an offensive in the nearby Lower Shabelle region designed to stymie efforts by Al-Shabaab to move weapons into the capital, Mahmood noted. But there has been “an uptick in activity” in Mogadishu since late June including suicide attacks targeting government and military facilities, he said. The claim of responsibility distributed Sunday stressed that the Elite Hotel “is inhabited by a large number of government officials”. “This is kind of getting back to the attacks they used to do,” Mahmood said. “Al-Shabaab sees these hotels as an extension of the government more or less, so they are targeted in that way.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/11-killed-in-somali-hotel-attack-claimed-by-al-shabaab/story-52T6VkhxS9HsXfCsl55VkK.html
17-08-2020||World||Nancy Pelosi calls House back to address postal service crisis||Members of the House will return to Washington this week, earlier than scheduled, to work on urgent legislation aimed at shoring up the US Postal Service ahead of November’s elections.Speaker Nancy Pelosi announced the move in a “Dear Colleague” letter on Sunday evening. Ahead of lawmakers’ return, Pelosi called on Democrats to appear at post offices in their districts on Tuesday in a show of support.“In a time of a pandemic, the Postal Service is Election Central. Americans should not have to choose between their health and their vote,” Pelosi said. Trump’s appointee to run the Postal Service has enacted “sweeping new operational changes that degrade postal service,” she said.Also read: Postal service warns states of delays to mail-in ballots for US election 2020Alarm bells went off in recent days after the Postal Service warned 46 states last week that it may not be able to deliver their ballots on time for the November election. President Donald Trump has said repeatedly, without evidence, that voting by mail is subject to widespread fraud.A vote on the measure described by Pelosi, the “Delivering forAmerica Act,” is likely to take place on Saturday, said a senior Democratic aide. The bill “prohibits the Postal Service from implementing any changes to operations or level of service it had in place on January 1, 2020,” Pelosi said in the letter.The move cames amid a nationwide uproar over funding cuts and operational changes to the Postal Service that Democrats say threaten to impede voting in November’s election and also slowing down critical mail services across the country.Pelosi, in her letter, said that “1.2 billion prescriptions weredelivered through the Postal Services, including almost 100% from the VA to veterans.” Many seniors also get their medication through the mail.Attorneys generalDemocrats are also pressing for the Senate to return early from a recess scheduled to last into September, while state officials -- who actually run the elections -- are looking to take action of their own.The Washington Post reported Sunday that attorneys general from at least six states are discussing potential lawsuits against the administration over cuts to mail service, which have become front page news around the country.Also read: Trump proposes to hold G-7 summit post US presidential electionsRepresentative Carolyn Maloney, chair of the House Oversight and Reform Committee, earlier invited Postmaster General Louis DeJoy to testify at an “urgent” hearing on Aug. 24 about the changes he’s made to postal services, months before what’s expected to be a surge in voting by mail.DeJoy, a controversial Trump appointee and large Republican donor who’s run the Postal Service since May, also faces an Aug. 21 deadline to produce a variety of documents and information relating to reforms he’s ordered.“Over the past several weeks, there have been startling new revelations about the scope and gravity of operational changes you are implementing at hundreds of postal facilities without consulting adequately with Congress, the Postal Regulatory Commission, or the Board of Governors,” Maloney wrote to DeJoy.Coronavirus anxietyThe number of Americans voting by mail is expected to jump this year because the coronavirus pandemic is still raging in many states.Recent media reports have pointed to the removal of mail sorting machines in various cities, as well as taking mailboxes off the streets. Post office operating hours have been reduced and overtime work cut. The agency’s inspector general is investigating those moves.CNN reported Thursday that postal management had taken out four sorting machines in Kansas City, two in Springfield, Missouri, and one in Wichita, Kansas, according to union officials in the region.Postal Service Warns Most States of Mail-In Ballot DelaysFormer President Barack Obama said Friday that Trump was “actively kneecap the Postal Service” to suppress the vote. Jeh Johnson, Obama’s Homeland Security secretary, said Sunday on NBC’s “Meet the Press” that given the pandemic and the confusion over mail-in ballots, “the message to the American public has to be, ‘Plan your vote.’”“Think early about how you’re going to vote. As soon as you get a ballot, return it in the mail,” Johnson said.Also on “Meet the Press,” Senator Bernie Sanders said Congress must “absolutely” return to Washington to deal with the Postal Service situation. Trump’s move to undermine mail deliveries is part of a broader goal of voter suppression, he said.The Senate isn’t scheduled to return until September. Senate Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer said at a press briefing in New York that Majority Leader Mitch McConnell must return the chamber to regular sessions. Schumer also said he plans legislation to reverse some of the recent Postal Service changes, including cutbacks to a ban on overtime.Senator Gary Peters of Michigan, the top Democrat on the Homeland Security panel, called for a hearing on Aug. 21 or as soon as possible.“The president has explicitly stated his intention to manipulate the Postal Service to deny eligible voters access to the ballot in pursuit of his own re-election,” Peters and other top Democrats said in a statement on Sunday.White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows termed it “NONSENSE” that Trump is attempting to undercut the Postal Service.“I oversaw USPS in Congress on the Oversight Committee. It was a mismanaged wreck during the Obama administration—they’ve lost billions for a decade had issues long before this President,” Meadows said Sunday on Twitter.Earlier, on CNN’s “State of the Union,” Meadows said no more mail sorting machines would be disabled before Election Day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nancy-pelosi-calls-house-back-to-address-postal-service-crisis/story-VjO5JWUYQ8L9O5ylknPJVL.html
17-08-2020||World||Coronavirus death toll in US hits 170,000 ahead of fall flu season||The United States surpassed 170,000 coronavirus deaths on Sunday, according to a Reuters tally, as health officials express concerns over Covid-19 complicating the fall flu season. Deaths rose by 483 on Sunday, with Florida, Texas and Louisiana, leading the rise in fatalities.The United States has at least 5.4 million confirmed cases in total of the novel coronavirus, the highest in the world and likely an undercount as the country still has not ramped up testing to the recommended levels. Cases are falling in most states except for Hawaii, South Dakota and Illinois.Click here for full Covid-19 coveragePublic health officials and authorities are concerned about a possible fall resurgence in cases amid the start of the flu season, which will likely exacerbate efforts to treat the coronavirus.Centers for Disease Control Director Robert Redfield warned the United States may be in for its “worst fall” if the public does not follow health guidelines in an interview with Web MD. Months into the pandemic, the US economic recovery from the recession triggered by the outbreak is still staggered, with some hot spots slowing their reopenings and others shutting down businesses.The Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation is anticipating an uptick in Covid-19 cases in the coming months, resulting in around 300,000 total deaths by December, and a nearly 75% increase in hospitalizations. Worldwide there are at least 21.5 million coronavirus cases and over 765,000 confirmed deaths. The United States remains the global epicenter of the virus, with around a quarter of the cases and deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-death-toll-in-us-hits-170-000-ahead-of-fall-flu-season/story-BD5A1HF7ujxjHX6dYqPcfJ.html
17-08-2020||World||Fully online Democratic National Convention today||US Democrats are kicking off an unprecedented political experiment on Monday, an all-virtual national convention that nominates Joe Biden as their White House candidate to battle Donald Trump in the heat of a deadly pandemic.With his vice presidential pick Kamala Harris, the first woman of colour on a major US presidential ticket, Biden is campaigning to unify a nation ravaged by political and racial turmoil, voter suppression concerns and profound anxiety over the devastating coronavirus crisis.The running mates will deliver their message under unique circumstances: a four-day Democratic National Convention conducted entirely online.Wednesday evening will spotlight Harris, a 55-year-old US senator who is the daughter of Indian and Jamaican immigrants. Biden has promoted her story as the American Dream. The four-day affair culminates on Thursday night with Biden being nominated by state delegates casting their votes online.Trump’s re-election campaign will sink up to $10 million into a digital ad campaign during the Democratic convention. It will include the campaign taking over the banner of YouTube for 96 hours starting on Tuesday.Newsweek magazine has apologised for an op-ed that questioned Harris’ US citizenship and her eligibility to be Biden’s running mate, a false and racist conspiracy theory which Trump has not dismissed.“This op-ed is being used by some as a tool to perpetuate racism and xenophobia. We apologise,” read Newsweek’s editor’s note on Friday.“We entirely failed to anticipate the ways in which the essay would be interpreted, distorted and weaponised,” read the apology, signed by Josh Hammer, opinion editor, and Nancy Cooper, global editor in chief. But they ended the note by saying that the op-ed would remain on the site, with their note attached.The op-ed was written by John Eastman, a conservative attorney who argues that the US Constitution doesn’t grant birthright citizenship.Meanwhile, President Trump said he may ask for the resignation of every member of his cabinet if he’s re-elected.“I wouldn’t say I’m thrilled with everybody, frankly,” he said, when asked about the prospect.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/fully-online-democratic-national-convention-today/story-Fc70oacwM3xazS9WFZi0nK.html
17-08-2020||World||Pakistan foreign minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi likely to lose post||Islamabad is abuzz with rumours that Pakistan foreign minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi may be replaced with the human rights minister Shireen Mazari as the government tries to mend damaged relations with Saudi Arabia over the former’s remarks.Qureshi had accused the Organisation of Islamic Conference of dilly-dallying on the Kashmir issue in remarks that were seen by Riyadh as an attack on its leadership of the organisation.“I am once again respectfully telling OIC that a meeting of the Council of Foreign Ministers is our expectation. If you cannot convene it, then I’ll be compelled to ask Prime Minister Imran Khan to call a meeting of the Islamic countries that are ready to stand with us on the issue of Kashmir and support the oppressed Kashmiris,” Qureshi had said on a local news channel.On Sunday, Pakistani army chief Gen Qamar Bajwa, accompanied by the head of the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) Lt Gen Faiz left for Riyadh to meet with the Saudi leadership in an attempt to mend damaged ties.Human rights minister Shireen Mazari publicly criticised the country’s foreign affairs ministry, saying it had let down both the Kashmiris and prime minister Khan.Her statement is being seen as a first step to replace Qureshi in a bid to pacify the Saudis.The statement by Mazari suggests that the Imran Khan government is publicly distancing itself from the actions and statements of foreign minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi.Earlier on Saturday, Sheikh Rasheed, a senior member of the Imran Khan cabinet, claimed in a televised statement that relations with Saudi Arabia were already on the mend and that the army chief would be visiting the Kingdom on Sunday to iron out outstanding minor differences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-foreign-minister-shah-mehmood-qureshi-likely-to-lose-post/story-tGIzn2GCOEdBL0v492etAK.html
17-08-2020||World||New Zealand to delay election by four weeks amid Covid-19 surge: PM||New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern on Monday announced a delay in the general election by four weeks amid a surge in coronavirus cases.The election was scheduled to take place on September 19.Ardern, who is seeking re-election, has announced that now election would be held on October 17.Announcing the decision, Ardern said the re-emergence of Covid-19 in the community was a cause for concern during the election period.While the Electoral Commission said voting could safely happen under alert level 2, Ardern said she also had to factor in participation of voters, fairness and certainty.New Zealand’s government on Friday extended a lockdown of its largest city Auckland for another 12 days which is witnessing the rise in coronavirus cases. On Sunday, 12 new cases were reported in the community, taking the caseload of active infection cases to 49.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-zealand-to-delay-election-by-four-weeks-amid-covid-19-surge-pm/story-nx5ugjj3kCtNvz5enCSzcO.html
17-08-2020||World||Russia’s new Sputnik launch raises risks in dash for Covid-19 vaccine||Russia’s decision to approve a coronavirus shot before crucial tests have shown it’s safe and effective raises worries that politics will trump public health in the quest for a vaccine.The country’s plan to start mass inoculations as soon as October could put pressure on other governments to rush ahead of regulators and skip key steps, putting people who get the jabs at risk. Any major setback in Russia could damage confidence in vaccines.The stakes are high in the bid to end a crisis that’s killed more than 750,000 people worldwide. The Trump administration is pushing ahead with Operation Warp Speed, an unprecedented U.S. effort to accelerate Covid vaccine development and manufacturing, and a massive mobilization is underway in China to get immunizations across the line. President Vladimir Putin’s Aug. 11 announcement on Russia’s shot adds a new twist.Any move to roll out the vaccine based on limited evidence that it works could have harmful consequences, said Paul Offit, director of the Vaccine Education Center and an infectious disease specialist at Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia.“That could cause other leaders to say: ‘Look, they’re doing it, and that’s good enough. And if that’s good enough for them, we don’t want to lose out. We want to protect our populations too,’” he said.Also Watch l Russia approves Covid-19 vaccine ‘Sputnik V’: Why’s the world sceptical? History offers lessons on the importance of a rigorous approach to vaccine development, insulated from politics. Misperceptions about the safety of well established immunizations are already widespread; actual stumbles that have occurred in the field -- although rare -- only add to fears, and show how a botched Covid shot could further distort and inflame public opinion.Accelerated PlansRussian officials have dismissed concerns about safety and the pace at which the country is moving. Western jealousy, they say, is fueling criticism of the vaccine, dubbed Sputnik V in a nod to the Soviet Union’s launch of the world’s first satellite sent into space in 1957. Putin said one of his daughters has already been given the shot.Authorities said they plan to start inoculating medical workers and other risk groups by the end of the month, introducing it to volunteers who will be closely monitored, and they add that other countries are moving swiftly too. Russia last month began clinical trials for a second vaccine, developed by the Vector laboratory in Novosibirsk.Meanwhile, developers including Britain’s AstraZeneca Plc -- the University of Oxford’s partner -- and U.S. biotech company Moderna Inc. are still in final-stage trials involving tens of thousands of people. Although President Donald Trump has said a vaccine may be ready by election day on Nov. 3, Anthony Fauci, the country’s top infectious disease expert, said it may take until well into 2021 for shots to reach much of the public.Politicians aren’t just seeking a vaccine to escape the pandemic. Some could use Covid-19 shots to try to burnish their leadership credentials and bury criticism of past performance.For Prime Minister Boris Johnson, it’s a chance to show that a Brexit-unchained U.K. can independently develop vaccines faster than the European Union. A Chinese vaccine might help Xi Jinping erase the memory of the virus’s origin. Trump needs a surprise to turn the polls as the U.S. leads the world in deaths. And Putin has an opportunity to beat the West and gain a strategic advantage. His performance ratings have slumped as Russia’s Covid case tally has risen to the fourth-highest globally.“He needs a big win,” said Stephen Morrison, director of the Center for Strategic and International Studies’ Global Health Policy Center. “His economy is flat on its back with Covid and the collapse on the oil markets.”China’s ShotFor those reasons, Putin may not be swayed by concerns about any potential adverse impact from the vaccine. China has already begun using its shot in the military, and those people are unlikely to be able to give informed, voluntary consent, according to Lawrence Gostin, a Georgetown University professor of global health law.That may embolden other political leaders to take similar steps to bypass regulators like the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. Trump is already in some ways behind in a race where the U.S.’s two major geopolitical rivals have used their authoritarian might to sprint ahead. FDA officials have emphasized that they will clear a Covid vaccine only after careful analysis, basing decisions on “good science and data.”“I think Trump will try to influence the FDA and it will bend but won’t break,” Gostin said. “I have confidence in the FDA, but I’m very worried. I have no doubt that we could go the path of China or Russia if we didn’t have strong institutional guardrails.”Even if he sought to move unilaterally on vaccine authorization, Trump may have boxed himself in with Warp Speed, Morrison said. The government has committed billions of dollars to companies to develop vaccines, and they’re unlikely to cooperate with a plan to distribute unproven products without testing that shows their safety, he said.“It’s going to be much more difficult for Trump to pull off a stunt like this than Putin,” Morrison said.Production DealsThe Russian candidate is being developed by Moscow’s Gamaleya Institute, the Defense Ministry and the sovereign Russian Direct Investment Fund, who say the vaccine is now undergoing the last phase of trials. The plan is to conduct those studies in countries including Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. The World Health Organization lists the project as still in the earliest stage.Mass production is lined up in a number of nations, with at least 20 interested in obtaining supplies, the fund said. Russia’s vaccine could help the global economy recover, according to Kirill Dmitriev, its chief executive officer.“The countries which quickly gain access to a safe vaccine will make it through the crisis successfully, fearlessly, and with minimal losses,” he said.Still, a lack of data and a widening gap between science and politics have set off alarm bells. As the virus spreads, there’s a risk countries reliant on bigger economies for supplies could end up accepting a product that hasn’t proved itself, said Offit, the University of Pennsylvania expert. Another concern is the impact to the global effort to fight a range of diseases if a fast-moving Russian vaccine runs into problems.Skeptics would inevitably point to that and other cases from the past.In 2016, the Philippines started a major drive to vaccinate children against dengue. But it was suspended after the shot, Dengvaxia, was linked to an increased risk of severe disease in some who hadn’t previously been exposed to the mosquito-borne virus.Swine FluAfter a 1976 outbreak of swine flu in the U.S. stoked fears of a global crisis, then-President Gerald Ford announced a plan to vaccinate everyone in the country. Soon more than 40 million Americans had received shots. But it never turned into a pandemic, and some of those who had been vaccinated developed Guillain-Barre syndrome, which can cause temporary paralysis.Any missteps with a Covid inoculation developed too quickly could impact trust in a safer product that comes later, according to Heidi Larson, director of the Vaccine Confidence Project and a professor at the London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine.“We have one chance to make a first impression,” she said. “If Russia’s short-cuts in the rush for a vaccine lead to an unnecessary adverse event, it may erode already fragile confidence.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-s-new-sputnik-launch-raises-risks-in-dash-for-covid-19-vaccine/story-MjYTfh9fwqa2ML44pmhsTJ.html
17-08-2020||World||Amazon probed by German antitrust body over prices: Report||Germany’s antitrust regulator is looking into whether Amazon.com Inc. is abusing its online market dominance to exert pricing pressure on sellers, Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung reported, citing the body’s president.The Federal Cartel Office is “investigating whether and how Amazon influences retailers’ pricing” on its marketplace, Andreas Mundt told FAZ in an interview.His office was reacting to complaints that the US tech giant blocked individual sellers because they allegedly charged excessive prices during the first months of the coronavirus crisis. Mundt said the regulator is evaluating Amazon’s response to its questions.While vendors set their own product prices, Amazon has policies in place to “help ensure selling partners are pricing their products competitively,” the company said Sunday in an emailed statement. “Our systems are designed to take action against price gouging.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/amazon-probed-by-german-antitrust-body-over-prices-report/story-XBtkV9nWWpGml3L0ToJ90O.html
