23-08-2020||World||Indian origin man gets life term for killing mother, step-father||Anmol Chana, who stabbed to death his mother and step-father earlier this year, has been sentenced to life in prison at the Birmingham Crown Court , with a minimum of 36 years in prison, before he can be considered for release.Chana, 26, killed Jasbir Kaur, 52, and her husband, Rupinder Singh Bassan, 51, on February 25 in their home in Oldbury in the West Midlands. The police said his motive was not clear but he was known to be fanatical about knives and his desire to kill his mother.After killing the two, Chana stole money from the house and bought a ticket to flee the country, but was nabbed by the police. A search of his home in Smethwick led to the keys to Bassan’s car that he had taken, his passport with travel details and a combat style knife, and a sheath covered in blood.He was found guilty of the murders following a nine-day trial at the Birmingham Crown Court, where Judge Mark Wall said Chana showed a “complete lack of remorse,” adding: “You claimed to the jury that you had killed them in self-defence. The truth was very different.”“I am sure that the allegations you made at trial of your mother abusing you throughout your childhood were false and designed to garner jury sympathy for you. These are allegations born of pure fantasy,” the judge added.Detective Inspector Hannah Whitehouse said: “Chana carried out a despicable crime against his family in their own home which should have been a place of safety. Our investigation revealed that Chana was fanatical about knives and had previously expressed a desire to kill his mother.”“Sadly we do not know what led him to carry out such a vicious and sickening attack. My thoughts remain with the couple’s wider family and friends. I can’t imagine how they are feeling; the shock and pain that his actions have caused will stay with them forever.”Chana’s sister, Kiran Chana, added her tribute: “My parents were the most loving people I’ve ever known. My mum went through hell and kept going to look after me and my brother. She’s the toughest woman I know. My dad was the perfect match for her.”“I am sad that their lives were ended so quickly without a second thought by a person whom they both loved dearly. Their lives together had just started. Not only did he take their lives, but he has tried to defame them in court to protect himself. I am angry at him for trying to use such tactics against their memory and against the person who always did her best for us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indian-origin-man-gets-life-term-for-killing-mother-step-father/story-CQMyyh4gCqvi5rXTOebSZP.html
23-08-2020||World||Trump administration considering fast-tracking UK Covid-19 vaccine before election: Report||The Trump administration is considering fast-tracking an experimental Covid-19 vaccine being developed by AstraZeneca Plc and Oxford University for use in the US ahead of the November 3 elections, the Financial Times reported.One option being explored would involve the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) awarding “emergency use authorization” in October to the potential vaccine, which was developed by Oxford and licensed to AstraZeneca, the FT reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-administration-considering-fast-tracking-uk-covid-19-vaccine-before-election-report/story-7964I0ONPBqhvy3sbHZGBI.html
23-08-2020||World||Airplane mode and prepaid SIMs: Some Israelis dodge Covid-19 tracking||Israel’s cellphone surveillance for coronavirus contact-tracing may have overcome challenges by privacy watchdogs, but the state tracking policy is hard put to deal with low-tech evasion methods seemingly lifted from TV cop shows.Some Israelis, fearing a quarantine order after unwittingly being near a coronavirus carrier, are rendering themselves untraceable while in public by switching their cellphones to “airplane mode” or using prepaid “burner” SIM cards instead.Such actions are not illegal and, although there is only anecdotal evidence for their prevalence, they drew remonstration from Communication Minister Yoaz Hendel on Sunday.“This is a problem,” he told Ynet TV. “Ultimately, we are not a police state. We will not manage to compel the citizens of the State of Israel to keep to the health regulations.”The surveillance, initially instituted without parliamentary oversight by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, has been anchored in legislation at the behest of Israel’s Supreme Court after it heard challenges by civil liberties groups who worry the mass-surveillance is ripe for abuse.Modeled on a counter-terrorism technology and in force since March, the system back-tracks movements of people who have tested positive for the virus to determine who came within 2 metres (yards) of them for more than 15 minutes while they were infectious.Having been identified by their own cellphone locations, these potential new carriers are then ordered over SMS to self-isolate for a period of 14 days from the moment of exposure.Around 80,000 people per week have received such notifications since July 1, according to officials - an economic drag for a country of 9 million.Officials say the surveillance has detected some 30% of coronavirus cases in Israel. They also acknowledge a false-positive rate of around 16%, sometimes due to a vertical blind-spot in the technology which risks flagging people above or below a coronavirus carrier in a multi-storey building.Such instances may be overturned on appeal - a process that can take several days, during which the quarantine is in force.Israel offers a voluntary coronavirus app, HaMagen, whose latest upgrade includes Bluetooth contact-tracing for greater precision. But with users complaining about battery drainage, its market penetration has been far below the 60% required for the state surveillance technology to be dropped, officials say.Israel has recorded 102,380 coronavirus cases and 834 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/airplane-mode-and-prepaid-sims-some-israelis-dodge-covid-19-tracking/story-HLOA4AP841FiLPcIFBimoJ.html
23-08-2020||World||Twitter slaps public interest notice on Donald Trump’s tweet||US President Donald Trump’s tweet on mail drop boxes received a public interest notice from Twitter, which said engagements with the tweet will be limited.Twitter said the tweet made “misleading health claims that could potentially dissuade people from participation in voting.”In the tweet, Trump said mail drop boxes “are not Covid sanitized.”Users won’t be able to like, reply or retweet the tweet.Earlier this month, Twitter and Facebook blocked a video shared by accounts linked to Trump for violating policies on coronavirus misinformation, leading the president to say that he was being unfairly censored.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/twitter-slaps-public-interest-notice-on-donald-trump-s-tweet/story-3fC3K8gwcXs2p1P3sMuB2L.html
23-08-2020||World||Mike Pompeo heads to Mideast as part of Donald Trump’s Arab-Israeli push||Secretary of State Mike Pompeo is headed to the Middle East, the first of two senior US officials to travel to the region this week as the Trump administration presses an ambitious Arab-Israeli peace push.Pompeo departed Sunday for Israel, Gulf Arab states and Sudan. He’ll be followed to many of the same destinations later in the week by President Donald Trump’s senior adviser and son-in-law Jared Kushner, diplomats said.The separate visits come as the administration seeks to capitalize on momentum from the historic agreement between Israel and the United Arab Emirates to establish diplomatic relations.In addition to Israel and Sudan, the State Department said Pompeo would travel to Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates. Officials said stops in Oman and Qatar are also possible.“The US commitment to peace, security, and stability in Israel, Sudan, and among Gulf countries has never been stronger than under President Trump’s leadership,” the State Department said in a statement announcing Pompeo’s trip.Kushner and his team are expected to visit Israel, Bahrain, Oman, Saudi Arabia and Morocco on their trip, which is scheduled to begin at the end of the week, according to the diplomats, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the itinerary has not yet been finalized or publicly announced.In Israel, Pompeo will meet with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu “to discuss regional security issues related to Iran’s malicious influence, establishing and deepening Israel’s relationships in the region, as well as cooperation in protecting the US and Israeli economies from malign investors,” the State Department said.“Malign investors” is a reference to China, which is seeking to gain a commercial foothold in Israel.In Khartoum. Pompeo will meet Sudanese Prime Minister Abdalla Hamdok “to discuss continued US support for the civilian-led transitional government and express support for deepening the Sudan-Israel relationship,” the department said. Sudan is eager to be removed from the US list of state sponsors of terrorism and normalizing ties with Israel would be a step toward that goal.However, removal from the terrorism list is also dependent on completion of a compensation agreement for victims of the 1998 bombings of the US embassies in Kenya and Tanzania. A tentative deal struck several months ago is still awaiting finalization.Neither Pompeo’s nor Kushner’s trips is expected to result in announcements of immediate breakthroughs, but both are aimed at building on the success of the Israel-UAE agreement by finalizing at least one, and potentially more, normalization deals between Arab countries and Israel in the near future.The administration has forged ahead with those efforts over Palestinian objections and without any indication the Palestinians are willing to enter negotiations with Israel. The Arab world had long held that a settlement to the long-running Israeli-Palestinian conflict was a prerequisite for a comprehensive Arab-Israeli peace.Israel and the United Arab Emirates announced on Aug. 13 they would establish full diplomatic relations, in a US-brokered deal that required Israel to halt its contentious plan to annex occupied West Bank land sought by the Palestinians.The agreement was a key foreign policy victory for Trump as he seeks reelection and reflected a changing Middle East in which shared concerns about archenemy Iran have largely overtaken traditional Arab support for the Palestinians.Last week, the administration took the controversial step in the U.N. Security Council of triggering the restoration of all international sanctions on Iran, something that only Israel and the Gulf Arab nations have publicly supported. Thirteen of the 15 council members, including US allies Britain, France and Germany, have rejected the move.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mike-pompeo-heads-to-mideast-as-part-of-donald-trump-s-arab-israeli-push/story-lQ9INby9bFu1PXVTrTUQwN.html
23-08-2020||World||Vacationers, migrants drive Italy’s surge in Covid-19 cases||Sicily’s governor has ordered all migrant residences on the Italian island to be shut down by Monday, part of a push-back by Italian regions alarmed by a surge in Covid-19 cases a few weeks before schools are to reopen.But while some new migrants have tested positive, vacationers returning from Mediterranean Sea resorts abroad as well as from the Italian island of Sardinia lately have accounted for far more of Italy’s new coronavirus infections.On Sunday, Italy registered 1,210 new cases, the highest daily number since May 12 and only weeks after the nation had seen the number of day-to-day new infections plunge to about 200.The Lazio region, which includes Rome, and the hard-hit Lombardy led the nation in regional new caseloads Sunday. Thousands of returning travelers got tested at Rome-area airports and a port north of the capital, as well as at airports that serve Lombardy’s main city, Milan.On the mainland, many of the latest cases were linked to travelers coming from abroad. Those arriving from Spain, Malta, Greece and Croatia must be tested within 48 hours of entering Italy, after those nations saw worrisome upticks in infections.And many recent coronavirus clusters have been traced to people who vacationed on Sardinia. With many people taking ferries from Sardinia to the Italian mainland, Lazio set up a testing facility at Civitavecchia’s dock, so those driving vehicles off the ferries could line up for immediate testing.Lazio Gov. Nicola Zingaretti appealed to the governor of Sardinia to test vacationers before they sailed or flew to the mainland, saying his region would do the same for travelers leaving for Sardinia.Sardinia, which had been counting barely a handful of new cases daily in recent months, registered 81 new cases since Saturday.In Sicily, Gov. Nello Musumeci’s ordinance took effect on Sunday, requiring all migrants who reach the island by sea be transferred off as part of measures to combat the spread of COVID-19.It stipulates that all centers housing migrants awaiting processing of asylum applications be shut down by the end of Monday. His order, effective through Sept. 10, also forbids any boat, including charity vessels, to bring migrants to the island.But the national government, not regional governors, are in charge of migrant policies and Musumeci acknowledged that his directive might be challenged in court. On Saturday, migrants accounted for 16 of Sicily’s 48 confirmed infections.Although in past years, nearly all migrants reaching Italy by sea were rescued by humanitarian groups, cargo ships or military vessels, this year, nearly 80% of arrivals reached Italian shores on their own, most setting sail from Tunisia.Many come ashore on the tiny island of Lampedusa, whose migrant residence is dangerously overcrowded. Italy has taken to quarantining the latest arrivals aboard chartered ferries offshore Sicily.“I can’t ask our people to keep a (safe) distance, wear masks and do other measures while the state amasses people in two rooms,’‘ Musumeci said, referring to the migrant centers.Gov. Vincenzo De Luca, who leads the Campania region including Naples, raised the possibility that if the daily infections keep surging, he will ask the federal government to reinstate restrictions on traveling between regions that were in force through much of Italy’s lockdown.Some wrote off De Luca’s warning as posturing before gubernatorial elections in several regions, including his own, in September.“What is he going to do, send in the Carabinieri (to block those outside his region from entering)?” Tuscany Gov. Enrico Rossi told the Corriere della Sera newspaper.__Follow AP’s pandemic coverage at http://apnews.com/VirusOutbreak and https://apnews.com/UnderstandingtheOutbreak||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/vacationers-migrants-drive-italy-s-surge-in-covid-19-cases/story-lYTvaQ5Z6jdpDeTBEYHRpJ.html
23-08-2020||World||Storm Marco becomes a hurricane over Gulf of Mexico||A storm named Marco that swirled over the Gulf of Mexico has become a hurricane, the U.S. National Hurricane Center said Sunday.Marco was heading for a possible hit on the Louisiana coast. Tropical Storm Laura, another potential hurricane, battered the Dominican Republic and Haiti and headed to the same part of the U.S. coast.Maximum winds of the Marco hurricane were 75 miles per hour (120 kilometers per hour), the hurricane center said. It said data from the U.S. Air Force had indicated that Marco had become a hurricane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/storm-marco-becomes-a-hurricane-over-gulf-of-mexico/story-hOzP1IwerqN4YRCNZEQYvJ.html
23-08-2020||World||China approves emergency usage of Covid-19 vaccines: Report||China has authorised emergency usage of Covid-19 vaccines developed by some select domestic companies, a Chinese health official has said. An emergency use authorisation, which is based on Chinese vaccine management law, allows unapproved vaccine candidates to be used among people who are at high risk of getting infected on a limited period. “We’ve drawn up a series of plan packages, including medical consent forms, side-effects monitoring plans, rescuing plans, compensation plans, to make sure that the emergency use is well regulated and monitored,” Zheng Zhongwei, head of China’s coronavirus vaccine development task force, told state-run CCTV on Saturday. One month has passed since China officially launched the urgent use of Covid-19 vaccines on July 22, while the vaccines were going through clinical trials, Zheng said. Recipients who got their first dose since then revealed they had few adverse reactions and none reported a fever. According to China’s Law on Vaccine Management, when a particularly severe public health emergency occurs, vaccines in clinical trials can be used in a limited scope to protect medical and epidemic prevention personnel, border officers and other people working in stable city operations, Zheng said. State-run Global Times has previously reported that employees of state-owned enterprises (SOEs) preparing to go abroad and frontline medics have been offered two choices of domestic inactivated vaccine candidates developed by Sinopharm for urgent use.On Thursday and Friday, Sinopharm signed cooperation agreements on phase III clinical trials of inactivated vaccines with Peru, Morocco and Argentina. Zheng noted that for the next step of preventing a possible outbreak this autumn and winter, vaccines’ availability will be extended to people working in food markets, transport systems and services industries. The number of people being vaccinated on an urgent basis may reach hundreds of thousands across China, considering that personnel in wider sectors are being offered free injections, said Tao Lina, a Shanghai-based immunology expert, on Sunday. “But it’s difficult to give an accurate figure since the Chinese military has begun mass vaccinations but has not released details,” Tao said.. Wu, an employee of a state-owned company handling overseas construction projects along the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) in Asian and African countries, told the Global Times on Sunday that all staff in her firm have been offered inactivated vaccine injections on a voluntary basis for free. Wu, who took the vaccine on August 7 along with many of her colleagues, said she did not experience any adverse reactions, similar to everyone else in her group. “My colleagues and I felt only a little dizzy on the afternoon of the vaccination, but we got over it pretty quickly. There was no local redness, swelling or pain, and we did not hear of anyone reporting a fever,” said Wu, who will take her second dose on day 28 after the first shot. “People seem to be relaxed over the vaccination as most of us feel confident in domestically developed vaccines,” she said..One of Sinopharm’s inactivated Covid-19 vaccines on August 13 was revealed to have had a low rate of adverse reactions for patients in phase I and II clinical trials, while also demonstrating immunogenicity results. The inactivated vaccine will be effective against all detected strains of the virus at least as of mid-July, with lower chances and degrees of adverse reactions than same-type vaccine candidates under research, Yang Xiaoming, head of Sinopharm, told the Global Times in an earlier interview. Yang said on Saturday that more than 20,000 people in the United Arab Emirates had taken inactivated Covid-19 vaccines developed by Sinopharm in phase III clinical trials, which have shown a high level of safety. The efficacy of the vaccine is under observation. “The phase III trial in the UAE has had no reported cases of side effects so far,” Yang said, adding that “volunteers joined faster than expected and the vaccine was well worth the wait”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-approves-emergency-usage-of-covid-19-vaccines-report/story-E35RNen9piFFLt2R5EYo3H.html
23-08-2020||World||Mike Pompeo heads to Middle East as part of Donald Trump’s Arab-Israeli push||Secretary of State Mike Pompeo is headed to the Middle East, the first of two senior US officials to travel to the region this week as the Trump administration presses an ambitious Arab-Israeli peace push. Pompeo departs Sunday for Israel, Gulf Arab states and Sudan. He’ll be followed to many of the same destinations later in the week by President Donald Trump’s senior adviser and son-in-law Jared Kushner, diplomats said. The separate visits come as the administration seeks to capitalise on momentum from the historic agreement between Israel and the United Arab Emirates to establish diplomatic relations. In addition to Israel and Sudan, the State Department said Pompeo would travel to Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates. Officials said stops in Oman and Qatar are also possible. “The US commitment to peace, security, and stability in Israel, Sudan, and among Gulf countries has never been stronger than under President Trump’s leadership,” the State Department said in a statement announcing Pompeo’s trip. Kushner and his team are expected to visit Israel, Bahrain, Oman, Saudi Arabia and Morocco on their trip, which is scheduled to begin at the end of the week, according to the diplomats, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the itinerary has not yet been finalized or publicly announced. In Israel, Pompeo will meet with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu “to discuss regional security issues related to Iran’s malicious influence, establishing and deepening Israel’s relationships in the region, as well as cooperation in protecting the US and Israeli economies from malign investors,” the State Department said. “Malign investors” is a reference to China, which is seeking to gain a commercial foothold in Israel. In Khartoum, Pompeo will meet Sudanese Prime Minister Abdalla Hamdok “to discuss continued US support for the civilian-led transitional government and express support for deepening the Sudan-Israel relationship,” the department said. Sudan is eager to be removed from the US list of state sponsors of terrorism and normalising ties with Israel would be a step toward that goal. However, removal from the terrorism list is also dependent on completion of a compensation agreement for victims of the 1998 bombings of the US embassies in Kenya and Tanzania. A tentative deal struck several months ago is still awaiting finalization. Neither Pompeo’s nor Kushner’s trips is expected to result in announcements of immediate breakthroughs, but both are aimed at building on the success of the Israel-UAE agreement by finalizing at least one, and potentially more, normalisation deals between Arab countries and Israel in the near future. The administration has forged ahead with those efforts over Palestinian objections and without any indication the Palestinians are willing to enter negotiations with Israel. The Arab world had long held that a settlement to the long-running Israeli-Palestinian conflict was a prerequisite for a comprehensive Arab-Israeli peace. Israel and the United Arab Emirates announced on August 13 they would establish full diplomatic relations, in a US-brokered deal that required Israel to halt its contentious plan to annex occupied West Bank land sought by the Palestinians. The agreement was a key foreign policy victory for Trump as he seeks reelection and reflected a changing Middle East in which shared concerns about archenemy Iran have largely overtaken traditional Arab support for the Palestinians. Last week, the administration took the controversial step in the UN Security Council of triggering the restoration of all international sanctions on Iran, something that only Israel and the Gulf Arab nations have publicly supported. Thirteen of the 15 council members, including US allies Britain, France and Germany, have rejected the move.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mike-pompeo-heads-to-middle-east-as-part-of-donald-trump-s-arab-israeli-push/story-2glFgbK9IWFYlFl7XT5hlI.html
23-08-2020||World||Trump’s 4-day window to change narrative and close gap with Biden opens Monday||President Donald Trump is expected to try and shift the focus of the US elections away from the Covid-19 epidemic and towards a more optimistic vision of the future at the four-day Republican party convention starting Monday, themed around “promise”, “opportunity”, “heroes” and “greatness”.Nikki Haley, the only Indian American to have ever held a federal cabinet-rank position as ambassador to the UN, was on Sunday named among the speakers for the convention, which include several members of the Trump family, Vice-President Mike Pence and wife Karen Pence, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, many congressional and state-level Republicans.The president will address the convention on every one of the four days, according to plans as reported in US media. The Republican party has not yet released a schedule of events and speakers, but it is expected to be a mix of virtual and in-person events, with no taped segments likely.President Trump goes to the convention 7.6 points behind Joe Biden, his Democratic challenger, in the RealClearPolitics average of national polls. His handling of the coronavirus epidemic — which has killed more than 173,000 American and infected more than 5 million — has hurt him badly, as has been demonstrated in polls.The president also continues to be hit by a steady flow of damaging revelations about him and criminal prosecution of one-time aides. His elder sister, Maryann Trump Barry, has called him “cruel”, a man with “no principles”, and said “you can’t trust him”, in secretly recorded conversations.Steve Bannon, a former key aide, and three others were arrested past week for alleged misappropriation of millions of dollars of online donations collected to help build a wall along the border with Mexico, a pet project of the president. Trump has denied any knowledge of the scheme.The president also continues to be shadowed by the Stormy Daniels affair. A California court has ordered the president to pay Stephanie Clifford — porn star Daniels’s real name — $44,000 to cover her legal fees in a dispute over a nondisclosure agreement. She has claimed to have had an affair with Trump. Starting Sunday night, the president will try to put all this behind and shift the conversation. The White House has scheduled a briefing by the president later in the day on Covid-19 therapeutics.Also Read: Trump campaign woos Indian Americans with ‘Howdy Modi’, ‘Namaste Trump’Over the next four days, Trump, his surrogates and allies will try to present a more optimistic and uplifting vision of the future to make their case for a second term for the president.“The big contrast you’ll see between the Democrats’ doom-and-gloom, Donald Trump-obsessed convention will be a convention focused on real people, their stories, how the policies of the Trump administration have lifted their lives, and then an aspirational vision toward the next four years,” Republican National Committee Chairwoman Ronna McDaniel told The Washington Post in an interview Saturday.Also Read: Trump struggles to use power of presidency to counter BidenTrump and Vice-President Mike Pence are expected to be nominated officially through a roll call on Monday, which is reportedly to be themed, the “Land of promise”. First lady Melania Trump and the adult Trump children speak from the White House’s recently renovated Rose Garden on Tuesday, which is styled as the “Land of opportunity”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-s-4-day-window-to-change-narrative-and-close-gap-with-biden-opens-monday/story-V2Yg4Nno8GEIhQqWlNP2QI.html
23-08-2020||World||EU’s Phil Hogan sorry for possible Covid-19 breach, stops short of resigning||European Trade Commissioner Phil Hogan apologised again on Sunday for attending an event in his native Ireland that may have breached Covid-19 regulations, but stopped short of bowing to calls from Irish leaders to resign.The Irish representative on the EU executive commission was asked on Saturday by Ireland’s prime minister and deputy prime minister to consider his position after his attendance at a golf dinner caused public outrage and led to other political resignations.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageHogan, who offered an initial apology on Friday only after Prime Minister Micheal Martin demanded one, said on Sunday he had listened carefully to Martin and Deputy Prime Minister Leo Varadkar’s views.Two EU officials said Hogan was acknowledging the call to consider his position, but was opting for an apology and explanation route that would probably allow him to stay on.“I acknowledge my actions have touched a nerve for the people of Ireland, something for which I am profoundly sorry,” Hogan said in a statement, adding that his attendance had caused “unnecessary stress, risk and offense”.“I want, in particular, to apologise to... all people who have lost loved ones during this pandemic.”Hogan said he has been reporting to European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen on the event in recent days.An Irish cabinet minister quit and other lawmakers were disciplined on Friday for being among over 80 guests at a hotel dinner hosted by parliament’s golf society, the night after Covid-19 restrictions were significantly tightened.The event has damaged the government’s credibility in the fight against the virus at a time when infections are rising. It has also infuriated people who have been unable to attend funerals or cancelled holidays or weddings because of the rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-s-phil-hogan-sorry-for-possible-covid-19-breach-stops-short-of-resigning/story-S4SdulD0eaxpFUK4Gv0d1J.html
23-08-2020||World||Local Covid-19 outbreak in Myanmar sparks fears for Rohingya camps||Rohingya in Myanmar’s conflict-wracked Rakhine state expressed fears Sunday of a coronavirus outbreak reaching their overcrowded camps, after a spate of infections sent the state capital into lockdown.Nearly 130,000 Rohingya Muslims live in what Amnesty International describes as “apartheid” conditions in camps around Sittwe.The city has recorded 48 cases in the past week, making up more than 10 percent of the about 400 cases so far registered in Myanmar.“We are extremely worried about the virus because we are living in limbo and it won’t be easy to control,” said Rohingya Kyaw Kyaw. Authorities visited the Thae Chaung camp this week to talk about social distancing -- an impossibility as 10 families typically squeeze into a single house -- and gave out hand sanitiser and face masks.“But if the lockdown is for a long time, we will... need help,” Kyaw Kyaw told AFP, adding that everyone in the camps had locked themselves indoors.Sittwe’s streets were empty Sunday, with masked residents encountering barricaded roads as they tried to run errands. Street vendors hawked plastic face shields and surgical masks. An overnight curfew order has been in place since Friday, while all public transport -- including domestic flights -- into the capital was suspended.Rakhine state has long been a flashpoint for ethnic and religious conflict.The embattled Rohingya Muslim minority are widely regarded as foreign “Bengalis” despite having lived in Myanmar for generations. They lack citizenship rights and their freedom of movement is restricted across the country. A local Rakhine parliamentarian this week blamed the Rohingya for the virus spread in a Facebook post that was later taken down. Some 750,000 Rohingya fled to neighbouring Bangladesh following a military crackdown in 2017 -- operations that Myanmar is currently facing genocide charges for at the UN’s top court.Further north in the state, the military is also battling the Arakan Army, a rebel group seeking more autonomy for the state’s ethnic Rakhine Buddhists, and violent clashes have displaced thousands of civilians from their homes.In Mrauk-U -- where three cases were found this week -- Rakhine residents feared a halt to food donations to the displacement camps, said camp leader Hla Maung Oo. “We have nowhere to run if the virus becomes widespread because we also can’t go back to our villages,” he told AFP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/local-covid-19-outbreak-in-myanmar-sparks-fears-for-rohingya-camps/story-QNJxJLeFHrLYRuxZY3jLZK.html
23-08-2020||World||4 dead, 11 missing as flooding hits Turkey’s Black Sea coast||Four people have died in floods caused by heavy rain along Turkey’s Black Sea coastline, the interior minister said Sunday.A further 11 people were missing after flooding around the mountain town of Dereli in Giresun province.“So far, 127 of our citizens have been rescued in search and rescue (efforts),” Interior Minister Suleyman Soylu said while visiting the town.One of the dead was a police officer whose vehicle was swept away by the floods.Television footage showed vehicles and debris being carried by floodwater along the main road of Dereli, which lies around 12 miles (20 kilometers) inland. Soylu said 118 villages in the region had been cut off.Heavy rain along the Black Sea coast on Saturday evening also saw apartment buildings evacuated after landslides in Rize province, 110 miles (180 kilometers) east of Giresun.Meteorologists forecast heavy storms in Giresun and the neighbouring provinces of Trabzon, Rize and Artvin for later Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/4-dead-11-missing-as-flooding-hits-turkey-s-black-sea-coast/story-Aj6mZ8N7XXWXirUqKgL3OO.html
23-08-2020||World||Fate of millions forces Rishi Sunak into tough choice on UK furlough||Rishi Sunak’s tenure as UK Chancellor of the Exchequer is reaching a defining moment as he decides whether millions of workers living off government aid should soon begin fending for themselves in a crippled economy.In just over two months, his furlough plan paying up to 80% of an employee’s salary will finish. Sunak has dismissed mounting pressure to extend the program, whose cost now exceeds 35 billion pounds ($46 billion), albeit rising more slowly than before.The hard line by the Conservative chancellor has raised the stakes at a time when reversing his stance would add to a list of embarrassing government U-turns. But ending furloughs could condemn millions to a sudden cash shortfall, and even a jobless future. Having helped vulnerable Britons with aid, Sunak has also put their fate in his hands.The ultimate danger is that the labor-market fallout from ending support might entrench the UK’s recession. That could invoke memories of Margaret Thatcher’s government, whose economic transformation in the 1980s set foundations for future growth at a cost of eye-watering unemployment that tarnished the Conservatives’ political brand for years.“This decision may be one of the most important decisions Sunak makes in this crisis,” said Carsten Jung, a senior economist at the Institute for Public Policy Research. It “will probably determine the shape of the labor market for the better part of the next five years. Once unemployment goes up, it’s really hard to get it back down.”In a year when Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s government has bounced from crisis to crisis, Sunak’s furlough plan was a rare success, raising the chancellor’s profile compared with colleagues. The program’s scale surprised economists, supporting 9.6 million jobs and preventing mass unemployment.But the Bank of England still sees joblessness reaching 7.5% this year, almost double the current level, and warns the labor market poses the biggest risk to any recovery.Sunak’s key problem is that restrictions to control the virus may persist after his aid program finishes at the end of October. Around 12% of the workforce is furloughed, and the IPPR estimates 3 million people will be relying on the plan at its conclusion, two-thirds of whose jobs would be sustainable if help were extended.Taper TimetableSunak’s options range from carrying through his plan to end furloughs, to extending them after all, even only partially, or replacing them with something else. Other countries from Germany to Canada are already preparing to swallow the debt cost of shifting support programs further into the future.As the clock ticks for Sunak, here’s a look at what U.K. think tanks are suggesting he should do.Do NothingWith public debt now above 2 trillion pounds, Sunak could simply let the plan expire and hope other measures announced this summer will support jobs. They include a 2 billion-pound program to pay wages of more than 200,000 young workers, and a 1,000-pound bonus for firms that keep on employees returning from furlough.“The government cannot continue to underwrite the wages of large portion of the economy,” said Ben Harris-Quinney, chairman of the Bow Group, a think tank close to the Conservative Party. “The alternative is worse: a debt crisis similar to post-2008.”Another argument against any extension is that it could prevent the economy readjusting to a new reality, delaying painful restructuring.But Luke Raikes, research director for the Fabian Society -- a group close to the opposition Labour Party -- insists the consequences of a sudden end to furloughs would still be “severe” as joblessness spirals. He says the government should then devote extra aid to the unemployed and ramp up investment in skills and training, particularly for young workers and those over 50.Extend the PlanAt the cost of a political about-face -- and yet more debt -- Sunak could keep furloughs going for longer.Such a move would be relatively inexpensive, according to the National Institute of Economic and Social Research, an independent research group. It says keeping the plan until the middle of 2021 would cost about 10 billion pounds and pay for itself by reducing long-term unemployment.An alternative option offered by the Resolution Foundation is to maintain furloughs in sectors most damaged by the crisis.“A slower phase out for hard-hit sectors like hospitality, retail and leisure will be evidently sensible,” said Daniel Tomlinson, a senior economist there.Something NewSunak could end furloughs while keeping some aid in place by unveiling a totally new program.One idea from the IPPR is to replace the current plan with a Coronavirus Work-Sharing Scheme targeting only jobs and businesses likely to be sustainable. It would run through March and cost 7.9 billion pounds.The Resolution Foundation proposes a job-sharing initiative where two people work part-time on the same role, with the state paying for non-worked hours. It also suggests a subsidy plan for firms in hard-hit sectors.“We need a new innovation for the second part of the crisis,” said IPPR’s Jung. “If there’s a way to help hold onto workers, it would really make a huge difference.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/fate-of-millions-forces-rishi-sunak-into-tough-choice-on-uk-furlough/story-o9V4EMR2Pal0Jn90PCChQK.html
23-08-2020||World||New Covid-19 cluster reported at Singapore’s biggest dormitory||A new Covid-19 cluster has been reported in Singapore’s biggest dormitory housing foreign workers, including Indian nationals, about a month after it was declared to be fully cleared of the coronavirus.Two of the new Covid-19 cases reported in Singapore on Saturday were linked to 55 previous cases to form a new cluster at Sungei Tengah Lodge dormitory at 500 Old Choa Chu Kang Road, the Ministry of Health (MOH) said. The cluster at Sungei Tengah Lodge was among the largest in Singapore before the dormitory was declared cleared of Covid-19 by the Ministry of Manpower (MOM) on Jul 21, the Channel News Asia reported.More than 2,200 confirmed cases had been linked to the cluster and the Health ministry closed the cluster on Jul 18. Sungei Tengah Lodge is Singapore’s biggest purpose-built dormitory, with about 16,000 workers living there, the daily said. Singapore on Sunday reported 87 new Covid-19 cases including 13 imported infections, the Ministry of Health (MOH) said.The imported cases had all been placed on stay-home notice upon their arrival in Singapore, it said. All of the cases were foreign workers including the sole community case on a work pass here.With 87 new cases, the national tally of the coronavirus cases has reached 56,353. With 269 more cases of Covid-19 infection discharged from hospitals or community isolation facilities on Saturday, 53,920 people have fully recovered from the infection.There are currently 81 confirmed cases who are still in hospital while 2,238 are isolated and cared for at community facilities for mild symptoms or are clinically well but still test positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-covid-19-cluster-reported-at-singapore-s-biggest-dormitory/story-jx60Q5UYsAgURqPhiYRFCP.html
23-08-2020||World||Global Covid-19 toll exceeds 800,000||The global death toll from the coronavirus surpassed 800,000 on Saturday, according to a Reuters tally, with the United States, Brazil and India leading the rise in fatalities.Nearly 5,900 people are dying every 24 hours from Covid-19 on average, according to Reuters calculations based on data from the past two weeks that ended on Friday.That equates to 246 people per hour, or one person every 15 seconds.The rate of deaths is holding steady with it taking 17 days to go from 700,000 to 800,000 deaths -- the same time it took to go from 600,000 to 700,000. Follow latest updates on coronavirus coverage The US death toll surpassed 170,000 on Sunday, the highest in the world. While the number of new cases is down from a peak in July, the country is still seeing over 360,000 new cases a week.Many public schools and universities reopened classrooms to students despite positive test rates of nearly 20% in some parts of the country. Less than a week after welcoming students, some schools are switching to online-only learning due to a spike in infections. In India, the world’s second-most populous country, Covid-19 deaths topped 50,000 on Monday, five months after the country reported its first coronavirus fatality.India is only the third country, behind Brazil and the United States, to record more than 2 million infections. It has a relatively low case fatality rate of 1.9%, compared to the world average of 3.5%, but that may be due to underreporting.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Case fatality rates are about 3% in the United States and Brazil. Health experts have raised the alarm that Brazil and the United States still have no coordinated plan to fight the pandemic, as many officials focus on reopening schools and businesses, which is likely to worsen the outbreak. Brazil’s death toll from Covid-19 passed 100,000 on Aug. 8 and continues to climb as most Brazilian cities reopen shops and dining even though the pandemic has yet to peak there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/global-covid-19-toll-exceeds-800-000/story-KE2FjtN0fC4WdY9GrUxDIP.html
23-08-2020||World||Italy rules out new lockdown as coronavirus cases rise||The Italian government is not considering new lockdown to curb coronavirus infections, Health Minister said in a newspaper interview on Sunday, despite a steady rise in new cases over the past month.Italy, one of Europe’s worst-hit countries with more than 35,000 deaths, on Saturday reported 1,071 new coronavirus infections, exceeding 1,000 cases in a day for the first time since the government eased its rigid lockdown measures in May.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“We will not have a new lockdown,” Speranza told daily newspaper La Stampa, saying the current situation cannot be compared to February and March, when the disease was spreading out of control and it was difficult to track and isolate infected people.“I am optimistic, although prudent. Our national health service has become much stronger.”Speranza added that Italy has doubled the number of beds in intensive care units.The number of new infections remains considerably lower than those registered in Spain and France and daily death tolls are low.In a separate interview with newspaper Corriere della Sera, Health Undersecretary Sandra Zampa said she was convinced Italy would not impose a nationwide lockdown but did not rule out restrictions on territories where there are spikes in infection numbers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/italy-rules-out-new-lockdown-as-coronavirus-cases-rise/story-qcO1eNlJU28o1eTpQKZsUP.html
23-08-2020||World||‘End of the world’: Countdown to Beirut’s devastating blast||The 10 firefighters who received the call shortly before 6 pm — about a big fire at the nearby port of — could not know what awaited them.The brigade of nine men and one woman could not know about the stockpile of ammonium nitrate warehoused since 2013 along a busy motorway, in the heart of a densely populated residential area — a danger that had only grown with every passing year.They and nearly all the population of Beirut were simply unaware. They were not privy to the warnings authorities had received, again and again, and ignored: ammonium nitrate is highly explosive, used in fertilizer and sometimes to build bombs. The stockpile was degrading; something must be done.They knew, of course, that they lived in a dysfunctional country, its government rife with corruption, factionalism and negligence that caused so much pain and heartbreak. But they could not know that it would lead to the worst single-day catastrophe in Lebanon’s tragic history.Across the city, residents who noticed the grey smoke billowing over the facility were drawn to streets, balconies and windows, watching curiously as the fire grew larger. Phones were pulled out of pockets and pointed toward the flames.The firefighters piled into a fire engine and an ambulance and raced to the scene — and to their doom.Seven years ago, a ship named the Rhosus set out from the Georgian Black Sea port of Batumi carrying 2,755.5 tons of ammonium nitrate destined for an explosives company in Mozambique.It made an unscheduled detour, stopping in Beirut on Nov. 19, 2013. The ship’s Russian owner said he struggled with debts and hoped to earn extra cash by taking on pieces of heavy machinery in Lebanon. That additional cargo proved too heavy for the Rhosus and the crew refused to take it on.The Rhosus was soon impounded by Lebanese authorities for failing to pay port fees. It never left the port; it sank there in February 2018, according to Lebanese official documents.The Port of Beirut is considered one of the most corrupt institutions in a country where nearly every public institution is riddled with corruption. Port officials are notorious for taking bribes. A bribe from an importer, for example, will ensure an incoming shipment is mislabeled to get lower customs duties — or escapes duties and taxes completely. Confiscated goods are sometimes sold off on the sly for a profit.For years, Lebanon’s ruling political factions have divvied up positions at the port and handed them out to supporters — as they have ministries, public companies and other facilities nationwide.The longtime head of customs is known to be a loyalist of President Michel Aoun, for example, while the head of the port is in the camp of Saad Hariri, the Sunni leader who has repeatedly served as prime minister. The Hezbollah militant group and, even more, its Shiite ally the Amal faction headed by Parliament Speaker Nabih Berri, also have loyalists at the port, though Hezbollah doesn’t have the same influence as it does at, for example, the airport, which it controls and uses to ferry in cash from Iran.The result is a port divided into factional fiefdoms that don’t necessarily work together and are sometimes outright rivals. Individual port authorities are sometimes more concerned with their scams than with proper functioning. And government officials avoid looking too closely at goings-on at the port to protect their loyalists.The first known warning came on Feb. 21, 2014, three months after the ship docked at the port.In a letter to the customs authority’s anti-smuggling department, senior customs official Col. Joseph Skaff wrote that the material on board was “extremely dangerous and endangers public safety.”It is not known if Skaff ever received a response or if he sent other letters. He was found dead outside his house near Beirut under mysterious circumstances, shortly after he retired in March 2017. At least one medical report suggested he might have been murdered.Skaff’s son, Michel, said he was killed by a blow to the head. He said his father dealt with other sensitive matters, including drug trafficking. “Someone maybe was trying to hide what is happening at the port,” he said by telephone from his home in New York City.In the years that followed, Skaff’s letter was followed by other correspondence that went back and forth between top customs and port officials and members of the judiciary and the army.On June 27, 2014, with the ammonium nitrate still aboard the Rhosus, Jad Maalouf, a judge for urgent matters, warned the Ministry of Public Works and Transportation in correspondence that the ship was carrying dangerous material and could sink. He said the ministry should deal with the ship, remove the ammonium nitrate and “place it in a suitable place that it (the ministry) chooses, and it should be under its protection.”It is not clear if there was ever a reply. Ministry officials did not respond to requests from The Associated Press asking for comment.In October 2014, the ammonium nitrate was moved into the port’s Warehouse 12, which holds impounded materials.A chemical forensic expert, commissioned by the courts and the owners of the ammonium nitrate, got a look at the stockpile soon after. It was “in terrible shape,” she said in her February 2015 report. Most of the sacks — she estimated more than 1,900 of the 2,750 sacks— were torn open, their contents spilling out. Some of the crystals had darkened, a sign of decomposition. The sacks were piled so haphazardly that she could not count them to be sure all were still there.The inspector recommended the chemicals be disposed of according to environmental guidelines. Her report was uncovered by Riad Kobaissi, an investigative reporter with Al Jadeed TV who has followed corruption at the port and within the customs authorities since 2012.On Oct. 26, 2015, the army command asked customs to sample the material and check the level of nitrogen “and based on that we can give a suggestion regarding them.”The then-head of the customs department, Shafeeq Merhi, wrote back in February 2016, saying an expert found the nitrogen level was 34.7%, a very high and dangerous level, well above the acceptable concentration of around 11%.The army command responded the following April, saying it didn’t need the ammonium nitrate. It asked customs to contact Lebanese Explosives Co. — a maker of explosives for construction of roads and tunnels and for imploding structures — to see if that private company could use it.If not, the material should be exported at the expense of the ship owner who brought it to Lebanon, the army said in its letter.An administrator at Lebanese Explosives told the AP that it was “not interested in buying confiscated material because we did not know where they were brought from, what is the quality nor its expiry.”Merhi and his successor as customs chief, Badri Daher, sent multiple letters in the following years to the Courts of Urgent Matters, warning of the danger and seeking permission to sell the material or a ruling on another way to get rid of it.Daher told the AP and other media that he never received any reply from the court. But Kobaissi, the investigative reporter, found documents showing the court responded each time that it didn’t have jurisdiction and that the Public Works Ministry had to decide.Over the years, Lebanese built and bought luxury property opposite the port, a nearby Beirut Marina including restaurants, cafes and retail shops was built up, concerts were held, children rode their bicycles and workers went about their daily business, oblivious to the massive “bomb” waiting to explode.At some point, someone battered open a door to Warehouse 12 and knocked a hole in one of its walls.When is not known. It was reported when State Security inspected the site this summer. In a July 20 report, it warned that the warehouse’s “Door Number 9 has suffered a blow in the middle, knocking it away from the wall enough to allow anyone to enter and steal the ammonium nitrate.” It also noted the hole in the wall and pointed out that there was no guard at the warehouse, “making theft even easier.”The report to President Michel Aoun and then-Prime Minister Hassan Diab warned that thieves could steal the material to make explosives. Or, it said, the mass of material could cause an explosion “that would practically destroy the port.” Kobaissi shared the report with the AP.Aoun has been in office since 2016. After the explosion, he said the State Security report was the first time he’d heard of the dangerous stockpile. He said he immediately ordered military and security agencies to do “what was needed” — though he added he had no authority over the port.After being criticized by rival politicians and on social media for not doing more, Aoun’s office issued a further statement saying that his military adviser had immediately forwarded the State Security report to the Higher Defense Council, the top defense body in the country.But a government official said security agencies had repeatedly sent warnings directly to the government.“The same memo was sent roughly every year basically since that ship arrived, and it became clear the stuff wasn’t moving. So, it was like a tradition and it wasn’t marked as priority,” the official told AP, speaking on condition of anonymity because he wasn’t authorized to talk to the media.Kobaissi, the investigative reporter, said all political factions in the country benefited from using the port for patronage, and most overlooked dubious dealings. He said many people knew about the initial warning by Skaff, including Hezbollah’s former point man at the port.Port and customs officials “are a gang, a mafia, appointed by a mafia gang that has come to office through an election process,” Kobaissi told the AP.He believes officials at the port were trying to find a legal cover to sell off the ammonium nitrate and skim off some of the money. He noted a similar scheme was run in the past when containers of confiscated asbestos were auctioned off. He said there were many instances of port officials profiting off impounded shipments, even keeping some goods — like Mini Coopers — for themselves.Both the customs chief Daher and the head of the port, Hassan Koraytem, are among those detained in the wake of the explosion.On the afternoon of Aug. 4, security officials say, three metalworkers who had been working for several days to weld the broken Door Number 9 of Warehouse 12 finished work and left the facility.The cause of the original fire has still not been determined and is at the heart of the current investigation. Some have questioned whether the welding may have sparked stocks of flammable liquids used in making detergents, as well as tons of fireworks that were also being kept in Warehouse 12. Other possibilities such as sabotage are also being investigated. The metalworkers, who were hired to fix the door by the port authorities in response to the security report, have been detained for questioning, according to security officials.Shortly after the 10 firefighters arrived at the port, they sent an urgent call back to headquarters, asking for reinforcements. Photos they sent from their mobile phones to their colleagues showed them trying to open the gate of Warehouse 12.“When they called us, they said they are hearing the sound of fireworks,” Beirut fire chief Nabil Khankarli told the AP.No one told the emergency responders that dangerous material was stored in the warehouse. No port officials were even there to help them open the gate, Khankarli said.A second team jumped into their vehicles and headed toward the port. All across the city, flames and the pillar of black smoke could be seen pouring into the sky, lit up by popping fireworks. Many residents would later report hearing a jet or a drone and presuming it was Israeli, since Israel sends reconnaissance flights over Lebanon on an almost daily basis. No evidence has yet emerged of warplanes.There was an initial explosion, sending shredded debris into the air. That first blast, survivors would recount later, sent some who had been watching the fire scurrying for cover.Twelve seconds later, at 6:08 p.m., the ammonium nitrate detonated in one of the biggest non-nuclear explosions ever recorded.In an instant, a blast with the force of hundreds of tons of TNT sucked in the air — one video showed a luxury store window exploding outward from the suction, spraying a bride and groom taking their wedding video on the sidewalk outside — and then unleashed its power across the city.It blew a crater nearly 200 meters (yards) wide out of the port where Warehouse 12 once stood, and seawater poured in to fill it. The port was leveled. A grain silo right next to the warehouse was shredded and sheared in half — though its massive bulk partially shielded sections of the city from the blast. For miles around, in people’s homes and in shops and hospitals, windows were shattered, doors knocked off their hinges, ceilings or walls blown in a vicious whirlwind onto those inside.Alaa Saad and his friends were out diving, about 2.5 kilometers (1.5 miles) off the coast of Beirut, when they started hearing noises from the direction of the port and saw the smoke. Was it fireworks? Ammunition?“There were lots of flashes going off inside the smoke,” he said. He heard some kind of eruption, like a volcano. “Something that was boiling very much,” he said.“Five seconds passed, and this is when I saw the cloud or the wave that was coming toward us at very high speed,” he said. “It was insane speed. I could not even think if I wanted to jump in the water or stay on the boat.”Saad fell on the deck. A friend tumbled into the water.“After that,” he said, “I thought it was the end of Beirut or the end of the world or the war has started.”More than 6,000 people were injured, and at least 180 were killed — among them the 10 first responders. It would take days of searching before colleagues found all their bodies in the rubble.Nearly three weeks later, theories abound. In the deeply polarized country, some have turned their suspicion to Hezbollah, which maintains a huge weapons stockpile in the country and dominates its politics. A member of the militant group was sentenced to six years in prison after he was arrested in Cyprus in 2015 in connection with the seizure of nine tons of ammonium nitrate at a house where he was staying.An investigative team that includes Kobaissi, working with The Organized Crime and Corruption Reporting Project, found that the shadow owner of the Rhosus was actually a Cypriot who owed money to a Lebanese bank linked to Hezbollah — raising speculation that he brought in the ammonium nitrate for the group. The businessman, Charalambos Manoli, denied the report, insisting to the AP that he sold the ship in May 2012.Others have peddled a theory that rivals of the group had sought to accrue the fertilizer for use as explosives in the war in neighboring Syria.The documents show clear negligence and failure; the question of whether something more triggered the blast depends on an investigation that so far has seemed predictably slow and ineffectual.The fire chief, Khankarli, is furious. So much destruction. So much bloodshed. All of it avoidable.“We are waiting for the investigation,” he said. “But what is gone cannot be recovered.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/end-of-the-world-countdown-to-beirut-s-devastating-blast/story-iUkLdKBHgGl4zhiONs8CWO.html
23-08-2020||World||Pakistan’s ISI using crime syndicates in France, Thailand to further its agenda: Report||Pakistan’s intelligence agency, ISI, has been using the services of Pakistani crime syndicates operating in several countries, including France and Thailand, to further its agenda, according to a report in the Global Watch Analysis.Recently, Thailand Police arrested a Pakistan national named Baqar Shah for his involvement in multiple illegal activities in the country including money laundering for the ISI.He was first noticed by Thai authorities due to his involvement in organising an anti-American protest outside the US Consulate in Chiang Mai in September 2012. In February 2016, his name again surfaced when Thailand Police busted a major fake passport syndicate in the country and an Iranian national, Hamid Reza Jafary, and five Pakistanis were arrested.The six of them were found to be involved in the supply of fake travel documents and human trafficking. It is to be noted that Jafary was on the wanted list of security agencies in several countries including the UK, France, Australia and New Zealand.According to investigations, Jafary and his five Pakistani contacts were supplying forged passports that were being sold to people from Gulf countries for travel to Australia and Europe. During the probe, it was found that Gohar Zaman, one of the five Pakistanis in custody, had close links to Shah.As the Thai security agency put Shah under close surveillance, they discovered that he maintained regular contact with officials from Pakistan Embassy in Bangkok and his restaurant was being used as a meeting point for Pakistani officials.“Shah’s main job appeared to be spotting potential assets for Pakistanis in the local police, immigration, customs and airlines and to develop contacts within the Muslim community in Chaing Mai and Mae Sot region,” according to the report.Shah was blacklisted by the Thai immigration for five years and deported to Pakistan in 2018. However, he managed to sneak back into Thailand under the guise of ISI mentors on a fresh passport in the name of Syed Baqar Ahmed Jaffri. However, Thailand Police tracked him down again and he is currently in custody.A similar syndicate, pertaining to the supply of forged passports, is reported to be operational in France. A person with the initials B.H., who is controlling the syndicate, is believed to have connections at the Pakistani Embassy in Paris.Citing sources, Global Watch Analysis reported that a Pakistani restaurant situated near Gare du Nord, the office of a welfare association in La Courneuve area and a travel agency in the 10th arrondissement in the Paris, are used as fronts to run the illegal activities of supplying Pakistani passports and resident permits of European countries including Portugal, Belgium and France.The price for these identity cards and travel documents range between 850 to 1,500 Euros.During investigations by the Global Watch Analysis, for instance, copies of fake travel documents held by a person linked to this network were found. The individual, who is based in France, has several British and Pakistani passports, all under different names.Sources said the multiple passports would have enabled the person to hold several bank accounts and credit cards with French banks.It is well known that ISI has links with several terror groups of “jihadist tendency”. “It is not excluded that these type of criminal networks, manipulated by ISI’s branches in the Western capitals, may provide their ‘services’ to members of the terrorist groups in question infiltrated in the West,” the article concluded.(This story has been published from a wire agency feed without modifications to the text. Only the headline has been changed.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-s-isi-using-crime-syndicates-in-france-thailand-to-further-its-agenda-report/story-J8i2mrT4LrHeWzbhcblMsN.html
23-08-2020||World||Russia and Turkey likely to sign S-400 missile deal next year: Report||Russia is likely to sign a contract for delivery of an additional batch of its S-400 missile systems to Turkey next year, the Interfax news agency cited Sergei Chemezov, head of state conglomerate Rostec, as saying on Sunday.Turkey bought a batch of the missile systems from Russia last year, leading to its suspension by Washington from the US F-35 stealth fighter jet programme. The United States has said that Turkey risks US sanctions if it deploys the Russian-made S-400s.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-and-turkey-likely-to-sign-s-400-missile-deal-next-year-report/story-6ujRcRIB9XU3wXozht2UVP.html
23-08-2020||World||Iran retrieves data, cockpit talk from downed Ukraine plane||Iran has retrieved some data, including a portion of cockpit conversations, from the Ukrainian jetliner accidentally downed by the Revolutionary Guard forces in January, killing all 176 people on board, an Iranian official said Sunday.That’s according to a report on the website of Iran’s Civil Aviation Organization, which described the official’s remarks as part of the final report that Tehran plans to issue on the shootdown of Ukraine International Airlines Flight 752.The development comes months after the Jan. 8 crash near Tehran. Iranian authorities had initially denied responsibility, only changing course days later after Western nations presented extensive evidence that Iran had shot down the plane.The shootdown happened the same night Iran launched a ballistic missile attack targeting U.S. soldiers in Iraq, its response to the American drone strike that killed Guard Gen. Qassem Soleimani in Baghdad on Jan. 3.The head of Iran’s Civil Aviation Organization, Capt. Touraj Dehghani Zangeneh, said on Sunday that the Ukrainian passenger plane’s black boxes have only 19 seconds of conversation following the first explosion, though the second missile reached the plane 25 seconds later. The report quoting him did not elaborate.He said the first missile explosion sent shrapnel into the plane, likely disrupting the plane’s recorders.Representatives from the U.S., Ukraine, France, Canada, Britain and Sweden — countries whose citizens were killed in the crash — were present during the process to gather data from the recorders.Last month, an initial report from the Iranian investigation said that a misaligned missile battery, miscommunication between troops and their commanders and a decision to fire without authorization all led to the fatal downing of the jetliner.“Data recovery activity was all done with the aim of at safety and preventing similar incidents,” Zangeneh said, adding an appeal against “any political use of the process.”He added that Iran’s airspace is now “safe and ready” for international flights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-retrieves-data-cockpit-talk-from-downed-ukraine-plane/story-sdmV8nqxe9O5PMxC69wGgK.html
23-08-2020||World||American talk show host Larry King’s 2 children die weeks apart, says ‘they will be greatly missed’||American talk show host Larry King on Saturday (local time) mourned the demise of two of his children who died within weeks of each other and said they will be greatly missed. In a Facebook post, King said both the children -- son Andy and daughter Chaia -- were “good and kind souls”.“It is with sadness and a father’s broken heart that I confirm the recent loss of two of my children, Andy King, and Chaia King. Both of them were good and kind souls and they will be greatly missed. Andy passed away unexpectedly of a heart attack on July 28 and Chaia passed on August 20, only a short time after having been diagnosed with lung cancer,” he said.“Losing them feels so out of order. No parent should have to bury a child,” he added.King thanked his well-wishers for their sympathies.“My family and I thank you for your outpouring of kind sentiments and well wishes. At this moment, we need a little time and privacy to heal. I thank you for respecting that,” he wrote.Andy and Chaia’s mother, Alene Atkins had married King in 1961. The couple divorced and remarried in 1967 before parting ways again in 1971, according to CNN.In 1997, Chaia and 86-year-old King co-authored a children’s book called “Daddy Day, Daughter Day”, recalling their experiences with divorce.Atkins had breathed her last in 2017, King tweeted at the time.King hosts Ora TV’s “Larry King Now,” where he interviews world leaders, celebrities, and internet stars, CNN reported.The acclaimed TV interviewer had hosted CNN’s “Larry King Live.” between 1985 to 2010.Last year, King had undergone a heart procedure after complaining of chest pain.He is also a father to four children from previous marriages and a stepfather to one. He divorced his recent spouse Shawn Southwick in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/american-talk-show-host-larry-king-s-2-children-die-weeks-apart-says-they-will-be-greatly-missed/story-MnFiEmWCY1kpPTIoVWNZQN.html
23-08-2020||World||Donald Trump’s sister calls him ‘cruel’, ‘liar’ on secret recordings: Report||Donald Trump’s sister described the US president as cruel and a liar whose lack of principles meant he could not be trusted, according to secretly made recordings published Saturday.It was the latest unflattering insider account to target the president, only instead of a jilted aide or business associate, it was from one of his closest relatives.Maryanne Trump Barry slammed her brother over his immigration policy that saw children separated from their parents at the border and sent to detention centres.“All he wants to do is appeal to his base,” she said in recordings obtained by the Washington Post. “He has no principles. None.”“His goddamned tweet and lying, oh my God.”The recordings were secretly made by the president’s niece Mary Trump, who published last month a bombshell memoir of the “toxic family” that produced him.The president’s younger brother Robert, who died last week, went to court to try to block its publication, arguing that Mary was violating a non-disclosure agreement signed in 2001 after the settlement of her grandfather’s estate, but to no avail.Some 950,000 copies were sold the day of the memoir’s release, with the White House calling it a “book of falsehoods”.At one point in the recordings, Barry said to her niece: “It’s the phoniness of it all. It’s the phoniness and this cruelty. Donald is cruel.”The recordings also shed light on the source of an embarrassing claim in the memoir that the president paid someone to take a college entrance exam for him.“He got into University of Pennsylvania because he had somebody take the exams,” Barry said, adding she even remembered the man’s name.The president or the White House did not immediately comment on the recordings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-s-sister-calls-him-cruel-liar-on-secret-recordings-report/story-WaU6MBCZ2j4Ifk3N9tJUcJ.html
23-08-2020||World||Donald Trump ordered to pay $44,100 in Stormy Daniels legal fees||A California court ordered President Donald Trump this week to pay $ 44,100 in attorney fees to porn actress Stormy Daniels to pay for her legal battle over her effort to cancel a hush money deal brokered to keep her quiet about their sexual relationship a decade ago. The order in Superior Court in Los Angeles determined Daniels won her lawsuit against Trump over the agreement that was signed 11 days before the 2016 presidential election. As a part of that deal, the losing party would pay the lawyers fees. The White House did not immediately respond to a request for comment about the decision. The president’s personal lawyer at the time, Michael Cohen, paid $ 130,000 to Daniels, who filed the suit under her legal name Stephanie Clifford. After Trump’s election, Daniels sued to void the agreement. Trump and his supporters denied the president knew about the payment for several years before Trump acknowledged it on Twitter in May 2018 and said he reimbursed Cohen for the money paid to Daniels. Daniels’ suit over the non-disclosure agreement was dismissed before going to trial or a settlement because the parties were no longer quiet. Trump’s lawyers said Daniels didn’t win the case and therefore wasn’t entitled to lawyer fees, but Judge Robert Broadbelt III disagreed in his ruling Monday, posted online by Daniels’ lawyers. Trump’s lawyers also argued Daniels didn’t prove the president was a part of the non-disclosure agreement which was made under the name “ David Dennison,” but Broadbelt wrote there was a large amount of evidence showing Cohen chose Dennison as a pseudonym for Trump. After her lawyer announced the decision, Daniels wrote on Twitter: “Yup. Another win.” But they haven’t all been wins for Daniels. She also sued Trump for defamation after the president’s comments on Twitter that a man she said threatened her to stay quiet about their alleged affair in 2011 was “nonexistent.” Trump also posted side-by-side photos of the composite sketch of the man making the threats and Daniels’ husband. The defamation lawsuit was thrown out and Daniels is appealing the decision and an order to pay Trump almost $ 300,000 in attorney fees. A judge in that case ruled Trump’s statements on Twitter were protected speech under the First Amendment. Since Trump’s election, Daniels has remained in the adult entertainment industry, using her new fame to promote strip club appearances and shows, including her latest venture called “Spooky Babes Paranormal Show” where she said she is leading a team of investigators to hunt ghosts and get answers for people here on Earth. She also still takes shots at the president on Twitter. Meanwhile, Cohen pleaded guilty to campaign finance charges and lying to Congress, among other crimes, and was sentenced to three years in prison in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-ordered-to-pay-44-100-in-stormy-daniels-legal-fees/story-SKz1mkmFHbFsa4uVUSftTL.html
23-08-2020||World||Coronavirus spread largely among under 40-year-olds in France: Health minister||The new coronavirus is circulating four times more among people under 40 in France than over among 65-year-olds, France’s health minister said, though he warned that contamination was on the rise among the elderly and more vulnerable too. “We’re in a risky situation,” Olivier Veran said in an interview with France’s Journal Du Dimanche (JDD) published on Sunday, adding that the higher number of cases being detected was not solely down to more testing. Like President Emmanuel Macron, Veran ruled out the need for another total lockdown to combat the spread of the disease. But he said localised measures could be taken as cases grow in France and elsewhere. “This is not a French exception, it’s a European dynamic,” Veran said. France reported a 3,602 hike in new Covid-19 infections over the past 24 hours on Saturday, a smaller rise than the previous day. Earlier in the week, however, the number of daily cases reached a post-lockdown high. The number of people being hospitalised and needing intensive care has gone up and down. Veran said the cross-contamination between groups of the population - younger people between the ages of 2- to 40 and their elders - was already taking place. “New measures will be implemented shortly,” Veran said, without elaborating. Parties and gatherings where social distancing rules were not being respected were now the main source of contagion, Veran added, as opposed to earlier in the summer when it had been in the workplace.In many cases, younger carriers of the virus were asymptomatic or suffered fewer complications, Veran said. Police in Paris are gearing up for possible soccer celebrations on Sunday night as Paris St Germain takes on Bayern Munich in the Champions League final, and officials said they would enforce mask wearing and distribute protective gear in sites like the Champs Elysee avenue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-spread-largely-among-under-40-year-olds-in-france-health-minister/story-YnGODhNFJ3mjBHX9wWKzBN.html
23-08-2020||World||Jump in Seoul’s Covid-19 cases sparks fear of spread||A flare-up of coronavirus cases in Seoul over the weekend may point to the beginning of a nationwide spread, a breakdown of the country’s daily virus data showed.South Korea recorded 397 new virus cases on Sunday. One hundred of those cases were reported outside the capital’s metropolitan area.The nation of 50 million people has recorded a total of 17,399 infections and 309 fatalities so far, according to data from the Korea Centers for Disease Control & Prevention.A possible second wave of cases has spurred talk of enforcing the strongest social-distancing restrictions the government can apply, which includes the prohibition of meetings and events of 10 people or more. Rising infections have also bolstered speculation that there could be a second round of cash handouts and another extra budget.South Korea in June adopted a social-distancing system with three levels of restrictions. The government as of Sunday had expanded level 2 social-distancing rules, already in place in the Seoul Metropolitan area and Busan, to the rest of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/jump-in-seoul-s-covid-19-cases-sparks-fear-of-spread/story-SqpIEZjXnVbaqSLzEWrsJI.html
23-08-2020||World||Police shoot, kill Black man outside store in Louisiana||The mother of a man fatally shot by Louisiana police said her son was intelligent, shy and had sought therapy for social anxiety. Her lawyers said they plan to sue over the death of Trayford Pellerin, who police said had a knife and was trying to enter a convenience store.The shooting Friday night was captured on video, and the state ACLU condemned what it described as a “horrific and deadly incident of police violence against a Black person.” Both the ACLU and the Southern Poverty Law Center quickly called for an investigation.Also read: London police defend smashing car window of man after racism complaintPellerin’s death prompted a crowd of protesters to gather Saturday and demonstrate against the latest fatal police shooting. Officers in riot gear fired what appeared to be tear gas on Saturday night after ordering the crowd to disperse.Louisiana State Police said Lafayette officers followed Pellerin, 31, on foot as he left a convenience store where he had created a disturbance with a knife about 8 p.m. Friday. Stun guns failed to stop him, and the officers shot Pellerin as he tried to enter another convenience store, still with the knife, according to a news release.Pellerin became anxious in groups and may have been frightened by the officers, Michelle Pellerin told The Advocate. He had sought professional help earlier this year, she said.“Instead of giving him a helping hand they gave him bullets,” national civil rights attorney Ben Crump told the newspaper. He and Baton Rouge attorney Ronald Haley said they have begun their own investigation by interviewing witnesses. Some said Pellerin was not armed, Haley said.Also read: Masked mourners brave heat, Covid-19 fears to honour John LewisThe family believes Pellerin may have been having a mental health crisis, Crump said.Lafayette police asked state police to investigate — standard procedure in the state for shootings by local officers.“Lafayette police shot Mr. Pellerin several times as he walked away from them,” Margaret Huang, president and CEO of the Southern Poverty Law Center, said in an emailed statement. “His killing demands an analysis of the excessive use of force by law enforcement. We fully support movement leaders’ calls for a swift and transparent investigation into Mr. Pellerin’s killing.”State ACLU executive director Alanah Odoms Hebert said, “Once again, video footage has captured a horrific and deadly incident of police violence against a Black person who was brutally killed in front of our eyes.”Captured on video, the May 25 death of George Floyd under the knee of a white Minneapolis police officer sparked a global reckoning over police tactics and racial injustice.“Trayford Pellerin should be alive today. Instead, a family is mourning and a community is grieving,” her statement said. “None of our communities are safe when the police can murder people with impunity or when routine encounters escalate into deadly shooting sprees.”Rikasha Montgomery, who took a video of the shooting, told The Advertiser that a man holding what looked like a knife kept walking down the highway while some officers fired stun guns at him. Officers holding guns shouted at him to get onto the ground, said Montgomery, 18.She said they fired when the man reached the door of a Shell gas station.“When I heard the gunshots, I couldn’t hold my phone like I was first filming,” she said. “I feel kind of scared about it. I’m traumatized. You’re so used to hearing about this, but I never thought I would experience it.”Crump, representing Pellerin’s family, called the shooting reckless and his death tragic.“The officers involved should be fired immediately for their abhorrent and fatal actions,” Crump said in a statement Saturday.The incident was the third shooting by Lafayette police since mid-July. State police said a man was critically wounded last month after being shot during an altercation with police. Another man was in stable condition after being shot during a burglary investigation earlier this month.Haley told The Advocate that he and Crump will be seeking reform and policy changes in the police department as well as damages.“We want policy changes as well, so that Ben and I are not in the living room with another family in Lafayette dealing with this,” Haley said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/police-shoot-kill-black-man-outside-store-in-louisiana/story-YRrSXEXLDsxYvPMsukJKWK.html
23-08-2020||World||With China tensions rising, US joins Taiwan to mark battle anniversary||The de facto US ambassador in Taipei joined for the first time on Sunday a Taiwanese leader, amid rising tensions with Beijing, to commemorate a key military clash and the last time Taiwanese forces joined battle with China on a large scale.China, which claims Taiwan as its own, has stepped up military activity around the democratic island, moves denounced by Taiwan’s government as an attempt at intimidation to force them to accept Chinese rule.Taiwan President Tsai Ing-wen laid a wreath and bowed her head in respect at a memorial park on Kinmen island, which sits a few kilometres (miles) off the Chinese metropolis of Xiamen, to mark the 62nd anniversary of the start of the second Taiwan Straits crisis. In August 1958, Chinese forces began more than a month of bombarding Kinmen, along with the Taiwan-controlled Matsu archipelago further up the coast, including naval and air battles, seeking to force them into submission. Brent Christensen, head of the American Institute in Taiwan and Washington’s de facto representative, offered his respects too, standing behind Tsai, in a symbolic show of US support for the island. Washington has no formal ties with Taipei but is its largest arms supplier. The administration of President Donald Trump has made bolstering relations a priority, to Beijing’s anger.Like Tsai, Christensen did not make public comments.Taiwan fought back at the time with support from the United States, which sent military equipment like advanced Sidewinder anti-aircraft missiles, giving Taiwan a technological edge. The crisis ended in a stalemate.Major General Liu Qiang-hua, spokesman for the Kinmen garrison, said it was important to remember an event that was so crucial to ensuring Taiwan’s security.“Of course we hope there is no war, but it is dangerous to forget about war. This is the spirit we need to safeguard,” he told Reuters.Formerly called Quemoy in English, Kinmen today is a popular tourist destination, though remnants of past fighting like underground bunkers are scattered across the island, and Taiwan maintains a significant military presence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/with-china-tensions-rising-us-joins-taiwan-to-mark-battle-anniversary/story-ELr9JE8HAenkRQHYHj2THJ.html
23-08-2020||World||China successfully launches new optical remote-sensing satellite||China successfully launched a new optical remote-sensing satellite from its Jiuquan Satellite Launch Centre in northwest China on Sunday.The satellite, Gaofen-9 05, was sent into orbit by a Long March-2D carrier rocket.A multifunctional test satellite and another satellite named Tiantuo-5 were also launched via the rocket.Sunday’s launch was the 343rd mission of the Long March rocket series, state-run Xinhua news agency reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-successfully-launches-new-optical-remote-sensing-satellite/story-uQr3EOIE6beZGicc8WFqOP.html
23-08-2020||World||‘4 more years’: Trump campaign woos Indian Americans with ‘Howdy Modi’, ‘Namaste Trump’||The race for Indian American votes is well underway. The Trump campaign on Saturday released a video that seeks to rally Indian American voters for “4 More Years” for President Donald Trump using clips from the “Howdy Modi” and “Namaste Trump” events that he addressed with Prime Minister Narendra Modi.“America enjoys a great relationship with India and our campaign enjoys great support from Indian Americans!” Kimberly Guilfoyle, national chair of the Trump Victory Finance Committee, wrote in a tweet with the short video, which is headlined “4 More Years”. Donald Trump Jr, president’s eldest son and Guilfoyle’s partner, retweeted the post.“4 More Years” opens with a panoramic view of the stands of the stadium that hosted the “Howdy Modi” event in September 2019, and the cheering crowds.Also read: Donald Trump says could ‘decouple’ and not do business with ChinaThe video cuts to PM Modi as he introduces Trump who is standing with him on the stage. “Mr President, you had introduced me to your family in 2017,” Modi says in a clip from the event, and adds, gesturing towards the audience, “And today, I have the honour to introduce you to my family.”The video then jumps to the “Namaste Trump” event in Ahmedabad, the American leader’s first visit to India, in February. There are shots of Modi and Trump, hugging and then waving to the audience with First Lady Melania Trump.“America loves India,” Trump says in a clip from the event. “America respects India, and America will always be a faithful and loyal friend to the Indian people.”The video marks the campaign’s most visible pitch yet to the 1.2 million Indian American voters and comes around the start of the Republican party convention on Monday to officially nominate President Trump for a second term with Mike Pence as his vice-president.Nikki Haley, the Indian American considered a potential presidential candidate at some time, will bring more firepower as one of the speakers at the convention. The former ambassador to the UN and ex-governor of South Carolina is well regarded in the Indian American community, The Biden campaign had launched a major outreach to the Indian American community in the run-up to the Democratic party convention to nominate Joe Biden and Kamala Harris for president and vice-president respectively. At a virtual Indian Independence Day celebration, Biden had vowed to stand with India, as he did before. And in an expansive agenda released by the campaign, the nominee had promised to check China’s ‘impunity” along the border and not tolerate cross-border terrorism.Al Mason, who conceptualized the “4 More Year” video, said, “The video depicts great friendship and love between India- US - cemented by the emotional bond between Prime Minister Modi and President Trump. Trump is much loved by the community.”Mason leads Trump campaign’s outreach to the Indian American community and is the co-chair of the Trump Victory Indian-American Finance Committee. The video, he added, “will evoke mega support in terms of fund raising at the grass root level and votes for President Trump in battleground states — a must win for Trump”.Both Trump and Biden are wooing the Indian American with an eye on the battleground states of Michigan, Wisconsin, Pennsylvania and Florida, which are likely to be won and lost by wafer-thin margins.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/4-more-years-trump-campaign-woos-indian-americans-with-howdy-modi-namaste-trump/story-ExSTlHE9flOo4TdqmWGjOM.html
23-08-2020||World||Donald Trump says could ‘decouple’ and not do business with China||US president Donald Trump, in a Fox News interview airing Sunday, raised the possibility of decoupling the U.S. economy from China, a major purchaser of US goods.In a video excerpt, Trump initially told interviewer Steve Hilton “we don’t have to” do business with China, and then later said about decoupling: “Well it’s something that if they don’t treat us right I would certainly, I would certainly do that.”Trump entered into a high-stakes trade war with China before reaching a partial Phase 1 trade deal in January. Trump has since shut the door on Phase 2 negotiations, saying he was unhappy with Beijing’s handling of the pandemic.In June US Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said a decoupling of the US and Chinese economies will result if US companies are not allowed to compete on a fair and level basis in China’s economy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-says-could-decouple-and-not-do-business-with-china/story-66rSCsWyPGX7qPGkJrjlVL.html
23-08-2020||World||Donald Trump accuses FDA of delaying human trials of potential Covid-19 vaccines||US president Donald Trump on Saturday accused the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) of trying to delay human trials of vaccine candidates against the coronavirus disease until after November 3, the day the United States goes to polls.“The deep state, or whoever, over at the FDA is making it very difficult for drug companies to get people in order to test the vaccines and therapeutics. Obviously, they are hoping to delay the answer until after November 3rd. Must focus on speed, and saving lives! @SteveFDA,” he wrote on Twitter tagging FDA commissioner Stephen Hahn.Trump, however, did not share any evidence of the claim he made. The comment apparently came after a Reuters report on Thursday that quoted a top FDA official saying he would resign if the Trump administration approved a vaccine before it was shown to be safe and effective.Trump’s “dangerous statement” drew a sharp response from US House speaker Nancy Pelosi who said the president’s attempt to influence the decisions of the FDA can jeopardise the health and well-being of all Americans.Pelosi said the drug regulatory body must not give in to the political pressure and approve drugs or vaccines based on their safety and effectiveness.“The FDA must approve drugs or vaccines based on their safety and effectiveness – NOT political pressure from the White House. The President’s dangerous attempt to inject himself into the scientific decisions of @US_FDA jeopardizes the health & well-being of all Americans,” she tweeted.Also read| The bully pulpit: Donald Trump pushes Washington, but coronavirus resistsScientists, public health officials and lawmakers have expressed concern over Trump’s push for early clearance of a vaccine by the FDA in a bid to get an edge in the upcoming US polls.Peter Marks, director of the Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research, said last week he would resign if the agency rubber-stamped an unproven vaccine.The US has reported 5,666,673 confirmed cases of the coronavirus disease while the toll due to the infection stands at 176,345, according to the Johns Hopkins University’s tracker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-accuses-fda-of-delaying-human-trials-of-potential-covid-19-vaccines/story-8tgQiCyU0s1uqtcNeAxYgK.html
23-08-2020||World||Mali’s coup leaders meet mediators seeking return to civilian rule||A key meeting on Saturday between Mali’s coup leaders and mediators from West Africa’s regional bloc seeking a return to civilian rule ended after just 20 minutes.Tuesday’s overthrow of Mali President Ibrahim Boubacar Keita has been condemned abroad, but celebrated by many in a country battling an Islamist insurgency and months of political unrest.A delegation from the 15-nation Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) earlier arrived in the capital, Bamako, for talks aimed at reversing the overthrow of Keita.The bloc has taken a hard line on the coup, shutting borders and halting financial flows - a move diplomats said was as much about warning opponents at home as stabilising Mali.Ahead of a series of meetings with the mutineers and other groups, the head of the delegation, Nigeria’s former President Goodluck Jonathan, sounded optimistic.“I believe at the end of the day we will come up with something that is best for the people and is good for ECOWAS and the international community,” he told journalists.The most-anticipated meeting was held in the defence ministry, where ECOWAS mediators in face masks sat at a long table opposite junta leader Assimi Goita, who wore a desert camouflage uniform and was flanked by other military officers in berets and fatigues, photos on Twitter showed.The talks were set to last 90 minutes, according to a provisional ECOWAS schedule, seen by Reuters. But the meeting ended after just 20 minutes, a Reuters reporter said.It was not clear if the schedule had been changed or talks were cut short. ECOWAS and the coup leaders, who call themselves the National Committee for the Salvation of the People (CNSP), have yet to comment on the discussions.The CNSP has controlled the country since Tuesday, when the mutineers detained Keita at gunpoint and forced him to resign. They have promised to oversee a transition to elections within a “reasonable” amount of time.The ouster of Keita, known as IBK, has been welcomed by many in Mali, which was rocked by months of protests calling for his resignation over alleged corruption and worsening security in areas where affiliates of al Qaeda and Islamic State are active.TEAR GASThe presidents of Ivory Coast and Guinea are among those pushing for the tough ECOWAS response, one diplomat said, as both have faced violent public protests to their third-term bids and want the bloc to show it will not allow power grabs in its own backyard.“They cannot tolerate this taking place. They are taking it very personally. It is on their doorstep and they think they are next,” a second regional diplomat said.After three days of post-coup calm in the capital Bamako, police used tear gas earlier on Saturday when a scuffle broke out between a group of 50 pro-Keita protesters and local residents who threw stones, an eyewitness told Reuters.“Reinstating IBK is out of the question. The only thing they (the delegation) can achieve is the transition. Under the rules of ECOWAS, ECOWAS should midwife the transition,” one of the diplomats said, referring to the outcome of the delegation’s visit.On Friday, thousands of the coup’s supporters gathered in a central square in Bamako to celebrate the takeover. There is no outward sign ECOWAS’s suspension of financial relations is yet being felt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mali-s-coup-leaders-meet-mediators-seeking-return-to-civilian-rule/story-UjVoKsBMdSIfZ4nLkxds8L.html
23-08-2020||World||Irish PM to recall parliament as politicians flout Covid-19 guidelines||Irish premier Micheal Martin announced Sunday he would recall parliament following a scandal over politicians breaching coronavirus rules, for which he urged EU trade commissioner Phil Hogan to consider resigning.Martin and his coalition government partners, deputy prime minister Leo Varadkar and cabinet minister Eamon Ryan, “have agreed that the Dail (parliament) should be recalled”, a spokesman said.The news came after two days of political turmoil following revelations that swathes of lawmakers and senior politicians attended a parliamentary golf society dinner in breach of coronavirus guidelines.The Irish Examiner newspaper revealed 82 high profile figures -- including Hogan, a cabinet minister and a supreme court judge -- attended the Oireachtas (parliament) Golf Society dinner on Wednesday night.The event was held just 24 hours after the government announced fresh COVID-19 restrictions to curb a new surge in cases, including no “formal or informal events or parties” to be held at hotel restaurants.It was reported that attendees at the dinner sat at tables of ten in breach of coronavirus guidelines, and organisers erected a room divider in a bid to skirt legislation banning gatherings of more than 50.But police on Friday said they had opened an investigation into the event for alleged breaches of that same legislation.Martin and Varadkar -- the head of Fine Gael, the party for which Hogan previously served as a lawmaker -- said on Saturday they had “asked him to consider his position”.A spokesman for Hogan told state broadcaster RTE on Saturday he would “reflect on” the request.Irish agriculture minister Dara Calleary and deputy chair of the parliament’s upper chamber Jerry Buttimer have both already resigned for their attendance at the event.Hogan -- who was a lawmaker in Ireland’s upper and lower parliaments between 1987 and 2014 -- initially said he had been assured the dinner would comply with government guidelines.The 60 year-old, who served as Ireland’s environment minister from 2011 to 2014 before becoming EU trade commissioner last year, later issued a statement apologising for “the distress caused by his participation”, according to RTE.But a spokesman for Martin said: “The commissioner’s apology came late and... he still needs to give a full account and explanations of his actions.”Martin and Varadkar “both believe that the event should never have been held,” he added.A government spokesman said the request to recall parliament will be made to the chamber chair on Monday.The coalition partners agreed parliament should return after schools have reopened over the next two weeks, following their closure in March due to coronavirus.jts/ar/tom||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/irish-pm-to-recall-parliament-as-politicians-flout-covid-19-guidelines/story-o5lBm3CNplB0pQYUDBTrGL.html
23-08-2020||World||TikTok plans to file suit against Donald Trump’s order to ban app||TikTok plans to file a lawsuit against the Trump administration to challenge its executive order banning transactions with the video app in the US, the company said Saturday.TikTok said it “strongly disagreed” with the concerns raised by President Donald Trump as he ordered on August 6 to ban the app from the US within 45 days. He subsequently gave it a 90-day deadline to divest its US operations.“What we encountered instead was a lack of due process as the Administration paid no attention to facts and tried to insert itself into negotiations between private businesses,” a TikTok spokesperson said in a statement. “To ensure that the rule of law is not discarded and that our company and users are treated fairly, we have no choice but to challenge the Executive Order through the judicial system.”Also read: How to download your videos from TikTok before you lose access to the appTikTok didn’t say which court it plans to use. The company added that it tried to work out a solution to address the US concerns for almost a year.Trump made the order under a 1977 law that lets the US president declare a national emergency in response to an “unusual and extraordinary threat,” allowing him to block transactions and seize assets.TikTok, owned by China-based ByteDance Ltd., has been fielding interest in its operations in the US and a handful of other countries. Microsoft Corp. has publicly confirmed its interest to buy TikTok’s business in the US, Canada, Australia and New Zealand. Other companies, including Oracle Corp. and Twitter Inc., have also emerged as potential bidders.Also read: Massive breach exposes data of 235 mn Instagram, TikTok, YouTube usersReuters previously reported on TikTok’s plan to file the lawsuit as soon as Monday.Separately, an employee lawsuit against the proposed US ban, independent from the company’s official legal response, is being funded under crowdfunding campaign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tiktok-plans-to-file-suit-against-donald-trump-s-order-to-ban-app/story-Ks2npnOcZjHHoIaI4EK8ZP.html
23-08-2020||World||In just a week, wildfires burn 1 million acres in California||Firefighters in California were racing to slow the spread of wildfires that burned nearly one million acres in a week and destroyed hundreds of homes as weekend weather threatened to spark new fires and overwhelm the state’s firefighting ability. Responding to the emergency, President Donald Trump issued on Saturday a major disaster declaration to provide federal assistance. Gov. Gavin Newsom said in a statement that the declaration will also help people in counties affected by the fires with crisis counseling, housing and other social services. Two clusters of wildfires in the San Francisco Bay Area broke old records to become the second- and third-largest wildfires in recent state history by size.Also read| California wildfires among largest in state’s history: What we know so far Light winds, cooler and more humid nighttime weather helped fire crews make a bit of progress, but their efforts could be hurt by warm, dry weather, erratic wind gusts and lightning in the forecast, state fire officials said. The National Weather Service issued a red flag warning of high fire danger across the Bay Area and along the Central Coast, beginning from Sunday morning to Monday afternoon. “The worst is not behind us. We are in a battle rhythm,” California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection Chief Thom Porter tweeted. Since thousands of lightning strikes began on Aug. 15, the state responded to 585 wildfires that have burned nearly a million acres, or 1,562 square miles (4,046 square kilometers), according to CalFire. Many were small and remote. The bulk of damage was from three clusters of fire “complexes” that were ravaging forest and rural areas in the San Francisco Bay Area and wine country north of San Francisco. They have burned 1,045 square miles (2,700 square kilometers). The third one was burning in the Santa Cruz Mountains and along the coast of San Mateo County, south of San Francisco.The fires have killed five people, torched nearly 700 homes and other structures and forced tens of thousands from their houses. “Tuesday night when I went to bed I had a beautiful home on a beautiful ranch,” said 81-year-old Hank Hanson of Vacaville. “By Wednesday night I have nothing but a bunch of ashes.” Earlier in the week, fire officials in charge of each of the major wildfires said they were strapped for resources. Some firefighters were working 72-hour shifts instead of the usual 24 hours. By Friday, the approximately 13,700 firefighters on the line began to get help on the ground and in the air from 10 states, along with the National Guard and US military.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/in-just-a-week-wildfires-burn-1-million-acres-in-california/story-kBsq6bOAaqMyxfdUCRJIPJ.html
23-08-2020||World||Kanye West eyes US Presidential dream, files to appear on ballot in Louisiana||Rapper Kanye West has filed paperwork to appear on the presidential ballot in Louisiana in November.West’s filing Friday, just ahead of the deadline, lists himself as a candidate for “The Birthday Party” along with vice presidential running mate, Michelle Tidball, The Advocate reported. Including West, at least 11 third-party or independent presidential candidates filed to appear on the Louisiana ballot by Friday’s 4:30 p.m. deadline.The rapper announced his independent bid last month in a tweet on Independence Day after publicly tossing around the idea for years. His campaign submitted papers to the Federal Election Commission to run less than two weeks later. But West’s campaign has struggled to meet deadlines to make it onto the ballot in several other states, including Wisconsin. Filing deadlines in six states had already passed by the time West announced his bid.Louisiana officials did not immediately review the filing. Unlike other states, Louisiana does not require independent candidates to obtain thousands of signatures on a nominating petition to appear on the ballot. A candidate may instead pay a $500 filing fee.The Advocate reported that a phone call to the number listed on the filing went unanswered. West’s filing listed a post office box in Cody, Wyoming, as the campaign’s address. Tidball, a self-described “biblical life coach,” is from Wyoming, and West owns a mansion and 1,400-acre ranch in the state.West’s request to appear on the ballot includes a list of eight Louisiana residents who’d serve as would-be electors at the electoral college were the rapper to win the presidential vote in the state. None appeared to have an active history in Louisiana politics. Six of them were listed as Republicans; the other two listed themselves as unaffiliated with any party, the newspaper reported.In other states, Republican operatives and vocal supporters of President Donald Trump have worked to boost West’s candidacy and secure his spot on the ballot. Critics contend West’s last-minute run — and the apparent GOP support it’s received — is a ploy to swipe votes from Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden, especially in key swing states. Trump carried Louisiana in the 2016 election by nearly 20 percentage points.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kanye-west-eyes-us-presidential-dream-files-to-appear-on-ballot-in-louisiana/story-AjKixBwZzq2T1RHbAPk62I.html
23-08-2020||World||Coronavirus pandemic: US faces back-to-school laptop shortage||Schools across the United States are facing shortages and long delays, of up to several months, in getting this year’s most crucial back-to-school supplies: the laptops and other equipment needed for online learning, an Associated Press investigation has found.The world’s three biggest computer companies, Lenovo, HP and Dell, have told school districts they have a shortage of nearly 5 million laptops, in some cases exacerbated by Trump administration sanctions on Chinese suppliers.As the school year begins virtually in many places because of the coronavirus, educators nationwide worry that computer shortfalls will compound the inequities — and the headaches for students, families and teachers.“This is going to be like asking an artist to paint a picture without paint. You can’t have a kid do distance learning without a computer,” said Tom Baumgarten, superintendent of the Morongo County School District in California’s Mojave Desert, where all 8,000 students qualify for free lunch and most need computers for distance learning.Baumgarten ordered 5,000 HP laptops in July and was told they would arrive in time for the first day of school Aug. 26. The delivery date then changed to September, then October. The district has about 4,000 old laptops that can serve roughly half of students, but what about the rest, Baumgarten asks rhetorically. “I’m very concerned that I’m not going to be able to get everyone a computer.”Chromebooks and other low-cost PCs are the computers of choice for most budget-strapped schools. The delays started in the spring and intensified because of high demand and disruptions of supply chains, the same reasons that toilet paper and other pandemic necessities flew off shelves a few months ago. Then came the Trump administration’s July 20 announcement targeting Chinese companies it says were implicated in forced labor or other human rights abuses. The Commerce Department imposed sanctions on 11 Chinese companies, including the manufacturer of multiple models of Lenovo laptops, which the company says will add several weeks to existing delays, according to a letter Lenovo sent to customers.School districts are pleading with the Trump administration to resolve the issue, saying that distance learning without laptops will amount to no learning for some of the country’s most vulnerable students.“It’s a tough one because I’m not condoning child slave labor for computers, but can we not hurt more children in the process?” said Matt Bartenhagen, IT director for Williston Public Schools in North Dakota. The district has been told its order of 2,000 Lenovo Chromebooks will “hopefully” arrive sometime in the fourth quarter.There are no nationwide tallies on the numbers of laptops and other devices that schools are waiting for but the shortages and backorders are affecting school districts in more than 15 states, according to interviews with school districts around the country, suppliers, computer companies and industry analysts.A recent poll of California’s 1,100 districts showed schools across the state are waiting on at least 300,000 backordered computers, said Mary Nicely, a senior policy advisor to the state superintendent.The Denver Public Schools district, the largest in Colorado, is waiting for 12,500 Lenovo Chromebooks ordered in April and May. The district has scrambled to find machines and settled for whatever is available. Still, when school starts Wednesday, they will be about 3,000 devices short, says Lara Hussain, an IT director for the district.Lenovo had informed Denver and other customers months ago of supply chain delays. In late July, Lenovo sent a letter to say the Commerce Department’s “trade controls” would cause another slowdown. The letter listed 23 Lenovo models made by their Chinese supplier, Hefei Bitland Information Technology Co. Ltd.“Effective immediately, we are no longer manufacturing these devices at Bitland,” the letter said, adding that Lenovo is shifting production to other sites.A Lenovo official told California’s Department of Education the company has a backlog of more than 3 million Chromebooks, said Daniel Thigpen, the department’s spokesman.Lenovo declined to respond to repeated questions from AP seeking confirmation of the backlog and details on the numbers of devices delayed.The Department of Commerce said it added Hefei Bitland to its so-called Entity List, which restricts the export and in-country transfer of items by sanctioned companies. “It does not apply to the importation of Chromebooks from China,” the department said in a statement, adding, however, “we should all agree that American school children should not be using computers from China that were produced from forced labor.”Tom Quiambao, IT director for the Tracy Unified School District in Northern California, said he and his vendor contacted HP to ask why his July order for 10,000 HP laptops would take three months. He was told, “HP is short 1.7 million units of laptops” because of production shortages in a variety of components made in China, Quiambao said.An HP spokeswoman declined to confirm or deny that number, saying only “we are continuing to leverage our global supply chain to meet the changing needs of our customer.”Dell offered a similarly opaque response to detailed questions about a backlog.“We can’t comment on demand and supply specifically,” Dell said in an emailed statement, adding the company was seeing increased orders due to virtual learning and trying “to fulfill orders as efficiently as possible.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-pandemic-us-faces-back-to-school-laptop-shortage/story-eqiGAh0vDLh8xQNvvOsDDP.html
23-08-2020||World||‘Ignore’ Trump, Pelosi says, as House debates postal funds||The House is meeting for a rare Saturday session over mail delivery disruptions, poised to approve legislation that would reverse recent changes in US Postal Service operations and send $25 billion in emergency funds to shore up the agency ahead of the November election.Speaker Nancy Pelosi recalled lawmakers to Washington for the debate over objections from Republicans. President Donald Trump often rails against mail-in ballots, including in a Saturday tweet, and has said he wants to block extra funds for the Postal Service.“Don’t pay any attention to what the president is saying, because it is all designed to suppress the vote,” Pelosi told reporters at the Capitol.The daylong Saturday session comes as an uproar over mail interference puts the Postal Service at the center of the nation’s tumultuous election year, with Americans rallying around one of the nation’s oldest and more popular institutions. Millions of people are expected to opt for mail-in ballots to avoid polling places during the coronavirus pandemic.New Postmaster General Louis DeJoy testified Friday in the Senate that his “No. 1 priority” is to ensure election mail arrives on time.But the new postal leader, a Trump ally, said he would not restore the cuts to mailboxes and sorting equipment that have already been made. He could not provide senators with a plan for handling the ballot crush for the election.“We are here today because our democracy is being eroded by this administration,” said Rep. Jim McGovern, D-Mass., the chairman of the rules committee, opening debate.He argued that Trump is trying to halt mail-in ballots, afraid that so many Americans will vote he could lose the White House.But Republicans countered that complaints about mail delivery disruptions are overblown, and no emergency funding is needed right now.“Do we need that money? Absolutely no,” said Rep. Tom Cole, R-Okla. “It’s a silly, silly bill.”Despite the postmaster general’s vow election mail will arrive on time, Democrats remain skeptical the Postal Service has the resources it needs to handle the onslaught during the pandemic crisis. They are pushing ahead with legislation to be sure.The bill would reverse the cuts and provide funds to the agency. With the majority, Democrats are expected to easily pass the legislation.But Republicans are unlikely to sign on, and the bill is certain to stall in the GOP-held Senate.In a memo to House Republicans, leaders derided the legislation as a postal “conspiracy theory” act.Nevertheless, Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell is eyeing a $10 billion postal rescue as part of the next COVID-19 relief package. While Trump has said he wants to block emergency funding for the agency, the White House has said it would be open to more postal funding as part of a broader bill.Hundreds of lawmakers are returning to Washington for the weekend session, but dozens will cast votes by proxy under House rules that allow them to stay away during the COVID-19 crisis.The Postal Service has been struggling financially under a decline in mail volume, COVID-19-related costs and a rare and cumbersome congressional requirement to fund in advance its retiree health care benefits.For many, the Postal Service provides a lifeline, delivering not just cards and letters but also prescription drugs, financial statements and other items that are especially needed by mail during the pandemic.The postal board of governors, appointed by Trump, selected DeJoy to take the job as postmaster general. A GOP donor, he previously owned a logistics business that was a longtime Postal Service contractor. He maintains significant financial stakes in companies that do business or compete with the agency, raising conflict of interest questions.In a statement, the Postal Service said DeJoy has made all required financial disclosures, but he might have to divest some holdings if conflicts arise.Republicans have long sought changes to have the agency run more like a private company, and Trump often complains the Postal Service should be charging Amazon and other companies higher rates for package deliveries. The founder of Amazon, Jeff Bezos, also owns The Washington Post, a publication that Trump frequently derides as “fake news” over critical stories of him.Others say the Postal Service is not expected to be solely a money-making enterprise, often delivering to far-flung places where it is not efficient to operate.___Associated Press writers Anthony Izaguirre in Charleston, W.Va., and Christina A. Cassidy in Atlanta contributed to this report.___The Associated Press produced this coverage with support from the Carnegie Corporation of New York.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ignore-trump-pelosi-says-as-house-debates-postal-funds/story-YraxygAduYantOXsMwsQ7L.html
23-08-2020||World||At least 13 crushed to death as Peru police raid clandestine club party||At least 13 people were crushed to death or asphyxiated as playgoers tried to flee a Lima nightclub raided by police because it was open in violation of restrictions imposed to fight the coronavirus pandemic, officials said.At least six were injured, including three police officers, as around 120 people tried to escape the Thomas Restobar club on Saturday night as police arrived to break up a party on its second floor, national police and government officials said.Neighbors had alerted police about the raucous event at the club in the Los Olivos district of the Peruvian capital.“In these circumstances when people begin to fight to get out, it’s tumultuous, everyone goes against each other,” Orlando Velasco of the National Police told local radio station RPP.An Interior Ministry statement said the revellers tried to squeeze en masse through the only entrance door and became trapped between the door and a staircase leading to the street.Police detained at least 23 partygoers, the ministry said.Peru ordered the closure of nightclubs and bars in March and banned extended family gatherings on Aug. 12 to fight what is Latin America’s second highest COVID-19 infection rate, according to a Reuters tally. A Sunday curfew is also in effect.Peru had recorded a total of 585,236 coronavirus cases as of Saturday, double the number reported on July 2, while the known death toll has risen to 27,453.(Reporting by Marco Aquino; Writing by Cassandra Garrison; Editing by Mark Heinrich)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/at-least-13-crushed-to-death-as-peru-police-raid-clandestine-club-party/story-uaK8UsOuw1TbJqeSUQbjaJ.html
