29-08-2020||World||Trump calls Harris ‘not competent’ in escalating exchange of attacks||President Donald Trump is ratcheting up his attacks on Kamala Harris, the Democratic nominee for vice-president. He said on Friday she was “not competent” to be president.Trump has been attacking Harris, the first Indian American and Black woman ever to run for president, from the day she was picked by Joe Biden, the Democratic nominee for president, as his running mate. The president had been far more indulgent before, saying, in July; she would be a “fine choice”.Attacking Biden at a rally in New Hampshire on Friday, Trump cross-haired Harris. “Joe Biden is running on the most extreme far-left platform of any nominee in American history. And if our foreign adversaries were devising a plan to destroy the United States from within, all they have to look is at Biden-Harris-- how bout her? Is she a beauty? What a beauty that is,” he said.Trump picked on Harris’s own failed run for the Democratic presidential nomination. “She was terrible. And this would be your president? Possibly? I don’t think so. You know, I want to see the first woman president also, but I don’t want to see a woman president get into that position the way she’d do it. And she’s not competent. She’s not competent,” he said.Harris, a former prosecutor and US senator, has not shied away from giving it back, without the kind of personal attacks and insults used by the president some times. “At its most basic level, Donald Trump doesn’t understand the presidency,” Harris said in her prebuttal to Trump’s acceptance speech at the Republican convention. She was referring to the Trump administration’s handling of the Covid-19 epidemic that has killed nearly 180,000 American and infected around 6 million. The Biden-Harris campaign has cited the president’s handling of the worst public health crisis in 100 years as its argument against him, seeking to tap into widespread disaffection among Americans with his response to the epidemic — 68% of those polled disapprove of his performance in an AP-NORC poll released Monday, the first day of the Republican convention.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-calls-harris-not-competent-in-escalating-exchange-of-attacks/story-9HM3IspsBuSC08igYZtJbN.html
29-08-2020||World||Pakistani court convicts 3 LeT and JuD leaders, including Hafiz Saeed’s brother-in-law||A Pakistani court has convicted three leaders of the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Jamaat-ud-Dawah (JuD), including LeT founder Hafiz Saeed’s brother-in-law Abdul Rahman Makki, in a case of terror financing and given them prison terms ranging from 18 months to more than 16 years. Makki, a top JuD leader for whom the US state department has announced a reward of $2 million, Malik Zafar Iqbal and Hafiz Abdul Salam Bhuttavi were convicted by judge Ejaz Ahmad Buttar of an anti-terrorism court in Lahore on Friday. The court gave a collective prison term of 16-and-a-half years to Iqbal and Bhuttavi while Makki received a jail term of one-and-a-half years, according to reports in the Pakistani media. Iqbal and Salam were also fined Rs170,000 while Makki was directed to pay a fine of Rs 20,000. Iqbal and Bhuttavi were named in one of the two statutory regulatory orders issued by Pakistan’s foreign ministry on August 18 to enforce UN Security Council sanctions against hundreds of terrorists and 93 terror entities. Iqbal was described in the notification as a senior leader and co-founder of LeT who has held various senior positions in LeT and JUD. “As of 2010, in-charge of LeT/JUD finance department, director of its education department and president of its medical wing,” the notification said. Bhuttavi was described as a founding member of LeT and deputy to Hafiz Saeed. Makki, designated a terrorist by the US treasury department in 2010, has not yet been sanctioned by the UN. He has headed LeT’s political affairs and foreign relations departments and played a key role in raising funds for the group. The case against the three men was filed by the Counter-Terrorism Department of Pakistan’s Punjab province. They were charged under several provisions of the Anti-Terrorism Act of 1997. In February, Hafiz Saeed and an aide were both given a five-and-a-half year jail term in two cases of terror financing by an anti-terrorism court in Lahore. The case against Saeed too was filed by the Counter-Terrorism Department. In the latest case, the prosecution said the three men had been using a property in Vehari district that was in the name of Al-Hamad Trust, a banned organisation, to achieve their objectives in terrorism. By using this property, the trust also raised funds for terrorism. The court ruled this property should be taken over by the state. The Counter-Terrorism Department had registered 23 FIRs against JuD leaders in different cities of Pakistan’s Punjab province. There was no immediate reaction from Indian officials to the conviction of the three men. Indian remains sceptical of action so far by Pakistan against LeT, JuD and other groups such as Jaish-e-Mohammed, with officials saying such steps were being taken with an eye on an upcoming assessment of the country’s counter-terror financing regime by the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) in October.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistani-court-convicts-3-let-and-jud-leaders-including-hafiz-saeed-s-brother-in-law/story-LcZeKW6g2WaVigsPh3YOHO.html
29-08-2020||World||Sinicise Tibetan Buddhism, build fortress around Tibet, says Xi Jinping||It is important to promote the “sinicisation” of Tibetan Buddhism and build an “impregnable fortress” to maintain stability in Tibet, President Xi Jinping said on Saturday.Xi added it was necessary to strengthen border defence and frontier security of the Tibet Autonomous Region (TAR), which borders India and Bhutan, adding it was necessary to educate Tibetans to strengthen the struggle against separatism.The Chinese President was addressing the country’s top leadership at a two-day forum on future governance in Tibet in Beijing, which concluded on Saturday.Beijing seized control over Tibet in 1950, in what is described in the Chinese narrative as a “peaceful liberation”, which aided the high-altitude Himalayan region to throw off its “feudalist” past.Exiled Tibetan groups, led by exiled spiritual leader the Dalai Lama, and rights groups say Beijing’s rule amounts to “cultural genocide”.Political and ideological education needed to be strengthened in Tibet’s schools in order to “plant the seeds of loving China in the depths of the hearts of every youth”, Xi said in remarks published by state news agency Xinhua.Xi was quoted as calling for efforts to ensure national security and enduring peace and stability, steadily improve people’s lives, maintain a good environment, solidify border defence and ensure frontier security.“It is necessary to strengthen the education and guidance of the masses, extensively mobilise the masses to participate in the struggle against separatism, and form a copper wall and iron wall (which translates as ‘impregnable fortress” in Mandarin) for maintaining stability,” he said.“Efforts must be made to build a new modern socialist Tibet that is united, prosperous, culturally advanced, harmonious and beautiful,” Xi said.“It is necessary to actively guide Tibetan Buddhism to adapt to the socialist society and promote the Sinicisation of Tibetan Buddhism,” he said.Sinicisation of religion could be broadly defined as an effort to mould religious beliefs and doctrine to bring them in line with the Communist Party of China’s principles and objectives, and with the culture of the majority Han community. Xi in 2015 spoke about sinicising the five major religions practised in China: Catholicism, Protestantism, Islam, Buddhism and Daoism.In 2019, Chinese state media announced that China had drawn up an outline to sinicise Islam by 2022 in an effort to redefine the practise of the religion and align the beliefs of Muslims with the CPC.China’s policies towards Tibet have come under the spotlight again this year amid Beijing’s deteriorating ties with Washington.In July, US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said the US would restrict visas for some Chinese officials involved in blocking diplomatic access to Tibet and engaging in “human rights abuses”, adding that Washington supported “meaningful autonomy” for Tibet.In a retaliatory move, China said it would impose visa restrictions on US citizens who have engaged in what it called “egregious” behaviour over Tibet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sinicise-tibetan-buddhism-build-fortress-around-tibet-says-xi-jinping/story-TwJo3hRZzX3X4ynStymgYK.html
29-08-2020||World||With the conventions now over, what’s next in campaign 2020?||President Donald Trump and Democrat Joe Biden have emerged from their presidential nominating conventions with each candidate believing he has a head of steam. Trump’s job approval ratings and standing in polls are perilously low for an incumbent, but Biden and other Democrats vividly remember 2016, when Trump made an against-all-odds October comeback and defeated Hillary Clinton.Five key questions as the 2020 campaign moves toward the fall home stretch:WHAT WILL A COVID-19 CAMPAIGN LOOK LIKE?Expect a flurry of travel and speeches as the candidates spend the next nine weeks desperately trying to move the needle and win new votes against the backdrop of a global pandemic.Trump is set to launch an aggressive travel schedule with multiple events a week, according to advisers. After an arena rally in Tulsa, Oklahoma, early this summer drew a paltry crowd, his campaign has settled on a new format in the age of the coronavirus: packing smaller crowds into open-air airport hangars. The campaign has also been handing out masks at its events and, on Friday, told attendees they would be mandatory, per local regulations. He’s also planning a series of policy speeches and is expected to continue to use the powers of his office — including signing executive orders and issuing pardons — to help his prospects.Biden is planning to ramp up travel to battleground states after Labor Day after spending most of the spring and summer at his home in Wilmington, Delaware, holding mostly virtual events, with only occasional travel to tightly controlled gatherings. Campaign co-chair Cedric Richmond said the former vice president will be active but emphasized that Biden’s events still will follow public health guidelines. That means no indoor, crowded rallies and lots of mask-wearing. Expect plenty of roundtables, meet-and-greets and question-and-answer sessions. If there are larger gatherings, the drive-in watch party outside Biden’s nomination acceptance address could be the blueprint.___WHOSE VERSION OF THE OTHER CONVINCES MORE VOTERS?Trump will continue trying to win back suburban, female and older voters, and win over independents and people who didn’t vote four years ago, by painting the election as a stark choice between law and order and anarchy and between a radical, socialist takeover and economic prosperity. Never mind that Biden has spent decades in the political establishment and California Sen. Kamala Harris, his running mate, is a former prosecutor. Trump will use every scare tactic he can muster.If his 2016 race is any indication, expect Trump to launch a scorched-earth strategy if he feels he’s losing come October. Realizing his only shot then was to drive up Clinton’s unfavorable ratings to match his own, Trump’s campaign used every trick they could think of, including inviting women who accused Bill Clinton of rape and unwanted sexual advances to appear at one of the debates.Attacks on Biden’s family? Accusations he’s drugged up or senile? There is no line Trump won’t cross to win.Biden will continue to hammer Trump as a fundamental threat to democracy and try to make the case that the president is a selfish, corrupt figure incapable of empathy. Biden will sell himself as a steady, experienced hand with a progressive policy agenda on issues including climate action and criminal justice -- just not as progressive as Trump tries to make him when he blasts Biden as the front man for a “radical” takeover.Biden’s campaign believes that he is enough of a known quantity that voters beyond Trump’s base simply won’t buy the president’s descriptions of the former vice president. If they are right, they see Trump’s base-driven campaign as one that opens up a wide coalition -- from progressives who aren’t in love with Biden to anti-Trump moderates Republicans -- for the Democratic ticket.___CORONAVIRUS AND AN OCTOBER SURPRISE?Biden has defined his White House bid from the start as a moral and competency case against Trump. The COVID-19 pandemic has only intensified the approach. Biden’s campaign believes there’s no cover for Trump with the coronavirus death toll surpassing 180,000 and climbing, cases nearing the 6 million mark, unemployment hovering in double digits and Congress at an impasse on further economic aid.In remarks Thursday before Trump’s nomination acceptance speech, Harris summarized the campaign’s thinking: “Trump’s incompetence is nothing new,” she said, “but in January of this year, it became deadly.” She said the incumbent “failed at the most basic and important job of a president ... to protect us.”Trump is hoping for a late development that could be a campaign game-changer: The release of a vaccine that would mark the beginning of the end of the pandemic on his watch, before Americans vote. His administration has been doing everything it can to accelerate the process, along with hyping new therapeutics, even when it’s not clear they work. “We’ll produce a vaccine before the end of the year, or maybe even sooner,” he said in his convention keynote. It’s unclear, however, whether science can deliver on his timetable.___HOW IMPORTANT ARE THE DEBATES?They’re crucial.The conventions largely succeeded in fulfilling both campaigns’ objectives, so the debates -- scheduled for Sept. 29, Oct. 15 and Oct. 22 -- will be the most high-profile opportunities for the candidates to highlight contrasts, animate core supporters and cajole the small but critical slice of persuadable voters.Biden and his team say they relish the idea of confronting Trump face to face. “The debates will give the V.P. the chance to call Trump on all of his B.S.,” Richmond said.It also will be another chance for the 77-year-old Democrat to work to dismantle Trump’s framing that Biden is too old for the job. Richmond said that narrative could backfire on Trump, himself a 74-year-old who regularly mangles syntax and offers meandering answers.Some in Trump’s camp seem to agree. After months of trying to cast Biden as feeble and mentally diminished, they’re now talking up Biden’s abilities as a way to try to lower expectations on Trump’s side.“Joe Biden is really good at debates,” Trump campaign adviser Jason Miller has been saying, portraying Biden as much more skilled than Hillary Clinton.___HOW LONG WILL IT TAKE TO HAVE A WINNER?It might not be on election night.The campaigns and national parties are engaged in lawsuits across many states, arguing over rules for absentee voting amid the pandemic, and that litigation could continue if results are close on Nov. 3.Republicans and Democrats alike are pushing their supporters to ask for absentee mail ballots, even as Trump continues to question the integrity of the election before a single vote is cast.Don’t expect that landscape to change between now and Election Day -- or even for several weeks afterward. Trump has refused to say whether he’ll accept the results if he loses, and Clinton has warned Biden not to concede if the election is remotely close.One thing is clear, though: The Constitution sets Inauguration Day as Jan. 20, and barring catastrophic developments, either Trump or Biden will take the oath of office that day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/with-the-conventions-now-over-what-s-next-in-campaign-2020/story-vay5pY2PMZdh6fMNM8zrEK.html
29-08-2020||World||UN expresses concern over ‘dramatic turn’ in Libya crisis||The United Nations on Saturday voiced alarm over what it called “a dramatic turn of events” in Libya’s civil war, after a power struggle between leaders of the Tripoli-based government surfaced in the wake of anti-corruption protests.“Libya is witnessing a dramatic turn of events that underlines the urgent need to return to a full and inclusive political process,” the UN support mission in Libya said.Protests over deteriorating economic conditions erupted earlier this week in the capital and elsewhere in western Libya, which is controlled by forces loyal to the UN-supported government.In Tripoli, local militia allied with the government opened fire on the demonstrators using rifles and truck-mounted guns, and abducted some of the protesters.Prime Minister Fayez Sarraj and his interior minister, Fathi Bashaga, initially accused “outlawed infiltrators” over the violence. The prime minister also said the protesters “did not obtain necessary permits” for their rally and described their demonstrations as “riots.”However on Friday, Sarraj suspended Bashaga and referred him to an administrative investigation after the interior minister accused a government-allied militia of attacking the peaceful protesters in Tripoli this week.Bashaga, who was excluded from two high-profile military and security meetings in the capital over the past few days, quickly responded. He said in a statement he accepted the premier’s decision but demanded a public and live questioning “to expose the facts” of the incident.The UN mission in Libya said it was still concerned about “the excessive use of force against demonstrators as well as the arbitrary arrest of a number of civilians.” It did not say how many people were detained.Over the past two days, militias sealed off main streets and roads to prevent the demonstrators from reaching Tripoli’s Martyrs Square, the epicenter of the protests, according to two residents who spoke on condition of anonymity for fear reprisals.A group of women however protested in the city center before being dispersed. Two women were wounded and four others were arrested, according to the protest movement, known as “Hirak August 23.”The movement called for civil disobedience until achieving their demands that include handing over power to the Supreme Judicial Council to work towards presidential and parliamentary elections.Protests also spread to the southern town of Sabah and the eastern town of Quba, both under the control of rival east-based Libyan forces led by Khalifa Hifter.The UN also said it is concerned about “on-going human rights violations and abuses” in the coastal city of Sirte, which is controlled by Hifter’s forces since January. It said at least one civilian was killed and several others were arrested.“The prolific use of hate speech and incitement to violence appears designed to further divide Libyans, increase polarization and tear at the country’s social fabric,” the UN mission said.Oil-rich Libya was plunged into chaos when a NATO-backed uprising in 2011 toppled longtime dictator Moammar Gadhafi, who was later killed. The country is now split between rival east- and west-based administrations, each backed by different armed groups and foreign governments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-expresses-concern-over-dramatic-turn-in-libya-crisis/story-nU11ITBd0qagKlnJSySCoL.html
29-08-2020||World||Donald Trump pays Japan’s Abe ‘highest respect,’ plans to call him||President Donald Trump said on Friday he considered Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe a great friend and expressed concern over his decision to step down for health reasons.“I want to pay my highest respect to Prime Minister Shinzo Abe ... a great friend of mine,” Trump told reporters on Air Force One. “I just feel very badly about it.”Trump said Abe loved his country very much and said he planned to call him. Abe announced on Friday he was resigning because of poor health, his long-running battle with ulcerative colitis ending a tenure as Japan’s longest-serving prime minister.Abe’s team is arranging the call for Monday Japan time, with the prime minister informing the president directly about his resignation, Kyodo news agency said, citing unnamed government sources.A Foreign Ministry official declined to comment.Abe, the first foreign leader to meet with Trump as president-elect, forged close ties with him, playing golf and engaging in frequent phone calls and meetings. He said in his resignation announcement that strengthening the U.S.-Japan alliance helps boost Japan’s deterrence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-pays-japan-s-abe-highest-respect-plans-to-call-him/story-XEBXtjTFpQiVIwi7oJMnFI.html
29-08-2020||World||Riots in Sweden’s Malmo city after Quran burning by far-right activists||Far-right activists burned a Quran in the southern Swedish city of Malmo, sparking riots and unrest after more than 300 people gathered to protest, police said Saturday.Rioters set fires and threw objects at police and rescue services Friday night, slightly injuring several police officers and leading to the detention of about 15 people.The violence followed the burning Friday afternoon of a Quran, near a predominantly migrant neighbourhood, that was carried out by far-right activists and filmed and posted online, according to the TT news agency.Later, three people were arrested on suspicion of inciting hatred against an ethnic group after kicking the Muslim holy book.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/riots-in-sweden-s-malmo-city-after-quran-burning-by-far-right-activists/story-PMaVht4z3H0HMb4n6sweTN.html
29-08-2020||World||Harris pledges to rejoin Paris Agreement, re-enter Iran nuke deal if elected||Indian-origin Senator Kamala Harris, the Democratic Party’s vice-presidential candidate, has pledged to rejoin the Paris climate agreement and re-enter the Iran nuclear deal to restore “our place in the world” and win back the “trust and support” of the US’ Asian and European allies if her party wins the November presidential election.Harris, 55, is the running mate of Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden. At a virtual fundraiser on Friday, she was asked how a Biden-Harris administration would restore the “trust and support of our European and Asian allies.” In response, Harris slammed President Donald Trump and pledged to “rejoin” the Paris agreement on Climate Change and “strengthen and re-enter” the Iran nuclear deal.“Joe Biden and our administration is gonna have a massive job to repair the damage done by Donald Trump and his administration, and to restore our place in the world,” she said.In 2017, Trump announced his decision to withdraw from the Paris deal, saying the accord would have cost America trillions of dollars, killed jobs, and hindered the oil, gas, coal and manufacturing industries.Also read| Ivanka would be better candidate, Kamala Harris ‘not competent’ to be US President: TrumpIn 2018, Trump pulled out of the 2015 Iran nuclear deal.“Part of our strength when, when we as a country, historically, walk into that room around the globe. Part of the strength of our standing it’s not just about our military it’s not just about our economic strength. It’s about the fact that folks believe that when we say something we mean it,” the Senator from California said.“We are loyal to our friends that we keep our word, including when we make commitments, be it to NATO or to the Paris agreement that we will follow through. And Donald Trump, he just doesn’t get it. I mean it’s such an extension of his character as a human being I believe that he doesn’t understand the importance of integrity and consistency in one’s word,” Harris said.In her remarks, Harris touted Biden’s role in the auto industry bailouts. “What gives me great hope is what we have seen again and again that the American people, when given the opportunity can rise to any challenge,” she said.“In 2009, when the global economy was on the verge of collapse, President Obama turned to Joe Biden to fortify the American auto industry and help the people of Michigan to do what you do best, drive our nation’s economy forward. And I don’t need to tell any of the leaders on this call. We’re in a crisis again. And thankfully Joe is back,” she said.Also read: Donald Trump’s administration allows deferral of Social Security tax“Joe, of course championed the Obama-Biden rescue of the American auto industry, along with the people of Michigan, and supported the resurgence of the great city of Detroit,” she said and alleged that under the Trump administration, American manufacturing is in recession.“Together, Joe and I will rebuild the middle class and ensure that this time everyone comes along. We will revitalise manufacturing and communities that have experienced mass layoffs and provide small manufacturers with the support they need to compete in a global economy,” she asserted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/harris-pledges-to-rejoin-paris-agreement-re-enter-iran-nuke-deal-if-elected/story-lTOagKxLSKf5iLNKfWzi1M.html
29-08-2020||World||Ivanka would be better candidate, Kamala Harris ‘not competent’ to be US President: Donald Trump||Kamala Harris is “not competent” to be president, US President Donald Trump has said as he launched an attack on the Indian-origin senator’s credentials for the top post. Addressing his supporters at a Republican campaign rally in New Hampshire on Friday, Trump said he would support seeing a female president in the US but suggested that his daughter and senior White House adviser Ivanka Trump would be a better candidate for such a role. Harris, 55, was a presidential aspirant until last year before she dropped out of the race because of lack of popular support. Harris returned to political limelight after Joe Biden, the Democratic Party’s presidential candidate, picked her as his running mate in the November 3 election. Born to a Jamaican father and an Indian mother, Harris is the first Indian-American and first Black woman to be picked by a major American political party for the top post. “You know I want to see the first woman president also, but I don’t want to see a woman president get into that position the way she’d do it, and she’s not competent,” Trump said. “She’s not competent,” he said amidst applause from his supporters, a few of whom screamed Ivanka Trump, at an election rally on Friday. “They’re all saying, ‘we want Ivanka’. I don’t blame you,” he said responding to his supporters. This was Trump’s first election rally after he formally accepted the nomination of the Republican Party on Thursday for the presidential election. Trump said Harris withdrew from the Democratic Party’s presidential race before primary season kicked off as her popularity dropped down to single digit. “How about her? Sheer beauty? What a beauty though. They pick a woman who starts off...She (Harris) starts off (her presidential campaign) sort of strong. She’s one of the favourites. Within a period of a few months, she goes down, down 15, 12, 11, nine, eight, five, three, two,” he said, underlining the popularity downslide of Harris in the few months after her highly impressive campaign launch.“Then she goes, I’m going to leave because I’ve decided that I want to leave. I want to leave. She left (the race of presidency) because she wouldn’t have gotten any votes. She was terrible. And this would be your president possibly. I don’t think so. I don’t think so,” Trump said, speculating on the possibility that Harris could emerge as a Democratic presidential candidate in 2024. Attacking Biden, Trump said he is running on the most extreme, far left platform of any nominee in American history.“And of our foreign adversaries who are devising a plan to destroy the United States from within all they have to look, is that the Biden-Harris (ticket),” he said. Hours before Trump delivered his acceptance speech from the South Lawn at the White House, Harris alleged that the president’s policies have been “a reckless disregard” for the danger a pandemic would pose to American lives. She said Trump has “failed at the most basic and important job of a President of the United States. He failed to protect the American people”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ivanka-would-be-better-candidate-kamala-harris-not-competent-to-be-us-president-trump/story-hVhI3NP0oFOTKo5efbmvOL.html
29-08-2020||World||Health experts decry Donald Trump’s shunning of coronavirus rules||Public health experts expressed concern Friday about President Donald Trump’s largely mask-free, socially un-distanced Republican convention event on the White House lawn, saying some of his 1,500 guests may have inadvertently brought and spread the coronavirus to others.“There almost certainly were individuals there who were infected with Covid-19 but don’t know it,” said Dr. Leana Wen, an emergency physician and public health professor at George Washington University.Also read: Donald Trump’s administration allows deferral of Social Security tax“I worry about these individuals infecting one another and most certainly going back to their home,” said Wen, who previously served as Baltimore’s health commissioner.Trump delivered his speech accepting the GOP presidential nomination at the Thursday night event, which continued a pattern of flouting coronavirus safety guidelines.Few in the audience wore masks when virtually all leading public health professionals, including the administration’s, say face coverings play a big part in slowing virus transmission.Chairs were placed inches apart instead of the recommended 6 feet, leaving attendees little room to practice social distancing.Only those guests the White House expected to be in “close proximity” to Trump and Vice President Mike Pence were to be tested for Covid-19, the disease caused by the virus.Also read: Donald Trump says India 2nd largest country to conduct Covid-19 tests after USThough public health officials have said outdoors is safer than indoors, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention also puts the risk of Covid-19 spreading at its highest at large outdoor events and in-person gatherings where people cannot stay 6 feet apart and attendees come from out of town.Trump’s campaign issued a statement from Dr. Robert Darling, chief medical officer of Patronus Medical Corp., who said the Republican National Committee’s protocols are in “full compliance” with multiple guidelines issued by the CDC, the District of Columbia health department and other leading health authorities. He provided no details.The campaign said Darling, a former White House physician to President Bill Clinton, has been working with the RNC to make sure the proper protocols are in place at convention sites.In Charlotte, North Carolina, where delegates met Monday to nominate Trump for reelection, the city required a process to be put in place to trace people’s contacts in the event of an outbreak, including requiring attendees to wear trackers on their lanyards.Masks and social distancing requirements were also in place, and attendees were required to complete a daily temperature screening and wellness questionnaire. They were tested before departing for Charlotte and retested upon arrival.Out of nearly 800 coronavirus tests administered, two attendees and two people supporting the Charlotte event tested positive after they arrived, the county health department said. The four individuals were instructed to isolate, and any known close contacts were notified and given instructions on quarantining, the department said.Public health officials also expressed concern over a march in Washington on Friday to commemorate the 1963 March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom. The size of the event had been scaled back because of coronavirus concerns.Participants underwent temperature checks as part of coronavirus protocols. Organizers also reminded the marchers to practice social distancing and wear masks, though many were bare-faced and packed together.Before a Trump rally Friday night in New Hampshire, a campaign advisory said masks for attendees were “required” in accordance with Republican Gov. Chris Sununu’s executive orders, and would be provided.Before Trump arrived, many in the crowd did not put their masks back on after singing the national anthem. They later booed when a campaign staffer called on them to do so.Also read: ‘He doesn’t understand presidency’: Biden, Harris hit back at TrumpWen, the former Baltimore health official, said the White House event gives the public the false impression that precautions are no longer necessary.“We, in public health, have been trying to share, to put out guidance on what to do, and when we have the president of the country and top leaders doing exactly what we are asking people not to do, how can we be seen as credible?” she asked.On Friday, North Carolina Sen. Thom Tillis said he “fell short of my own standard” and apologized for not keeping his face mask on at the White House.Tillis, who is in a tough reelection bid against Democrat Cal Cunningham, has been consistent about talking up face coverings as a key method to slow the spread of Covid-19.Tillis’ campaign tweeted a picture of the first-term senator wearing a mask on the White House lawn on Thursday before Trump’s speech. But other media outlets later showed images of the crowd during the speech and Tillis was seen not wearing his mask.“I thought it was very hard not to recoil at those images,” said Dr. Howard Koh, a public health professor at Harvard and a former assistant secretary at the Department of Health and Human Services under President Barack Obama.Koh said one mitigating factor was that Trump held the event outdoors.He said wearing facial coverings during outbreaks is expected behavior in some Asian societies and social distancing, wearing masks and avoiding large crowds are new social norms that can save lives in the United States as well.Koh said the same guidance applies to protests, but that moving around during demonstrations might help curb the spread of the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/health-experts-decry-donald-trump-s-shunning-of-coronavirus-rules/story-xvKKYhXZ6vZPu4TaAUoO6M.html
29-08-2020||World||China’s Wuhan says all schools to reopen on Tuesday||Wuhan, Ground Zero for the Covid-19 pandemic and the Chinese city hardest hit by the coronavirus, will reopen all its schools and kindergartens on Tuesday, local authorities said.As many as 2,842 educational institutions across the city are set to open their doors to almost 1.4 million students when the autumn semester gets underway, the local government announced on Friday. Wuhan University reopened on Monday.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe city said it has drawn up emergency plans to switch back to online teaching should risk levels change. It advised students to wear masks to and from school and avoid public transportation if possible. Schools have been ordered to stock up on disease control equipment and to carry out drills and training sessions to help prepare for new outbreaks. They must also restrict unnecessary mass gatherings, and submit daily reports to health authorities. Foreign students and teachers who have not received notice from their school will not be allowed to return, it said. The central Chinese city, where the Covid-19 epidemic is believed to have originated, was locked down for more than two months from late January. The city’s death toll of 3,869 accounts for more than 80% of China’s total. Wuhan has been steadily returning to normal since April, when the lockdown was lifted, and it has not reported any new local transmissions of the coronavirus since May 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-s-wuhan-says-all-schools-to-reopen-on-tuesday/story-z8cwi2MmtG1tpkLeCNeiyN.html
29-08-2020||World||‘Chadwick Boseman inspired generations’: Joe Biden, Kamala Harris tweet condolences on Black Panther actor’s death||Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden and his running mate Kamala Harris expressed grief over the death of Black Panther star Chadwick Boseman.Chadwick Boseman inspired generations, said Biden. “The true power of @ChadwickBoseman was bigger than anything we saw on screen. From the Black Panther to Jackie Robinson, he inspired generations and showed them they can be anything they want — even super heroes. Jill and I are praying for his loved ones at this difficult time,” Biden’s tweet read.US Senator and Democratic candidate for Vice President Kamala Harris too tweeted her condolences to the actor’s family. “My friend and fellow Bison Chadwick Boseman was brilliant, kind, learned, and humble,” her tweet read. Heartbroken. My friend and fellow Bison Chadwick Boseman was brilliant, kind, learned, and humble. He left too early but his life made a difference. Sending my sincere condolences to his family. pic.twitter.com/C5xGkUi9oZThe actor died of colon cancer at the age of 43. He had been battling cancer for four years. “A true fighter, Chadwick persevered through it all, and brought you many of the films you have come to love so much,” his family said in the statement. “He died in his home, with his wife and family by his side,” the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chadwick-boseman-inspired-generations-joe-biden-kamala-harris-tweet-their-condolences-on-black-panther-actor-s-death/story-PoFdUhKn1zy02XaAV0jKDK.html
29-08-2020||World||Chinese researcher arrested in US on charges of stealing trade secrets||Authorities in the US have arrested a Chinese national, a researcher at the University of Virginia on charges of theft of trade secrets after he attempted to board a flight to China.Haizhou Hu, 34, is charged with accessing a computer without authorization, or exceeding authorization to obtain information from a protected computer and theft of trade secrets, Justice Department said in a release.“Haizhou Hu, a Chinese national conducting research at the University of Virginia, was arrested today and charged via criminal complaint with a pair of federal crimes just days after he attempted to board a flight to China. United States Attorney Thomas T. Cullen and David W. Archey, Special Agent in Charge of the FBI’s Richmond Division announced the arrest,” it said.Ties between US and China have worsened in the recent past with two countries sparring over several issues.“According to court documents, investigators first became aware of Hu, who is in the United States conducting research studying bio-mimics and fluid dynamics at the University of Virginia, on August 25, 2020, when he attempted to board a flight to China at Chicago’s O’Hare International Airport,” the Justice Department release said.“A routine screening conducted by authorities revealed that Hu was alleged to be in possession of bio-inspired research simulation software code that he was not authorized to possess, and which represented the result of years of research and resources in its development by members of the University of Virginia academic community,” it added.Recently, the US had ordered China to close its Consulate General in Houston, Texas, over accusations that it engaged for years in massive illegal spying and influence operations in the US. In retaliation, China ordered the US to close its Consulate General in Chengdu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-researcher-arrested-in-us-on-charges-of-stealing-trade-secrets/story-NdNW3P4nobEPDcRxrLxowN.html
29-08-2020||World||Trump knocks protesters against racial injustice during New Hampshire rally||Fresh from accepting the Republican nomination, US President Donald Trump had harsh words for anti-racism protesters on Friday during a campaign stop in the politically important state of New Hampshire.Addressing a crowd in an airport hangar, Trump called the demonstrators who sought to disrupt his White House speech on Thursday night “thugs” and said Senator Rand Paul could have died when he was swarmed by protesters afterwards.Paul said on Friday he was attacked by an “angry mob” of more than 100 people near the White House and had to be rescued by the police.“He’d either be in very bad shape, or dead, and that would include his wife, if those policemen didn’t happen to be there,” Trump said of the Republican senator.The president has emphasized a “law and order” theme to motivate his political base and attract more voters as he trails former Vice President Joe Biden, the Democratic presidential nominee, in national polls ahead of the Nov. 3 election.Also read| ‘He doesn’t understand presidency’: Biden, Harris hit back at Trump“You know what I say? Protesters, your ass. I don’t talk about my ass,” he said. “They’re not protesters. Those aren’t protesters. Those are anarchists, they’re agitators, they’re rioters, they’re looters.”Trump has been criticized for not showing empathy in the wake of shootings and killings of Black men by police, including George Floyd, who died in police custody in Minneapolis in May, sparking anti-racism demonstrations worldwide.New protests erupted in Kenosha, Wisconsin, this week after police officers shot Jacob Blake, another African-American man, multiple times in front of his children. He survived. Thousands of people took part in a march in Washington on Friday to denounce racism.Trump has not commented extensively about Blake, but he spoke extensively about protesters on Friday without specifying which demonstration he was talking about.“They’re just looking for trouble. This has nothing to do with George Floyd, has nothing to do with anything. They don’t even know who George Floyd is,” he said.Also read: ‘He acted in self-defense’, says Kenosha protest gunman’s attorneyBiden and his running mate, vice presidential nominee Senator Kamala Harris, said Trump was making America less safe with his rhetoric and his handling of the coronavirus pandemic.“The President incites violence, inspires white-supremacist shooters, and his failed Covid response is costing thousands of lives per day. When you look at the world right now, ask yourself: Do you feel safe in Trump’s America?” Biden tweeted.“He (Trump) has been obsessed, I think, with spreading fear and using division to protect his own ego, and more fundamentally to erode the foundations of the democracy that he swore to defend,” Harris said at a fundraiser on Friday.CLOSE NEW HAMPSHIRE RACETrump, whose speech to the Republican National Convention was low key compared to his rally appearances, seemed to find his footing in New Hampshire, a state he lost narrowly to Democrat Hillary Clinton in 2016 and where he is trailing Biden this year.He went over some of his favourite themes, including his insistence that Mexico would pay for a wall along the US border and that Democrats would try to slash funding for law enforcement.Biden has rejected calls from the left to “defund” the police, but Trump has erroneously suggested that is a policy Biden would embrace.Trump, who has criticized Biden for campaigning mostly from his Delaware home because of the pandemic, intends to travel extensively in the coming months to boost his momentum.He has not been able to hold his signature large rallies for most of the virus outbreak. A June rally at an indoor arena in Tulsa, Oklahoma, attracted a crowd that was well below capacity. The area experienced an uptick in coronavirus cases for weeks after the event.Trump had to cancel a July rally in New Hampshire over concerns about a tropical storm off the East Coast.Biden expects his in-person campaign travel to pick up after Labor Day on Sept. 7, telling lawyers at an online fundraising event on Thursday he was considering traveling to battleground states including Wisconsin, Minnesota, Pennsylvania and Arizona.“We’re going to get out and meet people where it matters, not at irresponsible rallies or staged for TV to boost egos, but real people’s communities, in real local businesses, in their lives,” Biden said. “I’m going to keep everyone safe.”Some 21.6 million Americans watched Trump’s keynote speech on Thursday night, according to preliminary ratings data on Friday that suggested a lower TV audience for Trump than Biden. Trump, a former reality television star, cares deeply about ratings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-knocks-protesters-against-racial-injustice-during-new-hampshire-rally/story-DyqoIdxkzX3qT6jbO1dv9I.html
29-08-2020||World||Why California’s wildfire year could be the worst in decades||California may experience its worst year for wildfires in decades, climate experts say, pointing out that it has already battled two of the three largest blazes in its recorded history during an intense heatwave this month - even before the peak season begins.Record temperatures have exacerbated the state’s ongoing drought and triggered dry-lightning that started more than 700 fires, some in redwood rainforests and Joshua trees that do not normally burn.Firefighters had a grip on the three largest blazes on Friday in the San Francisco Bay Area but warned residents to prepare for fall winds that typically drive the state’s largest fires.With more than 1.6 million acres blackened this year, climatologist Zach Zobel said California was on track to overtake the nearly 2 million acres burned in 2018, when the state suffered its deadliest wildfire and the most acreage burned in records going back to at least 1987.“I would be very surprised if we didn’t overtake that given the conditions in place,” said Zobel an atmospheric scientist who tracks extreme weather for the Woodwell Climate Research Center. What worries climatologists is not so much the size of California’s wildfires, which have long rejuvenated forests and chaparral, but their ferocity.“It’s Mother Nature injected with steroids” Michael Gerrard, director of Columbia Law School’s Sabin Center for Climate Change Law, said of events like the 14,000 lightning strikes to hit California since Aug. 15 due to what he believes is human impact on climate.CLIMATE AND COLONIALISMHigher temperatures in Northern California have created drier-than-normal vegetation and above-normal risk of rapid, extreme fires once offshore “diablo” winds begin mid September, the National Interagency Fire Center reported.In the North Bay wine country, extreme wet and dry cycles allowed vegetation to grow back after 2017 fires and dry out enough to burn again this month rather than act as a natural fire break, according to firefighters.“There’s definitely a climate change signal here, the weather temperatures are drying out the fuels,” said Tim Brown, a professor at the Desert Research Institute in Reno, Nevada.Human factors are also to blame.A century of fire suppression to protect timber resources caused build up of the kind of fuel Native Americans long burned to rejuvenate forests, according to professor Dustin Mulvaney. Clear-cutting and regrowth created crowded, unhealthy forests with a lack of older trees that can survive fire, he said.“That’s not related to climate, that’s about colonialism and kicking people off the land that managed that grove for 10,000 years before,” said Mulvaney, a professor of environmental studies at San Jose State University. Species such as redwoods, which may have experienced fires four or five times over a 1,000-year life, may not withstand more intense blazes or recover during drought conditions, he said.Extreme fires also burn more homes and infrastructure. A blaze in the redwoods of the Santa Cruz mountains destroyed nearly 800 structures as of Friday and may jeopardize reservoir water sources for the city of Santa Cruz.Communities in Napa and Solano counties hit by 2017 fires have suffered the state’s second-largest blaze in history that destroyed 1,080 homes as of Friday, making it the tenth-most destructive on record.“People who lost their houses last time are suddenly faced with losing them again after they rebuilt,” said Sandy Chute, 76, a retiree as she evacuated her two horses to the Sonoma County Fairgrounds in Santa Rosa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/why-california-s-wildfire-year-could-be-the-worst-in-decades/story-zgJsNZTnZSFasOXR4wE82H.html
29-08-2020||World||Louisiana avoided Laura’s ‘wall of water’? Not so, says forecaster||The 20-foot high “unsurvivable” wall of water Hurricane Laura was forecast to send onto the Louisiana coast showed up despite widespread reports of a lower peak, authorities said on Friday, rejecting criticism that they had raised too much alarm.The highest surge hit about 15 miles east of where Laura was forecast to make landfall but it “wobbled” at the last moment. That slight change likely saved the city of Lake Charles, said Jamie Rhome, head of the storm surge team at the National Hurricane Center (NHC).Most US media played up a nine-foot surge recorded by a National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration observation station near Cameron, Louisiana, and the NHC was criticized for perhaps raising too much alarm.There is just one problem, Rhome said. “It’s wrong. That reporting is based off a single observation station in Cameron Parish that didn’t come close to measuring the peak storm surge which occurred at 10 or 15 miles east of there,” he said.Fresh data on Friday from an Army Corps of Engineer gauge 15 miles east indicates that the storm surge was right at the 15- to 20-feet forecast that was Rhome’s highest in his 20-year career, he said.An exact reading would soon be released after the data and gauge are fully analyzed, Rhome said.“We’re finding out the storm surge was really 15 to 20 feet,” Louisiana Governor John Bel Edwards confirmed to reporters on Friday after flying over the hardest-hit areas.Rhome said it would be unfair to accuse NHC forecasters - who warned of an “unsurvivable storm surge” the day before Laura made landfall - or local and state leaders for raising alarm about storm surges. A decade ago, 50% of deaths from hurricanes were because of storm surges, he noted.Today, that figure is closer to 4%, Rhome said, largely because the NHC started including storm surge warnings in its bulletins following the devastation brought by Hurricane Ike and its 15-foot storm surge in 2008.TRUMP TO VISITThe remnants of Hurricane Laura doused Arkansas on Friday before forecasters said it would head to the East Coast, bringing heavy rains and possible flash floods.The storm killed at least 10 people in Louisiana, including four who were killed when trees fell into homes, damaged buildings in Louisiana and Texas and knocked out power for hundreds of thousands of residents.US President Donald Trump is expected to head to the Gulf Coast over the weekend to survey the damage.The storm was forecast to drop heavy rain over Arkansas, Mississippi, Alabama, Tennessee, Missouri and Kentucky as it headed out to the East Coast, the National Weather Service said.At its peak upon making landfall on Thursday morning, Laura had maximum sustained winds of 150 miles per hour (241 km per hour), faster than even Hurricane Katrina, which sparked deadly levee breaches in New Orleans in 2005 after arriving with wind speeds of 125 mph.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/louisiana-avoided-laura-s-wall-of-water-not-so-says-forecaster/story-3UBt8LAgkxK2zGCVGMtLFJ.html
29-08-2020||World||South African ranger mauled to death by lions he hand-reared||A South African conservationist has been killed by lions he hand-reared, the family said on Thursday.West Mathewson, 69, was walking two white lionesses on Wednesday when one of the animals attacked and killed him without warning.The incident took place on the premises of the family-owned Lion Tree Top Lodge, in South Africa’s northern Limpopo province.Known as “Uncle West”, he had raised the lions since they were cubs and was used to interacting with them.Mathewson’s wife Gill, 65, was driving behind her husband when the lion attacked.“She tried her best to rescue her husband, but was unable to do so,” said a statement by family attorney Marina Botha emailed to AFP.The lions have be temporarily moved to a facility while a decision on their final destination is made.The family assured they would be “released into the best environment available to them”.Mathewson and his wife had four sons and six grand-children.“The family is heart broken by the loss of their husband, father and grandfather,” the statement said.“They find comfort and peace with the fact that he died while living his dream, being in nature and with his lions that were so close to his heart.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/south-african-ranger-mauled-to-death-by-lion/story-JzUFyPFuNLxvrqy9LenngI.html
29-08-2020||World||Kanye West sues to get on Wisconsin presidential ballot in November||Rapper Kanye West filed a lawsuit Friday demanding election officials place him on Wisconsin’s presidential ballot in November.The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel reported that West’s campaign filed the lawsuit in Brown County Circuit Court.The state Elections Commission decided last week that West missed the 5 p.m. deadline for filing his nomination signatures by anywhere from a few seconds to a few minutes on August 4.The lawsuit argues that the deadline did not expire until 5:01 p.m. and regardless of the timing, commission staffers still accepted the papers. The lawsuit went to allege that commission staff should have unlocked the building’s doors at 4:30 to accommodate late-arriving filers.The commission’s building has been locked since the coronavirus pandemic took hold; West’s campaign workers had to call the commission shortly before 5 p.m. to get them to unlock the doors.Commission spokesman Reid Magney declined comment.West announced a presidential bid in July, saying he’s seeking the nation’s highest office on a ticket he calls the “Birthday Party.”Democrats claim Republicans are pushing West’s candidacy in swing states to siphon Black votes from Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kanye-west-sues-to-get-on-wisconsin-presidential-ballot-in-november/story-LeglOtbC1dGJ2sphAtx66N.html
29-08-2020||World||‘He acted in self-defense’, says Kenosha protest gunman’s attorney||A high-profile lawyer representing the 17-year-old shooter charged with killing two protesters and wounding another during demonstrations on the streets of Kenosha, Wisconsin said on Friday that his client had acted in self-defense.Atlanta-based attorney Lin Wood said video footage of the altercation would vindicate Kyle Rittenhouse despite what he described as misinformation being spread by the media.“Kyle Rittenhouse acted in self-defense. Murder charges are factually unsupportable. An egregious miscarriage of justice is occurring with respect to this 17-year old boy,” Wood said on Twitter.Rittenhouse, who prosecutors say traveled 30 miles to Kenosha from his home in Antioch, Illinois before the shooting at about 11:45 p.m. on Tuesday, is charged with six criminal counts, including homicide and attempted homicide.The criminal complaint accuses Rittenhouse of firing an assault-style rifle at three protesters who tried to subdue him, killing 36-year-old Joseph Rosenbaum and Anthony Huber, 26.It references several videos recorded by witnesses, including one in which Rittenhouse is seen calling a friend from the scene and telling them: “I just killed somebody.” A Lake County, Illinois county judge on Friday postponed his extradition to Wisconsin while the teenaged defendant arranged a private legal team. Rittenhouse, a former YMCA lifeguard who is being held without bond, did not appear at the livestreamed hearing.SUMMER OF PROTESTSThe shooting of Blake in front of three of his children has turned Kenosha, a predominantly white city of about 100,000 people on Lake Michigan, into the latest flashpoint in ongoing nationwide protests over police brutality and racism.It also galvanized protesters who gathered in Washington on Friday to commemorate the 1963 march where Martin Luther King Jr made his historic “I Have a Dream” speech.The summer of protests ignited after video footage showed a Minneapolis police officer kneeling on the neck of a Black man, George Floyd. Floyd later died and the since-fired officer has been charged with murder.Blake, who was left paralyzed by the shooting, had been handcuffed to a hospital bed because of an outstanding arrest warrant. The handcuffs were removed on Friday and officers guarding Blake stood down after the warrant was vacated, his attorney, Pat Cafferty, told Reuters.The warrant was based on a criminal complaint filed against Blake in July by his ex-girlfriend, the mother of three of his children, that was released to Reuters on Friday. In the complaint, the woman told police Blake broke into her home on May 3 and sexually assaulted her before stealing her truck and debit card.Wisconsin Attorney General Josh Kaul said earlier this week that police had been seeking Blake in connection with his former girlfriend’s complaint at the time of the shooting and that investigators recovered a knife from the floor of the car that Blake was leaning into when he was shot.Blake’s lead attorney, Ben Crump, has said his client had no knife in his possession and did not provoke or threaten police.‘WE LOVE KENOSHA’In Kenosha, volunteers helped business owners clean up after days of rioting and arson that followed the shooting in the back of a Black man, 29-year-old Jacob Blake, by a white police officer, some painting “Black Lives Matter” or “We Love Kenosha” on boarded up storefronts.“I’m angry,” said factory worker John Hall, as he helped paint messages on a storefront. “Some people who did this don’t even live here. This is the only stores that we have.” Hall, a father of three who moved to Kenosha from Chicago eight years ago to raise his children in a safer community, said the painted messages were meant to signal hope, adding: “Slowly but surely we will get this back and rebuild.” More than 1,000 National Guard members were on the ground in Kenosha on Friday in case of further violence, Major General Paul Knapp told a news conference. Demonstrators have demanded that criminal charges be filed against three police officers involved in Blake’s arrest and shooting. Authorities say officer Rusten Sheskey fired all seven shots at Blake’s back. Sheskey has been placed on leave.The Wisconsin Justice Department, which is handling the investigation, said on Friday that Sheskey and another officer, Vincent Arenas, attempted to stop Blake with Tasers before Sheskey discharged his gun. It was the first time the identity of Arenas, a Kenosha police officer since February 2019, was disclosed. The department identified the third officer as Brittany Meronek, who joined the force last January.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/he-acted-in-self-defense-says-kenosha-protest-gunman-s-attorney/story-1TPCB003FbROCH0S1WfiCI.html
29-08-2020||World||House panel to hold Pompeo in contempt over Ukraine documents||The House Foreign Affairs Committee plans to hold Secretary of State Michael Pompeo in contempt for refusing to comply with subpoena requests related to the Trump administration’s policy toward Ukraine, the central event in the president’s impeachment this year.Eliot Engel, the committee’s Democratic chairman, said Friday that Pompeo failed to comply with a September 2019 subpoena seeking documents related to the Trump administration’s efforts to withhold security assistance to Ukraine in order to extract damaging information about Democrat Joe Biden.Pompeo “has demonstrated alarming disregard for the laws and rules governing his own conduct and for the tools the Constitution provides to prevent government corruption,” Engel said in a statement.Engel issued a second subpoena in July, demanding records dealing with the Biden, his son Hunter, and Ukrainian energy company Burisma Holdings that Pompeo separately gave to the Republican-controlled Senate.“I gave Mr. Pompeo ample opportunity to fulfill my request for documents, which I first made more than three months ago,” Engel said. “These documents were already produced to the Senate, and his refusal to provide them to the Foreign Affairs Committee required that I issue a subpoena on July 31.”An Aug. 27 letter to Engel from Ryan Kaldahl, acting assistant secretary of state for the Bureau of Legislative Affairs, says State “categorically rejects your baseless assertion that the Department may have acted inappropriately or violated any law by producing documents to two Senate Committees, in your words, in ‘what appears to be partisan misuse of resources.’ We welcome the opportunity to share the facts on this matter.”Kaldahl, a former aide to President Donald Trump, said State furnished records to the Senate as part of an investigation into undue influence on Ukraine policies during the Obama administration. He said the department will give those same documents to the House Foreign Affairs Committee if the panel conducts a similar probe.“If you can confirm by letter that the Committee is, in fact, substantively investigating identical or very similar corruption issues involving Ukraine and corrupt influence related to U.S. foreign policy, the Department is ready to commence production of documents responsive to such a request,” Kaldahl said.Engel rejected that demand, saying it would amount to agreeing to probe a “conspiracy theory” meant to do little more than “smear” Trump’s competitor, months before the Nov. 3 election.For more articles like this, please visit us at bloomberg.com©2020 Bloomberg L.P.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/house-panel-to-hold-pompeo-in-contempt-over-ukraine-documents/story-NtsZ5ZHY2uTMTycmJAe2xH.html
29-08-2020||World||Pakistani court sentences 3 aides of Hafiz Saeed||A Pakistani court on Wednesday convicted on terror financing charges three associates of a radical cleric wanted by Washington for his role in the 2008 Mumbai attacks.Two of the militants, Malik Zafar Iqbal and Abdul Salam Bhattvi, were sentenced to five years in jail, while the third, Abdul Rehman Makki, received an 18-month sentence from the court in Lahore, the counter-terrorism department said in a statement.The three men are close associates of Hafiz Saeed, the founder and chief of the outlawed group Lashkar-e-Taiba, which was blamed by India for the Mumbai attacks that killed 166 people.The three men were found guilty of collecting funds for Saeed’s charity organizations, Jamaat-ud-Dawa and Falah-e-Insaniat, which are alleged fronts for Lashkar-e-Taiba and Saeed has been serving a 5 1/2-year prison sentence since February after being convicted of financing terrorism.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistani-court-sentences-3-aides-of-hafiz-saeed/story-1B64pj5GvY8hN5Olo2DHeL.html
29-08-2020||World||White House suggests $1.3 trillion coronavirus aid bill; Pelosi says not enough||President Donald Trump is willing to sign a $1.3 trillion coronavirus relief bill, a top aide said on Friday, but Democratic House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi said the sum was not enough to meet the needs of the American people.Trump said later that Pelosi was only interested in bailing out states run by Democrats, casting doubt on chances of reviving stalled talks for another round of fiscal stimulus.Also read: ‘Ignore’ Trump, Pelosi says, as House debates postal fundsThe new figure was put forward by White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows, marking a $300 billion increase from an initial $1 trillion offer from the White House and Senate Republicans. Three weeks after talks on Capitol Hill broke down without a deal on legislation to help Americans suffering from the coronavirus pandemic, Meadows said the Republican president was “right now willing to sign something at $1.3 trillion.”Hours later, Pelosi in a statement repeated her call for a $2.2 trillion bill and said Meadows’ offer would not meet the needs of American workers and families.Pelosi said, among other things, the Republicans “are rejecting the funding needed for testing and tracing to crush the virus and safely reopen schools and the economy.”She said she hoped the Republicans would accept the Democratic offer and resume negotiations.Asked about talks between Pelosi and Meadows about another stimulus package, Trump told reporters aboard Air Force One on a flight to Washington from New Hampshire: “My impression is she wants to give no stimulus, all she wants is bailout for badly run Democrat states.”Also read: US Postal Service suspends USPS change until after 2020 electionHe said another stimulus package would be good. The Democratic-led House in May passed a $3.4 trillion coronavirus relief bill, which was not taken up by the Republican-dominated Senate.Pelosi said on Thursday after a 25-minute phone call with Meadows that Democrats were willing to go down to $2.2 trillion and demanded that the Trump administration accept that figure before negotiations could resume.The $1.3 trillion has been offered in private, Meadows said. Negotiations have involved Pelosi, Meadows, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/white-house-suggests-1-3-trillion-coronavirus-aid-bill-pelosi-says-not-enough/story-1b7MaBHLwYYOsSdMcV7wIN.html
