05-05-2021||Lucknow||UP sees biggest single-day jump in Covid deaths at 357; 31,165 fresh cases added||Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday recorded the biggest single-day jump of 357 Covid-19 deaths that took the toll to 14,151 while 31,165 fresh cases pushed the infection tally to 13,99,294.Of the latest fatalities, 46 were reported from Kanpur, 38 from Lucknow, 24 from Chandauli, 17 from Lakhimpur Kheri, 13 each from Sonbhadra and Ghaziabad, 12 each from Gorakhpur and Jhansi, and 10 from Gautam Buddh Nagar, the state government said in a statement issued here.Lucknow reported the highest number of fresh cases at 3,004, followed by 1,732 in Meerut, 1,703 in Gautam Buddh Nagar, 1,373 in Ghaziabad, 1,206 in Kanpur, 1,069 in Saharanpur and 1,055 in Gorakhpur.There are 2,62,474 active Covid-19 cases in Uttar Pradesh, the statement said.As many as 40,852 coronavirus patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the total number of recoveries to 11,22,669, it said.More than 2.32 lakh samples were tested in Uttar Pradesh the previous day. So far, over 4.20 crore samples have been tested in the state, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-sees-biggest-single-day-jump-in-covid-deaths-at-357-31-165-fresh-cases-seen-101620230714088.html
05-05-2021||Lucknow||UP CM inaugurates DRDO’s first makeshift 505-bed hospital in Lucknow||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday inaugurated a 505-bed makeshift Covid hospital set up by Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) at Awadh Shilp Gram in Lucknow.Anticipating a surge in Covid-19 cases, the CM also announced a massive anti-Covid campaign in the rural pockets where panchayat polls were held recently.“We have inaugurated the makeshift hospital today. In the first phase, we have inaugurated 250 beds. Of the total beds here, 150 would be Intensive Care Unit (ICU) beds while other would be a set of general beds, equipped with 24 hours oxygen connectivity,” said Adityanath while extending gratitude to Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on whose direction the hospital was established.“Anticipating surge in the Covid cases in the rural parts of the UP, we have launched a campaign under which we have formed dedicated nigrani samities to check and report Covid cases. The Samities would also be provided with handheld infra-red thermometer, oxymeter and sanitisers. The samiti members would be asked to facilitate the antigen tests and RTPCR tests of the villagers,” the CM said.He also announced the construction of massive quarantine centres in every gram panchayat in order to quarantine those suffering from Covid-19 infection.Other 305 beds of DRDO’s makeshift hospital would be made operational shortly, said DRDO officials. “The hospital is equipped with 20 kilo litre oxygen tank that would ensure uninterrupted oxygen supply to the hospitalized Covid patients,” said Shantanu Pratap Singh, public relation officer (PRO), Defence, Lucknow.Other than ensuring regular oxygen supply, Singh said the hospital was also equipped with a dedicated power backup and bio medical and other waste management system to ensure hygienic environment at the hospital. “Indian Armed Forces have provided 30 medical specialists, 28 medical officers, 6 officers for administrative support, 51 nursing officers, 110 nursing assistants/technicians and 79 support staff for the hospital,” said Singh. Be it food or medical treatment, he said there will be no charges for facilities available at the hospital that would run by a team from Armed Forces comprising of doctors of many specialities along with nurses and paramedic staff.“The admission to the hospital will be controlled through an Integrated Control Centre at Lucknow established by the Uttar Pradesh State Authorities (0522-4523000). The hospital does not cater to walk in patients and admissions. Information on admitted patients will be available from the helpdesk at mobile numbers 9519109239 and 9519109240,” said Singh while explaining the hospitalization process at the hospital.The city would get another makeshift 250-bed Covid hospital that would come up in Haj House later this week. Gopal Sutar, chief of corporate communications/media relations at HAL, confirmed the establishment of 250-bed hospital and said it would be operational in a few days. The hospital would be of L3 category and would be equipped with around 100 high flow nasal cannula and 25 ventilators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-cm-inaugurates-drdo-s-first-makeshift-505-bed-hospital-in-lucknow-101620225696046.html
05-05-2021||Lucknow||LU student is elected pradhan: Will give my village a makeover||Arushi Singh, 21, who is pursuing BA LLB second year from Lucknow University, won the recently held election to the post of Gram Sabha Pradhan at village Seheriya, Wazirganj block in Gonda district.“It was like a dream come true. I was declared winner at around 1.30 pm and soon friends and relatives started calling,” said Arushi, who is pursuing the course from City Law College, an affiliate college of LU.“Now it is my duty to make it a smart village with good internet connectivity and better public service,” she added.“My grandmother, Vidyawati Singh won election to this post in 2000. And prior to her my great grandfather won election here. It is a small village of 1500 population. And they love us. I am happy to carry forward the family legacy,” said Arushi.There were four contestants to the post and Arushi was declared winner with 384 votes. She enjoyed support from her family who always encouraged her to contest the election.Arushi reached Gonda on March 2 and started door-to-door campaign following all COVID-19 guidelines. “I encouraged the youth and their parents not to lower their guard in COVID-19 times,” she said.Her mother Garima Singh is reader of district judge in civil court while father Dharmendra Singh is a steno of commissioner of police in Lucknow.After law graduation, she wants to prepare for the PCS examination.Talking about her development plan, Arushi said, “Firstly I will focus on education system for girls and boys and maintain the toilets with special emphasis on health and hygiene. I will focus on the improvement of the social and economic condition of people.”“I will focus on the health, employment, infrastructure and the basic amenities like housing, drinking water and sanitation. I will ensure that the people of my village get to avail the benefits of all the schemes run by the centre and the state government,” she said.Arushi is all for restoration of student union elections in state universities and degree colleges as it is a democratic right of students’ community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lu-student-is-elected-pradhan-will-give-my-village-a-makeover-101620225155917.html
05-05-2021||Lucknow||BJP 'intimidating' panchayat poll winners, will pay for it in 2022, says Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party supremo Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday alleged that the elected members in the panchayat polls were receiving threats from the BJP that was abusing power to conspire against the system.“BJP has never respected democracy,” he said in a statement, adding that after its defeat in panchayat elections, the saffron party was conspiring against the democratic system.“The BJP's strategy of intimidating elected members and misusing power through inducements is a sign of malafide intentions. The BJP will have to pay for it in the in the 2022 assembly polls,” he said.Yadav further attacked the BJP for its "faulty policies" that failed the country in Covid 19 management. Some people were “taking opportunity of the disastrous situation” and the general public was bearing the brunt of it, he said.He stressed that the infection was now fast spreading in rural areas of Uttar Pradesh, which were vulnerable due to their weak health infrastructure.Noting that Delhi High Court Tuesday slammed the BJP-led central government for failing to fulfill the responsibility of managing oxygen tankers, he also said they failed to curb black marketing of cylinders and medicines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-intimidating-panchayat-poll-winners-will-pay-for-it-in-2022-says-akhilesh-yadav-101620224302508.html
05-05-2021||Lucknow||‘We can’t let a virus win over humanity’||: Mahesh Chandra Agarwal, 84, a resident of E block Rajajipuram died due to corona last Sunday.He had no son and none around to accompany his body to the crematorium. That’s when his married daughter browsed through social media and contacted a 23-year-old youth who along with his friends offered his services to cremate Covid body with dignity.Abhishek quickly arrived with his friends - Karunesh Pathak, Sunny Sahu, Shashank Shukla , Ramesh Tripathi and Raghav Kumar. Once at Agarwal’s place, they wore PPE kits and accompanied the body to the cremation ground where they performed Agarwal’s last rites.“Had they not been here, the last rites of my father would not have been performed. At a time when relatives are running away from a corona patient, they are risking their lives to help others. I have no words to express my gratitude,” said Mahesh’s daughter Kanta Agarwal (52).Abhishek shared how and why he decided to perform the last rites of Covid bodies.“I was really sad when I heard that in Jaunpur an elderly man was forced to carry the body of his deceased wife on a bicycle for hours because residents of the village did not allow the funeral of the woman fearing coronavirus. That day I called my friends and told them that I want to cremate bodies of those who are abandoned by their relatives due to fear of corona. I wanted to give the dead the respect they deserve,” he said. “I asked my friends if they would like to join me, and all agreed. We collected some money, purchased PPE kits, face shields, gloves, masks, head covers, shoe covers, and sanitisers, floated our number on social media and got going. Till now we have cremated 12 such bodies,” he said.“Anyone who needs our services can dial 8887987566. Our services are free. I just want to remind everyone that every dead body deserves to be treated with dignity. As human beings, we cannot let a virus dictate terms to such an extent that we start disrespecting dead bodies,” he said.“My parents are bit worried about safety but at the same time they are proud of me,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/we-can-t-let-a-virus-win-over-humanity-101620224615069.html
05-05-2021||Lucknow||Journalists in UP to get priority in vaccination; separate centres to be given||The Uttar Pradesh government has announced that journalists and their families will now get special consideration in the state and will be given priority in vaccination against Covid-19.Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday issued instructions to allot separate vaccination centres for journalists and their family members, who are above 18 years of age, an official statement said here.The chief minister took the decision to recognise the efforts of journalists, who have been putting their lives and health at risk to cover the pandemic, it said.Adityanath has also instructed officials to ensure that all journalists get vaccinated, the statement said."If required, go to their workplace and administer free vaccination. All those above 18 years of age will be vaccinated in the families of journalists," Adityanath said.Non-accredited journalists and freelancers will also get the benefit of the welfare scheme, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/journalists-in-up-to-get-priority-in-vaccination-separate-centres-to-be-given-101620201817073.html
05-05-2021||Lucknow||UP panchayat poll results start coming in, parties claim stupendous performances||As results for the Uttar Pradesh panchayat polls started trickling in Tuesday night, rival political parties claimed sterling performances, apparently taking advantage of the fact that these elections were not contested on party symbols.SP spokesperson Anurag Bhadauria told PTI, "Samajwadi Party-backed candidates have won 760 seats for the post of zila panchayat members."AAP leader Vaibhav Maheshwari said that 71 candidates backed by the party have won the post of zila panchayat members.UP Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu also told PTI that 389 party supported candidates have won the zila panchayat members' post.He said that a large number of party-backed candidates have won the post of pradhan of village panchayats as well.UP BJP chief Swatantradev Singh said party workers have emerged victorious for the posts of members of zila panchayats, members of kshetra panchayats and village pradhans.He also claimed that after the results, the party will get into formation of zila panchayat and kshetra panchayat boards.The BJP had on Monday claimed 918 party candidates have been elected for zila panchayats while over 500 are leading.In a statement issued here, Uttar Pradesh BJP chief Swatantradev Singh had said that in the three-tier panchayat election in the state, over 45,000 party-supported candidates have won the post of village pradhan, while more than 60,000 party-supported candidates have emerged victorious as members of kshetra panchayats."As many as 918 party-supported candidates have won the post of members of zila panchayat," he had said."On more than 450 seats, the party-supported candidates have taken a decisive lead," Singh had said, attributing the performances to rural development and farmers' welfare ensured by the Yogi Adityanath government in the state.A senior State Election Commission (SEC) official said Tuesday evening that counting of votes for members of village panchayat, pradhans of village panchayat and members of kshetra panchayat has been completed.Only the counting of votes polled to elect zila panchayat members is left.At the end of counting, result sheets are being tallied and declaration of seats was likely to be done late Tuesday night, the SEC official said.The SEC also said that there should not be any delay in handing over the certificates to the winning candidates, and strict action will be initiated against officials concerned in case of any complaint.The counting of votes began Sunday morning at more than 825 centres across the 75 districts of Uttar Pradesh.Over 8.69 lakh posts were up for grabs in these polls. Of these posts, more than 7.32 lakh seats were in the gram panchayat wards, 58,176 in the gram panchayats, 75,852 in the kshetra (block) panchayats and 3,050 in the zila panchayats.Meanwhile, Samajwadi Party supremo Akhilesh Yadav, on Tuesday claimed that in the UP panchayat polls people gave first priority to his party and said that they did a tremendous job to save the democracy by electing his party candidates."Even in the Prime Minister's constituency (Varanasi) and CM's turf (Gorakhpur), the BJP had to taste defeat. In Lucknow too, the BJP had to taste defeat despite misuse of official machinery," the SP chief said.He said, "The panchayat election results showed that the BJP is now a sinking ship. Signals emanating from the panchayat polls in the state show that the BJP will be wiped out in 2022 (UP Assembly elections)," he said.The state election commission said over 3.19 lakh candidates were elected unopposed in the panchayat election. In all, there were over 12.89 lakh candidates in the poll fray.Uttar Pradesh held panchayat polls in four phases ending April 29 in which candidates contested on free symbols given by the SEC. The election was held at four levels of panchayat bodies --- gram panchayat members, gram pradhan, block panchayat and zila panchayat.In Ayodhya, the BJP won just eight out of the 40 zila panchayat seats, a disappointment for the ruling party in the district on which the Centre and the state government have lavished much attention.The opposition Samajwadi Party claimed to have made major gains in the panchayat elections, saying candidates it backed won 22 district level seats in Ayodhya.The Bahujan Samaj Party claimed its candidates won four zila panchayat seats in Ayodhya.Contrary to the BJP's claim of overall success in the state, its Ayodhya unit has conceded that it did not do as well as expected."The results are disappointing. Despite having sitting BJP MLAs in all constituencies in Ayodhya district, we won only eight out of 40 zila panchayat seats," BJP's district spokesperson Diwakar Singh told PTI.The Samajwadi Party claimed to have won three of the four zila panchayat seats there, leaving one for an independent candidate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-panchayat-poll-results-start-coming-in-parties-claim-stupendous-performances-101620192916926.html
05-05-2021||Lucknow||225 O2 cylinders meant for black marketing seized in Lucknow, 10 arrested||Continuing their crackdown on black marketing of oxygen and Covid medicines, the Lucknow police on Tuesday arrested 10 people and recovered 225 oxygen cylinders from four areas, said senior police officials. With this, a total of 290 oxygen cylinders, meant for being sold illegally, have been seized in Lucknow in the past 10 days. In a recent catch, Lucknow police arrested two people-- Karan Bhardwaj and Nekram Pal-- and seized 115 jumbo oxygen cylinders from their possession in Janakipuram. Similarly, two people identified as Vishnuji Gupta and Vikas Kumar Shukla were arrested from Gudamba area and 87 oxygen cylinders, including 46 jumbo size cylinders and 41 small cylinders, were recovered from them. Inspector of Gudamba police station Fareed Ahmad said an amount of ₹1.03 lakh collected by the black marketers was also recovered. Separately, two persons – Ikram Ali and Ayush Shukla – were arrested in Gomti Nagar extension with 18 oxygen cylinders, including 10 jumbo size cylinders and eight small cylinders. Police said the duo was carrying the cylinders for black marketing by procuring receipt of nitrogen gas filled in it. Four persons were also arrested in Naka area and five oxygen cylinders were recovered from them. UP additional director general (ADG), law and order, Prashant Kumar said the state police were carrying out a drive against black marketeers across the state. He said as many as 110 people have been arrested for black marketing of oxygen cylinders, life-saving medicines, injections and oximeters in 13 districts across UP. In total, 830 Remedesivir injections, 1256 oxygen cylinders, 531 oximeters as well as over ₹52 lakh procured through black marketing have been recovered, said another senior state police official. He said the largest recovery was made in Lucknow where so far 290 oxygen cylinders, 371 Remdesivir injections, 535 oximeters meant for black marketing were seized from different persons since April 15. Similarly, five cases were reported from Kanpur, four from Gautam Buddh Nagar, three from Ghaziabad, two from Meerut and one from Prayagraj, Barabanki, Hapur, Bareilly, Hardoi, Jhansi, Varanasi and Moradabad, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/225-o2-cylinders-meant-for-black-marketing-seized-in-lucknow-10-arrested-101620156259126.html
05-05-2021||Lucknow||Keep your vibrations high to beat anxiety and stress: Experts||Stress and anxiety levels are at an all-time high as the new Covid-19 wave has taken people by shock and surprise. The sudden spike in cases amongst the near and dear, medical conditions and mortalities are causing huge stress to everyone at some level. Psychologists, mental health experts, medicos and yoga gurus are flooded with distress calls from people seeking help to overcome their acute anxiety. “The intensity of stress and anxiety amongst people are at highest level. In last lockdown people had stress but right now the fear and grief are both at an all-time high. Since everything happened so very swiftly that the people were unable to cope with,” said Dr Manju Agarwal, professor of psychology and dean student welfare of Amity University. With her husband recovering from Covid-19, after hospitalisation, Dr Agarwal herself has faced it. “It was a tough phase, so along with giving the best possible treatment, I continued meditating, kept my energies high and regularly sent him good vibes. It’s very important to keep your vibrations high with right meditation and transfer it to others facing anxiety and battling Covid,” she said. Dr Agarwal shares importance of giving space to those in grief, talk to them on phone and let them pour their emotions out in the time when we can’t hold their hand and hug them physically. She warns people to stay away from negative news, WhatsApp groups and go for a digital detox.According to homoeopathic practitioner and Vipassana follower Dr SK Jain it’s time to keep optimistic and spread positivity. “Though there are some medicines that we prescribe in homoeopathy, but again it’s all about seeing good things that are happening around us. I know a lot of people are falling ill but we need to see that nearly 98.5% are recovering — most of them in home isolation while others after hospitalisation. We attract what we think so it’s important to meditate and watch light entertainment content, so we remain de-stressed and make others happy too,” he said. To help people tackle the stress during Covid-19, Art of Living has introduced three new free courses — for developing immunity against the infection, for people currently under isolation and for rejuvenation of patients recovered from the infection. Tanuj Narain, a senior teacher at Lucknow, explains, “To reduce anxiety the Vagus Nerve needs to be activated that nullifies the fight or flight response triggered during stress. Bhramari Pranayam, Nadi Shodhan Pranayam and the Straw Breath Pranayam are helpful in reducing the effects of anxiety. Every emotion corresponds to a specific breathing pattern within us. In Pranayam we apply the reverse engineering — by altering the breathing pattern our emotions can also change. All experts focused on feeling good, interacting with family members, friends and acquaintances to make them feel de-stressed and happy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/keep-your-vibrations-high-to-beat-anxiety-and-stress-experts-101620156139428.html
