06-05-2021||Lucknow||Poor show in Ayodhya, Kashi, Mathura in panchayat poll big setback for BJP||The panchayat election results have come as a setback for Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which has failed to perform as per the expectations against its archrival Samajwadi Party at most places in Uttar Pradesh.What has left its leaders worried is party’s performance in Ayodhya, the religious town, which has been at the centerstage of politics ever since the BJP came to power in Uttar Pradesh in 2017. Not only in Ayodhya the BJP has also lost to its rivals, the Samajwadi Party and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), in Varanasi and Mathura, respectively.Both Varanasi and Mathura are high-profile religious destinations of the state with much political significance.Varanasi’s loss is also significant as Prime Minister Narendra Modi represents this historic city in Lok Sabha, feel many.In Ayodhya, where construction of Ram Mandir is going on, the BJP managed to win only in eight wards out of 40. The Samajwadi Party bagged 24 seats of the Zila Panchayat member.The BSP and others have been able to win in four wards each while the Congress scored zero. Various reasons are being attributed to BJP’s poor performance in Ayodhya where the party won all five assembly seats in 2017 election.“Local BJP leaders are distraught. All these years they have been completely sidelined. Even in panchayat elections which are completely localised, local workers were ignored. Even recommendation of candidates by party MLAs were ignored by the state leadership,” said a senior functionary of the party in Ayodhya. “Local BJP leaders are helpless. They do not have any say in any issue,” he added.The Covid-19 pandemic has also contributed to the BJP’s loss in panchayat polls in Ayodhya and in other places, insists political observer. “Most of the deaths in Covid are due to failure of the system. Acute shortage of beds in government and private hospitals, treatment in private hospitals turning out of reach of common man and black marketing of lifesaving drugs also contributed to the BJP’s debacle not only in Ayodhya but in other parts of the state,” said a senior VHP leader of Ayodhya. “Even I was not able to arrange a single Oxygen cylinder for anyone. Now, how am I going to face people whose genuine request for an Oxygen cylinder or a bed in hospital I could not fulfill,” said an RSS functionary of Ayodhya. “The mismanagement in pandemic and ignoring local party leaders and workers will also have its repercussion in forthcoming assembly elections in the state which are scheduled after early next year,” said Awadesh Kumar Singh, president, Sri Saryu Vikas Samiti, Ayodhya.Singh, who is associated with the RSS, had filed a writ in Lucknow high court against acquiring of land in Manja Barhata, Ayodhya, for installing statue of Lord Ram. Farmers of the region are opposing the project.It may be pointed out that at Deepotsav celebrations in 2017, chief minister Yogi Adityanath had announced to install 251 feet statue of lord Ram in Ayodhya. Kashi results also not hearteningIn Varanasi, the multi-crore Kashi Vishwanath corridor project and PM Modi’s representation of the historic city in Parliament did not help the BJP in panchayat polls.Out of 40 sets of Zila Panchayat members, the BJP could win on only seven while Samajwadi Party bagged 15 seats.While the Congress won five, the BSP four, the Apna Dal (Sonelal) two, the Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) one, six seats went to Independents.Out of eight assembly seats, BJP won six and one each went to its ally Apna Dal (Sonelal) and the SBSP. However, SBSP is no more the BJP’s ally. “Selection of candidates has been a prominent reason behind BJP’s poor performance in panchayat polls in Varanasi,” said Anupam Shukla, social activist. “A local party worker having connect at the grass root level, who may or may not have been very active in party organisation, should have been given the ticket,” Shukla added.“But such workers were ignored. As panchayat polls are completely local elections based on local politics, including caste and muscle power, selection of proper candidates is important to win the election,” he asserted. Poor management in pandemic is also a reason for party’s poor performance on semi-rural seats, he pointed out. BSP show in Mathura Mathura, famous for Lord Krishna’s temple complex, is another religious destination where BJP’s rival outperformed it in the panchayat polls. The city is in news now-a-days due to the litigation in district court over the temple complex issue which shares its boundary with a mosque. Here, BJP was able to win only in eight wards out of 33. The BSP outperformed all other parties by winning in 13 wards. While candidates supported by the Rashtriya Lok Dal won in eight wards. Out of five assembly constituencies in Mathura district, the BJP won in four in 2017 assembly polls.BJP leader and Bollywood actor Hema Malini represents Mathura in Lok Sabha. “Like in previous panchayat elections, the BSP has retained its stronghold in this local election also. As compared to last election, BJP’s performance has improved. But being a ruling party in the state, its performance should have been better,” said local layer Vijay Pal Singh. Now, these Zila Panchayat members will vote for Zila Panchayat chairman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/poor-show-in-ayodhya-kashi-mathura-in-panchayat-poll-big-setback-for-bjp-101620324173239.html
06-05-2021||Lucknow||In UP, niece of Mulayam Singh Yadav loses panchayat election on BJP ticket||Never before perhaps had the Akhilesh Yadav-led Samajwadi Party (SP) celebrated the poll defeat of a Yadav family member. The occasion was an SP candidate trouncing SP chief patron Mulayam Singh Yadav’s niece Sandhya Yadav in the zila panchayat poll in Mainpuri. Sandhya Yadav, who is the sister of former Badaun SP MP Dharmendra Yadav and was the zila panchayat president in Mainpuri, had defected to BJP in 2017 along with her husband. This time she contested the zila panchayat member’s post from Mainpuri on a BJP ticket. But SP candidate Pramod Kumar (not a family member) defeated her by 1907 votes. Poll authorities in Mainpuri confirmed her defeat. Since 1991, the SP never lost the seat and maintained the winning streak this time as well. While Pramod Kumar bagged 7905 votes, Sandhya got 5998.Samajwadi Party had already disowned her when she filed her nomination papers as the BJP candidate and said: “She is a Yadav family member, but since 2017 is not an SP member”. She contested ward number 18 from Mainpuri.And of the two zila panchayat seats in Saifai, SP patron Mulayam Singh Yadav’s ancestral village, the SP and Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party-Lohia (PSP-L) won a seat each.PSP-L candidate Arvind Yadav won the seat by a wide margin of 11,000 votes against SP’s Arvind Yadav. The win boosted the morale of PSP-L.However, the SP candidate and Mulayam’s nephew Abhishek Yadav alias Anshul Yadav won the Saifai 2 seat by defeating the BJP candidate Avanish Yadav by 16,254 votes. Abhishek, who was the sitting zila panchayat member from the same seat is the son of Mulayam’s youngest brother Rajpal Yadav. This seat too had been in the family for long. Before Abhishek Yadav, his mother Premlata Yadav held the seat twice. Abhishek now has won it three times in a row.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/in-up-niece-of-mulayam-singh-yadav-loses-panchayat-election-on-bjp-ticket-101620314393415.html
06-05-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh logs 26,780 new Covid-19 cases, 353 more deaths||The Covid-19 death toll in Uttar Pradesh rose to 14,501 on Thursday with 353 more fatalities, while 26,780 new cases pushed the infection tally to 14,25,919, an official said."In the past 24 hours, 26,780 cases were reported while 28,902 people have recovered. There are currently 2,59,844 active cases in the state and the number of those who have recovered stands at 11,51,571," Additional Chief Secretary, Amit Mohan Prasad, told reporters.He said the state recorded 353 deaths in the past 24 hours.Prasad said since April 30, when there were 3,10,783 active cases, the number of such cases have come down by over 51,000 as recoveries have increased. Over 2.25 lakh tests, including 1.12 lakh RTPCR tests, were conducted in Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday he said.So far, over 4.22 crore samples have been tested in the state, Prasad said. The state government has started a campaign to conduct Covid-19 tests in 97,000 villages of the state.."The campaign for testing and screening has been started in 97,000 villages," Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said while addressing a review meeting.The work for Covid-19 vaccination is going on properly and over 1.32 crore doses have been administered, the CM said.Noting that the vaccine wastage was 0.39 per cent, the chief minister stressed that it should be brought down to zero per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-logs-26-780-new-covid-19-cases-353-more-deaths-101620300798152.html
06-05-2021||Lucknow||UP government issues fresh directions to combat second wave of Covid-19||The Uttar Pradesh government announced a slew of measures to combat the rising cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the state. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath held a meeting with Team-9, formed by the Uttar Pradesh government to deal with the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic, and issued fresh directions in order to stop the spread of the virus.The chief minister asked the team members to ensure that medical equipment in hospitals are being monitored constantly. He also asked team members to ensure that medical oxygen supply to home isolation and non-Covid-19 patients should go on unhindered. Adityanath also asked Team-9 to ensure that a system be put in place for on-demand delivery of medical oxygen to home isolation patients.“There should be no shortage of cylinders. Arrangements should be made to supply on-demand oxygen to home isolation patients. Create a system for this. Home isolation patients should not have any problem at all,” the chief minister told officials during the Covid-19 review meet. The government also said that Reliance Industries and Adani Group will supply oxygen tankers to the state and it has also ramped up measures to ensure continuous supply of medical oxygen.The state government has also decided to work on war-footing to expedite availability of beds, manpower, medical equipment, oxygen and medicines to double the present capacity. Police personnel have been ordered to effectively apply partial Covid-19 curfew in the state. They have also been asked to help people who are travelling medicine or emergency needs.In view of the Ramzan month, the government will communicate with religious leaders to make sure that religious duties are followed in view Covid-19 preventative measures. Community kitchens have also been arranged to feed the hungry and the needy in times of crisis.The chief minister expressed hope that the state will combat the second wave as there has been a reduction in the number of daily cases and deaths. The government said that the state is conducting 200,000-250,000 tests per day on an average and will also ramp up testing to detect cases.It highlighted that despite the number of tests contact tracing has to become more effective so that the chain of transmission can be broken. Vaccination of people aged between 18-45 years is going on in the seven districts which have reported high amounts of active cases and positivity rate and the drive will be expanded in a phased manner in the coming weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-government-issues-fresh-directions-to-combat-second-wave-of-covid19-101620306232389.html
06-05-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow boys are burying abandoned bodies of Covid-19 patients||Mahesh Chandra Agarwal, 84, a resident of Rajajipuram in Lucknow died due to corona last Sunday but there was no one around to conduct his last rites. His daughter browsed social media and contacted a 23-year-old, who along with his friends offered to cremate Agarwal’s infected body with dignity.Abhishek and his friends - Karunesh Pathak, Sunny Sahu, Shashank Shukla, Ramesh Tripathi and Raghav Kumar wore personal protection equipment (PPE) kits and took the body to the cremation ground where they performed Agarwal’s last rites.“Had they not been here, the last rites of my father would not have been performed. At a time when relatives are running away from a corona patient, they are risking their lives to help others. I have no words to express my gratitude,” said Mahesh’s daughter Kanta Agarwal (52).Abhishek is one among several others in the city who are helping out the needy during the unprecedented crisis with free food, medicines, oxygen cylinders, ambulance service when the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the second wave of the disease has paralysed health infrastructure causing deaths and despondence.Abhishek said instances of ill-treatment of patients dying of the coronavirus made him take up the responsibility to give dignity to the dead.“I was really sad when I heard that in Jaunpur, an elderly man was forced to carry the body of his wife on a bicycle for hours because villagers did not allow the funeral fearing coronavirus.” He says he called his friends that day and told them that he would cremate those abandoned by their relatives or community due to fear of Covid infection.“I asked my friends if they would like to join me, and all agreed. We collected some money, purchased PPE kits, face shields, gloves, masks, head covers, shoe covers, and sanitisers. We floated our number on social media and got going. Till now we have cremated 12 such bodies,” he said.Abhishek and his team can be reached on 8887987566. He says he and his friends don’t charge a penny for cremations. “I just want to remind everyone that every dead body deserves dignity. As human beings, we cannot let a virus dictate terms to such an extent that we start disrespecting dead people,” he said.Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday recorded the biggest single-day jump of 357 Covid-19 deaths including 38 from Lucknow, taking the toll to 14,151. Lucknow also reported the highest number of Covid cases-- 3,004 out of the 31,165 fresh cases reported across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-boys-are-burying-abandoned-bodies-of-covid-19-patients-101620268668057.html
