08-05-2021||Lucknow||UP records slight dip in fresh cases, CM says state’s Covid management effective||Uttar Pradesh on Saturday recorded 26,847 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases registering a marginal dip in the number of fresh cases. The state recorded 28,076 infections on Friday - around 1,229 more cases compared to Saturday. The state currently has 245,736 active cases of Covid-19 and is among the states which currently has more than 1 lakh active cases.The toll in the state also dropped to 298 after the state reported a record single-day jump of 372 Covid-19 fatalities on Friday. The total toll in the state reached 15,170, according to a health bulletin issued by the state government. Lucknow, Kanpur, Varanasi, Meerut, Gorakhpur, Gautam Budh Nagar and Moradabad have a very high active caseload with most active cases concentrated in Lucknow (25,748).The state recorded 34,721 recoveries in the past 24 hours which took the tally of the recovered people to 1,219,409.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath held a Covid-19 review meeting earlier in the day and said that the state is managing the pandemic effectively. He said cases have decreased in Bareilly over the past week. While visiting a Covid-19 control centre, he remarked that the state’s implementation of Covid-19 rules has been effective in curbing the spread of Covid-19.“It was predicted that Uttar Pradesh will see 1 lakh positive cases per day from May 5 but, as of May 8, we have reported 26,000 cases. It means our Covid-19 strategy and management is successful. From April 30, we're seeing a decline in cases and we also started special screening as well as testing in villages,” Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-records-slight-dip-in-fresh-cases-cm-says-state-s-covid-management-effective-101620489658649.html
08-05-2021||Lucknow||Migrant exodus: Mayawati says Delhi CM and other state govts busy in theatrics||Bahujan Samaj Party supremo Mayawati on Saturday accused Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal of "indulging in theatrics" over people moving out of the national capital because of the COVID-19 lockdown, and said the same was being seen in Maharashtra, Haryana and Punjab.She demanded that vaccines should be administered for free to everyone, especially the poor, Dalits and tribals, and economic assistance should also be given to them.In a series of tweets in Hindi, the former Mayawati said, "The Delhi chief minister, with folded hands, urging people not to flee Delhi is a drama which was enacted during COVID-19 earlier. Now, the same is being seen in Maharashtra, Haryana and Punjab. Many people from Ludhiana in Punjab are fleeing. This is extremely sad.""If these state governments generate confidence among the people that their needs will be fulfilled in time, then they would not flee. These state governments are indulging in varied theatrics to hide their failures. This is not hidden from anyone," she alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/migrant-exodus-mayawati-says-delhi-cm-and-other-state-govts-busy-in-theatrics-101620464844501.html
08-05-2021||Lucknow||Mission Oxygen: UP launches project to install oxygen generators in every district||To increase the oxygen supply in Uttar Pradesh amid Covid-19 pandemic, the excise and sugar industry and sugarcane development department of the UP government has started the process of installing oxygen generators across the state for the patients, it announced in a statement on Saturday.The department officials have shortlisted 75 districts where the plants will be installed in various hospitals. The work has begun in 27 districts already, "while the remaining districts will get those soon," the official release stated.So far, the work is complete in Saharanpur, Prayagraj, Fatehpur, Pratapgarh, Aligarh, Etah and Hathras. It also includes Sitapur, Kasganj, Badaun, Barabanki, Ayodhya, Shamli among others."Through the combined efforts of the Excise, Sugar Industry and Sugarcane Development Department, about 30 units of Excise Department and 45 sugar mills have ensured that in every district, there is at least one community health centre or district hospital with 35-45 beds having full-time oxygen supply through oxygen generators," it also said.The hospitals for the task will be chosen by the district magistrate and chief central officer.The project will see an investment of about ₹50-60 lakh per hospital, according to the statement. A letter to Air India has also been written, asking the airline to airlift these machines and deliver them to the hospitals as soon as possible.Covid-19 is wreaking havoc in Uttar Pradesh as it has spread beyond big cities into the towns and villages in India's most populous state. On Friday, the state reported 28,076 new Covid-19 cases, 33,117 discharges and 372 deaths.The devastating Covid-19 wave has triggered a severe shortage of oxygen cylinders families of the patients are facing a hard time to even find key medicines.On Friday, the Allahabad High Court sought the status of the Covid-19 situation in the countryside from the Uttar Pradesh government and also the measures it is considering to curb the surge in the spread of the infection there.On the vaccination drive in the state, a Bench comprising Justice Siddharth Verma and Justice Ajit Kumar, asked the government about a policy so that all people of the state can be inoculated in the next three to four months.The next hearing in this matter will take place on May 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mission-oxygen-up-launches-project-to-install-oxygen-generators-in-every-district-101620455136979.html
08-05-2021||Lucknow||Testing limited to urban clusters in Uttar Pradesh?||Have states been testing enough to curb the spread of the second wave of Covid-19 in India? An HT analysis suggests that while current positivity rates are high enough across states to require increased testing, a low positivity rate earlier, or when it comes in the future, may not always be a wholesome indicator of adequate testing (not unless it comes after a long plateau or a gradual decline).The World Health Organisation (WHO) considers a prolonged positivity rate of under 5% to be the threshold at which the Covid-19 infections in an area can be said to be under control. No major state in India had a positivity rate of 5% or less on average in the week ending May 4. This underlines the need for all states to test more.However, four weeks ago, five of India’s 19 major states had an average positivity rate less than 5%. These were — in increasing order of positivity rates — Assam, Telangana, Bihar, Gujarat and Odisha. The state that came next was Uttar Pradesh, with a positivity rate of 5.8%. This is at odds with anecdotal reports from the state at the time that spoke of people finding it difficult to get tested. At 13.2%, even in the week ending May 4, the average positivity rate in the state was lower compared to most states: it was, in fact, the fifth lowest among 19 major states. Why have official numbers from the state not reflected what ground reports suggest? (See maps)One reason for UP’s official numbers showing testing as adequate despite ground reports suggesting otherwise could be that the large-scale testing is limited to a few areas, cities, or districts. Checking positivity rate at district-level could possibly help confirm this distribution of tests, not only in Uttar Pradesh, but other states that have shown low positivity rates even amidst reports of oxygen shortage, space crunch in hospitals, crematoriums, and graveyards.However, only a few states — Rajasthan, Punjab, Gujarat, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Tripura, and Arunachal Pradesh — publish district-level testing or positivity rates, and most major states with low positivity rates are not among them. What we have at the district level for all major states is the number of Covid-19 cases.Also read | Covid quietly ravages rural UPBut these case numbers can be used as a proxy to test for adequacy of testing. For instance, if a district has a high number of cases per million population, it is evident that the infection is widespread in that district. It is reasonable to assume that adjacent districts will be affected by high rates of infection as well (especially if the first district is a hub of sorts). To check for this trend on a map, HT created a map of average cases per million by districts in the last week, normalised on a scale of 0 to 1 for districts of each state. A district with a score of 1 has the highest cases per million in the state, and the district with a score of 0 has the lowest cases per million in the state.HT plotted four such maps: showing this index for the week ending April 13, April 20, April 27, and May 4. Rather satisfyingly, data from most states support the premise that adjacent districts have similar caseloads theory throughout this period. Uttar Pradesh alone looks like an outlier in April, with districts around Lucknow having a far lower score than it. This means that while Lucknow had the highest infection rates in Uttar Pradesh through April, districts around it remained largely unaffected. That, as maps of other states suggest, is not credible unless there was no movement from Lucknow to adjoining districts, or unless testing in neighbouring districts was inadequate. That the state was holding Panchayat polls during this period makes this even more unlikely. (See maps)To be sure, this trend can also be seen in the union territory or Ladakh and some north-eastern states.In Ladakh, this trend is a mathematical quirk. If there are just two districts in a state, one of them will have the highest cases per million (and therefore a normalised score of 1) and other minimum (normalised score of 0). In districts in the north-eastern states, the absolute infection rates themselves are far lower than Lucknow, which might explain the infection not spreading to neighbouring districts as readily. In the week ending April 27, for example, West Tripura had an average of 49 cases per million compared to 1,137 per million in Lucknow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/testing-limited-to-urban-clusters-in-up-101620429777566.html
08-05-2021||Lucknow||Jabs for 18-44 age group to be launched in 11 more UP districts on Monday||The state government would launch the Covid-19 vaccination drive for people in the 18-44 years’ age group in 11 more districts of Uttar Pradesh on Monday.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath made the announcement at a Covid-19 review meeting here on Friday.He also asked the medical education minister to be in regular touch with the vaccine making companies for securing supplies for the state.The districts where vaccination for the 18-44 age group will start on Monday are Aligarh, Agra, Ghaziabad, Jhansi, Moradabad, Saharanpur, Firozabad, Mathura, Ayodhya, Shahjahanpur and Gautam Buddha Nagar, according to a government statement. The vaccination will be done at some centres, the names of which pop up when one registers on the Co-Win portal.The vaccination campaign for the 18-44 category was initially started in seven districts with a high active caseload—Lucknow, Kanpur Nagar, Prayagraj, Varanasi, Gorakhpur, Meerut and Bareilly —on May 1. Since then, 85,566 people in this age group have been vaccinated in these seven districts. Yogi said that so far, the state had vaccinated 1.34 crore people statewide (since the start of the overall Covid-19 vaccination campaign on January 16). The state has 75 districts.The chief minister also asked for suspending on-the-spot registration for inoculation, adding that jabs should be given only to such persons who have pre-registered for their dose.Besides, he said people with the Covid-19 infection, or its symptoms should not be given the vaccine till a month after recovery.On the day of the launch of the vaccination in 11 districts, the minister in charge of those districts or local people’s representatives should be present at one or the other vaccination centres there, the chief minister said.Regarding pre-registration, he said: “On-the-spot registration may cause chaos. So that there is no unnecessary crowding at vaccination centres, it would be appropriate to do the vaccination through online registration. If possible, also contact the pre-registered beneficiaries a day or two before their appointed vaccination date.”About not giving jabs to Covid-19 positive patients, he said, “Health experts have advised that those with the Covid-19 infection or symptoms should not be vaccinated. The experts have said that those with the Covid infection should be vaccinated not before a month after recovery. Spread this advice among the people.”He also said the vaccine wastage had come down further.“The best part of vaccination in this (18-44) age group is that the vaccine wastage is minimal, perhaps due to enthusiasm in the age group. The wastage percentage that was 0.39% has further come down to 0.11% and our target is to make it 0%.”He once again emphasised on the “trace, test, treat, vaccinate” policy to control the Covid-19 infection, saying that it was giving favourable results.“On April 30, the state had 3.10 lakh active cases, and, in a week’s time, they fell by 55,000. The highest number of positive cases was recorded on April 24 and since then there is a regular decline in the fresh positive cases. At the same time, the number of people recovering is steadily rising,” he said.He said that in the last 24 hours a total of 28,076 fresh cases had been recorded while a total of 33,117 recovered and were discharged from hospitals.Earlier on Thursday night, the chief minister held the first meeting with the medical experts’ panel that the state has constituted for expert advice to Team-9. Team-9 is an administrative and policy-making team of top bureaucrats and two senior ministers engaged in Covid management during the second wave of the pandemic. The medical expert panel has 14 members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/jabs-for-18-44-to-be-launched-in-11-more-up-districts-on-monday-101620408240979.html
