11-05-2021||Lucknow||Adityanath fudging coronavirus numbers, 'tower of corpses' in UP: Congress||Uttar Pradesh Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu on Tuesday trashed the state government's claims on managing the coronavirus pandemic and accused Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath of fudging statistics.While accusing the BJP government of laxity, the opposition leader said a “tower of corpses” has risen in the state.Lallu's statement came hours after defence minister Rajnath Singh's visit to Lucknow, where he praised Adityanath's handling of the Covid-19 crisis and claimed that the World Health Organization too had done so.“Can't the defence minister, who is praising the chief minister indulging in fudging the statistics, see the flames from the funeral pyres in his parliamentary constituency of Lucknow and other parts of the state,” the Congress leader said."Can he not see the deaths caused by the shortage of oxygen and the shortage of medicines," he said, adding that Singh showed a lack of sensitivity by praising the chief minister.Lallu claimed that the ground reality is that there are "no vaccines, no oxygen, no medicines" in the state. "Due to the laxity of the government, there is a 'minar' (tower) of corpses, and it is getting praise," he said.He accused the state government of being "shameless" and "disgracing humanity".Earlier, Rajnath Singh had claimed that the World Health Organization has praised the Uttar Pradesh government's work. It is not a small thing," he said.In a tweet on Monday, the WHO said, "In #India''s most populous state Uttar Pradesh, the state gov. has initiated house-to-house active case finding of #COVID19 in rural areas to contain transmission by testing people with symptoms for rapid isolation, disease management & contact tracing."The WHO has been working with the state government in these activities, the organisation's tweets indicate.Meanwhile, state Medical Education Minister Suresh Kumar Khanna dubbed Lallu’s statement as "irresponsible”."Congress leaders sometimes spread confusion about the vaccine and other times they question the government's testing campaign in villages," he said, adding that "the public is getting confused due to irresponsible statements of Congress leaders”.Meanwhile, Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav alleged that the state government is yet to accept the magnitude of the situation."The way coronavirus has affected Uttar Pradesh villages is worrying. The lives of people are at risk due to lack of medicines, oxygen and treatment. The BJP government is still not accepting the magnitude of the situation,” Akhilesh said in a tweet in Hindi.He said the truth about deaths cannot be “hidden” through “lies” of the BJP government.In a separate tweet tagging a video, he said, "The condition of hospitals in Gorakhpur is extremely pathetic."The BJP government, which is indulging in false propaganda of its success, has become a burden, the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/adityanath-fudging-coronavirus-numbers-tower-of-corpses-in-up-congress-101620752505545.html
11-05-2021||Lucknow||RLD demands Centre to set up national task force for vaccination programme||The Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) has demanded the Centre to constitute a national task force comprising experts to chalk out a fresh policy for the Covid-19 vaccination programme so that at least one crore people are vaccinated every day in the country. Raising the demand here on Tuesday, RLD national spokesman Anupam Mishra said there was also a lot of confusion and misgivings about the vaccines and the government must dispel the same by taking people into confidence.Questioning the Centre’s current vaccination policy, he said it was not clear yet as to when the vaccination programme would get the desired speed and how much population is required to be vaccinated to produce herd immunity. “Most importantly, it is also not known whether the vaccines being administered currently are effective against the mutated variants of the coronavirus,” Mishra said, adding “It is, therefore, desirable for the Centre to set up national task force of experts to address all these issues and oversee the vaccination programme for better results.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/rld-demands-centre-to-set-up-national-task-force-for-vaccination-programme-101620752548291.html
11-05-2021||Lucknow||Shooters join hands to combat oxygen shortage in UP||A group of national level shooters, including many from Uttar Pradesh (UP), have come together to help the state combat oxygen shortage. They have developed a digital portal for oxygen monitoring which they feel would help in ensuring timely supply of oxygen. National level shooter Raj Kumar, who runs an organization named Rodic Consutants, came up with the idea and sought support in the initiative to fight Covid. Well-known shooters like Asutosh Dwiwedi (UP), Pardeep Kumar Singh (Haryana), Tabish Ahmed (UP), Rahul Soni (Delhi), Monu Kumar (Delhi), Harpreet Singh (Delhi) and Shalender (UP) joined Kumar whose portal has been regularly monitoring and tracking the real-time location of vehicles so that oxygen reaches hospitals without delay. Using the ‘hub and spoke’ model to streamline the oxygen supply - the model requires intensive manpower to ensure hassle-free supply – the shooters are conducting data gathering and entry, GPS Web application monitoring, oxygen tanker location tracking and monitoring with regional transport office (RTO) and medical department. Kumar said in the ‘hub and spoke’ model, the state has been divided into five hubs – Lucknow, Kanpur, Modinagar, Ghaziabad and Varanasi - for route optimization. Gorakhpur and Bareilly are functioning as co-hubs. “Each hub comprises 5-6 cities. The spokes are 57 medical colleges across UP where the demand for oxygen has increased. This model is flexible to allow modifications in case of any fluctuations in oxygen demand. The creation of an additional hub requires approximately 9-10 hours of turnaround time,” said Kumar. The shooters remain present at the oxygen manufacturing facilities where the tracking devices are installed and enabled. These devices ensure minimum turnaround times and facilitate end-to-end coordination between multiple departments for seamless movement of oxygen tankers. “We are witnessing spike in coronavirus cases across the country. Collaboration is the key to winning the battle against COVID-19. We are contributing by setting up a command centre for oxygen movement across the country like we did successfully for UP,” said Kumar. “In this endeavor we required volunteers to support us for efficient management of this entire process. I had appealed to all my fellow shooters across India to come forward and support us as volunteers. We have received a very positive response from the community,” he added. Deepak Dubey, who coached many national level shooters appreciated efforts of Kumar and his team. “It’s a real service to the people of the state by the sportspersons. Such initiatives will go a long way in alleviating the miseries of Covid-19 patients. I urge more people to come forward to join the cause,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/shooters-join-hands-to-combat-oxygen-shortage-in-up-101620741326332.html
11-05-2021||Lucknow||Nonagenarian, daughter & son in law defeat Covid-19 with positive intent||Two gutsy elderly women – nonagenarian Pratibha Joshi, her severely diabetic daughter Smita Pandey, 67, defeated Covid-19 infection and said keeping a positive mindset throughout the infection period was the key to recovery. Smita’s husband BD Pandey, 69, retired superintendent of customs and central excise, who suffers from a heart ailment, got infected too. “My mother’s positive approach and determination helped me and my husband overcome the infection,” Smita said. Her husband tested positive for Covid-19 infection on April 18 after experiencing mild fever and cough. Smita initially testing negative but later developed symptoms with fever and soon after, along with her 95-year-old mother tested positive on April 23. “Now, all three of us were positive. Only my sister Beenu Joshi, was free of Covid-19 infection. We decided to stay in home isolation and adhere to doctor’s advice after isolating ourselves in three separate rooms of the house in Indira Nagar,” Smita said. Smita said her sister kept providing proper meal and took care of the entire house with help of some relatives and friends, who also kept delivering food and medicines regularly. The family was also in touch with doctors over phone and kept consulting them daily. “We took our medicines on time, did breathing exercises regularly. At times, my mother’s oxygen level dipped slightly but she maintained her patience and increased the oxygen level through prone position,” Smita said. “We remained positive all through the phase and never allowed ourselves to feel low. Patience, due care and precautions regarding medicines and diet etc. paid off and we three recovered in nearly two weeks. We are doing well now”, Pandey said. “While recovering, we did breathing exercises, took steam, read books and rested,” she said adding that she felt proud of her mother for remaining positive mentally throughout the testing phase. “Along with medicines, exercise and healthy diet, positive approach is very important for recovery,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/nonagenarian-daughter-son-in-law-defeat-covid-19-with-positive-intent-101620741206325.html
11-05-2021||Lucknow||UP records 20,463 fresh Covid cases, 306 deaths; tally climbs to over 15.45 lakh||Uttar Pradesh has recorded 20,463 fresh Covid-19 cases that took the total tally to 15,45,212, while 306 fatalities pushed the death toll to 16,043, officials informed on Tuesday.However, the number of active cases in the state have come down by over 94,000 in the past 10 days, additional chief secretary, health, Amit Mohan Prasad said.On April 30, there were about 3.10 lakh active cases while currently the number stands at 2,16,057.Of the 306 fatalities, Lucknow reported the maximum deaths at 23, Kanpur 16, Meerut 15, Jhansi and Gautam Buddh Nagar 12 each, Agra and Azamgarh 11 each, Basti 10 and Varanasi 8, as per a health bulletin issued here.Meerut reported the highest number of fresh Covid-19 cases at 1,368, followed by 1,229 in Gautam Buddh Nagar and 1,154 in Lucknow, it said.As many as 29,358 Covid-19 patients recovered from the infection in the past 24 hours, Prasad said.With this, the total number of patients recovered in the state has risen to 13,13,112, he added.So far, over 4.34 crore samples have been tested in the state, including more than 2.33 lakh samples that were tested on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-records-20-463-fresh-covid-cases-306-deaths-tally-climbs-to-over-15-45-lakh-101620731359429.html
11-05-2021||Lucknow||SP leader Azam Khan shifted to ICU as his oxygen requirement goes up||Samajwadi Party (SP) leader Azam Khan was shifted to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of Medanta Hospital in Lucknow on Monday after his oxygen requirement shot up, the hospital said. The 72-year-old Rampur Lok Sabha MP, along with his 30-year-old son Abdullah, had been brought to the private hospital in the state capital on Sunday from Sitapur district jail, where they had tested positive for Covid-19 on April 30.The oxygen requirement of former Uttar Pradesh urban development minister Azam Khan shot up to 10 litres per minute and this required shifting him to ICU, according to the medical bulletin released by Medanta hospital. Currently, he is under strict observation of doctors.His son Abdullah as recovering, and his condition was satisfactory, the bulletin added.The duo had been in jail since February 26, 2020, when a Rampur court rejected their bail application in a case related to alleged forgery in age-proof documents of Abdullah, a jail official had said on Sunday.In September 2019, the court had issued summons to Azam Khan, his wife Tazeen Fatima and their son taking cognizance of the charge sheet filed by Rampur police, in which all three were charged with forgery and cheating. On January 3, 2019, local BJP leader Akash Saxena had lodged a complaint alleging that Azam and his wife helped their son in obtaining two fake birth certificates – one from Lucknow and another from Rampur – following which an FIR was registered.In December 2020, the Allahabad high court had granted bail to Tazeen Fatma in all 34 cases registered against her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/spleader-azam-khan-shifted-to-icu-as-his-oxygen-requirement-goes-up-101620674362358.html
11-05-2021||Lucknow||Daily positivity rate goes below 10% in UP||The daily Covid positivity rate — the number of positive cases against the total tests done — on Monday dipped below 10% in Uttar Pradesh for the first time since the middle of last month, according to official data. This rate was at its highest at 16.84% on April 24 during the second wave of the pandemic. It is now 9.92%,The previous instance of the rate being below 10% in the state during the second wave was on April 14 when it was recorded at 9.76%, the data showed. It had crossed the 10-mark (10.86%) on April 15. An expert said the fall in the positivity rate was a good sign. “Fall in positivity rate indicates we have been able to contain the infection spread. The restrictions on movement have somewhere helped to slow down the rising number of fresh daily cases,” said Prof Kauser Usman, head of the department of geriatric medicine at King George’s Medical University (KGMU) here. For his part, chief minister Yogi Adityanath had said at a Covid-19 review meeting on Sunday: “The positivity rate has been steadily falling since April 30 and the recovery rate is rising.” On Monday, he said that the state had recorded a decline of 85,000 in active Covid-19 cases in 10 days with their number going down from 3.10 lakh on April 30 to about 2.25 lakh on May 10.Uttar Pradesh on Monday reported 21,331 fresh Covid-19 cases, including 1,274 in Lucknow and 278 more deaths, 26 of them in the state capital alone. Meerut recorded 2,269 cases, the maximum on the day.The overall tally of cases in the state has gone up to 15,24,767 and the death toll is 15, 742 since the beginning of the pandemic in March last year.The (daily) positivity rate for Covid kept rising since April 1 when it was 2.09% and there were 11,918 active cases (the number of patients under treatment) in the state. Both the positivity rate and the number of active cases kept rising thereon.By April 7, the positivity rate reached 3.73% and the active cases went up to 31987, more than double the number recorded on April 1.On April 23, the positivity rate reached 16.53% and the number of active cases stood at 2,73,653. On April 24, the positivity rate touched 16.84% and the active cases reached 2,88,144.On April 30, the 24-hour positivity rate came down to 14.18% but active cases still kept rising and reached 3,10,783, the maximum during the second wave in the state. On May 9, positivity rate came down to 10.18% and the active cases receded to 23,39,81On May 10, the daily positivity rate fell below 10% and stood at 9.92% while the active cases came down to 2,25,271.(Since the pandemic began in March last year, the overall positivity rate in the state is 3.53% with 4,31,69,533 Covid tests having been done and 15,24,767 cases reported till now).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/daily-positivity-rate-goes-below-10-in-up-101620673159853.html
11-05-2021||Lucknow||‘Thai woman who died of Covid was spa therapist in Lucknow’||The police team formed to probe the controversy around the death of a Thai woman, who reportedly died of Covid-19 in Lucknow last week, on Monday claimed the deceased was a professional therapist and worked at a local spa in the city.“The woman was a professional spa therapist and worked at a local spa centre. When she contracted Covid-19 virus, she was admitted to a hospital by spa centre manager Salman, who also performed her last rites as per the wish of members of the deceased family following permission from Thai embassy officials,” said DCP Sanjiv Suman, who is heading the team set up to probe the matter.The probe was initiated after reports on social media claimed she was an escort and was invited to Lucknow by son of a politician and a prominent builder at a time when cases of Covid-19 were rising.On Sunday, the said politician refuted the claims and wrote to local police requesting an investigation into the matter.The probe team found that the deceased was a regular visitor to India since 2010 and to Lucknow since 2019.“We questioned the owner of the spa and the manager regarding the matter and have not found anything suspicious or illegal yet. The investigation is still on, and we are looking into other aspects of the case,” said the officer.The woman was admitted to Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences, Lucknow, on April 28 and she died on May 3, as per ADM (administration) Amar Pal Singh. Later, her family was contacted in Thailand via embassy. As per their wishes, her last rites were performed by the police and district administration on May 5, he had said.An official statement released by the Lucknow police said the probe team had spoken to people connected with the case.“Further investigation in the case will be done on the basis of facts collected by the team,” read the police statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/thai-woman-who-died-of-covid-was-spa-therapist-in-lucknow-101620671659596.html
11-05-2021||Lucknow||Dominated by Hindus, Ayodhya village elects Muslim man as gram pradhan||A Hindu dominated village in Ayodhya has elected a Muslim gram pradhan in the recently concluded panchayat elections.Residents of village Rajanpur of Mavai block in Rudauli assembly constituency elected Hafiz Azimuddin Khan as their gram pradhan (village head). Hafiz Azim’s family is the only Muslim family in this predominantly Hindu village. In this electoral battle for gram pradhan there were eight candidates in fray. Hafiz was the lone Muslim candidate. Hindu candidates in the contest tried to win over constituents by promising pension, house under the PM Awas Yojana and allotment of land (patta). But villagers voted for Hafiz Azimuddin and rejected all other candidates.Azimuddin’s victory in Panchayat election has become a talk of the town. Crediting his victory to Hindu-Muslim unity, Hafiz Azimuddin said: “My victory is an example of Hindu-Muslim affinity not only in village Rajanpur but entire Ayodhya.” Listing out his priorities for the village, Azimuddin said: “All funds for gram pradhan will be utilised for development of the village. Basic amenities will be augmented, and jobs will be provided to all those entitled under the MNREGA.” Radhay Shyam, 53, a native of village Rajanpur, was happy with Azimuddin’s victory. “Azimuddin’s victory is a signal of Hindu-Muslim unity in this village and the rest of Ayodhya. The day Azimuddin filed for his candidature, most of us decided to vote for him.” Sampat Lal, 61, points out that Azimuddin’s victory will also ensure that there is no animosity between any castes in the village. “As Hindu candidates had also sought votes on the basis of their caste, victory of any candidate other than Azimuddin might have led to bitterness between various castes of the Hindu community,” said Sampat Lal.Due to Covid-19 pandemic, the state government has postponed oath taking ceremony of gram pradhans and zila panchayat members. The government has also postponed election of chairman, zila panchayat and block pramukhs. Newly elected zila panchayat members elect zila panchayat chairman in all 75 districts of the state. Now, these elections are expected to take place after June 15. Ayodhya, around 155 km from the state capital, has been in focus for the ongoing construction work of Ram Mandir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/dominated-by-hindus-ayodhya-village-elects-muslim-man-as-gram-pradhan-101620655999395.html
