12-05-2021||Lucknow||Ambedkar Nagar hooch tragedy: Death toll rises to six; 5 arrested, 4 cops suspended||The toll in Ambedkar Nagar hooch tragedy rose to six with one more death reported on Wednesday even as five persons were arrested and four cops suspended in this connection, said a senior police official.The four police personnel¬-- in-charge of Jaitpur police station Pandit Tripathi, sub-inspector Kailash Singh Yadav, head constable Gulab Chand and constable Rahul Gupta-- have been placed under suspension and a departmental inquiry initiated against them for dereliction of duty, said Ambedkar Nagar superintendent of police (SP) Alok Priyadarsh.To note, five people, including two brothers-- Mahesh Chauhan and Jaisraj Chauhan-- died after consuming spurious liquor in Singhora Makhdumpur village under Jaitpur police station limits. While four deaths were reported on Monday one each succumbed during treatment on Tuesday and Wednesday.The SP said 12 persons in a marriage party had taken ill after consuming the spurious liquor purchased from Mittupur village in adjoining Azamgarh district. They were admitted to a local hospital, where five of them died. Three were still undergoing treatment and four others have been discharged.He said some other deaths in the area were being incorrectly attributed to the hooch tragedy.The SP added the police searched every house in the village for country made liquor in presence of district magistrate Samuel Paul.The SP said a country made liquor shop owner was among the five people arrested in the case from Azamgarh. He was found to be selling liquor illegally despite the corona curfew in the state since April 30. “Those arrested have been booked for violating the state government order, epidemic act, excise act as well as causing death due to negligence,” the SP said.The Azamgarh district administration, however, said no deaths have been reported in the district due to spurious liquor and they were cooperating with the Ambedkar Nagar police in the investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ambedkar-nagar-hooch-tragedy-death-toll-rises-to-six-5-arrested-4-cops-suspended-101620840944701.html
12-05-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh reports 18,125 new Covid-19 cases, 329 more deaths||Uttar Pradesh recorded 18,125 fresh Covid-19 cases that raised the infection count to 15,63,238, while 329 new fatalities pushed the death toll 16,372, officials said on Wednesday.On the bright side, the number of active cases in the state has come down by over 1.04 lakh in the past 11 days, Additional Chief Secretary, Health, Amit Mohan Prasad said. The Covid-19 recovery rate now stands at 85.7 per cent in Uttar Pradesh, he said.On April 30, there were about 3.10 lakh active cases, while the number currently stands at 2,06,615, the official said.With this, the total number of patients in the state who have recovered from the infection has risen to 13,40,251, Prasad added.So far, over 4.36 crore samples have been tested in the state, including more than 2.45 lakh samples that were tested on Tuesday, he said.Among the fresh cases, 1,52,725 are in home isolation, Prasad said.In past 24 hours, maximum 26 deaths were reported from Kanpur, 23 from Lucknow, 17 from Jhansi, 14 from Meerut, 11 each from Gautam Buddh Nagar, Hardoi and Meerut, besides other cities, a health bulletin issued here said.In this period, maximum 1,232 fresh cases were reported from Meerut, 992 from Gautam Buddh Nagar, 916 from Lucknow, 755 from Muzaffar Nagar, 748 from Varanasi, 720 from Gorakhpur, it saidHe said that following the 'track, test and treat' policy, surveillance teams of the state government have reached 3.47 crore households, covering a total of 16.73 crore people.Prasad said while 1.11 crore people have been administered the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine, 29.35 lakh have received the second shot.The programme of vaccinating people in the 18-44 age group is also going on in the state and so far 2.16 lakh in this category have been administered vaccines, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-reports-18-125-new-covid-19-cases-329-more-deaths-101620835118737.html
12-05-2021||Lucknow||Migrant worker dies at Covid counter in UP hospital battling ‘systemic failure’||A 35-year old migrant worker from Gorakhpur district, Rambadan Sahani died at the Covid patient registration counter at Lucknow’s BRD Medical College on Monday, triggering outrage at alleged apathy of the hospital staff.Narrating his unending ordeal leading to Rambadan’s death, his brother Vishnu Sahani said since no ambulance was available, he brought Rambadan to the medical college on a motorcycle. Once there, the medical college could not provide even a stretcher to carry him to the ward, he alleged.The video of Vishnu carrying Rambadan on his shoulder in the medical college went viral on social media.“I carried my ailing brother on shoulder from the gate of the medical college to the Covid patient registration counter. When I told the medical officers about the critical condition of my brother, they asked me to wait in the holding area of the hospital for admission. I told them to arrange oxygen as my brother was facing difficulty in breathing, but again, I was told to wait. My brother collapsed near the registration counter and breathed his last,” Vishnu said, summing up struggles of commoners, seeking access to the state healthcare system during the present Covid crisis.He said even his brother’s death didn’t change the hospital’s “insensitive” attitude. They took two hours to wrap the body according to Covid protocols after Vishnu and other attendants at the hospital protested against the administration. “We had to give ₹2,000 to the ambulance owners to transport the body home,” Vishnu said.BRD Medical College’s principal in charge Dr Pawan Pradhan said an inquiry has been ordered into alleged negligence apart from a notice served to the hospital staff for not providing a stretcher to the patient. “The employees have been told to be sensitive toward the patients brought to the hospital for admission,” he said.Rambadan Sahni worked as a daily wage labourer in Hyderabad. He returned home on May 6 and was suffering from fever as well as breathing problems.Under pressure from rising numbers of Covid-19 cases in the second wave of the pandemic since late March, hospitals in Uttar Pradesh have struggled with oxygen and medicine supplies and ICU beds among other logistical issues. The state government however claims that the situation was improving with several Covid level facilities being fitted with oxygenated beds and launch of a door to door survey in rural areas to identify Covid cases early. However, opposition parties have accused the state government of refusing to acknowledge the magnitude of the crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/migrant-worker-dies-at-covid-patient-registration-counter-battling-systemic-failure-101620813631446.html
12-05-2021||Lucknow||5 arrested in Ambedkar Nagar hooch deaths case, 5 cops suspended||Five persons were arrested on Wednesday in connection with the hooch tragedy that took at least five lives in Uttar Pradesh’s Ambedkar Nagar district. In-charge of Jaitpur police station and four constables were also suspended and subjected to departmental inquiry for dereliction of duty in the case, police said.Five people including two brothers, Mahesh Chauhan and Jaisraj Chauhan, died after consuming spurious liquor in Singhora Makhdumpur village under Jaitpur police station limits. Ambedkar Nagar superintendent of police (SP) Alok Priyadarsh said four of these died on Monday and one on Tuesday.The SP said 12 persons in a marriage party fell ill after consuming the spurious liquor purchased from Mittupur village in adjoining Azamgarh district. They were admitted to a local hospital, where five died. Three were still undergoing treatment and four others have been discharged.The SP said some other deaths in the area were being incorrectly attributed to the hooch tragedy.He added the police searched every house in the village for country made liquor in presence of Ambedkar Nagar district magistrate (DM) Samuel Paul.A country made liquor shop owner was among the five people arrested in the case from Azamgarh district. He was found to be selling liquor illegally despite the corona curfew in the state since April 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/5-arrested-in-ambedkar-nagar-hooch-deaths-case-5-cops-suspended-101620798750550.html
12-05-2021||Lucknow||To tackle third wave, we are doing whatever is possible, says UP minister Sidharth Nath Singh||As Uttar Pradesh (UP) battles the devastating second wave of Covid-19 infection, cabinet minister and state government spokesperson Sidharth Nath Singh, speaks to Hindustan Times on a variety of issues, including party lawmakers writing letters on inept handling of crisis, challenge of testing in villages, vaccinating rural population and state’s preparation to handle imminent third wave.Excerpts: There is a feeling that had we been alert, death and scale of disease could have been minimised. Experts had been predicting that the Covid first wave would be followed by a second wave and yet the warning appeared to have been drowned in a false sense of victory over the virus? The second wave was known but its impact or severity wasn’t. So, drawing from the first wave, we augmented the health infrastructure, scaled it up three times. We thought it would be enough. But as it turned out, the severity was many times more than what we had anticipated. This caused problems but as I said, there weren’t any predictive patterns to the severity of the wave. So, is the view that UP could have minimised death and spread of disease misplaced? How do you answer this? I can only say that the government has been doing its best. The chief minister tested positive and continued to work despite being in isolation. Yet, your own party lawmakers have been posting letters, videos and posts that showcase how they have been helpless against the system. Some didn’t get bed, some flagged faulty Covid testing? They are showing the mirror to their government, isn’t it? In a democracy, constructive criticism is always welcome. No harm in writing letters or making suggestions. But let us remember that the ruling lawmakers are part of the government. They should contribute to resolving the problem rather than creating one. There is a view that the panchayat polls contributed in a big way in the spread of infection in villages. The government claims that it was the court’s decision. However, when the court ordered lockdown, the government moved Supreme Court arguing a complete lockdown would affect livelihoods. It’s a fact that the matter went to the court twice. But I wouldn’t confuse between the two. One, is a constitutional aspect, the other is an administrative matter. Our role was to follow two Constitutional authorities – the court and the election commission. We alone didn’t contest those polls. All the parties did. As far as lockdown matter was concerned, that was the administrative part, and we were clear that we wanted to save both lives and livelihood. But now, that the virus has arrived in villages and is turning aggressive, don’t you think this is the government’s biggest challenge yet, that of saving villages? We have 97,000 revenue villages and over 70,000 nigrani samitis and through them we are aggressively testing, tracing and treating patients in rural UP. We have provided the test teams 10 lakh medical kits; 10 lakh antigen test kits and all 822 community health centres are being given 20 oxygen concentrators. To maintain proper oxygen supply chain, 60 tankers have been added to the 30 existing tankers and keeping Covid’s third wave prediction in mind we have also floated a global tender for tankers. How do you inoculate the villages even as vaccine shortage has hit urban centres? To maintain steady flow of inoculation we have floated global tender for four crore vials and also placed orders of 1 crore vials with Indian manufacturers. But why did the government stop private hospitals and centres from vaccinating people? Surely government centres alone won’t be able to inoculate the whole of UP. We didn’t stop anyone. The government of India has come up with a guideline as it has given nearly 50% quota to the state. The state now has to cater to the people through government centres while private centres would be free to purchase vaccines either through open market or directly through manufacturers. We are seeing air force planes taking off with oxygen tankers to fast-track oxygen supply to the state. There are trains that are regularly coming to the state with liquid oxygen. But where is this oxygen going as the crisis still continues? All these oxygen tankers have to be off loaded at the right place. Not in Hazratganj, right? In the last 10 to 15 days things have improved. About two weeks back, the oxygen intake was about 300 metric tonnes. Since then, 900 to 1000 metric tonnes of oxygen have been supplied. There is an oxygen audit happening which is assessing oxygen requirement of hospitals because oxygen requirement continues to vary on a patient. If someone wants audit details, we will share that also, once the exercise is over. Are we better prepared for the speculative third Covid wave? Well, between Covid I to Covid II, our health infrastructure, including beds, were scaled up by three times across all three hospitals – from Covid level 1 to level 2 and level 3 facilities. In that period also, we also set up an oxygen manufacturing plant by Inox in western UP. There is no mathematical calculation about the challenge that speculative Covid third wave would bring. We are doing whatever is possible. The chief minister has appointed a committee of medical experts to advise the government. The CM has spoken of need to scale up paediatric ICUs ahead of the speculative third wave. Certainly, we are doing everything. From paediatric beds to nursing staff, attendants and ward boys. Even as we speak, 25,000 level 1 beds are being converted into oxygen beds. We are creating stronger cold storage facility. So, you think your government would be able to save our kids from Covid 3? Well, if you remember how the situation was with the JE and AES. For nearly 40 years, you well know the number of children who were dying in 38 districts of the state. So, we protected our children, didn’t we? We are adding more oxygen plants. Soon we will reveal our oxygen manufacturing policy. What is this policy going to be like? Details would come later but there would be incentives for the investors wanting to help set up oxygen plants in the state. Already 54 investors have announced intent, more are coming. The chief minister has now tasked the lawmakers with keeping track of Covid positive people in their constituencies No, the lawmakers won’t track Covid patients. They will stay connected with them as after all the patients are people of their constituencies too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/to-tackle-third-wave-we-are-doing-whatever-is-possible-says-up-minister-sidharth-nath-singh-101620796590190.html
12-05-2021||Lucknow||Bonding over food on Eid!||As the holy month of Ramzan is about to end and festival of Eid is around the corner. The festivity that brings food, enjoyment and dressing up to the forefront is almost there. After the sighting of moon the celebrations will begin along with the prayers. Now, with ‘corona curfew’ underway in Uttar Pradesh and markets closed, the celebrations will be limited to the premises of home. “Last year too, Eid-ul-Fitr was celebrated under lockdown but this year the situation is far worse, festivities will surely be not as it used to be. Moreover, markets are closed, and people are not moving out due to fear of contracting the deadly virus. To keep up with the festive spirit, symbolic preparations will be done at home within the given resources,” said Anjum Zaidi, a homemaker. On the occasion HT City bring for you some simple recipes that can easily be prepared within limited availability of ingredients. Arabic Mandi Biryani Ingredients: 4 cups basmati rice , soaked in water for at least half an hour Whole chicken 1 kg. Onion - 1 cut in two pieces Onion - 2 thinly sliced Green Chillies - 4 into two pcs Black cardamom - 4 Whole black peppercorns - 1 teaspoon Cloves 1 teaspoon Cinnamon 2 stick Bay leaf 2 Nutmeg powder 1 pinch Nutmeg 1 Mace 1 Garlic 20 cloves Ginger 4 inch Coriander seeds 2 teaspoon Water 6 cups Salt as required 25 g Cashewnut 25 g Almonds Ginger garlic paste 4 teaspoons Cumin seeds 2 teaspoon Curd 1 cup Green chillies 5 broken Garam masala powder 1 teaspoon Cardamom pods/seeds 5 Fennel seeds 3 teaspoon ground Directions To make the ‘bouquet garni’ or a spice potli, take a clean muslin cloth and place the onion, garlic pods, whole ginger, black cardamom pods, black peppercorns, coriander seeds, cloves, cinnamon stick, nutmeg, and mace on it and collect the ends of the cloth to tie a potli. In a saucepan, add water on medium heat, and add the whole chicken, salt and the bouquet garni and boil it for around 15 minutes. Take out chicken, sprinkle salt and pepper dash of lemon juice and bake it in oven for 15 min at 180 degree C. Till it’s golden brown in colour. Remove the bouquet garni from the stock. The ‘yakhni’ is ready. In a wide pan, heat oil on medium heat and fry the sliced onions, cashewnut and almonds. Take 1/4 of the onions, cashewnut and almonds and keep aside. In the remaining onions, add cumin seeds, ginger garlic paste, salt, green chillies and stir fry for about 3 minutes. After 3 minutes, add yogurt, garam masala and green cardamom. Cook on medium-high heat Add fennel seeds and chicken pieces to the masala and let it simmer for another 3 to 4 minutes. Add this masala and soaked and drained rice to the prepared yakhni (stock) in the saucepan, turn on the heat and cook the rice in it uncovered for about 5 minutes or till the water dries up. Sprinkle fried onion, cashewnut and almonds on the rice, add a tablespoon of ghee and seal the pot with foil or atta dough so that the flavors don’t escape from the yakhni pulao. Cook the yakhni pulao on low heat for 15 minutes or till rice is done. After 20 minutes, switch off the stove and it is ready to be served. By Chef Zulfiqar Hussain Kesar suji ka halwa Desi Ghee- 1/2 cup Semolina (Rava/Suji)- 1 cup Saffron Water - 10 strands soaked in ¼ cup water Cardamom Powder- 1pinch Cashew- pieces 5-6 chopped Raisins - 6-7 pieces Sugar/Sugar free- As per requirement Water- 4 cups (warm) Method: Heat desi ghee in a pan and roast cashews in it till they are golden in colour. Bring them out. In pan heat ghee again and add semolina (suji) in it and mix well. Dry roasts the semolina for at least 15-20 minutes, stirring occasionally. After that it will turn white to pinkish brown and also you can sense a nice aroma. Once suji has been perfectly roasted now add sugar and warm water in it. Be careful while adding water in it. Turn the flame to high and mix it well by stirring continuously. Add soaked saffron water and cardamom powder in it and mix well. Add all the dry fruits and mix well. Keep stirring over medium flame till sugar dissolves completely and Semolina absorbs water. Halwa is ready. Garnish with cashew and raisins. Enjoy it hot. By Chef Mujeebur Rehman Amritsari choley Step 1 : Soak Chickpeas overnight Chickpeas: 250 gms Black cardamom: 2 no Green cardamom: 5 pcs Cinnamon: 1 stick Bay leaf: 2 pcs Dry amla: 8 slices Water: 1.5 ltr Black salt to taste Next morning pressure cook everything 4 whistles. The deep dark colour and tangy taste comes from dry gooseberries (amla). And other significant flavour comes when you make your own spice blend. STEP 2: Make spice blend Coriander seeds: 50 gms Cloves: 4 pcs Cumin: 10 gms Carom seeds: 5 gms Kasturi methi: 20 gms Dry Kashmiri chilly: 7-8 pcs Black pepper whole: 5 gms Pomegranate seeds dry: 10 gms Dry roast all spices and blend it in mixer. STEP 3: Make Puree Make tomato puree: 200 gms tomatoes Make ginger garlic paste: 30 gms Chopped onion: 150gms Chopped tomatoes: 50gms STEP 4: Final preparation Ghee: 50 gms Cumin seeds: 5gms Whole chilly dry: 2 pcs Bayleaf: 1 pc Start by heating ghee add whole spices and cumin Now add chopped onion cook slow on medium heat till golden brown. Add ginger garlic paste and cook well. Now add tomatoes cook properly and then add tomato puree. Add your special spice blend, use all of it. Cook till the sides of masala leaves fat . This is the time to add boiled chickpeas, let it cook along for 15 mints ,smash some chickpes to make thick gravy. Adjust Seasoning. STEP 5: Garnish Ginger julienne: 7 -8 Onion rings: 7-8 Green chilly: 3 to slit half Coriander: freshly chopped. Lemon: few wedges By Chef Himani Sharma||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bonding-over-food-on-eid-101620757769593.html
