13-05-2021||Lucknow||UP village in panic as Covid-19 cases surge in rural areas||The lanes of Mauaima village in Uttar Pradesh’s Prayagraj, which are normally abuzz with activities, wore a deserted look. Residents were not even letting children step out of their homes as fear has gripped the village amid rising Covid-19 cases in rural areas.Tirthraj Yadav, 36, the newly elected village head, said the residents were scared of symptoms associated with Covid-19--cough, fever, and body aches--which are otherwise dismissed as normal and associated with changing seasons. Yadav blamed lack of education for misconceptions about the disease, which have added to the panic. He added many believe that if one person of a family tested positive for Covid, the kin will also be sent to hospitals. Yadav said misinformation that free vaccination can make one sicker, etc has also made people in rural areas reluctant to undergo voluntary testing. “Many hide their symptoms and try to get themselves treated on their own, which has cost them, dear,” said Yadav.The villages under the Mauaima village council, which have a population of 25,000, have officially reported around six Covid-19 deaths. But residents say the number is around four times higher. The last rites of many people, who have died, have been performed hurriedly over the last few weeks.Yadav said the deaths of three members of a family triggered much panic. “If one goes by cremations and burials, we have had around 25 deaths in the last few months...most of them died after showing symptoms like fever, cough, and breathing trouble. But their kin preferred to not get them tested.”Also Read | Uttar Pradesh reports 17,775 Covid-19 cases, 281 related fatalitiesMuhammad Waseem, 42, of the nearby Bataha Majra, said around 500 people in his village have contracted Covid or showed its symptoms. “But merely one in five went to the Community Health Centre (CHC), which has free Covid-19 testing, treatment, and vaccination facilities,” said Waseem, who owns around 100 power looms. Waseem said unfounded fears were deterring people from seeking treatment. “Without any logic, many believe that the vaccine would make them sicker. Some just do not want to send their sick kin to hospitals. I have tried to convince people to make use of the free services, but it is tough to get them to change their minds.”Phool Chandra Yadav, 50, a resident of Khakri Matpur Majra village, echoed Yadav and Waseem.Dr Ram Gopal Verma, the CHC in charge, said they were conducting house-to-house testing with the help of 160 teams. “Around 320 tests are being performed at the centre daily on average,” Verma said. He added the second phase of a state-wide drive to identify Covid-19 patients was underway. “We have divided our block into seven zones, and each is being covered. It is possible that a few houses may not have been covered yet, but by the time the second phase gets over, all homes would be covered.”Verma said four to six Covid-19 cases were being detected daily. “However, lack of cooperation from people under the Mauaima Gram Panchayat has been a challenge for us. We have instances where people found with symptoms have been given medicine kits and asked to get tested. But they refused to turn up for tests after getting relief from medicines. Many times, despite an ambulance being ready, positive patients and their kin simply refuse to go to the hospital and get into altercations. However, our efforts are on with help of police and district administration officials.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-village-in-panic-as-covid-19-cases-surge-in-rural-areas-101620903171305.html
13-05-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh reports 17,775 Covid-19 cases, 281 related fatalities||Uttar Pradesh on Thursday recorded 17,775 fresh Covid-19 cases that pushed the infection count to 15,80,980, while 281 new fatalities took the death toll to 16,646 in the state, officials said.The number of active cases in the state has come down by over 1.06 lakh in the past 12 days, Additional Chief Secretary, Health, Amit Mohan Prasad said.The Covid-19 recovery rate now stands at 86 per cent in Uttar Pradesh, he said.On April 30, there were about 3.10 lakh active cases, and the number currently stands at 2,04,658, the official said.With this, the total number of patients in the state who have recovered from the infection has risen to 13,59,676, Prasad said.In the past 24 hours, while the state reported 17,775 fresh cases, 19,425 people recovered from the disease, he saidSo far, over 4.39 crore samples have been tested in the state and it includes the more than 2.53 lakh samples tested on Wednesday, Prasad said.Of the fresh cases, 1,45,108 are in home isolation, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-reports-17-775-covid-19-cases-281-related-fatalities-101620901798870.html
13-05-2021||Lucknow||All Uttar Pradesh schools up to class 12 closed till May 20||All schools up to class 12 will remain closed till May 20, stated Kumar Raghvendra Singh, special secretary of UP government in his order dated May 10. The state government also announced that there will be no online classes during this period. He said the decision was taken due to the surge in Covid-19 cases. Singh said during this period, no student or teacher will come to school while the teachers and other employees may continue to work from home. In compliance with this order, district Inspector of schools, Lucknow, Mukesh Kumar Singh issued an order asking managers and school principals not to violate state government order failing which action will be initiated against the institution. There are a few private schools that are harassing teachers to come to school and forcing students to attend online classes. Some private schools have also asked the parents to pay fees for their wards else they will cancel their children’s admission to the school.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/all-uttar-pradesh-schools-up-to-class-12-closed-till-may-20-101620846826071.html
13-05-2021||Lucknow||Consider giving ₹1 cr to kin of poll officials who died of Covid: HC||The Allahabad high court asked the Uttar Pradesh government to consider giving Rs1 crore to the families of poll officials who succumbed to Covid-19 during the recently concluded panchayat elections and urged the Centre to devise an immunisation plan for the differently abled.A bench comprising justices Siddhartha Varma and Ajit Kumar also expressed unhappiness about reduced testing, asked the state government to institute within 48 hours a three-member pandemic public grievance committee in every district and said suspected Covid-19 deaths should be treated as coronavirus casualties.The bench was hearing a suo motu (on its own) public interest litigation on conditions of quarantine centres and treatment of Covid-19 patients in the state.The four-phase panchayat elections for roughly 800,000 rural body seats was held between April 15 and 29, coinciding with a devastating surge in infections.The high court and health experts blame the elections for driving the disease in the hinterlands and a prominent teachers’ union claimed that 700 staff died on poll duty. The state government has denied the charges and announced a compensation of ₹30 lakh for the kin of the deceased. But the bench said the amount was too low.“To compensate the loss of life of the bread earner of the family and that too because of the deliberate act on the part of the state and state election commission to force them to perform duties in the absence of RT-PCR support, the compensation must be at least to the tune of ₹1,00,00,000. We hope that the state election commission and government will rethink over the amount of the compensation and come back to us on the next date fixed,” the bench said in a written order passed on Tuesday but made public on Wednesday.“It is not a case that somebody volunteered to render his/ her services during election but it was all made obligatory to those assigned with election duty to perform their duties during election even while they showed their reluctance,” the bench added.The judges also expressed concern about the vaccination of differently abled people and asked the Centre how it will inoculate people who cannot go to vaccination centres or cannot register themselves online. The court then asked the state government if it could form guidelines for inoculating these people even in the absence of central norms. The court said a three-member panel in each district will hear grievances of people related to Covid-19 treatment. Each committee will comprise a chief judicial magistrate or a judicial officer, a professor of a medical college and an administrative officer of the rank of additional district magistrate.The court was dissatisfied with the government affidavit as no information regarding the number of ambulances in the state or meals provided to Covid-19 patients in government hospitals were provided.“We want food details with the calories count of each item in respect of the hospitals of all the categories,” it said.The court said deaths of suspected Covid-19 patients shall be treated as Covid mortality for a limited purpose. “Even if it is the case of suspected death of Covid patients for antigen testing, we are of the view that all such cases of death should be taken as Covid deaths and no hospital can be permitted to hold these cases as non-Covid cases so as to reduce number of Covid deaths in that particular hospital,” said the bench.“Government officials and the hospitals cannot be permitted to shirk away from their responsibility in ensuring that the dead body of such deceased persons is disposed of strictly as per the Covid protocol. Nobody is admitted to a hospital unless he has landed himself in a condition where the SPO2 level has gone down, ie, below 94 and, therefore, to take such deaths as non-Covid deaths would be a blunder,” said the bench while asking the government counsel to file an affidavit on this issue.The case will next be heard on May 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/consider-giving-rs-1-cr-to-kin-of-poll-officials-who-died-of-covid-hc-101620845515380.html
