14-05-2021||Lucknow||Gangster shoots 2 including Mukhtar Ansari aide in UP jail, is killed by cops||A prisoner in Uttar Pradesh’s Chitrakoot jail shot dead two gangsters and held five hostage before he was killed by a police team on Friday morning, people familiar with the matter said. It is not clear how the prisoner, Anshul Dixit, who shot dead the two gangsters managed to smuggle the 9mm pistol into the prison.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has ordered director general of UP prisons Anand Kumar to send the first report on the incident within six hours and hold a detailed probe into the incident along with the Chitrakoot divisional commissioner DK Singh and inspector general (IG) Chitrakoot K Satya Narain.Police identified the two killed by Anshul Dixit in the shooting as Mukeem alias Kala, a gangster facing 61 criminal cases including the murder of three police personnel, and Merajudden, a close aide of gangster-politician Mukhtar Ansari. The powerful Bahujan Samaj Party legislator was recently brought back to UP from Punjab after the Yogi Adityanath government approached the Supreme Court. Ansari is being held in a jail in the adjoining district of Banda.In his first comments, Anand Kumar conceded there had been lapses by prison officials and vowed to take strict action against the officials concerned. By evening, news came that jail superintendent SP Tripathi and jailer Mahendra Pal have been suspended for lapses in jail security. A departmental inquiry has also been ordered.Santosh Verma, the spokesman of UP prison at Lucknow, said the incident took place shortly after 10am when prisoners came out of their barracks. Dixit suddenly opened fire and killed the two prisoners and held five other prisoners hostage, threatening to kill them.He said jail officials sought help from the police to control the situation. The police team that arrived gunned down Anshul Dixit to rescue the hostages. It has been deployed in the prison for some time to ensure there is no more trouble. The pistol that Dixit used has also been seized by the police.Verma said the accused, Anshul Dixit was transferred from Sultanpur jail to Chitrakoot jail in December 2019. Mukeem alias Kala was shifted to Chitrakoot from Saharanpur jail in March this year; Mukhtar Ansari’s aide Merajudeen was transferred from Varanasi jail barely a week ago.A senior police officer said Anshul Dixit faces over 15 cases including the murder of former Lucknow University Student Union general secretary Vinod Tripathi in 2007.One of the two men who he killed had longer rap sheets. Mukeem alias Kala, who was mostly active in western UP, has over 61 criminal cases registered against him including the murder of three policemen over the last decade. Kala operated extortion rackets in Kairana, Shamli and Muzaffarnagar districts where he mostly targeted businessmen and traders. He is blamed for many businessmen shifting out of this region. Merajuddin has three cases but his claim to notoriety was his proximity to Mukhtar Ansari, the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-jail-inmate-shot-dead-2-gangsters-held-5-more-hostage-before-cops-kill-him-101620995281500.html
14-05-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh reports 15,747 new Covid-19 cases, tally goes past 1.59 million||Uttar Pradesh on Friday recorded 15,747 fresh Covid-19 cases that took the infection count to 15,96,628 while 312 more fatalities pushed the death toll to 16,958, officials said.In the past 13 days, the number of active cases in the state has come down by over 1.17 lakh. On April 30, there were about 3.10 lakh active cases and the number currently stands at 1,93,815, said Additional Chief Secretary, Health, Amit Mohan Prasad.As many as 1,57,257 patients are in home isolation, he said.While the state reported 15,747 fresh cases the previous day, 26,174 Covid-19 patients recovered from the disease. So far, 13,85,855 patients have recovered in Uttar Pradesh and the recovery rate stands at 86.8 per cent, Prasad said.So far, over 4.41 crore samples have been tested in the state, including more than 2.63 lakh samples tested on Wednesday, he said.The officer said that a total of 1.44 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccine have been administered in the state. This includes 1.13 crore people who have been given the first dose.Currently, vaccination of people over 18 years is going on in 18 districts. From May 17, it will be expanded to 23 districts, Prasad said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-reports-15-747-new-covid-19-cases-tally-goes-past-1-59-million-101620991191277.html
14-05-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow blood banks register low stock as donations drop amid Covid-19||Blood banks in Lucknow are left with limited stock as camps and voluntary donations have witnessed a marked decrease amid the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. The state blood bank at King George’s Medical University (KGMU) has only about 700 units left against its usual stock of 2,500 to 3,000 units. With its depleted stock, the hospital is issuing only about 60 units of blood per day against its usual of 200 -250 units of blood daily. “There have been no camps after the first week of April and only a few voluntary donations per week these days,” said prof Tulika Chandra, HoD, transfusion medicine, KGMU.At Syama Prasad Mukherjee (Civil) hospital, there were only 22 units of blood as opening stock on Thursday while at Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences, the stock was below 300 units against the normal stock of at least over 700 units.Also Read | As Covid second wave persists, MGNREGS comes to rural India’s rescue, yet againExperts say blood donation is safe and can be done by all healthy people. “By donating blood, you get yourself checked for various disorders. From hepatitis to HIV, all infections are checked in the donated blood while it saves lives as blood components such as plasma, platelets, RBC are separated and issued for different patients,” said Dr Sandeep Kapoor, director, Healthcity hospital.“At the Lucknow Nursing Home Association blood bank, the present stock is 412 against the normal stock of 650 units,” said Dr Anoop Agrawal of the nursing home cell of IMA.“Voluntary blood donation is key to maintaining good stock in the blood bank as replacement donors (who come and donate to get one unit blood or blood component in exchange) do not add to stock and in some exchange donors, the blood has to be discarded due to infection. Whereas, most voluntary donors are healthy,” said Dr Chandra. Also, blood is donated to the destitute and pregnant women without exchange. However, the KGMU blood bank has now made arrangements to ensure that voluntary blood donors can donate blood in the safest environment and with social distancing.It has made a separate entry for such donors and all couches are placed at a safe distance. “Even if ten voluntary donors come to us, they will be on couches with safe distance between them. The entire process is being carried out keeping in view the safety of blood donors,” said Dr Chandra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-blood-banks-register-low-stock-as-donations-drop-amid-covid19-101620978778216.html
14-05-2021||Lucknow||Now, 14 bodies found floating in Ganga in UP’s Chandauli, Varanasi||Days after bodies of suspected Covid-19 victims washed up on the shores of Ganga in Ghazipur and Ballia districts of Uttar Pradesh, six unidentified bodies were found floating in the river in Chandauli district and another eight bodies were found in the river in the neighbouring Varanasi on Thursday.Chandauli locals informed the administration about the bodies in Badaura Ghat area of Dhanapur. A district administration official, said on the condition of anonymity that the bodies appeared to be over a week old. They performed the last rite of the bodies along the Ganga.A vigil is being maintained along the river to ensure that no one disposes of bodies in the river, said a senior official.Chandauli shares boundaries with Ghazipur district where over two dozen bodies were found in last three days. Also Read | All in a day: 58,000 book slots,10,000 skip jabs in Uttar PradeshMeanwhile, a police officer said eight bodies were found floating in Ganga in Sujabad area of Varanasi. Five bodies were of men, two of women and one was highly decomposed.The officer said a team of lekhpals has been deployed along the Ganga to keep a watch on the river bank. Deputy commissioner of police, Kashi Zone, Amit Kumar confirmed the recovery of eight bodies whose last rites have been performed.Earlier this week, 82 bodies were fished out of Ganga at Chausa in Bihar’s Buxar district even as the National Human Right Commission issued notice to the Centre, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar and sought an action-taken report within four weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/now-14-bodies-found-floating-in-ganga-in-up-s-chandauli-varanasi-101620973017835.html
14-05-2021||Lucknow||Covid-19: UP's Jalalpur village witnesses 18 deaths in 14 days, residents accuse administration of negligence||As many as 18 Covid-related deaths have occurred in Jalalpur village in Uttar Pradesh's Gautam Buddh Nagar district in the last 14 days.A local leader Ravinder Singh Bhati told ANI, "More than 18 people have died in the last 14 days. The first death occurred on April 28."According to Bhati whoever died first got a fever, after which their oxygen level started falling."Because of this, there is panic in the villages of Greater Noida," he said."Over 70 people have died in last 20 days in Khairpur Gurjar, Saberi, Chapraula, Shahdullapur, Jalalpur, Milak Lachhi and Saini Dujana villages in Greater Noida area. However, most of them were elderly. Dozens of people are still suffering from fever in these villages," he added.The family of Atar Singh, a resident of the village, has lost two sons in the last two days. His son Pankaj died on Tuesday and his second son Deepak on Wednesday.It is not yet clear if the two men died of Covid-19.While talking to ANI, Atar's uncle said, "This has shattered the whole family. Atar's situation is as same as his sons'. It is difficult to say if he is infected or not without any test being conducted. How long will people die without being tested or treated?"Another villager Amit said that he lost his father and his whole family was infected."The local administration is doing nothing. We are in pain. My father died. The whole village is suffering. We are numb," Amit said.According to official data, as many as 17,775 new Covid-19 cases and 281 deaths have been reported in the last 24 hours in Uttar Pradesh. The active cases in the state have mounted to 2,04,658.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid19-up-s-jalalpur-village-witnesses-18-deaths-in-14-days-residents-accuse-administration-of-negligence-101620970970405.html
14-05-2021||Lucknow||All in a day: 58,000 book slots,10,000 skip jabs in Uttar Pradesh||The beneficiaries not turning up at Covid-19 vaccination centres after booking slots on the CoWin portal for their jabs have added to the worries of the Uttar Pradesh health and family welfare department.As many as 58,000 people in the age group of 18-44 years registered on the CoWin portal for the vaccination drive organised in 18 districts of Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday but only 48,000 of them turned up to get the shot against Covid-19 while 10,000 stayed away, said a health department official.The doses were dispatched to the vaccination centres according to the number of registrations.Additional chief secretary (health and family welfare) Amit Mohan Prasad said after the second wave, a large number of people wished to get the Covid vaccine to protect themselves and their family members from infection. Many of those who registered on the portal and did not turn up were denying others the chance to get the vaccine. “Medical experts have made it clear that vaccine builds immunity. Even if a person gets infected after getting the dose, the recovery is fast,” he said.With the launch of the vaccination drive for the people in the age group of 18-44 years on May 1, 2.16 lakh people have received jabs in 18 districts of UP so far. The state government has procured three lakh doses of Covaxin and another 3.50 lakh doses of Covishield. The state government is likely to get extra doses from Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech and Pune-based Serum Institute of India on Friday (May 14). The drive for 18+ people will be extended in the remaining districts next week, he said.Director general (Family Welfare) Dr Rakesh Dubey said misconception was being spread on the social media regarding the Covid vaccine even though top medical experts had made it clear that it was safe and the only weapon to fight the Covid-19 infection.“It seems that due to misleading information spread on the social media, young people are shying away from vaccination even after booking slots on the portal. The state government has launched a mass awareness about the utility of the vaccine,” he said.The slowdown in vaccination has been also witnessed among the beneficiaries above 45 years of age after the start of the second wave. Several beneficiaries are not turning up after booking the slot on the portal.Till early April, on average three lakh vaccine doses were given to the beneficiaries daily in the state. On April 12, a record five lakh jabs were given in 75 districts. On April 21, Uttar Pradesh crossed the 1 crore vaccination tally with 92.44 lakh people getting the first dose and 16.89 lakh people receiving the second dose till then. The data released by the health and family welfare department indicates a slump in the daily dose from 3 lakh to 1.50 lakh to 2 lakh doses. Till May 12, a total 1.40 crore people have received the jab in the state. While 1.11 crore got the first dose, 29.35 lakh people received the second one too, said a health and family welfare department officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/58000-book-slots-10-000-skip-jabs-in-up-101620934432028.html
14-05-2021||Lucknow||Hookah bar found operational in Lucknow amid corona curfew, 16 arrested||The Lucknow police on Wednesday midnight arrested 16 people from a hookah bar operational, amid corona curfew imposed across Uttar Pradesh, said senior police officials on Thursday.They said the hookah bar was operational in a building near Raj Bhawan campus in Hazratganj police station limits.Inspector of Hazratganj police station, Shyam Babu Shukla said the police got suspicious after movement of some luxurious vehicles after midnight and a patrol team was asked to follow the vehicles. He said all vehicles were found to be parked near a building where Emperor Hookah bar was operational violating the state government orders during the pandemic times.Shukla said a police team raided the bar and found as many as 16 people present inside at around 1 am on Thursday. He said all accused have been arrested and booked under IPC sections 188 for violating government order, 269 for unlawfully or negligently doing any act which is, and which he knows or has reason to believe to be, likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life. Besides, the Epidemic Act and Disaster management act has been slapped against them, he added.He said the bar had been seized and Lucknow Municipal Corporation officials had been asked to take further action like cancellation of licences and imposition of fine for violating their norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/hookah-bar-found-operational-in-lucknow-amid-corona-curfew-16-arrested-101620932751900.html
14-05-2021||Lucknow||Eid festivities amid pandemic||This is second year in a row that devotees have observed Ramzan under pandemic and will be celebrating Eid-ul-Fitr amid lockdown in their homes. Last year, was a complete lockdown while this year we are in a ‘Corona Curfew’ in Uttar Pradesh. Muslims will be offering prayers indoors and celebrating it with family members while connecting with others on phone and virtually. Corporate professional MA Khan shares that last year, though it was a lockdown, he did observe namaz at iconic Nanpara mosque in small groups but this time prayers will all happen at home only. “People are wary on meeting each other. Some delicacies will be prepared but no socialising. Last year, we packed them and sent to our friends and relatives but this year we won’t do that also. Yes, ‘zakat’ portion has been exceeded and a lot of people are doing the same.” Talking about how things are going to be for her this Eid, researcher and social worker, Prof Qamar Rahman said, “I have lost a nephew to Covid so what celebrations in such times! But still, Eid is all about ‘fitrah’ (charity given on Eid) so it’s ‘wajib’ (mandatory) on all. I along with my foundation members have been doing our bit since Ramzan and provided best we could from distributing food items to money on Eid.” Shia PG Degree College lecturer and patron of art-culture Masood Abdullah said that it’s a tough time, but tradition has to go on. “We will have a simple affair with namaz at our campus Seesh Mahal where 60-odd people live together including tenants. Thereafter, sewain, biryani, kebabs will be prepared for us, specially to give to close relatives who are in grief and are not celebrating due to loss of family member,” he said. Known designer Asma Hussain says it’s difficult to celebrate with so much sadness around. “Celebration this Eid will be only for the purpose to observe as currently we are living in a tough phase where everything is too gloomy. So, no reason to celebrate as we lost close ones, we need to prayer and offer best of help to all in need,” she said. According to fashion designer Umair Zafar the best way to observe Eid is to be with people who need your support in the best of your capacity. “See, as per tradition rituals will happen, some ‘pakwans’ will be made and a video conferencing with family members and friends will take place. But right now need is to help people which we are doing but can’t share about it!” Wazda Arora, owner Quiff Salon, said, “We should all be together and face the challenges as we have to come out of it that will be Eid for me and my family. Faced very tough situations last month now just want all to be well from this Eid onwards.” She looks at the brighter side of things and prays things to get better for all soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/eid-festivities-amid-pandemic-101620931193164.html
