15-05-2021||Lucknow||281 more die of Covid-19 in UP; state reports 12,547 fresh cases||Uttar Pradesh on Saturday registered 281 fresh COVID-19 fatalities, raising the death toll to 17,283, while the infection count climbed to 16,09,140 with 12,547 more cases, according to the official data.Of the fresh Covid-19 deaths, Meerut reported 19 fatalities, Chandauli 15, Kanpur 14, Lucknow and Auriaya 12 each. Ten deaths each were reported from Jhansi and Gautam Buddh Nagar, the state government said in a statement issued here.Of the 12,547 new cases, 879 were reported from Meerut, 801 from Gorakhpur and 617 from Lucknow.A total of 28,404 Covid-19 patients recovered from the disease in the past 24 hours in the state, taking the total number of those recovered so far to 14,14,259.The number of active Covid-19 cases in the state stands at 1,77,643, the statement said.More than 2.56 lakh samples were tested in the past 24 hours. So far, over 4.44 crore samples have been tested in the state, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/281-more-die-of-covid-19-in-up-state-reports-12-547-fresh-cases-101621095687687.html
15-05-2021||Lucknow||This is the best time to improvise held over projects: Tanmay||Filmmaker Tanmay Telang is all glad about his debut feature film doing rounds at international festivals, but equally bothersome that many of his upcoming projects are on hold due to the ongoing pandemic surge. Though the UPite is trying to make most of the time he has by working on the projects that will be shot in continuance once things get normal. “We were supposed to start the shoot of our first web-series ‘Pirates’ in Ukraine from May 10 but now it has been delayed for at least two months. The series has already been commissioned by a leading platform and we are looking forward to shoot as early as possible,” said Tanmay. His first film as co-producer is Marathi film ‘Dristhant’ which featured a visually impaired cast. “Not only actors, the singers, musicians and dubbing artistes all have same special-abilities. We have submitted the film in various film festivals and after a year we will release the film.” His mega project on slain gangster Vikas Dubey too got delayed. “We now plan to shoot the OTT series by year-end. We have taken rights and permissions to shoot from his wife Richa, son Akash, Special Task Force (STF) and other government departments. This is going to be a mega series which we will shoot in Kanpur and Mathura where we will re-create Bikroo village (originally in Kanpur Dehat where the shoot out took place killing eight cops).” Tanmay shares that his team had lined up production for ‘Hurdang’ (Sunny Singh and Nushrratt Bharuccha) which was shot in Agra followed by Abhishek Bachchan starrer ‘Dasvi’. “Besides, we had many more projects that were in advance stage of pre-production. Now, with everything on hold, this is the best time to improvise those projects,” he adds. Talking about his journey he said, “I was born in Vrindavan and was brought up Noida. I went to a college in Pune where I completed my graduation in film making. Then I along with my friend-partner Harshvardhan joined the team of producer Sailesh R Singh the maker of like ‘Tanu Weds Manu’ and ‘Shahid.’ He is our mentor and inspiration so that’s how we got hands-on experience in production work and since then we have been handling all his UP projects in some capacity or other.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/this-is-the-best-time-to-improvise-held-over-projects-tanmay-101621087624225.html
15-05-2021||Lucknow||Man hacks daughter, her lover by axe to death in UP's Kanpur: Police||In a shocking incident, a man hacked his teenaged daughter and her minor lover to death in a village near here, police said on Saturday. The incident occurred in a village under the Ghatampur police circle of the district late Friday night, Circle Officer Pawan Gautam said. The police have arrested the accused father, a truck driver by profession, he said, adding the axe with which the father hacked the two teenagers to death too has been recovered. Gautam said the 16-year-old girl had an affair with a 15-year-old boy of the same village and she had invited him to her home on Friday evening when her parents had gone to the neighbouring Banda district to attend a relative’s marriage. The two teenagers, however, were caught by the girl’s uncle who locked them inside the house and informed his brother about this incident over the phone, the CO said. Hearing about the incident, the girl’s father returned home and hacked his daughter and her lover to death, the CO added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/man-hacks-daughter-her-lover-by-axe-to-death-in-up-s-kanpur-police-101621070987065.html
15-05-2021||Lucknow||No ban on bringing bodies to Varanasi for cremation: District magistrate||Varanasi district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma has clarified that there is no ban on bringing bodies to the city for cremation and that cremations were taking place at Harishchandra and Manikarnika ghats here. The clarification on Friday came after reports of a ban on the transportation of corpses to Varanasi for last rites. Sharma maintained there was never such a ban. Bringing bodies for cremation to the city is permitted during full, partial, and weekend lockdown, he added.He said the Varanasi (rural) superintendent of police has been instructed to convey to police station in-charges that bringing bodies for performing the last rites at the ghats is permitted. Sharma added no one should be stopped.Sharma has issued instructions that if people from outside come to Varanasi with bodies, they should be helped to reach the ghats for the cremations. Municipal authorities late last month made alternative arrangements for cremations of bodies by setting up a temporary crematorium near Vishwasundari Bridge amid a surge in Covid-19 and fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/no-ban-on-bringing-bodies-to-varanasi-for-cremation-district-magistrate-101621061523194.html
