16-05-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh reports 311 more Covid-19 deaths, 10,682 fresh cases||The Covid-19 death toll in Uttar Pradesh rose to 17,546 with 311 more fatalities while the infection tally climbed to 16,19,645 as 10,682 fresh coronavirus cases were reported, officials said on Sunday.Of the fresh deaths, Meerut reported 27 followed by Lucknow (20), Kanpur (13), Chandauli and Basti (12), Mathura (10), the state government said in a statement.At 701, the maximum number of new cases were reported from Meerut followed by Lucknow (525), Varanasi (496), Deoria (471), Bulandshahr (451) and Saharanpur (437).In the last 24 hours; 24,837 Covid-19 patients have recovered from the disease taking the total number of patients discharged so far in the state to 14,39,096.The number of active Covid-19 cases in the state stands at 1,63,003; the statement said.More than 2.67 lakh samples were tested in the last 24 hours. So far, over 4.46 crore samples have been tested in the state, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-reports-311-more-covid-19-deaths-10-682-fresh-cases-101621179474515.html
16-05-2021||Lucknow||Over 45 million Covid-19 tests done, 15 million people vaccinated in UP: Yogi Adityanath||Over 4.5 crore Covid-19 tests have been conducted in Uttar Pradesh so far, while 1.5 crore people have been vaccinated for coronavirus, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Sunday.The chief minister said the state did not have "much capacity" for Covid testing till March last year but is now conducting 2.5 lakh to 3 lakh tests every day."On March 2, 2020, we did not have much capacity for Covid tests nor isolation beds for treatment of Covid patients in the state.'With support from the Centre, the state government's machinery along with help from various organisations, today we are conducting 2.5 lakh to 3 lakh tests every day,” Adityanath told reporters in Noida during a visit here to review the pandemic situation."Over 4.5 crore Covid tests have been conducted in the state so far. The state has 80,000 hospital beds in L2 and L3 category where coronavirus positive patients can be treated," he said.He said the Centre is providing vaccines for free to people above the age of 45 years while the state government is doing it for the people aged between 18 and 44 years."We have so far vaccinated 1.5 crore people in the state and continue (to do so) at war-footing as per a comprehensive strategy," Adityanath said.He said vaccination for people aged above 45 is being done at 2,500 centres and for the 18-plus category, the government had started the vaccination process in seven districts in the first phase where active cases and positivity rate were the highest."In the second phase, we brought all municipal corporations on board and in the third phase, which starts tomorrow, we will begin vaccination at all headquarters of commissionaries. From tomorrow, vaccination will begin in 23 districts of the state," he added.In the wake of suspicions being raised that the virus is spreading to rural areas, the government had implemented a comprehensive strategy for it on May 2, the chief minister said."We have a monitoring team in every village. Keeping 97,000 revenue villages in focus, the monitoring teams are screening people for Covid," he said.Those who are positive or show symptoms for the infection are provided medicine kit and a data is prepared of such people which is given to the Integrated Covid Control Centre (ICCC) from where rapid response team (RRT) goes to the village and conducts tests on contact persons of the patient and makes necessary arrangements for them, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/over-45-million-covid-19-tests-done-15-million-people-vaccinated-in-up-yogi-adityanath-101621170690995.html
16-05-2021||Lucknow||Corona curfew extended in Uttar Pradesh till May 24||The Uttar Pradesh government decided on Saturday to extend the partial coronavirus curfew till 7 am on May 24.A decision was taken at a virtual meeting of the cabinet, chaired by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath.Earlier, the government had decided to increase the duration of the curfew till 7 am on May 17."The partial corona curfew has helped in controlling the Covid-19 spread in the state," Adityanath said in a statement. "Keeping this in mind, the duration is being increased."Adityanath said the state government was already providing free testing and treatment of Covid-19, as well as vaccination.The chief minister said the state government would provide 3-kg wheat and 2-kg rice free of cost to the holders of 'antyodaya' and ration card for three months. This will benefit almost 15 crore people of the state.He said daily-wage earners in urban areas would be given ₹1,000 for one month. This will benefit around one crore people. The provision to arrange food for the needy should be done using community kitchens.Essential services will continue. Barring the basic education, online classes can resume, directions have been issued in this regard, the statement said.He said the state government was running two insurance schemes to give social security to all the labourers. This includes ₹2 lakh insurance in case of death or disability to any labourer and a health cover up to ₹5 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/corona-curfew-extended-in-uttar-pradesh-till-may-24-101621128517266.html
16-05-2021||Lucknow||UP govt forms 3-member panel of VC’s for recommendation for promoting students without exam||The state government on Friday formed a committee consisting of three vice-chancellors to suggest measures on how to promote students to the next semester without exams across all universities and degree colleges of the state. The committee is expected to submit its recommendations in a week because in this Covid-19 situation conducting the physical examination is a difficult task, an official said.The vice-chancellors in the committee are prof Alok Kumar Rai, vice-chancellor of Lucknow University, prof Vinay Kumar Pathak, vice-chancellor of Chhatrapati Sahuji Maharaj University, Kanpur and prof Krishna Pal Singh, vice-chancellor of Jyotiba Phule Rohilkhand University in Bareilly, according to a letter issued by Abdul Samad, special secretary, UP government.“It is a critical situation. Last year students were promoted without exams under special circumstances. This year the situation is even worse. We had to work out a solution,” said Prof Vinay Kumar Pathak.Lucknow University vice-chancellor prof Alok Rai had already sent a letter to the government to allow to promote students without examinations. He said, “The three-member committee will discuss and try to reach out at a consensus on how to promote students.”University Grants Commission had recently stated that it had requested the universities to keep the offline examinations in abeyance during May 2021. The UGC in the notice released on May 6, had requested the higher education institutions to keep the offline examinations in abeyance during May 2021 to avoid physical gathering at the campuses and also to provide much-needed relief to the students, faculty, and the staff who are presently occupied in fighting Covid-19 in one way or the other.Last year also the state government had formed a panel headed by Chaudhary Charan Singh University (Meerut) vice-chancellor prof NK Taneja to recommend promoting students to the next semester without exams.After a committee of four vice-chancellors recommended the cancellation of annual examinations in universities across the state given a spike in Covid-19 cases in Uttar Pradesh, deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma said a final decision on the issue will be taken by the state government.Finally, in July it was decided that in Uttar Pradesh Universities, the students of final year or final semester for undergraduate and postgraduate courses were asked to appear in the final examinations, while the first and second-year students of undergraduate level and first-year students of postgraduate level were promoted to next class without exams, on basis of internal assessments as per the UGC guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-govt-forms-3-member-panel-of-vc-s-for-recommendation-for-promoting-students-without-exam-101621106584360.html
16-05-2021||Lucknow||Now, life-saving injection to treat ‘black fungus’ out of stock in Lucknow||As cases of black fungal infection, a post-Covid complication, are being reported from all across Uttar Pradesh, including the state capital, the Liposomal Amphotericin B injection, used in treating the rare fungal infection is out of stock in the drug stores. Till the last week, one could easily find this injection in most of the prominent drug stores in Lucknow, but on Saturday, Liposomal Amphotericin B injection was not available even in a single drug store across the city. It was out of stock even in the government drug store operating from the chief medical officer’s (CMO) office. “Our CMO store does not have this injection,” said Dr Anup Srivastava, nodal office, CMO drug store. The doctors say that the Black Fungus infection (Mucormycosis) could be life-threatening if not treated timely. After the recent crisis of Remdesivir injection in Lucknow and the rest of the state, the shortage of Liposomal Amphotericin B injection is a new challenge before the state government. The Pharma industry is also grappling to tackle this new crisis. “Till the other day, everything was fine. There was no shortage of Liposomal Amphotericin B injection. In the last three days all of a sudden the demand for this injection increased manifold and the drug went out of stock from all medical stores across the state,” said a senior official of Bharat Serums and Vaccines Limited, company which manufacture the injection, pleading anonymity. “The state government will have to distribute this injection like Remdesivir through the Red Cross or any other sources to check the crisis and prevent its black marketing,” added the official. It was after the Red Cross society started distributing Remdesivir injection from its office that its crisis ended in Lucknow. “We are providing Remdesivir injection to everyone whoever is approaching us. After fulfilling all formalities, including doctor’s prescription and patient’s aadhar card, injection is being provided to patient’s kin,” said Gaurav Maheshwari of Red Cross, Lucknow. According to doctors, the maximum retail price of the Liposomal Amphotericin B injection is around ₹7000. The number of doses per patient varies from four-six injections per day depending on the patient’s weight. The complete course of the drug varies from 10 to 21 days depending on the patient’s condition. Dr Usha Dubey, whose father Suresh Prasad Dubey is undergoing treatment at the Vivekanand Hospital, Lucknow, has developed the Black Fungus infection after he was admitted to the hospital’s ICU for treatment of Covid-19. Dr Usha had to come down to Lucknow from Varanasi, where her husband lives, to attend her ailing father. “For the last two days, we have been desperately searching for the Liposomal Amphotericin B injection. Right from Bihar to Uttar Pradesh, the injection is not available anywhere,” said Dr Usha. “Alternate injections available in the market are also hard to find and they have a side effect on patient’s kidney,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/now-life-saving-injection-to-treat-black-fungus-out-of-stock-in-lucknow-101621106465019.html
