24-05-2021||Lucknow||Artistes too have great responsibility: Surya Mohan Kulshreshtha||Theatre veteran and actor-director Surya Mohan Kulshreshtha feels that during pandemic artistes should continue polishing their skills and utilize this free time to the fullest. “We are in a mid of a pandemic and theatre is kart ki vidya (art of doing) so when the time will come it should never be that we are unable to deliver. So, actors and those in other performing art should keep their mind fresh by watching fine content, reading good literature, philosophies, and work on their craft and do web meetings with actors and mentors,” said the former director of Bhartendu Natya Academi, Lucknow. Kulshreshtha has directed over 100 plays and acted in films like Dasdev, Monsoon Shootout and recently Mira Nair’s series A Suitable Boy. “In March I staged my new play Muntazir in Prayagraj. Thereafter, my wife and I both were tested Covid positive but thankfully we recovered in home isolation.” Kulshreshtha emphasised that young artistes should use this opportunity to help people in best possible way during the ongoing pandemic and these real-life experiences and incidents will surely help them a lot in future. Recently, during a webinar ‘Antarang’ held by Sangeet Natak Academi, New Delhi, he gave example of German playwright Berthot Brecht poem: In the dark times will there be singing? Yes, there will also be singing. About the dark times! He talked about his vision of theatre. “Everyone has their own vision for theatre and with time it keeps evolving. First thing I learnt is that visuals should speak louder than word. By radio show Hawa Mahal I learnt importance of audio which can create visuals while the value of simplicity I learnt from Ram Leela. My real training happened under the influence of stalwarts and learning from BNA. My vision broadened with various theatre forms — realistic, international (western), folk and classics. My canvas widened with reading various philosophies, literature, culture and history.” Interpreting Russian theatre legend Konstantin Stanislavski theory of 4Ws, in his own way, he said, “For me ‘why’ is hunger for expression. ‘What’ stands for minimalistic theatre — focus on acting than anything else. Whether it is old, classic or new it should be relevant in today’s world! ‘Where’ is all about my wish that bring plays out of auditorium so it can reach to masses. ‘Who’ is for the actors who should be intensely trained while ‘whom’ one should know the psychology of audience and group behaviour! Then comes ‘how’ and that’s what for in my quest is.” The theatre stalwart feels that actors have a great responsibility which he sums up with few lines from Gajanan Madhav Muktibodh’s poem: O! Mere adarshwadi man, O! Mere siddhantwadi mann, ab tak kya kiya? Ab tak kya kiya? Jeewan ka jiya…zyada liya aur diya bahut-bahut kam…||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/artistes-too-have-great-responsibility-surya-mohan-kulshreshtha-101621798264475.html
24-05-2021||Lucknow||RLD raises issue of Covid waste being dumped in river, water bodies||: The Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) has drawn the attention of the chief minister Yogi Adityanath over Covid waste being dumped into the Gomti river. The RLD has also demanded that a committee be set up to ascertain the potential risk of such waste being dumped in the river or lakes and ponds or other water bodies in rural areas. RLD national spokesman Anupam Mishra said the chief minister must issue directives to the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) to take necessary steps to check such dumping of waste. He has also said a high-level committee be set up to study the potential risk arising out of such Covid waste being dumped in water bodies across the state. Mishra said a proper study must be conducted to check whether Covid’s “genetic material” is not growing in water bodies. “This cannot be ruled out because the water and sewage from patients’ homes and hospitals are being drained into the river, drains, ponds and lakes without further treatment. This may lead to a terrible situation post Covid as then it could lead to a drinking water crisis,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/rld-raises-issue-of-covid-waste-being-dumped-in-river-water-bodies-101621797123803.html
24-05-2021||Lucknow||Sadar Gurudwara in Lucknow sets up 10 oxygen bed facility on its premises for Covid patients||: Sadar Gurudwara has set up a 10-bed facility for administering oxygen inside its premises for Covid patients. “Oxygen would be administered to patients under guidance of doctors,” said head of Sadar Gurudwara Harpal Singh Jaggi. A non-government organization (NGO), Anantsheel Foundation, has helped arrange oxygen cylinders at Gurudwara Sadar. Though gurudwaras in the state capital have been running oxygen langars, however, this is the first time that 10 beds with oxygen facility have been set up inside a gurudwara. The initiative has been welcomed. “Sadar Gurudwara is doing a commendable job by providing oxygen service free of cost to the masses,” president of Lucknow Gurudwara Prabandhak Committee Rajendra Singh Bagga said. Bagga said Naka Gurudwara is providing food to patients suffering from Covid. It is also providing hearse for Covid bodies. Alambagh Gurudwara that had been running oxygen langars has started yet another oxygen langar at Mahmudabad and Sitapur Gurudwara on Sunday. The supply of oxygen cylinders at Gurudwaras of Mahmudabad and Sitapur would be managed by Pankaj Varma, a local trader. A truck carrying oxygen cylinders, 200 ration kits, regulators, masks, sanitisers and PPE kits were also dispatched on the occasion. Meanwhile the head of Alambagh Gurudwara Nirmal Singh has appealed to those who have recovered to send back the oxygen cylinders to Gurudwara so that they could be provided to other needy people. “People from Rae Bareli, Mahmudabad, Sitapur and Unnao would no longer have to come to Lucknow for getting oxygen cylinders as our centres are coming up there,” Singh said. “This will save time and also help patients get quicker delivery of oxygen cylinders,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/sadar-gurudwara-in-lucknow-sets-up-10-oxygen-bed-facility-on-its-premises-for-covid-patients-101621796883848.html
24-05-2021||Lucknow||UP govt will never discriminate between voters and non-voters: CM Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday asserted that his government is committed to the well-being of every citizen and will never discriminate between voters and non-voters."Our government is committed to the well-being of every citizen. For us, every life matters and will continue to save people like we have. The officials must ensure that adequate medical aid and food is provided to every person in need. Neither we have nor will we ever discriminate between voters and nonvoters.“Unlike others, we do not believe in serving people selectively," he said in Azamgarh.The chief minister visited the Covid Care Centre set up at Government Girls' Inter College (GGIC) in Azamgarh. He also paid a surprise visit at Bijuara village and reviewed the healthcare facilities available for COVID-19 patients, the government said in a statement.He also interacted with the newly-elected village pradhans and advised them to work with the cooperation of the citizens, public representatives, administrators and district officials in order to achieve the desired results for a harmonious and progressive society.Earlier in the day, Adityanath had visited Gonda, where he exhorted the public representatives to adopt PHCs and CHCs and use their funds to improve the health services there.He also reiterated his idea to set up 'special vaccination booths' for the guardians of children up to 12 years of age.The CM said vaccination against the novel coronavirus infection will be taken up in rural areas in a huge manner.He said the mantra for “Test, Trace and Treat” has helped in curbing the second wave in the state."Today, we have only about 74,000 active cases in the state, down by about 2.36 lakh since April 30, during the peak. As many as over 3 lakh Covid tests are being conducted daily, while a total of over 4.67 crore tests have already taken place in the state," Adityanath said.He said the positivity rate has now come down to 2 per cent, and added that oxygen availability is sufficient with oxygen plants being set up in PHC and CHC in every district.Pointing out that the state government has already started preparations for the third wave of coronavirus in UP, the CM said PICU wards for children are being set up in every district."We have already made free vaccination for the age group of 18-44 and the process will be further intensified. I have appealed to all the public representatives to adopt hospitals. The training for nursing, paramedical staff, pediatric, among others, is progressing simultaneously," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-govt-will-never-discriminate-between-voters-and-non-voters-cm-adityanath-101621876100044.html
24-05-2021||Lucknow||Akhilesh says Yogi wasting govt's resources by visiting districts||Days after alleging that various UP ministers deputed to monitor the Covid situation in various UP districts have gone missing, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Monday questioned Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s ongoing visits there for the purpose. It is a complete “wastage of the government’s resources and time” when there is no respite to the people from COVID-19, besides the black and white fungus infections. "There is a shortage of medicines, injections and vaccines,” said Yadav, while again questioning the alleged absence of ministers deputed to monitor the pandemic situation in various districts. “No one knows where is the Team-9 or Team-11 constituted by the CM,” said the former chief minister. Questioning Adityanath’s ongoing visits to monitor the situation district-wise, Yadav added.“Instead of taking stock of the situation and giving time for the improvement, the CM has embarked on tours.” “Except for the wastage of the government resources and time, what is the significance of the CM's marathon tours?" he asked in a statement here. After visiting several western UP districts including Gautam Budh Nagar and Muzaffarnagar last week, Adityanath on Monday undertook tours to Gonda, Azamgarh and Varanasi in eastern Uttar Pradesh. "He (CM) is touring the state not for improving things but for achieving his own political goals,” Yadav added. Amid the reports of a persistent shortage of anti-Covid vaccines, Yadav said, “The CM should also tell when only 35 lakh people have been given the second dose of vaccine, how does he claim that all people in will be inoculated by Diwali?” “A large number of youths and elderly visit hospital but return without vaccination," he said. The pandemic situation in villages is very bad and people are dying without treatment, claimed Yadav while listing several villages facing a grim Covid situation.He also asked what Adityanath was doing to meet the shortage of resources in anti-Covid centres to tackle its next wave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/akhilesh-says-yogi-wasting-govt-s-resources-by-visiting-districts-101621875484472.html
24-05-2021||Lucknow||Mayawati says govt's announcements regarding Covid-19 akin to poll promises||Bahujan Samaj Party president Mayawati on Monday said India has made global headlines as COVID-19 spread to villages, as she likened the governments' announcements regarding providing relief to the people from the pandemic to electoral promises."India has made global headlines due to the extensive spread of coronavirus in rural areas which lack basic amenities, but governments are making announcements regarding proper preparedness and providing relief to the people from the pandemic in the same way promises are made during election," Mayawati said in a tweet in Hindi.In another tweet, she said primary healthcare centres and other such facilities are lying unused in Uttar Pradesh and other states due to the absence of doctors and other government employees. The BSP chief said there is a dire need to immediately activate such facilities so that a majority of the poor and destitute people in rural areas of the country can be benefitted soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mayawati-says-govt-s-announcements-regarding-covid-19-akin-to-poll-promises-101621875009150.html
24-05-2021||Lucknow||Family of five murdered over property dispute||A couple and their three minor children were allegedly hacked to death over a property dispute at a village in Uttar Pradesh’s Ayodhya late on Saturday night, police said on Sunday.The couple’s nephew has been arrested in connection with the murder, along with his parents and wife, they said.The incident took place at Baria Nisaru village under Inayatnagar police station limits after midnight on Saturday.According to preliminary investigation, the victims were attacked with a heavy and blunt object while they were sleeping, Ayodhya senior superintendent of police (SSP) Shailesh Pandey said. The bodies have been sent for post mortem examinations, he said.The victims were identified as Rakesh Kumar, 35, his wife Jyoti, 30, and their three children — two sons and a daughter, aged 2, 5 and 8 years, respectively.Rakesh’s nephew, Pawan Kumar, who had been living with the family for a few years, went missing soon after the incident, Pandey said. Locals in the area alleged that Pawan was demanding a share in Rakesh’s property, he said.The police were able to nab Pawan’s parents and wife on Sunday morning, who confessed to being involved in the crime, the official said, without giving details. The three also lived in Rakesh’s house. Later in the day, Pawan was arrested, Pandey said. It is suspected that some others might also be involved in the murders, the SSP said, adding that a forensic team has collected samples from the scene of the crime.The four accused have been booked under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), he said. Further investigation was underway, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/family-of-five-murdered-over-property-dispute-101621810540807.html
