25-05-2021||Lucknow||UP Panchayat polls:New village heads to be sworn in virtually||Uttar Pradesh’s newly elected village pradhans and ward members will be sworn in through a video conference on Tuesday and Wednesday. District magistrates have issued notification to reconstitute all the village panchayats where pradhans and at least two-thirds of the members have been elected. After this the newly-formed village panchayats will hold their first meeting throughout the state on Thursday, May 27, in accordance with the two notifications, issued by the state government, asking districts magistrates to make necessary arrangements for the virtual swearing-in of village heads and members as well as holding of the new panchayats’ first meeting.The Panchayat polls in UP for over 8.69 lakh posts were held in four phases between April 15 and April 29. Counting of votes was held on May 2.The three tier rural governance system elected public representatives from the village to the district level in a curtain-raiser to the 2022 state assembly polls. The ruling BJP did not perform as per expectations and posted losses in strongholds such as Ayodhya, Varanasi, Lucknow and Gorakhpur.The oath-related notification issued by additional chief secretary (Panchayati Raj) Manoj Kumar Singh, says it will not be desirable to call 58,176 newly elected pradhans and 7,31,813 ward members to the blocks to administer them oath amid the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak.“Therefore, it has been decided after due consideration that officials nominated by DMs will administer oath, virtually, to pradhans and members who will be connected to the blocks through laptops etc that panchayat secretaries will arrange in villages’ panchayat bhawans, community centres etc on May 25 and May 26,” the circular stated.The other notification asked DMs to ensure that all newly constituted village panchayats necessarily convene their first meeting on May 27 after pradhans and members take oath. It also asked DMs to ensure that the constitution of six village committees was on the panchayat’s agenda for the first meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uppanchayat-polls-new-village-heads-to-be-sworn-in-virtually-101621931230966.html
25-05-2021||Lucknow||UP ministers, MLAs adopt health centres; Sonia Gandhi sends wood to cremate poor||While Uttar Pradesh ministers and lawmakers are adopting government healthcare centres to help improve the healthcare infrastructure in the state amid the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic, the Congress president, Sonia Gandhi, has sent three truckloads of wood to help the poor cremate their dead in Rae Bareli, her Lok Sabha constituency. Several UP ministers have responded to chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s appeal asking Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLAs to adopt government-run primary or community health centres (PHCs or CHCs). UP has nearly 3,500 PHCs and around 850 CHCs, most of them in dilapidated condition without adequate manpower. A right to information (RTI) query in 2015 also revealed that the state had very few health centres compared to its population. A health department official said the situation hasn’t improved much since. On Monday, basic education minister Satish Dwivedi and minorities welfare minister Mohsin Raza announced adoption of health centres in Itwa in Siddharth Nagar district, from where Dwivedi is an MLA, and Safipur in Unnao, Raza’s home town. “I will do my best to better the medical facilities and infrastructure in this CHC,” Raza said, adding he had intimated his decision to the chief minister. Dwivedi said he planned to demolish the old health centre building in Itwa and replace it with a new one.Ved Prakash Gupta, the BJP lawmaker from Ayodhya who has just recovered from Covid, too, confirmed he was adopting one health centre while several other lawmakers said they were finalising the adoption. “I have adopted PHC at Pura Bazaar, located where an Azamgarh-Ayodhya four lane road is coming up. We also intend to set up a trauma centre there in due course,” Gupta said. BJP MLC and party vice president Vijay Bahadur Pathak said he had adopted a PHC in Azamgarh. “We are committed to improving facilities in health care,” Pathak said. There are indications that Yogi Adityanath, too, might adopt a CHC or a PHC.Meanwhile, Congress chief Sonia Gandhi sent three truckloads of wood to enable the poor to cremate their dead in Rae Bareli. “Sonia ji had directed her representative KL Sharma ji to arrange wood for cremation and now the party cadres will help the poor in cremating their near and dear ones,” said party spokesman Vinay Dwivedi.Cremation in Rae Bareli takes place at Gokna, Dalmau and Gegaso ghats on the banks of the Ganga and many poor people are burying their dead by the riverside in absence of money to buy firewood for their last rites. Several bodies of suspected Covid-19 patients were seen floating in Ganga at several places in UP earlier this month, prompting administration to step in with help to cremate bodies.The Yogi government has announced ₹5,000 for cremation of all the poor in the villages, while the state’s labour welfare council too has separately announced ₹7,500 for the purpose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-ministers-mlas-adopt-health-centres-sonia-gandhi-sends-wood-to-cremate-poor-101621923369984.html
25-05-2021||Lucknow||4 held for assaulting meat seller in UP; victim also booked||Four men accused of thrashing a meat-seller at Gott village under Katghar police station in Uttar Pradesh’s Moradabad district on Sunday were arrested on Monday, Moradabad police said. However, the victim was also booked for killing an animal with the intention to create mischief and violating lockdown guidelines.A video of the incident was widely circulated on social media on Sunday. In that the men, along with two others — all of them self-styled gau rakshaks (cow protection vigilantes) —were seen catching a meat-seller and transporter named Mohammed Shakir and assaulting him for allegedly carrying buffalo meat with him. Shakir also alleged that his attackers demanded ₹50,000 from him.Moradabad’s superintendent of police (city) Amit Kumar Anand said a case was registered against six people on the complaint of the victim’s brother, Zakir, and hunt was on for the other two men, including the main accused, Manoj Thakur. “We will arrest them soon,” Anand said.Thakur claimed to be the national vice president of Gau Raksha Vahini, a cow protection vigilante group. But the outfit said he was fired from it six months earlier. The police couldn’t give a clear answer about Thakur’s institutional affiliation. “The case is under investigation, and I don’t know much about it,” said Gajendra Singh, station house officer of Katghar police station, when asked to confirm if Thakur was indeed an office-bearer of the vigilante group.The police also lodged a case against Mohd Shakir for “causing mischief by killing an animal” and committing an act likely to spread infection and cause violation of the partial Covid curfew — legalese for the charge of not wearing a mask.But the Moradabad SP denied it was a counter case. “Approximately 50kg meat was seized from him, and he failed to show any valid document for its purchase,” Anand said.The case against the vigilantes was registered under sections 147 (rioting), 148 (armed with a deadly weapon), 149 (unlawful assembly), 389 (extortion), 386 (extortion by putting a person in fear of death), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code at Katghar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/4-held-for-assaulting-meat-seller-in-up-victim-also-booked-101621895682567.html
25-05-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow Development Authority starts community kitchen for kin of Covid patients, vaccination for staff||The Lucknow Development Authority (LDA) on Monday started a community kitchen that would provide free meals to the kin of Covid patients who are undergoing treatment at various hospitals in the city. Abhishek Prakash, vice chairman of LDA, who is also the district magistrate, reviewed preparation of food in the kitchen that is operating from the LDA’s community centre in Gomti Nagar.“A large number of people from outside Lucknow are also undergoing treatment in the state capital. For kin of such Covid patients making arrangement of food is an uphill task,” said Prakash. “The centre will provide lunch and dinner to the attendants of patients. Those who need the service can contact at this mobile number 7081101777. Proper hygiene will be maintained in the kitchen to make sure quality food is served,” Prakash said. Even last year during the lockdown, the development authority had provided food packets daily to the needy across the city. Also in the day, the LDA also started vaccination drive at its Gomti Nagar office for its employees and their family members. To note several employees of the development authority had succumbed to Covid in the last two months.On day one of the drive, 240 people in the age group of 18-45 years were vaccinated. While 70 people above 45 years also took the jab.Secretary, LDA, Pawan Kumar Gangwar has also issued an appeal to staff members to get vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-development-authority-starts-community-kitchen-for-kin-of-covid-patients-vaccination-for-staff-101621883287644.html
