26-05-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow-based doctor shot at by SUV-borne assailants, critical||A city-based doctor was shot at by SUV-borne assailants near his house in Matiyari locality under Chinhat police station limits on Tuesday midnight, police officials said on Wednesday morning. The victim, Dr Sandeep Jaiswal, a resident of Balajipuram colony in Matiyari runs a private hospital Harshit hospital and trauma centre at Sarvodaya Nagar. “He suffered bullet injury in his jaw and the bullet is stuck somewhere between his jawline and back of the head. He has been admitted to trauma centre of KGMU in a critical condition. Doctors have kept him under observation for 24 hours before operating him to remove the bullet,” said Lucknow deputy commissioner of police (DCP), east, Sanjiv Suman.The DCP said the incident took place when Dr Jaiswal was returning home in his SUV. The assailants in another SUV intercepted his vehicle nearly 200 metres before his house and first attacked with a brick to break the wind shield of the doctor’s SUV and then opened fire on him. “The police have found CCTV footages of the incident in which the assailants are seen fleeing from the spot in a white SUV towards Barabanki,” he said adding that a bullet shell has also been recovered from the scene.Suman further said the locals, who claimed to have heard sound of two shots, rushed Dr Jaiswal to Ram Manohar Lohia hospital from where he was later shifted to trauma centre.The DCP said the assailants were following the doctor’s vehicle from Sarvodaya Nagar when he left for home from his hospital. He said the police were trying to recreate the crime sequence and efforts were on to nab the assailants.The officer added that the assailants’ modus operandi suggested that the crime was committed in a fit of rage. The hired shooters would not take risk to ride on SUV while executing the crime and would have opted for bike for this purpose, he said.Suman said the initial probe hints towards some disputes related to his hospital and personal life but the doctor’s family has so far not levelled allegations against anyone.Another senior official privy to the probe said “We are investigating on both the lines and trying to ascertain the exact reason behind the attack. It would be easy to trace the assailants after the exact motive is clear.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknowbased-doctor-shot-at-by-suv-borne-assailants-critical-101622053634118.html
26-05-2021||Lucknow||Cleaning of Gomti begins after minister’s intervention||The green carpet of weeds covering the river Gomti in Lucknow will be cleared in next 10 days, said officials on Wednesday.The cleaning process began after UP’s urban development minister Ashutosh Tandon issued instructions in this regard to the Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) and the irrigation department. The LMC has divided the river into five sectors for cleaning purpose.“The first sector is the area from pontoon bridge to Kudia Ghat. In this sector around 1500 metric tons of water weed is present. The sector II is the area between Kudia Ghat and Pucca Pul, where around 11 metric tons of weed is present. In third sector, area between Pucca pul and railway bridge around 500 metric tons of water weed is present while the area between Jhule Lal Vatika to Hanuman Setu is marked as sector 4 where around 1850 metric tons of weed is present. The area from Hanuman Setu to Gomti Barrage is marked as sector 5 where around 100 tons of weed is expected,” said municipal commissioner Ajay Dwivedi.“The LMC has arranged five JCBs, five Poclain machines, 27 boats along with 86 labourers for the job,” said Dwivedi.Urban development minister Ashutosh Tandon has ordered joint inspection of the river by the LMC and the irrigation department for cleaning the river.The minister has also directed to fix filters at the points where 80 small and big nullahs of the city fall into the river. The minister also directed the municipal commissioner to complete cleaning of all the nullahs in the next 15 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/cleaning-of-gomti-begins-days-after-dirty-pictures-go-viral-101622045118497.html
26-05-2021||Lucknow||Covid-19 strategy working well, vaccination for 18+ in all districts soon: Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Wednesday that the three-pronged strategy of the state government against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has been proving effective and the number of cases in the state has come down. In his directives to the ‘Team 9’, group of nine officials tasked with handling the coronavirus pandemic in the state, Adityanath said the ‘Test, Trace and Treat’ mantra has been working well.“In comparison to the peak condition of April 30, the number of patients has dropped to just 20 percent within 26 days. The recovery rate of the state is getting better every day and has now reached 95.1%. There have been 3371 cases of Covid infection in the last 24 hours, while 10,540 people have regained health and were discharged during the same period,” he added.Also read | How Uttar Pradesh turned the tide in fight against Covid-19Adityanath also said that the Covid-19 vaccination drive for people between 18 and 44 years of age would begin in all 75 districts of the state from next month. “Vaccination in the age group of 18 to 44 is progressing rapidly. Yesterday, 147,048 people received vaccine cover. Thus, 13,61,550 people in this age group have received vaccine cover so far. From June 1, the program of Covid vaccination of people in the age group of 18 to 44 is being started in all 75 districts,” the chief minister said. He also said that parents should be vaccinated on priority amid rising concerns that children would be primarily affected during the third wave of the coronavirus disease.The chief minister emphasised the need to strengthen the health and medical system in the state and also announced that a special team and a nodal officer should be created to monitor the construction of new public health centres (PHC) and community health centres (CHC). He also said that a complete database of all medical facilities and a mobile application to divulge this information to the public should be developed.Talking about the rising cases of mucormycosis or black fungus in the state, Adityanath said that experts from the Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGI) will monitor the treatment of patients at hospitals across various districts and cities. The CM also asked the officials to increase surveillance to effectively tackle the encephalitis cases and said that he would personally inspect districts affected by the disease on Wednesday and Thursday.Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday reported 3957 new Covid-19 cases and 163 fatalities and so far, 1,677,508 people have tested positive and 19,519 patients have lost their lives in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid19-strategy-working-well-vaccination-for-18-in-all-districts-soon-uttar-pradesh-chief-minister-yogi-adityanath-101622024788524.html
26-05-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow doctor shot by unknown assailants, remains critical||A Lucknow doctor was shot near his house in Matiyari locality late Tuesday night by unknown SUV borne assailants and was reported to be in a critical condition by doctors treating him at the trauma centre of King George Medical University in the city.Dr Sandeep Jaiswal, a resident of Balajipuram colony in Matiyari, runs a private hospital at Sarvodaya Nagar in the city. He was attacked around midnight when driving back home. The assailants riding in an SUV intercepted his vehicle nearly 200 meters from his house, said Lucknow deputy commissioner of police (DCP), east, Sanjiv Suman.The police officer said it appeared that the assailants first broke the windshield of the doctor’s SUV with a brick and then opened fire on him. He said the police found CCTV footage in which the assailants are seen fleeing in a white colour SUV from the spot towards Barabanki via Dewa road.The DCP said the police have recovered only one bullet shell from the crime scene, however, some locals claimed they heard at least two rounds of fire. The injured doctor was first rushed to Ram Manohar Lohia hospital by locals and was later shifted to the trauma centre.DCP Suman said primary investigation suggested that the assailants could have been following the doctor’s vehicle from his Sarvodaya Nagar trauma centre. The police are trying to recreate the crime sequence and efforts are on to trace the assailants, he added.The police initially suspected personal enmity behind the attack, but the doctor’s family has not named any suspect so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-doctor-shot-by-unknown-assailants-remains-critical-101622001913164.html
26-05-2021||Lucknow||Akhilesh lashes out at BJP for ‘planning poll strategy amid pandemic’||: Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday slammed the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), describing it as “audacious and shameless” for having held a meeting of top leadership to strategise for the coming UP Assembly polls. In a statement, Akhilesh said, “People are dying of Corona and black fungus due to government’s lack of administrative acumen and negligence; even last rites aren’t possible in many cases. Still, the party is doing a brainstorming with the Prime Minister and BJP state leadership for preparing a strategy for the polls (2022 UP assembly elections). We have never seen such a display of shamelessness in democracy.” There have been news reports that top BJP-RSS (Rashtriya Swayamasewak Sangh) leadership had been in a huddle in Delhi over the forthcoming UP assembly elections. Akhilesh said: “All that the BJP is bothered about is selfish politics and fake publicity. It is least bothered about peoples’ lives or livelihood and is focused on political power. Would people of UP forget all this? Anyways, the people in the state have resolved to dislodge BJP in 2022 and they will get relief when SP government returns.” He said: “There is no let-up in Covid and black fungus death yet. In rural areas, the situation is worst, but in the state capital and big cities patients were suffering and dying because of lack of life-saving medicines. The CM is hopping from place to place making tall claims, completely oblivious to the grim situation at home.” He said that those harping on ‘saving lives and livelihood’ were actually endangering both. The condition of daily wagers is deteriorating, the poor, labourers, vendors, and small traders are the worst hit, he said. “For the last one month prices of essential food items have shot up. Oil, vegetable prices have gone up multifold. Prices of petrol, diesel, cooking gas have increased, and household budgets have gone haywire. Animal farmers are facing problems regarding feed and fodder, milk consumption has been badly hit,” he said. “Small scale industries have begun retrenching employees, daily wagers aren’t getting employment, the books-notebooks-stationery businesses have collapsed, and textile or footwear industry too is out of business,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/akhilesh-lashes-out-at-bjp-for-planning-poll-strategy-amid-pandemic-101621969092275.html
26-05-2021||Lucknow||Foundation work of Ram Mandir expedited||Filling work of Ram Mandir foundation in Ayodhya has been expedited. Larsen and Toubro, which is carrying out the construction work, on Monday started laying fifth layer of the temple’s foundation.During the ongoing filling process, around 44 layers of 300 mm each will be laid. Thereafter, each layer will be compressed with simple and vibrating rollers. Last month, the Ram Mandir Construction Committee started the filling work with the target of completing 1.25 lakh cubic metre dug-up ground at Ram Janmabhoomi by the end of September.The Tata Consulting Engineers is working as project management consultant and is assisting the Larsen and Toubro in the constructions work. According to Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust, the Larsen and Toubro has appointed Balaji Construction Company of Rajasthan as its assisting partner to complete the foundation work at the earliest. The Larsen and Toubro has also increased its working hours from eight to 12.The temple’s foundation, which will be 107 feet above the sea level, is being made of layers of stones. For filling the temple’s foundation, crushed stone (gitti) of Banda, coarse sand, fly ash and asbestos are being used.“We want to complete maximum work of Ram Mandir’s foundation before the onset of monsoon. The construction company has also increased its working hours to finish foundation work at the earliest,” said a member of the Trust.Nripendra Misra, chairman of the Trust, is taking updates of the construction work from New Delhi where he resides. Trust’s general secretary Champat Rai keeps Misra updated of all development and progress in work.Misra also regularly visits Ayodhya and stays back in town for two-three days and reviews progress of construction work of Ram Mandir. Construction work of Ram Mandir began on August 5 last year after Prime Minister Narendra Modi presided over its Bhoomi Pujan in Ayodhya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/foundation-work-of-ram-mandir-expedited-101621968402822.html
26-05-2021||Lucknow||IIT-K student succumbs to black fungus||A PhD student at the Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur (IIT-K) succumbed to mucormycosis or black fungus, a post Covid-19 complication, at the Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS) in Lucknow on Tuesday morning.“Kavindra Kumar Chaturvedi, 28, a PhD student in the department of Aerospace Engineering at IIT-Kanpur succumbed to mucormycosis,” tweeted IITK director, Abhay Karandikar.“Sad day today! We lost a bright and promising student. A resident of Faizabad, Kavindra succumbed to mucormycosis as post Covid19 related complication. He was admitted to SGPGI Lucknow,” IITK director tweeted. “We did everything to save him including arranging medicines through a board member (an IITK alumnus) of a pharmaceutical company but despite best efforts by his doctors, family, friends and the institute, he could not be saved,” director tweeted.Kavindra was enrolled in PhD in 2019 and got married in September 2020. His wife is a homemaker. He postgraduated from MNNIT, Allahabad. He was a bright and promising student, said Girish Pant, PRO, IIT-K.According to PGI officials the patient was operated to control spread of black fungus within 48 hours. “But he suffered brain infarction due to Covid and died on Tuesday morning,” said Prof Amit Keshri, nodal officer of the 12-member committee of doctors on Covid cases associated with mucormycosis.This was the first casualty among students at IIT-K. There are 8300 students on campus.“The second wave of Covid19 has been terrible. Personally, I have lost friends and relatives, but loss of a young student is very devastating,” IITK director said.IIT-K has started a Covid-19 relief fund to provide financial aid to students who are facing medical emergencies.“The campus community has been helping these students on an individual basis too. We have been seeing an increase in the number of requests seeking financial aid over the last few days and it’s likely to go up in near future,” said dean, resources and alumni, Jayant K Singh.The institute has also created a portal where students and supporting staff can submit their applications with necessary documents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/iitk-student-succumbs-to-black-fungus-101621968730918.html
