31-05-2021||Lucknow||Live streaming of pujas, e-bhandaras as Covid affects Bada Mangal celebrations in Lucknow||: For the second consecutive year, Covid would affect Bada Mangal celebrations in the state capital as prominent city temples would stay closed for devotees. There would be online darshan and e-bhandaras instead, as regular bhandaras (community feasts), offering poori sabzi, choley chawal, ice creams, across the city won’t be held. The Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) has urged the people to donate dry rations for community kitchens run by it for the needy.Famous temples including the Bada Hanuman Temple, Aliganj, Hanuman Setu in front of the Lucknow University and the historic Chhachhi Kuan temple in the state capital would not organise festivities either. “However, like last year, devotees will be able to witness live-streaming of the puja organized by various temples,” said secretary Sankat Mochan Hanuman Temple Trust Diwakar Tripathi.“The temple aarti would be webcast live as entry of devotees won’t be allowed. Regulating entry of five people at a time, as permitted under the Covid guidelines too won’t work either. For there could be thousands of devotees eager for entry and that’s why we have decided to go in for online darshan,” he said. Aliganj Hanuman Temple management too has decided against opening the temple for devotees and the New Hanuman temple will remain closed too. The Mauni Baba Temple in Alambagh, Chhachhi Kuan temple in old city, Rakabganj Hanuman Temple, the Aminabad Hanuman temple would also stay closed for devotees. Lucknow mayor Sanyukta Bhatia has urged the devotees not to organise big bhandaras but donate uncooked flour, rice, pulses to the needy. She has called on the bhandara organisers to register on the Mangalman site which will help them donating the ration kits to poor and needy.Bhandara organisers can also organise e-bhandaras by donating their ration to Lucknow Municipal Corporation which is operating 8 community kitchens in the city. The donors can donate through the Mangalman site. They can also contact e-bhandara convenor RajKumar Tewari on his mobile number 9415755950.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/live-streaming-of-pujas-e-bhandaras-as-covid-affects-bada-mangal-celebrations-in-lucknow-101622481769345.html
31-05-2021||Lucknow||UP mulls rigorous curbs in 20 districts with more than 600 active cases||The Uttar Pradesh government said it was considering rigorous enforcement of existing Covid-19 restrictions in 20 districts with more than 600 active Covid cases. Meerut with 2,806 active cases and Deoria with 612, were the worst and the least worst-affected districts in this group. Lucknow had 2,450 active cases as on Sunday, when the latest figures were released by the state health department.The other districts among this group of 20 were Saharanpur, Varanasi, Ghaziabad, Gorakhpur, Muzaffarnagar, Bareilly, Gautam Buddha Nagar, Bulandshahr, Jhansi, Prayagraj, Lakhimpur Kheri, Sonbhadra, Jaunpur, Bagpat, Moradabad, Ghazipur and Bijnor.“The state government is considering rigorous enforcement of existing restrictions in 20 districts so that cases there fall soon,” said a state government official.Additional chief secretary (Home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi said: “Now, the districts are competing to bring down active cases below 600. Two district magistrates have said they will possibly bring down the number of active cases in their districts within a day.”While ordering the easing of the partial corona curfew, chief minister Yogi Adityanath said active Covid cases in the state had declined by 87% in a month’s time.State government’s new guidelines say all markets and shops in districts with less than 600 active cases can stay open from 7am to 7pm on weekdays while strictly following Covid safety protocols. However, daily night curfew and weekend closure of shops/businesses will continue across the state. Shopping malls, cinema halls, gyms, coaching institutes, swimming pools and clubs too will stay closed.Vegetable mandis (wholesale markets) will be allowed to open, but those in heavily populated areas will have to operate from less congested spaces, the order said. Railway stations, airports, roadways and bus stations will stay open while following protocols such as Covid screening and antigen testing.While Restaurants have been allowed to open only for home deliveries, roadside (highway and expressway) dhabas, vendors and kiosks will be allowed to function.A maximum limit of 25 guests has been fixed for all marriage functions; similarly no more than 20 persons will be allowed in funeral processions; while only five persons will be allowed inside religious places at a given time.Schools, colleges, education institutions will continue to stay closed, however, teaching and non-teaching staff will be allowed to go to their institutes for administrative work. Banks, insurance companies, and similar financial institutions will also be allowed to function without restrictions. Full attendance has been allowed in government offices that also employ Covid-19 frontline staff, however, only 50% attendance is allowed in other government offices. Private companies have been allowed to open their offices but will have to promote work from home culture. All industrial institutions will also be allowed to function and staff movement will be allowed with valid identity cards, the order said.On the transport front, state transport buses have been allowed to operate within the state with passengers limited to the prescribed seating capacity. Two, three and four-wheelers have been allowed with a pillion rider, two and four passengers respectively.Eggs, meat, fish shops have been allowed to function apart from a nod to all agriculture related work and establishments. All construction activities have also been allowed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-mulls-rigorous-curbs-in-20-districts-with-more-than-600-active-cases-101622442467921.html
31-05-2021||Lucknow||Stalled housing projects: Aggrieved homebuyers plan to approach NCLT if UPRERA fails to help||: Homebuyers waiting for possession of their flats have decided to approach the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) against promoters in case the Uttar Pradesh (UP) Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA) was unable to resolve their issue. Under the banner of UP Aggrieved Home Buyers Rights Association, homebuyers have decided to analyse all pending housing projects and subsequently take a decision whether to approach the NCLT or not. Many housing projects across the state are pending and homebuyers are running from pillar to post for completion of the projects. The UP RERA is also hearing complaints against several promoters whose projects are pending. “A large number of housing projects are pending. For the past several years homebuyers are making all efforts to get possession of flats. Many of them have also approached the UP RERA,” said Alok Singh, convenor, Uttar Pradesh Aggrieved Home Buyers Rights Association. “We are collecting details of all pending housing projects in which promoters have defaulted and have failed to handover possession of flats to homebuyers on time. Thereafter, we will find out how many of them are with the UP RERA,” added Singh. “We will check if the UP RERA is unable to resolve the issue or address complaints of homebuyers then the NCLT will be approached as a last resort,” he said. According to experts, NCLT is the last resort for homebuyers as it emphasises on liquidation and bankruptcy proceedings of the defaulter companies. “The NCLT must only be approached when there is no possibility left for revival of the project,” said a UP RERA official. In the recent past, the UP RERA has successfully revived two housing projects in Noida. Construction work at the housing project, ‘Jaypee Greens Knight Court’, of Jaiprakash Associates Limited, which was stalled since 2014, restarted under the observation of the UP RERA in February this year. The project will be completed within 15 months. Work at this multi tower group housing development project in Sector 128, Noida, had stopped in 2014 and its registration date lapsed in December last. It has eight towers and there are 310 allottees. Around 60 percent of the project work had been completed before it was stalled due to various reasons. On January 29 last, the UP RERA had ordered the promoter, Jaiprakash Associates Limited, with the consent of the Association of Allottees of the project, Jaypee Greens Knight Court, to complete the project. Earlier, the UP RERA had instituted a co-operative model to complete the Kalypso Court Project of Jaypee Associates Ltd.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/stalled-housing-projects-aggrieved-homebuyers-plan-to-approach-nclt-if-uprera-fails-to-help-101622400462373.html
