01-02-2022||---||Dig deep into why people indulge in hate crimes||The inflammatory and provocative utterances against a minority community at a recent ‘Dharam Sansad’ have brought the debate on hate crimes, particularly hate speech, back to the centre stage. Though there are penal provisions to tackle hate crimes, studies show an uptick in the commission of hate speech. The recurrence of instances of hate speech is proof that law is no longer deterrence to such behaviour. Instead, hate speech must be studied as a behavioural manifestation and examined from the standpoint of the theories of hate behaviour for prevention.The need is to delve into the human psyche to understand why people indulge in hate crimes. Hating offers sadism. People indulge in hating as it is easier to do that than to actually commit violence. It releases the frustration and aggression of the bearer. Criminologists believe that crimes are committed more often when the perpetrators are able to hide themselves. Social media platforms help the haters to hide their identity when they resort to extreme profanity.The same would provide solutions to stem the recurrence of hate crimes, such as hate speech. The synonymity of hate speech with crime has created a situation where the understanding of the phenomenon of hate has been spearheaded by legal scholars.It is imperative, however, to shift the understanding of hate crimes to a more holistic approach which goes beyond legal definitions and uncovers the fundamental causes of these crimes.The existing laws hardly prescribe any ways to preventing hate crimes and the State’s imagination is woefully limited in this regard. The absence of any prevention programmes which mobilise communities speaks for itself. The laws also lack a victim-centric approach to hate crimes. Even as hate crimes affect victims of all races, religions, castes, regions, sexual orientations, etc, little is provided by way of law for their protection, healing, assistance and rehabilitation. The law must be oriented to meeting the victims’ requirements in this regard, including protection from further harm, mitigation of injury and harm, provision of services etc.Edward Dunbar of the University of California studied 550 perpetrators and concluded that the haters have a defined pathology with troubled past histories. Haters are unique individuals, who are prone to violence and aggression. Hate speech, in particular, is an outlet for the frustration that they possess against a person or a group. Gottfredson and Hirschi’s General Theory of Crime argues that individuals who lack self-control are more likely to indulge in crimes, including hate crimes. Mark Walters defines hate crimes as intimidation and harm motivated by a prejudice, based on a generalisation about the victim’s actual or perceived membership of an identity group. Typically, such generalisation is based on a fear or belief that the victim will encroach upon the offender’s group identity, cultural norms or socio-economic security.Robert Merton’s strain theory suggests that deviant behaviour results from a ‘disequilibrium’ borne out of the gap between culturally prescribed goals and the means and opportunities of attaining these legitimately. For some, this resultant frustration is internalised as negative feelings about the ‘self’, but quickly resurfaces as a feeling of anger or hate, which is then directed towards ‘outsiders’. A kind of ‘othering’ happens in the hate expressions.Barbara Perry argues that those who fall outside the societal construction of identity are seen as ‘different’ and are resisted because it is feared that they would encroach upon the ‘identity and cultural norms’ of the ‘in groups’. This results in feelings of helplessness and insecurity in some, which are then projected as animosity against the ‘different’. It is an emotive reaction which is used to gain a sense of control to temporarily deny the fear.Taken individually, these theories fail to explain why only certain individuals indulge in hate crimes and while similar personality traits do not. However, when these theories are studied together, they present a rather robust explanation for triggering individuals to indulge in offensive hatred. Socio-economic strains and general fears of ‘difference’ then act as underpinning factors, promulgating a culture of prejudice against certain ‘others’, which in turn, ultimately triggers hate-motivated behaviours in individuals with low self-control.When someone calls for genocide, lynching or leaving the country, he has to attribute to some exceptionally powerful justifications for the same. Radicalised individuals who exhibit extreme behaviour are invariably successful in neutralising their guilt by way of invoking extraordinary reasons, namely god, country, religion or honour. This is particularly true in the case of thrill-seekers and defensive, powerful, retaliatory and mission-oriented individuals.The thrill-seekers are those who, in acquiring the thrill, use their prejudices — the result of constructions of difference, stereotyping and perceived threats posed by certain minority individuals — as a means of justifying their hate-motivated actions.Similarly, the ‘defensive’ act in defence of what is perceived as a threat to their ‘territory’. They envision minority groups as ‘invaders’ who encroach upon the rights and resources of the indigenous population. Those with low self-control tend to be more intolerant of such ingressions. They are unable to control their animosity towards the said ‘invaders’ and are more likely to lash out when their socio-economic security is threatened.Finally, some hate crimes are carried out by the most powerful people in society. They are fearful of the potential strain that ‘others’ might place on their socio-economic security in the future. Thus, they might act out, but rarely directly. They tend to incite hatred in an attempt to mobilise others, possibly those with low self-control, into acting against the ‘others’.The failure of our laws and legal provisions must propel us to look at the fundamental cause of the problem which may very well be rooted in the psyche of human beings. The fact that their actions are motivated by fear, strain or insecurity and are triggered by a lack of self-control suggests the need for a different approach.Our laws must account for such motivations and triggers. Additionally, measures like positive and community-based interventions to heal, protect and assist crime victims must be introduced in good measure. There is also a need to make it more difficult to commit these crimes by raising the probability of being identified and prosecuted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/dig-deep-into-why-people-indulge-in-hate-crimes-365926
01-02-2022||---||Siachen demilitarisation not worth the risk||This is a contrarion view to the plea for demilitarisation of Siachen by some defence personnel and diplomats. These proposals, by implication, mean withdrawal from the forbidding heights of the formidable terrain of Siachen, which India always claimed to be her land.Understandably, every Indian is entitled to his own view. However, the bottom line is that Siachen shouldn’t be seen or acted upon in isolation. It is to be dealt with on a bigger canvas, in the overall strategic perspective of the state. It cannot be plucked from nowhere and acted upon as a knee-jerk reaction.Siachen has been and still is part of the physical geography of the independent state of Jammu & Kashmir since June 1947, which acceded to India in October 1947. However, after the first Kashmir war between India and Pakistan in 1947-1948, the location didn’t find a place in the de facto demarcation, resulting in the Line of Control (LoC). Nevertheless, that doesn’t, in any way, take away the reality that Siachen was, and is, an integral part of Jammu & Kashmir which became a legal territory of India. In a way, Siachen continued as “No man’s land” from 1947 to April 1984, when then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi ordered the Army to take its physical possession. Being an astute geopolitical strategist, she was aware of the adage that land “empires” like China, Russia and Britain in their “expansive phases, pushed out their frontiers until they meet with resistance...of a physical barrier which makes a natural point of rest.”That was during the era of imperialism. The classic example today, however, is the expanding territorial ambition of Communist Party of China (CPC) and its “estate-state Pakistan”. Unfortunately, India stands as the stumbling block and stubborn sentinel of the snowy heights in their aggressive design.Understandably, having learnt lessons from the 1962 CPC hammering and Pakistan’s ceaseless assaults since 1947, India just can’t take chances pertaining to her territorial integrity, safety and security owing to numerous historical reverses at the hands of foreign invaders.At high altitude too, India cannot be slack irrespective of the price it has to pay for eternal vigilance. Nevertheless, this business of high altitude has often divided the Indian establishment. There now exist two schools of opposite thought: One arguing against the high cost and casualty of the high hill deployment; and the other, harping on foreign invasions, traditional and the chronic failure of the Indian rulers to protect the border and the contemporary hostile China-Pakistan axis. No wonder, Siachen intermittently crops up with totally avoidable both “for-and-against” public discourse.An unpleasant glimpse of India’s “behind the scenes” Siachen manipulations can be had from The Accidental Prime Minister, written by a former adviser to then PM Manmohan Singh. “Defence Minister Antony was politically conservative and risk averse and depended excessively on the advice of IAS officers, inexperienced in strategic policy and defence... To add to this, Dr Singh had to also contend with the declining quality of defence services leadership... For me, the first sign of this decline was evident in the manner in which the Army chief... dealt with the Siachen issue. In closed-door briefings, the General would say that a deal with Pakistan was doable, but in public he would back Antony when the Defence Minister chose not to back the Prime Minister.”Just how bizarre an Indian establishment scenario could possibly be! The incumbent Army chief too talks of the possibility of “demilitarisation of glacial region in Siachen”, subject to Pakistan authenticating troop deployment along the 110-km-long Actual Ground Position Line (AGPL). Now, here again comes the reliability factor. Is Pakistan or China known to adhere to diplomatic commitment? Can India really take a chance? After being at the receiving end for more than seven decades of ceaseless aggression resulting in irretrievable and irreversible territorial loss? Is the Indian establishment dead sure that a demilitarised zone (from which troops have been/or will be withdrawn) won’t be filled up by either of the China-Pakistan axis?Interestingly, aside of the present Army chief, a former diplomat and a senior Army officer too appear convinced that “Siachen is a most inhospitable theatre and the extraordinary human and material costs...would justify a review”. In the Army officer’s view, too huge an expenditure has been given as one of the prime reasons to take a step back to avoid casualty and save cash.In an ideal condition, one could be happy to endorse the stand of wise counsel. Nevertheless, there exist two serious supplementary issues too. First, isn’t India already facing a crisis of sorts on the Ladakh front, pertaining to demilitarisation and futile military talks on status quo ante bellum?India has stepped back. But have the Chinese reciprocated? No, not yet. And there’s nothing to show that either status quo ante bellum or the retreat of the Chinese will happen in the foreseeable future.So, Siachen isn’t a routine military expenditure on a limited but hazardous and tactical battlefield in inclement weather. Siachen is directly linked to the Constitution of India also. No doubt, Siachen posts haven’t yet been vacated, but if one goes through Articles 1 and 3 of the Constitution, one would get the answer pertaining to its demilitarisation. The Constitution only allows “acquisition” and “accession” of “territories” and not “cession”, even if it is referred to as withdrawal.In fact, there exists a strong possibility of the vacant Indian plot (notwithstanding its height and location) getting lost. If so, that will surely create a repeat of the 1966 Tashkent-type humiliating scenario in which despite winning its own land of Jammu and Kashmir from the Pakistan army, the then Prime Minister and his diplomatic entourage succumbed to a third-party host and relinquished Delhi’s inalienable and sovereign right over its own land.Ironically, if India’s consistently principled Jammu & Kashmir stand is that it’s her territory, then what’s the logic of even a single inch of the territory to go out of her hand? Shouldn’t Delhi take a cue from the Dragon’s stand: “Not a single inch of Chinese territory will be ceded to anyone,” and that Taiwan is an integral and inviolable “part of China”?One regrets to state that no matter which political party is in power, Delhi can’t be seen in a state of being weak, vacillating, compromising, oscillating and benevolent in a narrow sense. In border management, border has got to be dealt with as border by a sovereign India, irrespective of its position, location, height, area, weather, climate, connectivity or expenditure. No nation can aspire for greatness if it fails in peace-time territory/border management. Deployment for borderland protection, therefore, is a pre-requisite for the sovereign existence of a nation-state aspiring for a place under the sun.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/siachen-demilitarisation-not-worth-the-risk-365918
01-02-2022||---||Playing a losing game||The recent back-to-back summits India and China had with Central Asian Republics (CAR) indicate that the Great Game is very much on. Whether we should be playing it at all, or have the capacity to do so is another matter.The CAR is far more important for China than for India. There indeed could be a legitimate question why India should even bother with the region.The Indian media had hyped the summit as some kind of a major achievement. India had invited the leaders of the five Central Asian Republics — Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Kyrgyzstan — to be joint chief guests for the 2022 Republic Day. This didn’t pan out, and so it was decided to hold the summit virtually, which was done on January 27.Even as the planning and the hyping reached fever pitch, there was an announcement that Xi Jinping would be also holding a joint summit with CAR leaders to commemorate the 30th anniversary of their diplomatic relations, and that too, two days before the Indian meet. The two meetings have inevitably led to comparative assessments that do not particularly favour India.PM Modi’s public remarks at the summit were short and concise and nothing really stood out. His theme was regional security and stability, while Xi focused on economic ties. The context of the PM’s remarks appeared to be the developments in Afghanistan, which, in his view, affected India and the CAR equally.The lengthy Delhi Declaration issued after the summit provided a significant overview of the India-CAR relationship. This suggests that there seems to be significant similarities between New Delhi and Beijing’s approach to the region. Both view ties as being important from the point of view of security and regional stability in the context of the Afghan developments. Both are active in providing assistance to the region through aid and training programmes and both are conscious of the importance of energy resources of the region. And, both are linked to the region through the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation.But the substance of the China-CAR relationship is very different from that of the Indian one. The most important difference arises from contiguity, which makes China-CAR relations far more consequential than the India-CAR one. China shares a 3,300-km border with Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan and its troubled Xinjiang province. The region is also an important fulcrum of China’s Belt and Road Initiative which sees a thousand trains a month running between Europe and China through Central Asia.India lacks any contiguity and the Pakistani blockade prevents easy access to the region. Our efforts to develop alternative routes from Chabahar, or through the Ashgabat Agreement, are still a works in progress. Indeed, in a number of areas, India’s efforts to enhance ties with the region are more aspirational than anything else.In the last 30 years, China has developed dense ties with the CAR. Trade between them stands at some $41 billion, as compared to just around $2 billion for India. China has three pipelines taking Central Asian gas and oil to China, and work is in progress on the fourth pipeline. Chinese investments in the region total nearly $55 billion, with half of it going to Kazakhstan. Some 7,700 Chinese companies are active in the region. As for Indian investments, they are trivial, though in 2020 India extended a $1 billion line of credit to the region.According to a recent Carnegie Endowment study, the days of big infrastructure investments in the CAR funded by China are over. Now CAR governments have pushed Beijing to focus on industrial projects to make value-added products for export. During the China-CAR summit, Xi offered $500 million of additional assistance to the region for skill enhancement, along with 50 million vaccine doses. He made it a point to call for greater cooperation in the area of AI, big data, cloud computing and other high-tech sectors. He also called for speeding up work on the troubled China-Kyrgyzstan-Uzbekistan (CKU) railway project. Once the Kyrgyz part of CKU is completed, China will have the shortest route to western Europe and Iran.China has three key interests in Central Asia. First, to ensure a stable source of hydrocarbons; second, to ensure that the region neighbouring its own sensitive province of Xinjiang remains stable; and third, obtain the support of the governments there for China’s larger global agenda.What are India’s goals? In his opening remarks, the PM said cooperation between India and the CAR ‘is essential for regional security and prosperity…Central Asia is crucial to India’s vision of an integrated and stable, extended neighbourhood.’ But he also seemed to acknowledge that we are yet to develop a structure for enhanced relations and that there was need ‘to create an ambitious roadmap for our cooperation’. Substantive ties remain in prospect, rather than now. India is simply hoping to ride into Great Game 3 with a little Russian help. The Chinese, though, have been careful to watch their own footing in relation to Moscow.Certainly, the CAR is far more important for China than for India. Indeed, there could be a legitimate question why India should even bother with the region. Accessing Central Asian oil and gas through the TAPI pipeline is likely to remain a pipedream, given the Pakistani blockade. Afghanistan’s importance to Indian security is being needlessly exaggerated. The Taliban have shown no inclination to export their brand of Islam and whatever danger we face from that direction comes from Pakistan. India would be better off deploying its already scarce resources to shoring up its ties with countries in the South Asian or Indian Ocean Region.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/playing-a-losing-game-365914
