02-02-2022||---||Parties’ narratives poles apart in UP elections||BY now, Uttar Pradesh’s election campaign by the principal players — the BJP/National Democratic Alliance and the Samajwadi Party (SP)-Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) and their allies — have got delineated in outline, form and substance and could not be more mutually antithetical. The BJP speaks the language of divisiveness and negativity and its discourse seems strangely reactive after years of setting the terms of engagement for its opponents. So far, the SP-RLD has avoided tangling itself in the BJP’s allegations and innuendoes that have often cost the Opposition dear in the past. The duo has crafted its own narrative, shorn of emotions and passions, and stuck to issues it believes will resonate with UP’s economically distressed population.In the past election in 2017, the BJP’s thrust was layered: Prime Minister Narendra Modi was the focus. The discourse was themed around his government’s policies before Hindutva was infused with vikas to play to a gallery of the committed and the converted. On Monday, in his first virtual speech to UP’s voters, Modi attacked the SP, which was described as dabang (overpowering) and dangai (prone to rioting). He reminded the audience that one word from the rioters was the commandment when the SP was in power. Its government, he alleged, “patronised” the mafia which pillaged traders and forced their women into homes. His words conjured images of the “jungle raj”, a phrase the BJP had effectively used to annihilate Lalu Prasad and the Rashtriya Janata Dal in Bihar. He warned listeners that ‘revenge’ would be the order of the day if the Opposition was elected.Modi’s address was an extension of what was said over months by the Chief Minister, Yogi Adityanath, and the Home Minister, Amit Shah. The leitmotifs were borrowed from the past: the SP would restore Mughal rule; the SP only raised walls around kabristan and legalised the ownership of the land earmarked for graveyards while the BJP government channelled funds into the development of sacred places; the SP had engineered the exodus of Hindu traders from western UP and nearly created a Kashmir inside the state; the firing on the kar sevaks who laid siege to the Babri mosque in 1990; skull caps, iftar parties, Aurangzeb and such like pictorial and mental ideas embedded in the party’s history texts. It seemed as though communalism was stretched to its limits.It is a replay of 1993, when the state went to polls after a spell of truncated BJP rule because its government was dismissed after the Babri demolition. Logically, the referendum on this act was there for the BJP to win. Its posters claimed, ‘Jo kaha, so kiya’ (What was promised was fulfilled). Yet it lost the mandate. Was the communal fare served up over two years excessive even for its adherents? This time, the Adityanath government comfortably completed a five-year tenure, and laid out more fulsome helpings to satiate the appetite for communalism. The minorities were silenced. They are rarely seen, much less heard, except for veteran politicians given to speaking out of turn. Even the clergy stopped issuing statements for fear of a backlash against the minorities.Western UP votes in the first three phases. It is traditionally a BJP stronghold where the RSS first established itself following the exodus of Hindu refugees from Pakistan. Many of them made this region their home and set up business. UP’s worst communal violence, several during Congress regimes, occurred here: Meerut, Maliana-Hashimpura, Moradabad, Aligarh, Bareilly, Badaun, Etah and Muzaffarnagar in 2013. These were long-drawn riots. In contrast, although Varanasi in the east was prone to religious conflicts, the episodes were short and limited to pockets.For the past month, videos have surfaced from western UP, depicting BJP MLAs hooted out of their constituencies and in places close to being attacked. In 2017, the SP’s candidates were subject to similar treatment in eastern UP. UP is not an anarchist state. Protests rarely erupt unless they are spearheaded by politicians. Adityanath was lucky that his tenure witnessed one set of demonstrations against the amended citizenship law which he put down with brute force. Then came the farmers’ agitation whose ramifications were felt beyond the epicentre, western UP. The Lakhimpur-Kheri tragedy, involving the killing of farmers by the son of a Central minister from the area, became the focal point of the agitation and the issues it signified because the protests were peaceful, true to UP’s tradition. It appears that farmers’ patience with the BJP government’s unwillingness to listen to their woes and its inability to act might have run out. We will know on February 10, after the first phase of voting is over.The SP-RLD, which started off a bit belatedly, has found its feet. Its leaders, Akhilesh Yadav and Chaudhary Jayant Singh, have homed in on the agrarian sector and not deflected their attention from it, despite the BJP’s provocations. If voted to power, like the BJP, they will be held to their promises which include clearing the payments backlog to sugarcane farmers in 15 days, free irrigation, no tariffs on 300 units of power consumption, setting up a revolving corpus of farmer funds, compensation for the families of victims killed by rogue cattle and so on.In addition, Akhilesh and Jayant jointly campaigned in the west principally to dispel the speculation that the BJP had made overtures to the RLD to ditch the SP and become its ally.In the polemics over emotions versus the economy, it is hard to assess what predominates. UP’s voters often speak of bread-and-butter issues, as though these alone matter, and get swayed by the Hindutva discourse. Akhilesh and Jayant signalled their ‘commitment’ to the farmer by displaying two symbols: a stick of sugarcane and a potli (bundle) of grains wrapped in auspicious red cloth. Will ganna win over danga (riots) or will it be the other way around? #up poll #up polls||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/parties-narratives-poles-apart-in-up-elections-366204
02-02-2022||---||China looks for ways to revive ties with US||AS China’s economic situation worsens and tension in the neighbourhood rises, the Chinese leadership is worried at the turn its relations with the US is taking. China acknowledges that this bilateral relationship has immensely facilitated its rise. The US remains China’s prime source of hi-technology, Chinese companies list on the New York stock exchange, and China’s exports to the US touched a whopping $452.58 billion in 2020. Any further slide would stall, if not reverse, China’s rise.To get a sense of China’s thinking on Sino-US relations, it is worth examining comments by influential Chinese analysts, including those made around the time of the US-China summit in November 2021. These comments reflect the divergence of views that have existed for some years within the CCP and suggest that the subject is again under active discussion, with a renewed focus on ways to mend it. The preparations for a potential meeting between top Chinese diplomat Yang Jiechi and US National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan on core national security concerns could also be a factor in the debate’s revival.Yuan Peng, one of China’s leading America experts, who heads the think tank of the Ministry of State Security, warns that the US is used to dealing with other countries from a position of strength and has failed to see that the east is ‘rising’ while the West is ‘falling’.He says the attacks of September 11, 2001, caused a security crisis, the 2008 subprime fiasco led to an economic crisis and Trump’s victory in 2016 created a political crisis. Now, he says, the US may also face a social crisis of a magnitude that it has not seen in decades.Citing the hurried withdrawal from Afghanistan by the US, the analyst asserts that the US was willing to lose face to better respond to China. He states that what really worries the US is not the extent of China’s economic strength but the growth of its science and technology, its military, and its governance model which has facilitated China’s rise.This shift in the strategic focus of the US to the ‘Indo-Pacific’ has now brought it to China’s doorstep he declares, where the two sides face ‘hand-to-hand contact’ for the first time in a century and regard each other’s every move with suspicion.Although Yuan appears to take a hard stance, he subtly hints that China will need to reach some compromise with the US in the near term to facilitate its development. Because, he asserts, the US is still powerful and “the great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation” is the most important issue for China.Yang Jiemian, another expert and the brother of a Politburo member, appears to toe the government’s hawkish stance. He suggests that China play off the US against Russia and vice versa. At the same time, Beijing must remain alert about Washington’s attempts to split China, while recognising that Russia is wary of China’s expanding influence in Eurasia, as even brothers can have problems.Yang also expresses concern about China’s deteriorating ties with Europe, which he calls the fourth pillar in global affairs. With Angela Merkel’s departure, he says, it would be unrealistic to expect Sino-German relations to remain the same, because while Europe and the US may have differences, these are only up to a point.The views of China’s longest serving ambassador to the US, Cui Tiankai, are also significant. Ideologically, one of the more conservative ‘left’ cadres, Cui’s term in Washington was extended by Xi Jinping because he had built up good access to Donald Trump’s family and inner circle. Interestingly, though Cui’s views appeared to have sharpened since his ambassadorial appointment, he too hints that China must keep its eye on the bigger issue of its “great rejuvenation” and be “clear-headed and fully prepared to deal with the twists and turns, turbulence, and even the roller-coaster of Sino-US relations in the future.”Cui also asserts that China must be very vigilant while dealing with the US as tensions between the two powers continue to grow despite the November summit, and these are unlikely to improve in the near future.He adds that there has been “a very strong element of racism” in Washington’s China policy, with the US unwilling to accept the rise of a power that is very different in its social system, ideology, cultural traditions and ethnicity. “The US will inevitably try every possible means and spare no effort, even without a bottom line, to suppress, contain, divide and besiege China,” he asserts.Zhang Baijian — who took part in Zhou Enlai’s talks with Henry Kissinger during his secret visit to China in 1971 — presents a somewhat contrary viewpoint. Seeming to leave the door open for compromise, Zhang stresses the need for China to balance its opening up with safeguarding its national interests. He cautions that the US is down but not out, and while its role as a global leader is declining, history shows that it can recover and revive.All three were careful to subtly express their views without overtly criticising Xi’s US policy. However, in a thinly veiled criticism on January 23, Jia Qingguo, an America expert and member of the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC), the country’s highest political advisory body, warned China not to unduly focus on national security as it would be self-destructive.These comments will have disconcerted Xi, coming as they do just months before the crucial 20th Party Congress, where his third term will be decided. Nevertheless, Xi is likely to continue to pursue his hard-line policy to forestall obstacles and prevent any loss of face — at least till the Party Congress. #China||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/china-looks-for-ways-to-revive-ties-with-us-366203
02-02-2022||---||Doesn’t fit the bill for all||A BUDGET that places its bets squarely on pushing public investment in infrastructure to promote growth, is the best description of this year’s annual government accounting exercise. It has little of the flourishes of past budgets, with the overarching highlight being a 35.4 per cent increase in capital expenditure that is expected to kickstart a virtuous cycle of investments in the pandemic-affected economy. In the process, however, it has left out several segments that needed more nuanced policies and special support.The Budget has disappointed many who were expecting a pre-poll bonanza with freebies for various segments.The single-minded approach of the Budget proposals comes in response to clamour over the past few months over the need to raise government expenditure in a bid to revive the economy and promote job growth. Capital expenditure is being raised from Rs 5.54 lakh crore to Rs 7.5 lakh crore in 2022-23, bringing it to 2.9 per cent of GDP. The fiscal deficit has been kept at 6.4 per cent as against 6.9 per cent in the current fiscal. An ambitious long-term estimate of 60 lakh jobs has been pegged for the next five years. Again, the focus on employment in the longer term comes even as there has been widespread criticism of the government’s failure to resolve the job crisis.But there is much less in the Budget for the near term and for segments that have suffered the most pain in the pandemic. While the dramatic increase in infrastructure investments must be welcomed, enough attention has not been paid to the battered micro and medium small enterprises segment. A rise of Rs 50,000 crore in the emergency credit line guarantee scheme (ECLGS) for MSMEs in the hospitality sector is definitely a positive. But this is not enough for a segment that has not been part of the recent vibrant recovery of the formal economy.Besides, one of the weaknesses in the single-minded approach is the spectre of inflationary pressures due to such a large infusion of investment into the economy. The second is failure to take into account external factors, such as the soaring oil prices and their impact on the current account deficit. It was expected that some form of direct benefit transfer would be given to those at the bottom of the pyramid, both in urban and rural areas, especially in view of the upcoming Assembly elections. This hope has been belied even as it cannot be denied that immediate relief is needed for the poorest of the poor. Existing welfare schemes, such as free food and the PM Kisan Yojana are laudable but Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman should have recognised that more needs to be done for the informal sector.Interestingly, the rural job schemes have been scaled down in 2022-23. The outlay for MGNREGA has been reduced from Rs 98,000 crore to Rs 73,000 crore. This could be in anticipation of migrant workers coming back to cities and reducing the pressure on job schemes. But for the time being, the spurt in demand for jobs under these schemes during the pandemic does not appear to have abated.On the plus side, the proposals have given a much-needed impetus to digitising the economy. The big news is the launch of the digital rupee as well as implicit recognition of crypto-currency by taxing all transactions involving virtual digital assets. The 30 per cent taxation is in the fitness of things, given that crypto trade is largely speculative in nature. And the 1 per cent tax deduction at source ensures that such transactions will now come into the formal financial sector which was the need of the hour. Crypto-currencies have not been banned as these are now undeniably part of the global financial ecosystem.Other initiatives likely to prove helpful at the ground level include the launch of digital banking along with promotion of payment platforms. It has been seen that greater digitisation has proved supportive to vulnerable sections intimidated by the physical infrastructure of the banking network.As for public sector disinvestment, it now seems to have been downgraded despite having been listed as a key area for resource mobilisation in previous budgets. The outlay for the next fiscal has been kept at a modest Rs 65,000 crore compared to Rs 1.75 lakh crore in 2021-22. This is a bid to dampen expectations given that over the past few years, achievement of disinvestment targets has been rather dismal. Last year, however, an entire pipeline of public sector companies meant for privatisation was unveiled, including two banks. Air India sale was the first major outcome but there is recognition that the pace has been slow.There is also no mention of the asset monetisation pipeline that was outlined in great detail last year. This was also expected to be a major focus for resource mobilisation but is also taking more time than originally expected to get off the ground.The salaried middle class will naturally be disappointed by the proposals as the usual speculation around income tax concessions swirled around this time as well. The only sop provided is a procedural improvement in terms of allowing revised income tax returns within a two year period of the assessment year. This can be described as yet another oversight as the beleaguered middle class too deserves some concessions.This year’s Budget has actually disappointed many who were expecting a pre-election bonanza with many freebies for many segments of the public. Instead, the Modi government has presented a clinically correct Budget that keeps its eye firmly on public investment as the vehicle to pump- prime the pandemic-affected economy. Many economists are describing it as progressive and forward-looking as it will ensure infrastructure development and thereby expand the much-needed jobs in the economy. The problem is, it seems to look only at revival in the medium and long term while neglecting near-term weaknesses in many areas. It is also positive for the formal sector, hence the bullishness in reaction of stock markets. But the informal sector and the bottom of the pyramid have been left out of the Budget’s calculations this time around. #BUDGET||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/doesnt-fit-the-bill-for-all-366202
