03-02-2022||---||Still stuck in planning mode||THE economy is a given. The government and the Finance Minister can only work over it or work around it. It would then be futile to blame either Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman or Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The fact is that the economy shrank 6.6 per cent in 2020-21, according to the latest estimates — a matter of comfort to those in the government facing the challenge of Covid-19 — and it is estimated to grow at 9.2 per cent in 2021-22, which may be revised when the January-March data comes in May. The real growth figure for 2021-22 compared to the lower base of the previous year would be much smaller, that is about 3 per cent. And it is not the fault of the government that this is so. Whether the government speaks about it or not, the other economy-watchers cannot ignore this. That is why, many of the growth estimates show a correction in the 2022-23 estimates compared to that of 2021-22. A minor detail indeed, but it does not leave space for a robust rebound. The situation is not grim, but it is not buoyant either. Recovery from the pandemic stress will spread into 2023-24. The macro-economic fundamentals suggest that the economy can survive the stress test, which is good news. Similarly, the foreign exchange reserve of a robust $633.6 billion is enough to cover imports of 13 months. It is a safe perch. But the reserves are not indicative of a flood in foreign exchange earnings.Given this background, Finance Minister Sitharaman has offered many incentives on the face of it to whip up growth sentiment as it were. But it is more in the realm of intent, determination and hope. In paragraph 10 of the Budget speech, the Finance Minister said, “The Productivity Linked Incentive in 14 sectors for achieving the vision of Atmanirbharta has received an excellent response, with potential to create 60 lakh new jobs and an additional production of Rs 30 lakh crore during the next five years.” Of course, the PLI initiative does not extend to the entire manufacturing sector, and it is targeted at certain segments like electronic hardware and pharmaceuticals. So the employment and the production value figures should be seen as referring to a small part. And it is to be assumed that the 60 lakh jobs demand is that of skilled labour force with educational qualifications ranging from a diploma to a research degree. The nitty-gritty must be worked at the ground level, and there is nothing much the policy czars at the ministerial and departmental levels can do about it.Paragraph 9 of the speech has this sweeping declaration: “The strengthening of the health infrastructure, speedy implementation of the vaccination programme and the nation-wide resilient response to the current wave of the pandemic, are evident for all.” The picture is far from the rosy one that the statement suggests. The health infrastructure was under stress, and it did not break because the number of infections as well as cases of hospitalisation were far less, and the reasons for this are quite complex. So, if one is to believe that the health infrastructure is adequate, it would be an error. Similarly, the vaccination programme is a one-time exercise, and the system was stretched to achieve success. Most health workers and frontline workers were stressed to breaking point in dealing with the exigency. Of course, we do not expect the Finance Minister to explain the issues. But during the debate on the Budget, these details must be discussed and the government must reveal the data as honestly as it can.It is in this context that the 25-year ‘Amrit Kaal’ perspective plan to be rolled out by 2047, marking 100 years of Independence, must be assessed. It would be churlish indeed to fault the Finance Minister and the Prime Minister for thinking of the developmental and growth goals for 2047. But this approach frankly belongs to the socialist era thinking, and to functioning communist nations such as China. As a matter of fact, Chinese President Xi Jinping has unveiled goals for 2049 to mark the centenary of the Red Revolution in China. When PM Modi dismantled the Planning Commission and set up the NITI Aayog, it seemed that he had put all this planning business behind him and wanted the country to follow the market path, where planning decisions are made by firms and individuals. Instead, the government is still stuck in the planning mode. It is a fact that India needs a multi-modal, seamless transport infrastructure but it should have emerged as and when the demand came up. By creating the infrastructure, you facilitate demand, but you do not create it. To say that the railways will set up one-station one-product is a case of planning from above, instead of letting the market work out the solution. All that the state should be doing is to expand roads, railways and waterways. Similarly, the plan to use drones for assessing crops and to connect the farmers with laboratories and extension workers is a bureaucratic approach.Of course, it does reveal the ‘control freak’ mindset of the government. Technological and scientific breakthroughs that will power the next stage of economic growth cannot happen under governmental direction. India’s entrepreneurial energies cannot be unleashed under the government’s aegis.This brings us back to the core challenge of the Indian economy. Why is the Indian private sector sitting out when the country is raring to surge forward? The captains of industry and business are likely to answer the lack of infrastructure, and the governmental rules. The government is indeed trying to make it easy for businesses to exit because that will likely improve the growth of the start-ups. Of course, it also requires the innovators and investors in the country to show greater daring than they have shown so far if India is to become the superpower which it so ardently desires to be.  #BUDGET #union budget||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/still-stuck-in-planning-mode-366477
03-02-2022||---||Booster shot elusive||IN the Union Budget for the financial year 2022-23, the Department of Health and Family Welfare under the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) has received an allocation of Rs 83,000 crore as per the budget estimates (BE). This allocation is a 15% increase over the Rs 71,239 crore allocated in budget estimates for the financial year 2021-22, almost similar to the revised estimates (RE) of Rs 82,920 crore. In addition, the Department of Health Research has received 3,200 crore, an increase over Rs 2,663 crore in BE and Rs 3,080 crore in RE. The allocation for the Ministry of Ayush is Rs 3,050 crore, which is almost similar to the budget estimates in the financial year 2021-22.In the related sector, the Department of Pharmaceuticals has witnessed a major increase in allocation from Rs 470 crore to Rs 2,244 crore as per budget estimates. A majority, nearly 95% of the increase (Rs 2,157 crore), has been for a new line-item budget of Production Linked Incentive (PLI) schemes, including bulk drugs and medical devices parks. However, the allocation for Jan Aushadhi scheme, which aims to provide low-cost generic medicines, has remained stagnant.In terms of new health services related initiatives, an open platform for rolling out the National Digital Health Ecosystem has been announced. The other initiative announced is a ‘National Tele-Mental Health Programme’ with the aim of delivering mental health counselling and care services. This will be achieved through 23 tele-health centres and coordinated by the National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences (NIMHANS), Bengaluru, and the International Institute of Information Technology-Bangalore (IIIT-B) will provide the technology support.Has health allocation really increased? One of the ways to objectively assess the allocation is to examine the allocation as the proportion of total expenditure. For the health sector, it has declined to 2.2%, slightly lower than the revised estimates for last year; however, marginally greater than the budget estimates. But when it comes to increasing the health sector funding to achieve the National Health Policy (NHP) 2017 target of government spending on health to 2.5% of GDP, this is clearly insufficient to achieve the policy goal.Considering that the overall funding envelope has remained almost unchanged, there are changes in budget heads and placing money differently. Many component-wise sub-headings under the National Health Mission (NHM) have been merged, except the budget sub-headings for tertiary care programmes and human resources for health and medical education. There is an allocation of Rs 5,845 crore under the Pradhan Mantri Ayushman Bharat Health Infrastructure Mission (PMABHIM), the scheme which was launched in September 2021. This allocation has been counted as part of NHM, as well as part of the budget for the Department of Health Research, and will be spent on bio-security preparedness and strengthening pandemic research as well as for ‘One Health’. Therefore, while there is some increase in the overall allocation under the sub-heading of NHM, allocation for older activities however has been reduced. The National Digital Health Mission (NDHM) has received Rs 200 crore. As part of the infrastructure push, there is a nearly 70% increase in capital expenditure from Rs 3,813 crore (revised estimate 2021-22) to Rs 5,632 crore (budget estimate 2022-23).The Union Budget for 2021-22 was clearly focused on the pandemic. In the last budget, the linkage with other social sectors — nutrition, water supply and sanitation — the social determinants of health — was explicitly mentioned, which could have been retained. Similarly, a low expenditure on Ayushman Bharat-Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (AB-PMJAY) in the financial year 2021-22, specially when many people suffered financial hardships due to Covid-19 health services and hospitalisation, is telling that even though AB-PMJAY cards have been issued, the scheme might not be reaching the people who need them the most. Then, though the second Covid-19 health package was announced by the government in July 2021, the utilisation funds remained low, even after six months.The current budget identifies a few problems such as the mental health burden, need for more medical human resources, strengthening disease surveillance and One Health approach. The tele-mental health programme apparently emanates from the right diagnosis of increased burden of mental health issues; however, it has not received an additional allocation. An explicit focus on ensuring better services such as management of post and long-Covid health conditions is clearly missing. The allocation for Covid-19 vaccines, which was Rs 39,000 crore in the financial year 2021-22, has been reduced to Rs 5,000 crore.What is the way forward? First, one can hope that if and when required, the health sector will be given liberal, sufficient and a greater allocation in the revised estimates. Second, two-thirds of the government spending on health in India comes from the state budgets. However, states in India continue to under invest in health. The National Health Policy of 2017 proposed 8% of state government expenditure on health; however, nearly all states spend around 5% of state expenditure. The state government allocation for health has changed only marginally in the last two decades. It is time that an institutional mechanism for a regular review of the state health budget is established. One possible platform for such review could be meetings of the Central Council of Health and Family Welfare, which itself needs to be made regular.The allocation for the health sector in the Union Budget for 2022-23, once adjusted for GDP growth, inflation rate and population growth, would be less than what was allocated in the pre-pandemic period. And that is where the problem lies. Especially, when India is still in the middle of the third wave of the pandemic, front-loading (of the health sector) has to be approached rather than tightening the purse-strings.  #BUDGET #union budget||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/booster-shot-elusive-366476
03-02-2022||---||Waiting in the wings||WHEN the Soviet Union disintegrated in 1991, a major concern was the future of the large Russian populations in its Islamic Central Asian republics. That issue has been largely settled politically, and peacefully. Violence and armed insurrection in the Muslim areas of Chechnya were, however, dealt with ruthlessly after the Chechens mounted an armed insurgency with support from some Islamic countries. The parting of ways with Russia was peaceful in the Soviet Union’s Muslim-majority Asian republics, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan and Turkmenistan. This has enabled the emergence of broadly secular regimes across Central Asia.The recent summit between Modi and Central Asian leaders and the construction of the Chabahar port should be taken up with meaningful economic involvement in the region.The leadership of the predominantly Islamic countries in Central Asia remained in the hands of leaders who were influential before the Soviet Union collapsed. They adopted a policy of maintaining good relations with Russia while shunning religious extremism. They have, in turn, received strong Russian backing in overcoming religious extremism, backed by outsiders, including the Taliban. Large numbers of Russians still remain in the erstwhile Soviet Central Asian republics. Three erstwhile Soviet Baltic states — Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania — together with three members of the Soviet-led Warsaw Pact — Bulgaria, Romania and Slovakia — have, however, joined the US-led NATO.Tensions have run deep between Russia and its neighbour Ukraine, with which it has territorial disputes. The rivalry grew after interference by the US in Ukraine in 2004, when the US allegedly backed the overthrow of a Moscow-friendly Ukrainian government in Kiev. Moscow has viewed US moves in Ukraine as an effort to control its access to the warm waters of the Black Sea and the Mediterranean Ocean. President Putin was conscious of these dangers and moved decisively in 2014 to take control of the Crimean region, thus establishing direct Russian access to the Black Sea.Moscow then focused on efforts to restore security in its erstwhile Muslim-dominated republics like Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan and Turkmenistan, bordering Afghanistan. Recognition of these complexities has led Russia to seek a realistic relationship with the Taliban. Moscow and New Delhi have remained in touch on the developments in Afghanistan. While there is ostensible Russian understanding with China across Eurasia, Russia’s historical experiences on its borders with China inevitably require it to monitor Chinese actions.Despite US threats of sanctions on countries which acquire weapons from Russia, New Delhi has gone ahead with getting crucial defence equipment from Russia. The Putin dispensation has strengthened its defence cooperation with India by not voicing objections to India supplying jointly developed BrahMos missiles to the Philippines. India has also expressed its readiness to make similar supplies to Vietnam and others. Putin recently visited New Delhi, reiterating the importance Russia attaches to ties with India. New Delhi has made it clear that notwithstanding US misgivings, it will abstain on US moves in the UN Security Council to ostracise Russia.Having raised US public opinion against Moscow, President Biden has followed through with highly publicised arms shipments to Ukraine, which has serious differences with Moscow. This show of assertiveness was inevitable, following the poorly planned US withdrawal from Afghanistan. Moscow, however, has no reason to invade Ukraine and land itself in a military quagmire. The possibility of Putin considering limited strikes in border areas of Ukraine, which have large Russian populations, cannot, however, be excluded. While its European allies have supported the US on its approach to ties with Russia, countries like France and Germany have reservations about any military escalation arising from NATO actions.With international attention diverted from its own border transgressions across its entire Asia-Pacific neighbourhood, China appears to be enjoying the role of ‘peacemaker’ in the region while backing Putin. China would, however, like nothing better than sowing seeds of discord between Moscow and Washington, so that Russia’s growing oil and gas surpluses could be diverted to it, rather than to Germany, or other European/Baltic countries, which are US allies.The collapse of the Soviet Union reduced Moscow’s influence in countries which were members of the Warsaw Pact. A number of East European countries in Russia’s neighbourhood do, however, fear continuing Russian domination. Russia enjoys influence globally because of its immense resources of oil and gas, which not only meet its own needs, but also are being moved on its ‘Nord Stream’ pipelines to destinations across Europe (notably Germany). This, even as Moscow retains its influence across the Mediterranean and beyond its Pacific shores.Interestingly, while US policies are now predominantly focused on Russia’s relations with Ukraine, China has been strengthening its coast guard with new legislation, and by resorting to coercion to enforce its untenable maritime boundary claims on maritime neighbours, like the Philippines, Malaysia, Vietnam and Indonesia. While there have been consultations between ASEAN partners to deal with Chinese aggression, New Delhi needs to work with regional partners and Quad to get the US and others to focus much greater attention on the serious security implications of Chinese expansionism. India should also focus greater attention now on new measures for expanding economic and investment cooperation with Central Asian countries. The recent summit between PM Modi and leaders of Central Asian countries, and the construction of the Chabahar port in Iran, should now be followed up with meaningful economic involvement in the region. #China #Russia #US||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/waiting-in-the-wings-366475
