04-02-2022||---||Remembering Khorana and his bright peers||Nobel laureate Har Gobind Khorana (1922-2011) is being globally remembered for his huge contribution towards discovering an essential function of our DNA, and, thereafter, for constructing the first synthetic gene. Popular writings on Khorana recall his doctoral study on the Indian Government Fellowship at the University of Liverpool and his disappointment at failing to secure a job on his return to India in 1949.When Khorana left Lahore, India’s freedom appeared imminent. He completed his PhD in organic chemistry in 1948 and returned after spending a year at his own expense at Dr Vladimir Prelog’s laboratory in Eidgenoessische Technische Hochschule (ETH), Zurich. In India, he applied for a position at the Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI), but it went to another candidate who had also studied abroad.While he was in India, he received an offer to work in Prof Alexander Todd’s laboratory at Cambridge, UK, due to an input given to him by George Kenner, a visitor from Cambridge at the ETH. He, therefore, took up the Cambridge offer.One of Khorana’s BSc classmates at Government College, Lahore (GCL), Dr Nityanand, also reached St John’s College in Cambridge under the Government of India Overseas Fellowship scheme in 1948 and enrolled to do his second PhD under Prof Todd. Nityanand had done his first PhD in 1948 with Dr K Venkataraman in Bombay. It is another coincidence that two mathematics students of GCL — Abdus Salam (Nobel laureate in physics, 1979) and Ram Prakash Bambah — were also at St John’s College when Khorana reached Cambridge. In terms of the university results at different stages in Lahore, Salam was the numero uno among them, but for the one distinction that Bambah had of having scored 600 out of 600 in the MA (mathematics) examination in 1945.Bambah has often recalled that Khorana was anguished. He had told them in Cambridge that “Main te apni chapplan ghisa ke aa gya haan, tusi vee ja ke tamasha dekho.” Bambah would have fully understood the import of this bitter remark as there was no teaching job for him in GCL in 1946. The ICS examination had been discontinued in India after 1943. Bambah had to be content with a research scholarship under his mathematics teacher, with whom he co-authored nine papers in a year. Luckily for him, an opportunity emerged of a temporary teaching position in physics at Delhi University. In Delhi, he obtained the Exhibition Fellowship with the support of Prof DS Kothari. He proceeded to St John’s College in 1948 — where Salam had gone earlier on a scholarship provided to him by the then Prime Minister of Punjab, Khizar Hayat Tiwana, from the Punjab Peasant Welfare Fund. After finishing his PhD and doing post-doctoral research for a year in Cambridge, there was no immediate teaching position for Bambah at Delhi University or at the Department of Mathematics of Panjab University (PU) in 1951. Bambah went on to become one of India’s leading mathematicians. He served as the Vice Chancellor of PU from 1984 to 1991 and was honoured with the Padma Bhushan.Nityanand had a less difficult time on his return as he got inducted into the newly established Central Drug Research Institute (CDRI), Lucknow, in 1952. He progressed to emerge as the leading medicinal chemistry scientist of India, became the Director, CDRI, and was honoured with the Padma Shri.Among Khorana’s other Lahore classmates, Gurbaksh Singh co-authored three research papers with him on the synthesis of organic compounds, along with their teacher Mahan Singh. He progressed to become professor of chemistry at Benares Hindu University. He was appointed the first Vice-Chancellor (1974-79) of the Central University of Hyderabad, and then of DU (1980-85).I had the fortune of getting together in Chandigarh Khorana’s four Lahore contemporaries — Bambah, Nityanand, Sukh Dev and Faqir Chand Kohli — at the PU convocation in March 2014.Sukh Dev had done BSc in chemistry along with Khorana, Gurbaksh and Nityanand in 1943. Sukh Dev did PhD (1950) at the Indian Institute of Science (IISc), went to the US to work as a post-doc (1950-51) at MIT, and returned to the IISc as a Senior Research Fellow. He became a lecturer after two years, and progressed to become a leading light in organic and natural product chemistry. He was an early awardee of the SS Bhatnagar Prize in chemistry (1964), and nurtured Goverdhan Mehta and other students. He received the Padma Bhushan in 2008.Kohli (1924-2020) was Bambah’s classmate in BA. He had to abandon his master’s studies in Lahore when his father expired. However, he went abroad for studies later. He returned from the MIT and joined the Tata Electric Company in 1951. A visionary, he emerged as the ‘father of the software industry’ in India as he founded the Tata Consultancy Services.The three other contemporaries of Khorana who travelled together in 1946 to the US on government fellowships were Satish Dhawan, Brahm Prakash and Indra Kapila.Dhawan had returned to India in 1951 to serve first as a Senior Scientific Officer in the IISc. Prakash had obtained his first PhD in Lahore (1942) and the second from MIT in 1948. He was inducted by Homi Bhabha into the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR), Bombay, in 1949. Kapila returned to Punjab and contributed to the design and construction of the Bhakra Dam.Khorana was awarded the Padma Vibhushan in 1969, soon after he got the Nobel Prize in 1968. After his demise in November 2011, the Punjab Government commenced the Khorana scholarship, which offers support to students scoring above 80 per cent marks in the school board examination. The Punjab State Council of Science and Technology (PSCST), in partnership with the Institute of Nano Science and Technology (INST), Mohali, proposed the initiation of the annual Har Gobind Khorana series of public lectures on bio-sciences.Venki Ramakrishnan was awarded the Nobel for his studies on ribosomes, which can be viewed as an extension of Khorana’s work. He was, therefore, chosen to deliver the first INST-PSCST Har Gobind Khorana Public Lecture on January 5, 2016, at PU.Prof Uttam RajBhandary, a close colleague of Khorana for over five decades at Wisconsin and MIT, was invited to deliver the third lecture in 2017. School students were especially brought for the lecture which was full of personal reminiscences and anecdotes. In 2019, Prof Azim Ansari, Director, Khorana Programme at Wisconsin, visited Chandigarh to popularise the programme with the aim of nurturing ‘future Khoranas’.In recent years, the Government of India has resumed a scheme to enable bright students to study abroad. Let’s hope that some of them would progress to win Nobel prizes and be counted among the leaders of development of 21st-century India by 2047.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/remembering-khorana-and-his-bright-peers-366785
04-02-2022||---||Enable agriculture to be future-ready||The contradiction is clear. While in my understanding, the road to achieving the Prime Minister’s vision of Atmanirbhar Bharat passes through agriculture, the new road map for the country for the next 25 years — the Amrit Kaal — to coincide with 100 years of India’s Independence, appears to have been drawn sidelining agriculture.Presenting the Budget in 2020, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had presented a 16-point action plan for rebuilding agriculture. While reiterating the government’s commitment of doubling farmers’ income, the thrust of her speech was on liberalising farm markets, land leasing laws and contract farming, essentially paving the way for corporate agriculture. A few months later, the budget pronouncements on market reforms in agriculture were followed with the introduction of the three contentious farm laws that brought hundreds of thousands of farmers protesting at the doorsteps of Delhi. The year-long farmers’ stir finally forced the government to roll back the laws.The unprecedented protests by the farmers coincided with the period when the outbreak of Covid-19 was at its worst, and with strict lockdown restrictions, had forced the economy to shrink by 6.6 per cent in 2020-21. During this depressing stage, agriculture and allied sectors alone had shown resilience, emerging as the brightest star. As per this year’s Economic Survey, agriculture registered a growth rate of 3.6 per cent in 2020-21. Subsequently, during the period the second wave of the pandemic was at its devastating worst, followed by a relatively mild third wave, agriculture and allied sectors still showed an impressive performance, achieving a higher growth rate of 3.9 per cent in 2021-22.While agriculture, which employs the largest workforce, accounted for 18.8 per cent of the Gross Value Added (GVA) of the country, the Economic Survey found its performance to be in conformity with the recommendations of the committee on doubling farmers’ income.Considering that 2022 is the target year for doubling farmers’ income and more over, given the extraordinary performance of agriculture at times when the chips were largely down, the Finance Minister was expected to announce in the Budget 2022 a slew of measures to not only act as a booster dose for agriculture, but also as a pat on the back for the hardworking farmers. But strangely, even the overhyped promise of doubling farmers’ income did not find a mention. I was expecting Sitharaman to tell us how far the target has been achieved or how much more time is required to take us to the goal.Nobel laureate Norman Borlaug had once said that we need to buck up the one, who is running the fastest. With agriculture performing so well, the expectation was to at least double the direct income support entitlements under the PM-Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme. This could have been the easiest way to compensate as well as to thank the farmers. At present, ever since the scheme was launched in 2018, land owning farmers receive a sum of Rs 6,000 per year. This could have been easily doubled to Rs 12,000 per year, with an additional Rs 6,000 per year allocated for the landless farmers who were earlier left out from the list of beneficiaries. While the budget for the PM Kisan scheme has been kept more or less the same at Rs 68,000 crore, an additional budget of Rs 1 lakh crore for direct income support could have been easily pulled out given the increased revenue collections.The latest report of the Situation Assessment Survey for Agricultural Households, 2019 (pertains to a period before the lockdown) pointing to an average farm income of Rs 10,286 (including income from non-farm activities) per month. Further, let me reiterate that if the total farm income is broken up and evaluated in terms of what a farmer earns from crop cultivation alone, it comes to a paltry Rs 27 per day. The reason for the acute distress that prevails on the farm therefore is quite obvious. It has more to do with the farm gate prices being deliberately kept low rather than blame it on low crop productivity. Give farmers an assured price, and be sure he knows which technology to use on his farm.Take the case of mustard. With market prices ruling much higher, touching Rs 7,000 per quintal against the MSP of Rs 4,650 that was offered in the marketing season last year (Rs 5,050 per quintal is the MSP this year), mustard has already been sown in an area of 9.1 million hectares this rabi season. Interestingly, the acreage under mustard this year has already surpassed the Ministry of Agriculture’s own target that it had set for 2025-26. And let’s be clear that the record production in mustard this year has been achieved without the application of any hi-tech and digital infrastructure.There are important lessons here. It only goes to show that a rightful price is the best incentive that a farmer requires. But farm prices are deliberately kept low to ensure food inflation is within control. That means it is the farmer who actually bears the burden of keeping food prices low, and they need to be compensated for the loss they suffer as a consequence. That is why the need to ensure that farm gate prices does not fall below the MSP for any crop. Budget 2022 is quiet on this.The best way to make agriculture globally competitive is to make farming economically viable, and that can be only possible if the roadmap for the next 25 years is based on strengthening the existing agricultural marketing infrastructure, and by ensuring fair prices to farmers. Technology is certainly welcome, including drones, as well as the next-generation digital technologies, but the future of Indian agriculture, the largest employer in the country, hinges on enhanced public investments and right public policies for the vast human capital in agriculture, and not by ushering in corporate agriculture.Instead of pushing people out of agriculture, as some economists are suggesting, the big-ticket reform for the Amrit Kaal should be to strengthen farming and agriculture.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/enable-agriculture-to-be-future-ready-366783
04-02-2022||The outcome of the elections in our most populous state of Uttar Pradesh will decide the future of this country — so spoke Union Home Minister Amit Shah when meeting Jat leaders in western UP a week ago. ‘Do not treat the UP elections like any other Assembly elections||All worked up in UP||The poll results will demonstrate if the BJP’s grand design of social engineering that consolidates the Hindu votes in the proportion of 80:20 succeeds or not.The great electoral strategist, Prashant Kishor, whose predictions about the elections gone by have been spot on, does not agree. Speaking to NDTV some days ago, he felt that the BJP could win the UP elections this time round, but may not repeat that feat in the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. A tyro like me had arrived at the opposite opinion that the BJP could lose the states, but that there was hardly any contest when it came to opposing PM Modi at the Centre.The Lok Sabha elections are like a presidential form of contest where Modi towers over all other hopefuls, including Rahul, Mamata and Arvind Kejriwal. None of them, nor any other known leader, can hold a candle to the sheer oratory and chutzpah of Modi, despite the demonetisation, the lack of jobs, the rising cost of living, the ignominy of repealing the farm laws and the sight of the dead floating down the Ganga. The security from external aggression is uppermost in people’s mind. Here there is no one but Modi!Every morning five retired IPS officers residing in our building set out on a walk. We talk of days gone by, of what is happening in the country, of what is happening in the world. Since the past week, the talk has revolved around the elections in UP. Two of the five stalwarts contribute more than the other three, because they hail from UP. When two OBC ministers in the Yogi Cabinet dramatically announced their exit from the juggernaut, we were nonplussed. But soon there was the Raja of Padrauna, a Kurmi leader from the inner coterie of the Nehru-Gandhis, who as dramatically announced his embrace of the ideology that the Gandhis were perennially battling!Our two colleagues belong to the category of the haves. So I asked the less privileged in the building also, the watchmen, the drivers, the cooks and the house help, employed by our flat owners. Three of the four watchmen were UP Brahmins, but the rest belonged to a sprinkling of other castes which was a source of ground-level information. And the consensus among them was that Akhilesh was making perceptible strides towards dethroning Yogi.The BJP always had a devoted following among the higher castes of around 20% of the country’s voters. Without the OBC votes, it was not possible for the party to seize power. The rise of Modi opened opportunity’s doors, not merely a crack, but wide open. He talked of development, of toilets replacing temples, of jobs and a better life. He gave them hope. The direct transfer of funds to bank accounts newly opened in the names of those who virtually possessed nothing, and the houses and the toilets built in villages made Modi an object of worship. The same men who used to talk of Indira with unabashed devotion talk now of Modi with the same gleam in their eyes. But that was in 2019.It is not possible to sustain freebies for long without production of matching goods and services. This is a lesson Kejriwal and other political hopefuls also have to learn. Modi’s ill-conceived demonetisation sent the economy into a tailspin. Covid is not of the BJP’s or Modi’s doing. But the poor and the OBCs know not what has hit them, how or why! They blame their misery on the hand that gave them hope. The results of these elections will demonstrate if the BJP’s grand design of social engineering that consolidates the Hindu votes in the proportion of 80:20 succeeds or not. The grand design was moving towards success till the Mauryas and other OBC sub-caste leaders realised they were being slowly, but cleverly, pulled into an arrangement that would continue to leave them in awe of the privileged. The social engineering plan may have to be tweaked.The electoral field is wide open now. The voters in UP, like in Bihar, are very caste conscious. The Jats, who form the bulk of the farming community in western UP and constitute a third of the electorate there, had voted BJP in the 2014 and 2019 Lok Sabha polls and the 2017 Assembly polls after the Muzaffarnagar riots that preceded the 2014 elections. The three farm laws (now repealed) had changed their preferences.With their repeal the chances of their being appeased were bright, had a BJP union minister’s son not thought of a novel way of teaching them a lesson by arranging for his car to crash into a peaceful protest march by farmers, killing four of them. This arrogant act put paid to any hope of reconciliation. The farmers have now teamed up with the old Jat party, the RLD of Jayant Chaudhary, grandson of former PM Charan Singh. And the RLD has teamed up with Akhilesh’s Samajwadi party, Yogi’s principal rival.Of my two walking companions, one feels that the Jats will not vote for a Muslim candidate put up by either the SP or the RLD, so deep is the present divide authored by the votaries of 80:20! But the other colleague feels that the Jats are in no mood to compromise after the murders at Lakhimpur Kheri.I am not from UP. I would not dare to comment on who is right. I can only say that the contest will be very close, so close that it will border on the vicious. The BJP’s huge election machine and its vast financial resources are already in play to combat incumbency, unemployment, rising prices and memories of Yogi’s Covid mismanagement.The ruling party will fall back on religious identity on its campaign against criminals and hope for a division of votes between the SP, the BSP and the presently trailing Congress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/all-worked-up-in-up-366779
