05-02-2022||---||Budget won’t impact demand||There is an unquestioned consensus amongst mainstream economists that investments in building infrastructure are the best way to generate demand for goods and services. When money is spent on building infrastructure, an entire range of industries gain — steel, cement, heavy machinery, trucks, cranes. Not only do these industries hire more people, but also jobs are generated directly in infrastructure projects for engineers, administrators, supervisors and construction workers.Big companies in the construction, cement and steel sectors will benefit as they will get government contracts. It will only increase the share of profits in the economy.That is what seems to be the idea behind this year’s Budget, at least on paper. The government has announced a massive 35 per cent increase in capital expenditure compared to what it had planned in 2021-22. In fact, if one takes out the spending on retiring Air India’s liabilities before handing it over to the Tatas, the hike in capital expenditure is more than 36 per cent. It is almost an additional 1 per cent of nominal GDP.But there is a catch. Out of the nearly Rs 2 lakh crore of additional capital expenditure planned for next year, Rs 47,200 crore will be used to ‘infuse capital’ into BSNL, so that it can buy 4G spectrum and fund a voluntary retirement scheme for employees. So, a big chunk of this spending will come back to the government as revenue from spectrum sales. Secondly, half of this additional capital expenditure is being given as 50-year interest-free loans to states, for them to spend on ‘PM Gati Shakti-related and other productive capital investments’.The biggest additional capital spending, of about Rs 66,000 crore, will be on road transport and highways, including about Rs 19,000 crore on building rural roads. If states spend half of the interest-free loans that they are getting on building road transport infrastructure, the total additional spending will be close to Rs 1.2 lakh crore. But, as Neelkanth Mishra of Credit Suisse has pointed out, some of this additional spending is just a book-keeping exercise: some previous spending, that was not recorded in the budget, has now been brought into the Budget itself.Mishra is sceptical about whether the Centre or states can actually spend what is being allocated. He has pointed to the fact that Central and state governments have together parked Rs 5.5 lakh crore of unspent money with the RBI. That means they might have borrowed, but they just don’t have the capacity to spend it. A big reason for this is that both the Centre and states have a massive shortage of staff. They haven’t filled vacancies in government jobs and now they don’t have people on the ground to implement the projects that they have announced.There is a bigger question here — even if governments managed to spend all the additional amount that has been allocated in this Budget, will it help generate consumption demand? Infrastructure projects are mainly implemented by giving contracts to private construction companies. They, in turn, hire engineers, managers and workers to complete the projects. The NHAI’s construction cost index tells us that wages account for about 14 per cent of the overall cost of building roads. If we assume that the share of wages is 20 per cent, when one also includes other types of roads, the additional spending on road construction will add about Rs 13,000 crore in wages. If one assumes a similar ratio for all infrastructure projects, we can estimate that the extra spending will result in an additional Rs 20,000 crore in wages.On the flip side, the reduced spending on MGNREGA will take away a significant amount of wages from the economy. The allocation for MGNREGA has been cut by Rs 25,000 crore compared to what the government will end up spending in 2021-22. The scheme mandates that 60 per cent of the budget must be used for wages. That means, a drop of Rs 15,000 crore in wages. In other words, the net impact of additional capital expenditure is just Rs 5,000 crore in terms of additional wages.Of course, there will be some additional wages generated in companies that produce inputs for infrastructure. About 65 per cent of the cost of road construction goes towards buying raw material. Let us take cement as proxy for such raw material. If we look at the costs of India’s largest cement manufacturer, UltraTech Cement, its wage cost is about 18 per cent of its overall costs. So, if out of Rs 1 lakh crore additional spending on roads, Rs 65,000 crore is spent on raw material, only about Rs 12,000 crore will be spent on wages.If we now add cost savings for other companies because of better roads, and assume that some of that will be used on additional wages, the total impact —direct and indirect — cannot be more than Rs 20,000 crore in additional wages and salaries. Most of it will go to the poorest Indians, who work on construction sites. There are approximately 15 crore people who work in MGNREGA projects and about 5.7 crore are employed in real estate and construction. There would be an overlap in these numbers, so we can assume that we are talking of about 18 crore workers. Add to this workers in industries that provide inputs to infrastructure projects, then the total number of workers affected will be about 19 crore. So, 19 crore people will get an additional Rs 25,000 crore in wages. That is an average of Rs 1,315 per person.If we assume an employment rate of about 1.3 people per household, this extra infrastructure spending will generate just Rs 1,710 per household for the entire year. Since household sizes tend to be much higher amongst the poor, we can safely assume that this works out to not more than Rs 350 per head, or an additional Re 1 per day for the poorest people.It’s clear that such spending is meaningless when it comes to generating additional demand in the economy for consumption goods. Yes, it will be of great benefit to big companies in the construction, cement, steel and heavy equipment sectors, since they will get government contracts. It will only increase the share of profits in the economy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/budget-wont-impact-demand-367069
05-02-2022||---||Need to strengthen millet farming policies||The United Nations General Assembly has declared 2023 as the ‘International Year of Millets’. India has the largest biodiversity of millets as well as millet products in the world. Therefore, the announcement in the 2022-23 Union Budget of giving support to post-harvest value addition, enhancing domestic consumption and branding of millets, nationally and internationally, is a step in the right direction.Millets include three major (sorghum, pearl, finger) and six minor crops (barnyard, proso, foxtail, kodo, brown top and little). They are three to five times more nutritious than wheat and rice in terms of proteins, minerals and vitamins. They need very little water for production — just around 25 per cent of the rainfall regime demanded by crops such as sugarcane and banana. More importantly, they can be grown in vast dry land areas using farmyard manures, thus reducing the dependence on synthetic fertilisers, too.Hence, millet farming has a significant role in tackling the challenges of climate change, environmental degradation and malnutrition.Among the states, the maximum areas under millets are in Rajasthan, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana (pearl or bajra) and Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Karnataka (sorghum or jowar). Ragi (finger) forms a major part of the food basket in certain regions of Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and Uttarakhand. Minor millet area is the maximum in Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Uttarakhand.The countrywide cropped area stands at approximately 14 million hectares, with an annual production of approximately 16 million tonnes. India produces 80 per cent of Asia’s and 20 per cent of the globe’s production that is led by Africa and the Americas. Our millet exports touched $26 million in 2020.Over the years, there has been a shift from the production of millets to other competing crops, such as soya bean, maize, cotton, sugarcane and sunflower. There, thus, is a need for a promotion impetus to millets through new high-yielding varieties and a package of practices, farm gate processing, price support and value addition.Experts have highlighted several issues that need to be addressed to incentivise the enhanced demand and resultant higher production of millets in the country. They observe that the drudgery in the primary processing of millets has caused a significant decrease in their consumption in the country. Hence, it is critical to develop and fabricate machinery to improve the dehulling of millets without causing a loss of the nutritional content (the outer seed coat is inedible).Second, for sourcing quality millets as well as their steady marketing by entrepreneurs, there is a dire need for linking small and marginal millet farmers to online marketing platforms, such as the Electronic Agricultural National Market (e-NAM). The setting up of farmer producer organisations (FPOs) can also enhance the millet producers’ bargaining power in both the domestic and global markets.The Government of India, through the revamped National Food Security Mission Operational Guidelines (NFSM), has laid specific focus on 212 millet districts in 14 states to provide incentives to farmers for quality seed production/distribution, field-level demonstrations, trainings, primary processing clusters and research support. The launch of 67 value-added technologies at the ‘centres of excellence’ has been supplemented with the release of 77 high-yielding and 10 bio-fortified varieties.The $14-billion Agricultural Infrastructure Fund (AIF) has pushed investments across states to support millet entrepreneurs, primary processing machines for dehulling millets and the formation of millet farmer collectives. The ‘One District One Product’ (ODOP) initiative — that lists agro-climatically suitable crops for which there is a niche demand — has identified 27 millet districts to focus upon. The promotion of 10,000 FPOs’ programme of $924 million, in addition, aims at the millet producers’ effective market participation as member shareholders in these entities.The Dharmapuri District Minor Millets Farmer Producer Company (Tamil Nadu) is an example of one of the 100 FPOs that provides technical assistance to 1,000 farmer members, other than supplying seeds and machinery at subsidised costs. It is also involved in the procurement of the produce from the farmers at reasonable prices. More importantly, it is involved in the value addition of millets, such as cookies, flour, sprouted flour, rice etc in the brand name of ‘DMillets’.On the other hand, the Dongria Kondhs are a traditional tribe living in the remote areas of the Niyamgiri hill range in southern Odisha. Their indigenous food consists of varieties of millets. An age-old seed collection system in the region, that intensively involves the local community, has reportedly rescued the hardy Kodo millet (a variety high in fibre and energy content) after its absence of nearly 40 years!In this context, the Odisha Government’s five-year ‘Millet Mission’ is supplementing the input as well as marketing needs of indigenous small and marginal farmers like the Dongria Kondhs across the state to grow millets. In addition, Odisha-based non-profit organisations, such as Living Farms, are empowering them on issues of malnutrition and climate stress. Hence, there is a need to extensively promote nutritious and climate-resilient millets. Similar initiatives have been launched by the state governments of Karnataka, Maharashtra and Telangana.The good practices of millets in India’s rural landscape range from indigenous food systems of tribal communities such as Dongria Kondhs in Odisha to the Dharmapuri millet FPOs’ market forays.To win both the rural and urban consumers back to a healthy millet diet, we need to engage with multiple and varied stakeholders, like doctors, chefs and nutritionists across the country. We also need to learn from the last-mile experiences of approximately 200 millet start-ups that have been incubated in the last few years by young agri-entreprenuers. Women millet farmers in rain-fed areas have to be empowered through capacity-building and skills, too.Our effort, therefore, has to be to strengthen millet farming policies and institutional interventions that are market-oriented yet inclusive.Views are personal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/need-to-strengthen-millet-farming-policies-367072
05-02-2022||---||Budget fails to give environment a fair deal||Expectations were high from the Union Budget about giving a big push to decarbonisation and net-zero economy as per India’s COP26 commitments. The important announcements by the Finance Minister on sustainable development include productivity enhancement, energy transition, climate action and financing of investments with a long-term perspective of 25 years. These programmes are aimed at boosting solar energy production, promoting clean energy through electric vehicles (EVs) and investment through sovereign green bonds, whereas the proposal for linking of rivers serves opposite to the principles and practices of sustainable development.One of the flagship programmes announced is to mitigate climate change in the long term with a hefty infusion of Rs 19,500 crore for the production of solar energy. The government intends to incentivise the targeted production of 280,000 megawatts of solar energy by 2030 under the Production Linked Incentive (PLI) scheme. If the intended targets are achieved, India will produce half of the energy requirement from renewable energy, i.e., 500,000 megawatts by 2030 and there will be less dependence on fossil fuels like coal, oil and gas.Further, the government tries to address climate change through energy transition. One of the major bottlenecks in promoting clean energy through electric vehicles is the lack of charging infrastructure. The battery swapping policy is a paradigm shift in promoting faster EV adoption in public and private transport sector in the country. It will have a far-reaching effect, but still a constant search for sustainable and alternative energy source such as hydrogen fuel production is more futuristic. Efforts towards energy transition through EVs will take long in the natural process unless the production of fossil fuel energy-based vehicles is stopped.Financing of climate change is the biggest challenge. In this regard, the government is trying to achieve net-zero by 2070, using economic instruments such as sovereign green bonds as a market solution to finance climate change. It is intended to finance green infrastructure in the public sector.However, the success of the green bonds depends on the level of investment flow, effective allocation and timely implementation of green infrastructure projects. To reduce stubble burning and also emissions from highly polluting industries such as thermal power, the Budget proposes the mandatory use of 5-7 per cent co-firing of biomass pellets which may help in bringing down the estimated 38 million tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions. However, practical difficulties need to be addressed.The Budget aims to promote sustainable development in agriculture by the promotion of chemical-free natural farming throughout the country. As a first step in this regard, a 5-km-wide corridor on the banks of the Ganga has been chosen on an experimental basis. This clearly reflects the economic cost of environmental damage already inflicted, particularly the pollution of Ganga. Various governments spent aboutRs 20,000 crore on the Clean Ganga mission, but the river is still highly polluted. Using polluted water for irrigation on the 5-km stretch of agricultural land on the banks of the Ganga will not be fruitful for realising chemical-free natural farming, unless dirty and polluting industries in and around the river are made to recycle the effluents and reuse the treated water. However, there is no scientific understanding and clarity on how the zero-budget national farming and Vedic farming are going to be implemented on 4 lakh hectares in eight states and how they are different from organic and natural farming.The Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change serves as a nodal agency for the implementation of National Action Plan on Climate Change to achieve energy and resource efficiency besides clean technology. However, the government allocates a meagre Rs 3,030 crore for the ministry. Some of the previous flagship programmes such as the National Mission for Green India, the National Afforestation Programme, National Clean Air Programme, Project Tiger and Project Elephant receive less budgetary support. There are no new programmes to bring more land under forest cover and grant incentives for agro-forestry to mitigate climatic conditions.The ambitious policy of interlinking of rivers is one of the ecologically destructive and economically colossal project which goes against the practices of sustainable development. The Ken-Betwa project will cost the exchequer Rs 4,4605 crore apart from compromising invaluable ecological benefits. The proposed detailed project report (DPR) for the interlinking of five rivers — Narmada, Godavari, Krishna, Pennar and Cauvery — may end up in more inter-state water disputes and conflicts among the upper and lower riparian states apart from ecological and economic loss. Karnataka has already expressed its displeasure on the DPR and inequitable allocation of its share. Research studies observed that many mega irrigation projects have used the available water resources at sub-optimal level and in a more inefficient manner. Sourcing of water from faraway river basins impinges on the water demands of other states, inflicts ecological damage and is more expensive. Further, the justification for linking of rivers with surplus water with the deficit ones is not backed by scientific reasoning as even today, it is difficult to assess and ensure that right quantity of water is stored and distributed among the riparian states in different seasons. Most rivers are not managed with scientific inputs of river basin planning with competing water demands. Various water policies prioritise the demand-side management of water rather than the supply-side management such as interlinking of rivers. Therefore, development of mega projects should not go against the scientific basis, ecological consideration, economic feasibility and the spirit of sustainable development policies.Overall, the Budget aims to achieve a low-carbon economy through the adoption of energy efficiency and transition policies, but changing the mode of production and consumption patterns is very important for the success of such policies. There is no doubt that India is transiting through the most challenging times. Economy and environment have trade-offs, but futuristic policies can bridge the trade-offs between them. But the Budget largely gives the impression that more perks are being handed over to the capitalists rather than the common man. This lopsided economic policy is likely to trigger high income inequality, digital divide and an ecological catastrophe in the country.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/budget-fails-to-give-environment-a-fair-deal-367076
