06-02-2022||Election dates have been announced for five state Assemblies and the process of filing nominations is on. It is up to the people now once they come to the voting booths. The usual parties are in the fray and most of their candidates are old players who know how to play their hand. However||The leadership vacuum||The real problem is that we are unable to see that exceptional human being or a party amidst us, or on the horizon, to lead the country out of this mess. An individual and a party who will have solutions for our problems, who will translate dreams into deeds and who will be clear in their goals (our goals), and determined in their approach. People do not want purveyors of slogans, sellers of dreams, lobbyists for others in our name. People want men of action, who do not turn their eyes to the past for its lost glory or sell dreams of the future. We want our present, our today to transcend from its miseries to the fulfilment of our basic needs, to live our lives in dignity. We’ve had enough of Below Poverty Line and other classifications of backwardness. Enough of this, now give jobs, decent wages, education and health facilities and MSP for poor farmers. You have only to look at what the youth have been up to in Bihar and UP in the last few days. Rioting and arson — why? Jobs, that is what they want instead of placebos that are being offered. Tens of lakhs apply for a handful of jobs and then the papers are leaked. Why can’t there be a foolproof method of regular recruitment to ensure that our youth have job opportunities and a level-playing field? What holds good for employment holds good for other fields of administration. After the death toll of the pandemic, one would imagine that the entire healthcare system of the country needed an overhaul — strangely, not a single party or candidate even refers to it. Hundreds of thousands lost their lives to a faulty non-existent healthcare system, yet not a whisper is heard in the campaign? Where is the media and the keepers of our conscience in all this? Why aren’t we holding people accountable for the thousands of lives, jobs, businesses which were lost in the last two years? The image of four members of a Gujarati family frozen to death in the Canadian tundra while trying to cross the border in their desperation to find a better life is hard to forget. What desperation pushed them? What made a father and a mother carry their small children into that frozen wasteland… who will answer? This is not a one-off case but rather a stark representative of thousands of others from all over the country who make perilous journeys across seas, forests and deserts and pay humongous sums of borrowed money to find a better life.Where is our new leadership, both political and administrative? You only have to look at the first two generations after Independence when we had leaders who had been tested in the crucible of the freedom movement to realise the difference. They were men and women who had never dreamt of power, their dreams were limited to the achievement of freedom and when freedom came, and elections were held, the people knew their leaders and elected them. There was no exchange of money, no lobbying by corporates, the media was fair and objective. Who were these men and women? To name but a few (because there were thousands of them at all levels and all over the country), in Punjab, we had Gopi Chand Bhargava, Bhim Sen Sachar, Partap Singh Kairon and Justice Gurnam Singh. In UP, we had Pandit Govind Ballabh Pant, Sucheta Kriplani, CB Gupta and HN Bahuguna. In Goa, we had Dayanand Bandodkar, Shashikala Kakodkar, Pratap Singh Rane and in Bengal, we had Dr BC Roy, in MP KN Katju, in Tamil Nadu K Kamaraj, in Maharashtra YB Chavan and Morarji Desai.I have named but a few of the stalwarts who had passed through the test of the long freedom struggle and nearly all of whom had excellent academic backgrounds. Politics was not a goldmine for them but a way to strive for a better life for all Indians. They had no criminal backgrounds, and they did not have private armies under various names. They had no security cover unlike today where 30 to 40 policemen are deployed on security duty with each minister, MLA, party men and outright criminal elements — why is this necessary? It is because crime and criminals have infiltrated every sphere of our public life right from the highest echelons to the lowest. Well-educated people of integrity, people of vision shun politics because of its evil murky criminal nature and methods. So, who do we have? We have people most of them with poor academic records (those are also sometimes bought from pliant universities of poor reputation and integrity), and non-existent achievement in other spheres of public or professional life. What a substantial number of them have are criminal records. In fact, we should have a new classification: what are the charges against them? Have they been charge-sheeted? Have they been convicted? How long did it take from the FIR to final disposal? How many cases are still pending? I think the CEC would be the right authority to gather this data and keep on updating it and putting it on its website for public consumption.Now let us look at the available leadership in some of the states going to the polls. Look at Punjab and the contestants for the top post and also look at UP, Uttarakhand and Goa — do they have the academic backgrounds, are they men of integrity, of vision? How many parties have they left and how many ‘ghar wapsis’ have been conducted? Where do all the rivers of money, liquor, drugs originate and how does this massive infrastructure needed to distribute go undetected? I am not going to answer these questions and I’m not going to judge these leaders. It is for the people to evaluate and choose or reject all of them. I say this because people know the truth about all of them and as the farmers’ agitation has shown, when the people decide that enough is enough and mobilise themselves, they achieve their goals. How long will PhDs and postgraduates continue to apply for jobs as peons and Class IV posts — how long will we stop the lava from flowing?It is time for the present leadership to drastically change its ways and deliver unto the people what is due to them. Nature abhors a vacuum, and a new leadership is bound to emerge from the churning that is going on. We must reignite the passion that went into the freedom movement. We must build new Bhakras, Chandigarhs, agriculture universities, IITs, IIMs, centres for research and development, hubs for IT and auto industry. In the latest budget speech, the Finance Minister referred to creation of a digital university and a digital rupee — I do hope it does not become a dream of virtual reality in a metaverse where we must live our lives in some sort of computerised dream. We must involve the last man in our hierarchy and ensure that ‘the Gandhian’ tear is finally wiped. We must educate and heal, and we must bridge the growing gap of inequalities. Let our finest come forward to lead — finest in integrity, intellect and vision — and let us put the criminal in his place.— The writer is ex-chairman of UPSC, former Manipur Governor and served as J&K DGP||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-leadership-vacuum-367370
06-02-2022||I live in a colony with lots of young families||When the kitchen becomes irrelevant||Cooking each meal in your own kitchen is a dying tradition. Even rarer is the idea of sitting down together at a dining table exchanging jokes, opinions and banter. I hear mums complain that their children will not touch greens and veggies and only want chicken or paneer for their lunch or dinner. How times have changed from the time when we were kids and the question of food preferences was never entertained (except by loving grannies when we visited them). To dodge the boredom of the same lauki, parwal or gobhi and their more hateful cousins, such as shalgam and tinda, we had secret rates of exchange between ourselves. ‘I will eat your lauki today if you eat my shalgam tomorrow’, or something. And we all vowed that when we grew up and ran our own homes, certain veggies would never cross the threshold of our kitchens. I laugh now when we eat precisely all those things we hated as children and try and re-create the taste of that food.Jokes apart, what I fear is the fallout of handing over our kitchens to food companies that have no interest in healthy and nourishing meals: all they look at is maximising their profit. Yes, the taste is often enhanced by bunging in monosodium glutamate or such chemicals that have been proven to be dangerous for humans, but that is not the only fear I have. It is that many young couples have virtually stopped cooking at home as eating out is both tempting and provides a huge variety of choices. Gone are the days when families sat down together at the table, and if they do, they are busy fiddling with their phones. This includes parents as well as children. I am sure all of you are sent several posts by friends on memes created around the addiction to the mobile phone. But that is the topic for another rant.When the kitchen becomes irrelevant, out goes the dining table and its warm chatter. The family retreats into individual spaces. This can be the study or bedroom but the joy of a shared table where a mother would lovingly serve a meal she had thoughtfully prepared for everyone has already disappeared in the West and is likely to vanish here in another few decades. The nature of a nuclear unit is that it breaks up into smaller units and finally ends up with one person living a lonely life in a flat. When nothing binds the family together, marriages are treated with scant respect and most households in the US and Europe are now headed by single mums or (less so) by single dads. It is a no-brainer that, given this trend, future generations will not just forget their cousins and aunts and uncles, but even their siblings and parents. This is already happening in another way in developing countries, where immigration has split siblings and one half of the family is barely aware of the other half. The mushrooming of assisted-living facilities in our towns is because they are an attractive option for parents whose children have migrated to other countries and seceded from their natal ties. These are pointers to a future I am thankful I won’t be alive to see but it saddens me and many of my generation, I’m sure.It is humbling to see how our poor and village communities still keep these ties alive. For the last many months, our driver has been looking after his ‘phupha’ — his father’s sister’s husband. The old man arrived from a village in Bihar with cancer to seek medical treatment in Delhi. He never asked whether his nephew-in-law was willing to shoulder this responsibility because he was secure in the knowledge that he would be cared for. The poor driver has been run off his feet seeking medical assistance and spending time with him as he undergoes painful cycles of chemotherapy. He does grumble but sending his ‘phupha’ back is just not an option he’d consider.His attitude made me question my own conscience. Would we (with all our education, money and resources) do the same for our ‘phupha’?And yet we call such people backward!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/when-the-kitchen-becomes-irrelevant-367372
06-02-2022||Honorary Captain Sushil Kumar of 9 Deccan Horse won a Vir Chakra for valour in the 1971 Indo-Pak war in the Battle of Chhamb. Now 78||Shortcomings that never stood in way||Born on October 27, 1943, I got enrolled in 1962. I was just about 5 feet, 2 inches tall. They turned me back every time I presented myself at the recruiting office. “No, you are too short. We don’t need such tiny men.”After a few days, I would again present myself hoping that I would have grown a bit. They would turn me away.The recruiting officer, in a white uniform, had been observing my antics for a long time. One day, he told the Subedar assisting him, “I have been watching this short lad. Enrol him. He will catch up in height once he is in the Army routine.”So they enrolled me. I asked the Subedar, “Where will you send me?”He said that with my short height and puny frame, I was earmarked for Ordnance.I told him that after facing so many vicissitudes, I have not come in the Army to join Ordnance. I said I wanted to go to the fauj that fights in battles. The JCO looked askance at me, contemplating something and then said, “Okay, then you go to Armoured Corps.”I soon boarded a train headed for Ahmednagar where the Armoured Corps training centre is located. I was sitting on the floor when the train reached Delhi. The train was filled with faujis as the 1962 India-China war was going on. A stalwart Havildar of the infantry saw me and enquired, “Have you run away from your home, where are you headed?”I replied with some self-pride, “I am also an enlisted sarkari man.”He said, “Okay, in which fauj?”I said, “In Armoured Corps.”That man started bellowing with laughter and nudged his cronies, “So, you little flower have enrolled in khacchar (mule) corps. You will keep collecting horse droppings all your life.”I said it can’t be so. I had specifically asked to join the fauj that fights battles.The Havildar again broke into laughter, “Poor boy, nobody told you. By the time you retire, your back will be permanently bent from carting horse dung all your life.”I confessed I was the first man in my family to have enrolled. There was nobody for miles around in the Army in my family.My countenance must have fallen, so he said, “Cheer up. You will soon start liking your job. Mules are friendly animals. They are also authorised a lot of rum ration. You will get to drink plenty of free mule rum. After all, who can question a mule?”The train clattered on. I deliberated on the dice throw of destiny.When the train reached Manmad, I met an instructor from the Armoured Corps Training School. I unloaded the burden of my heart straightaway. A smile played on his face. He said, “My dear boy, the horses have been gone for 20 years. Now we have steel horses called tanks.”After training, I was allotted 9 Deccan Horse. In the 1965 war, our Sherman Mark 4 tank got bogged down in a sugarcane field near Icchogil canal. The moment we came out, we were surrounded by enemy soldiers. For six months, I remained a Prisoner of War and we were repatriated after the Tashkent agreement.Back, I was asked whether I wanted to go on pension. I told them I was looking forward to becoming a Subedar Major, not a pensioner.On December 5, 1971, I found myself with our tank troop covering the Sukh Tau Nullah approach near Chhamb. At first light, we engaged the enemy and destroyed five tanks. I was awarded Vir Chakra, along with my tank commander, Risaldar Brahmanand.In the final reckoning, the boy who was too short for the Army fought in two wars, remained a PoW, won VrC, and retired as an Honorary Captain.My only wish is that the Army should place a decommissioned T-54 tank at the entrance of my village. You can laugh at the proposition, but remember what I represent: Never say never.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/shortcomings-that-never-stood-in-way-367378
06-02-2022||IT was in the 1980s when I had put up an exhibition of my works on Chamba rumal at the Crafts Museum||Reviving the Chamba rumal has been my labour of love||This interaction with him opened up a whole new world of possibilities for me. For the first time, the realisation dawned upon me that this precious heritage needed to be preserved as well as brought out in the open to the world so that more and more people know about this and take up this craft. A new me returned home to Chamba, rejuvenated with fervour to do something much more for the craft which hardly had any takers, despite once having received the patronage of the royalty.My memory takes me back to the 1960s when as a 16-year-old I entered the well-known Vakil family as a bride. In this family, art thrived. My husband, MS Vakil, as well as his cousin, Dev Badotra, had studied at the JJ School of Arts, while my father-in-law, who was a well-established doctor in the region, was an art lover. Looking at my interest in knitting, embroidery and stitching, my family encouraged me to pursue my hobby. At that time, Chamba rumal was a dying art. Very few people were making efforts to keep alive this legacy. One such person was Maheshwari Devi, who had started a Chamba Rumal Centre in Chamba. She had even got the President’s award from Dr Rajendra Prasad in 1965. Since she was very close to our family, she suggested to my mother-in-law that I should help her with embroidery. My mother-in-law readily agreed, and I, along with a friend, would often help her with her creations.What started as a hobby soon turned into passion. Though I already knew the craft, I did a two-year training course from ITI, Chamba, to improve my skills. I got a lot of support from people around me, especially my late brother-in-law Dev Badotra, who would make drawings and assist me with the sketches, colour scheme, themes and patterns. He also guided me with making the figures more detailed and life-like. Master Hansraj, who was the manager at Rang Mahal here, would make miniatures on cloth, which I’d embroider. I noticed that in many old folk rumals, there was lack of proper finishing and no emphasis on detail. So I focused on the presentation, making figures that seemed alive with expressions. My Chamba rumals stood out and people willingly paid me more for my hand work.Thereafter, I started holding exhibitions at the local Minjar Mela, which saw an encouraging response. This was followed by those at Surajkund and other places. Soon, the entire world became my stage, and I travelled to countries like France, Germany, Romania, UK, Nepal, etc, representing the crafts from India, particularly Himachal, with support from the Central government.I persuaded many girls and women in our neigbourhhood to learn the special embroidery technique to make the Chamba rumal. I told them that a skill like this can help them become self-dependent and even make and save money. There were times when the families were not so willing to send women folk out of the house. There I would go personally and request them to send them for training. I even met the Deputy Commissioner and requested him to give scholarship to the girl students learning the craft so that they get some financial help. The students started getting Rs20-25 per month, which was a handsome amount in the late 1960s. Soon, the number of girls wanting to learn this craft increased. I have been giving training to students free of cost.Making a Chamba rumal is a time-consuming affair due to the do rukha (double satin stitch) embroidery technique used and needs much patience. A 1x1 foot rumal with border on all sides and, say, figurines of Radha Krishna in the middle or some act from the Mahabharata in the centre, can take 15-20 days to complete. One small figure of 3-4 inches takes two to three days to complete. The slow pace of work can, at times, be frustrating because of which craftsmen often take short cuts. This affects the quality of the product. One must understand that this is a labour of love. So you can’t take it lightly. Most educated youngsters today don’t want to learn this craft. It is mostly girls from poor families who are keen on learning this craft.Today, there are also many government schemes benefiting craftsmen.I feel lucky to have been a catalyst in the revival of such a beautiful craft. I’m happy that my daughter-in-law Anjali Vakil is carrying forward this legacy. She was honoured with the President’s medal recently. Chamba rumal is our heritage, and we need to preserve it, else it’ll get lost forever.— The writer has been awarded Padma Shri for her work on Chamba rumal (As told to Seema Sachdeva)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/reviving-the-chamba-rumal-has-been-my-labour-of-love-367381
