07-02-2022||---||Afghan peace dividends||In retrospect, India fought a hybrid war in Afghanistan in recent decades. Its claim to ‘peace dividends’, therefore, becomes a moot point. Hybrid war, also called the ‘grey zone’, is an ill-defined notion. It concerns power being employed to achieve national objectives in a way that falls short of physical conflict due to the ambiguity of international law, ambiguity of actions and attribution, or simply because the impact of the activities does not justify a response.The end of the Afghan war should have been seized as a God-sent opportunity to turn a new page in relations with Pakistan. It is still doable.Pakistan alleged last week that intelligence agencies had intercepted communications between terrorists and their ‘handlers’ in Afghanistan that India was behind the lethal terrorist attacks on two of its military installations in Balochistan on Thursday,  in which at least 13 terrorists and seven security personnel, including an officer, were killed. India has denied any such involvement. Rightly so. This bad blood has appeared just as India-Pakistan hostilities lately appeared to be mellowing. Pakistan gave the green signal for the transportation of India’s humanitarian aid (50,000 tons of wheat) by trucks through its highways for delivery to Afghanistan. It is an incredible development — Pakistan becoming the de-facto facilitator for Delhi’s overpass to the Taliban regime in Kabul. Evidently, no terror camps have appeared on Afghan soil to threaten India following the Taliban takeover. On the contrary, an estrangement between the Taliban (or some faction within its leadership) and Pakistan surfaced. India has no reason to worry now that Pakistan is the new sheriff in Kabul. The factors that purportedly accounted for India’s turf war in Afghanistan have dissipated. Such a positive trend emboldened the President of Turkmenistan Gurbanguly Berdimuhamedow to stress to Prime Minister Modi during the recent India-Central Asia summit that the time has come for the TAPI gas pipeline project. Moscow has called it a ‘politically attractive’ idea. However, there is no TAPI possible without good neighbourly behaviour by India and Pakistan. Security analysts estimate that the Taliban takeover in Afghanistan has actually spurred cross-border terrorism against Pakistan. Fingers are pointed at the Pakistani Taliban. But Thursday’s events in Balochistan were ‘coordinated attacks… of a level of complexity that may well be unprecedented for the group,’ as security analyst Michael Kugelman at the Wilson Centre noted. Possibly, the terrorists took help from external sources that are hostile toward Pakistan and bent upon fuelling antagonism between Islamabad and Kabul. The Afghan intelligence operatives who mentored the Balochi separatists previously acted with revenge mentality.  Afghanistan remains unstable. Last Monday, Moscow forewarned the Taliban about the likelihood of an organised resistance to its rule appearing by summer. Definite intelligence inputs would have prompted such a warning. Moscow expressed readiness to host reconciliation talks between Taliban and Afghan opposition. Russia is worried that extra-regional powers could be stirring the Afghan pot. There was evidence of involvement of radical elements from Afghanistan and the West Asian region in instigating violence and destabilising the government in Kazakhstan recently, which necessitated a brief Russian intervention. On another plane, taking advantage of the preoccupations in Moscow, Beijing and Tehran — Ukraine crisis, Winter Olympics, nuclear negotiations in Vienna, etc. — Washington has pushed the envelope to intensify its engagement with the Taliban government. The rationale advanced is that ‘Afghanistan is hanging by a thread’ and engagement with the Taliban has become an unavoidable requirement for rendering humanitarian aid. Without a doubt, the talks in Oslo a fortnight ago between the Taliban and the US have gone a long way to legitimise the interim government in Kabul. On Wednesday, the US Treasury Department quietly ‘tweaked’ the sanctions regime against the Haqqani network by authorising international banks to transfer money to Kabul for humanitarian purposes, including to ‘state-owned Afghan depository institutions’. The revised regime permits transactions involving the Haqqani network across a broad spectrum ranging from ‘sharing of office space’, donor coordination meetings, etc. to ‘payments of taxes, fees, or import duties to, or the purchase or receipt of permits, licences, or public utility services from the Taliban, the Haqqani network, or any entity in which the Taliban or the Haqqani network owns.’  Washington is in a hurry to put in place underpinnings for its dealings with the Haqqani network. Last Monday, President Biden announced the decision to nominate Qatar as a ‘major non-NATO ally’. On Wednesday, Taliban announced direct flights connecting Kabul with Doha. That eases travel for American diplomats based in Doha handling Afghan affairs. Qatar is also stepping in to run Afghan airports and regulate its airspace. India’s security establishment likely anticipated all this. Delhi’s robust Central Asian initiative falls in perspective. No doubt, from present indications, the main theatre of the ‘hybrid war’ unfolding in Afghanistan is going to be the Central Asian region that borders the US’ arch rivals — Russia, China and Iran. The great beauty about ‘grey zone’ conflict is that it is affordable, and, therefore, sustainable through an extended, open-ended period of time. For example, the US will now be spending only a tiny fraction of the one billion dollars a week that it spent for 20 years in Afghanistan. From the Indian viewpoint, however, there is a different paradigm in play here, at a time when the government is cutting back spending even in the agriculture sector, where the ‘real India’ lives and millions of Indians survive by a thread, when every penny counts, no matter under what expenditure head. The end of the Afghan war should have been seized as a God-sent opportunity to turn a new page in relations with Pakistan. It is still doable.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/afghan-peace-dividends-367633
07-02-2022||---||Ukraine crisis widens cracks in US-Russia ties||In 2003, the then Permanent Representative of the Russian Federation to the UN Headquarters (UNHQ), Sergei Lavrov, was taking a puff in one of the erstwhile smoking areas of the UNHQ. Security personnel warned him that smoking was prohibited as per the new rules. Ambassador Lavrov reportedly replied that the ‘Secretary-General can by all means tell his underlings what to do, but not members of diplomatic missions.’Lavrov, famous for his wry humour, has been the Foreign Minister (FM) since 2004 and is the Russian face for the rest of the world as it waits with bated breath to see whether Russia will invade Ukraine or not. The US, along with the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO), claims that the current Russian deployment in areas bordering Ukraine is the highest since the Cold War. The US officials have publicly stated that a Russian attack is imminent and that Russia will use a pretext, including the possible use of fabricated graphic propaganda video, to attack Ukraine. Russia has challenged these claims as FM Lavrov is keeping the lines of communication open with his Western interlocutors, including his ongoing reported exchange of written proposals with the US Secretary of State Antony Blinken to de-escalate.In a nutshell, Russia wants the West to promise that Ukraine will not join the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) though as a negotiating tactic, also demanded that the US withdraw troops from other East European countries.Since the 1991 break-up of the Soviet Union, American hegemony has shaped the world affairs for better or worse, depending on the context. This began to change more than a decade back. Russia annexed Crimea from Ukraine in 2014 and parts of Georgia in 2008 while instability and armed conflict hit the Donbas region, formerly fully controlled by Ukraine and now de facto independent, allegedly supported by Russia. The recent UNSC meet on January 31 to discuss Russia’s troop build-up resorted to a heated exchange between the two camps. The real or perceived Russian threat to annex Ukraine with a population of nearly 42 million comes in the context of enhanced international fragility whose varied contours needs to be better understood.First, Russia is consistently asserting its redlines with regard to protecting its idea of sphere of influence. The post-1991 period paved the way for incremental incorporation of several East European countries, which were earlier in the Soviet camp, into the Western bloc. In 2004, Baltic states such as Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, which were earlier part of the Soviet Union, also joined the NATO. However, a number of attempts by the US to enhance its influence in five Central Asian countries didn’t yield much dividends as facts on the ground asserted. Because of their geographical proximity and the political system, Russian language still enjoys the de facto status of national language in some of these countries, the political leadership in Central Asia generally avoiding hurting their equities with Russia. Ukraine and Georgia are considered by Russia as important in terms of sphere of influence and the claimed historical ties, though locally in both these countries, particularly among the young generation, there is presently a strong ethnic nationalism which is virulently against any outside domination.In 2022, the appetite of the US, the architect of NATO, for fighting foreign wars by deploying boots on the ground is limited and publicly it has just committed to support Ukrainian forces with arms and weapons like other allies such as the UK. While the US diplomatic language remains anchored in an era of overall dominance, the facts on the ground, with respect to limitations of military projection, reveal a different reality. President Obama’s approach to curtail the excessive US military overreach seems to continue under President Biden. The quick withdrawal from Afghanistan is a signifier to the internalisation of this trend within the US policy apparatus.Second, the claims of the US and Western Europe power elite to establish a rules-based international order based on equity and compassion has given way to cynicism within the global South in the context of Covid-19 response. Doctors Without Borders had estimated that 10 high-income countries, including the US, UK, Germany and France would be holding 870 million excess doses by the end of 2021 even after boosters have been administered for high-risk groups. This has potentially boosted Russian confidence which has repeatedly invoked these realities in the last two years. These lessons have not been lost with the domestic political elite in the global South.Third, the factor of domestic US turbulence continues, which includes the threat of White supremacist terrorism, a constant pointer to the vulnerabilities of the US polity to the outside world. The polarisation of the American political system, which keeps the current Biden administration on its toes, prevents a response from the current administration, based on collective national resolve. Russia is aware of the existing deep-seated fault-lines in the American political landscape. It sees the present times as the most opportune and current political environment, an effective leverage to create a precedent for future.While Russian assertion of its redlines is a derivative of the context, the situation is not completely in its favour. Russia’s economy is still vulnerable and it cannot completely damage its equities with wealthier European countries like Germany, which too is treading cautiously. Even the future potential of the much-publicised meeting between President Putin and President Xi Jinping of China, as both sides reportedly opposed further enlargement of NATO and blamed the Indo-Pacific strategy of the US for fomenting regional tensions, needs to be seen from a realist lens. China’s economic heft is felt in Russia’s vicinity as it has to compete with it in Central Asia. Other countries such as India with which Russia had time-tested relationship during the Cold War are reluctant to take sides. Their economies are now strongly linked with the US and Western Europe while continuing to massively import cheaper and lesser strings attached military hardware from Russia. The present round of tensions may escalate or de-escalate, though this is not exactly a return to Cold War. But the recent developments reinforce the fact that the new vectors of the international system are progressively altering the three-decade great power equation and engagement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/ukraine-crisis-widens-cracks-in-us-russia-ties-367635
07-02-2022||---||Cost management challenge for defence forces||Any analysis of the defence budget has to commence with some number-crunching. On February 1, the Finance Minister, while presenting the Union Budget for 2022-23, spelt out an overall allocation of Rs 5.25 lakh crore for defence, which will account for 13.3 per cent of the government’s planned annual expenditure. This amounts to a little less than 10 per cent increase from the initial figures of the previous year and a mere increase of 4.4 per cent from the revised estimates, barely adequate to cater for inflation.The revenue component is a whopping 68 per cent, including the burgeoning pension bill. The capital outlay at Rs 1.52 lakh crore, is up by 12 per cent from last year, with the Air Force getting an increase of 4.5 per cent at Rs 56,851 crore, the Navy having a major jump of 44.5 per cent at Rs 46,323 crore, while the Army’s capital budget sees a drop of 12.2 per cent with an allocation of Rs 32,102 crore. Budgetary allocation for the Border Roads Organisation, responsible for infrastructure development, has witnessed a notable increase of over 40 per cent.Out of the planned capital expenditure, 68 per cent is earmarked for domestic production, in line with the ‘Make in India’ policy and to give impetus to production by the Indian defence companies. A very encouraging step has been the earmarking of 25 per cent of the total Defence Research & Development (R&D) allocation for start-ups and private entities. The Defence Research and Development Organisation has also received a 5.3 per cent jump in its annual allotment.The security situation on the northern borders, the continuing inimical relationship with our western neighbour and the increased deployment in the Indian Ocean to ensure maritime security, are being highlighted as the factors leading to a robust financial outlay for defence. However, a cursory look at these figures indicates a largely “business as usual” approach, with a dexterous touch in sharing the kitty in the best possible manner. The percentage increase in terms of purchasing power parity would be just adequate to meet the immediate needs, with a large portion of the capital outlay being consumed by committed liabilities.Building capacities and developing capabilities need time, while intentions can change rapidly. There is no end in sight to the standoff on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh that began in mid-2020, with the latest round of India-China talks achieving little progress and the Indian Army committed to being in for the long haul in the bleak and hostile terrain. Not only were we mostly reactive militarily in dealing with this situation, even the monetary requirements were met as in an emergency mode. What seems to be lacking is a clear perception of desired capabilities, linked to timelines, to meet the security challenges that may confront the nation, in at least a medium time-frame of 7-10 years. The defence budget has to be capability-driven and not intention-driven. To safeguard against slippages due to procedural tardiness in procurements, it would be worthwhile to consider a non-lapsable roll-on financial allocation for defence, with a three-to-five-year time span.An issue of concern is the lapsing of the capital budget of the Army for the previous year by almost 60 per cent, which has further led to a reduced allocation in the present budget. While the Navy and Air Force are platform-centric in their capital inventory, with big budget systems, the Army has a huge inventory of small and medium-level weapons and equipment. The fault lies primarily in procedural delays, over shooting trial timelines and contractual issues, most of which are beyond the control of the Army HQ directorates dealing with procurement. The acquisition vertical of the Ministry of Defence should be fully accountable for this and reasons need to be ascertained for missing the expenditure targets by such a large margin. An added issue is internal cadre management by the Army to ensure mid-level officers get longer tenures of posting in billets dealing with acquisitions, akin to the other two services.Setting aside 25 per cent of the R&D allocation for the private sector is laudable but nothing novel as the Make I category in Defence Procurement Procedure of 2016 also provided for it. However, not a single project has started under this head till date due to the labyrinthine red tape which effectively stymies the concept. There has to be a concerted effort for encouraging start-ups and private players in defence production by an underwritten assurance of firm orders for viable products, within a clear timeline, failing which the project could be foreclosed and accepted as a sunk cost to the government.The setting up of a nodal body for testing and certification requirements of defence systems and platforms will definitely help the domestic industry in terms of faster processes and cost efficiency. Such announcements may sound good but an independent party needs to audit the fruition of these initiatives to bring in accountability.At this stage, 68 per cent of capital outlay has been earmarked for domestic production, which is buttressed by the negative import lists of items and equipment that have to be manufactured within the country. That may be all very well but an examination of this inventory shows that most of these are non-critical, low budget and basic items. For cutting-edge niche technology systems and sub-systems, the armed forces remain largely import dependent. This anomaly can only be addressed by developing capabilities in the domestic private sector, making investment in defence worthwhile.An area of major concern is the skewed division between the revenue and capital heads of the defence budget. While endeavours are being made to rein in the revenue costs, manpower reduction may appear as the only way forward. Due to the peculiarity of terrain, deployment and type of challenges on un-demarcated borders, the Army combat components remain human resource-intensive. It would, therefore, be prudent and practicable to focus increasingly on outsourcing of logistics and services where ever possible, to cut down on the revenue bill.The defence budget is often seen as a necessary drain on the exchequer. With an emphasis on high-quality indigenous defence production, both by private players and efficiently managed defence public sector undertakings, it can be transformed into an engine of economic growth.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/cost-management-challenge-for-defence-forces-367638
