08-02-2022||---||BrahMos export opens up strategic arena||THE recent agreement with the Philippines to supply BrahMos missiles indicates India’s emergence as an important player in the Indo-Pacific. India is positioned as a security provider in the Indian Ocean Region (IOR), having worked with Mauritius and the Seychelles to strengthen their capabilities. There were similar efforts involving countries such as Mozambique in the Western IOR. On the eastern side, ASEAN countries have issues with China in the South China Sea (SCS). They are losing control over outlying islands and atolls, and facing growing incursions by Chinese fishing fleets, supported by the Chinese Coast Guard. The Coast Guard is strengthened by a 2021 law which allows it to take lethal action in defence of the waters claimed.While Malaysia and Brunei have adopted a low-key approach in dealing with China on the issue of disputed islands, Vietnam and the Philippines have suffered. Indonesia is feeling the heat as Chinese incursions into its Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) in the Natuna Sea have increased.India has maritime security cooperation with six ASEAN countries and a strategic partnership with ASEAN as a whole. However, neither ASEAN nor India was keen on developing an anti-Chinese position. With this clarity, cooperation continued, but lacked depth.India provided a submarine from its fleet to Myanmar in 2020. It was for Myanmar’s defence in the Bay of Bengal. India was guided by ‘SAGAR’ or ‘Security and Growth for All in the Region’ and its commitment to building capacities in neighbouring countries.Myanmar is not a contender with China in the SCS. It is Vietnam, Indonesia and Philippines who wish to procure Indian missiles for the defence of their coastline. Through proven BrahMos and Akash, India fitted the bill. For several years, Vietnamese and Indonesian interest was not matched by Indian enthusiasm.The requirement of fulfilling domestic orders came first. Now, with the determined push to achieve defence exports of $5 billion, the BrahMos is in the market. The Philippines became its unexpected first customer. Vietnam and Indonesia, who remain interested are waiting in the wings; among the potential buyers are South Africa. Kenya, the UAE and Oman. None of them in the Western IOR are seen in the anti-Chinese mould.This aspect is important. For several years, India demurred in responding to Vietnamese and Indonesian requests for missiles, perhaps because it was cautious about the Chinese reaction. The Chinese aggression in Ladakh in 2020 and their disregard for extant agreements pertaining to the Line of Actual Control (LAC) reduced India’s inhibitions in working with other countries in their national interest.The ASEAN countries understood that Chinese dominance in the region, achieved through control over the SCS and avoiding progress on the Code of Conduct, curbed their strategic autonomy. Despite Chinese largesse in dealing with the pandemic and BRI support to many ASEAN countries, some of them who are at loggerheads with China in the SCS feel threatened. In the past, the US was the net provider of security, but with its departure, the region was left in a quandary.Now, as the Quad has visible participation in the Indo-Pacific, ASEAN countries believe that their strategic autonomy allows them to engage beyond China. The only thing they want to avoid is Sino-US rivalry. Therefore, buying defence equipment from India or Japan is considered a safer bet. The Philippines obtained patrol boats from Japan, as did Vietnam; the Philippines’ main equipment is of US origin since it was a US treaty partner and it is still ordering more American equipment. India has found the right niche as neither the US nor Japan have missiles which they will provide to ASEAN countries.Undoubtedly, the role played by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) to develop BrahMos, a 292-km-range cruise missile and the best in its class at present, gives India an edge. Newer versions of the BrahMos under testing will increase the range and the speed and take it from a supersonic 2.8 Mach to a hypersonic 5 Mach.Some ASEAN countries remain interested in the shore-based anti-ship version to defend their coastlines. They do not have the capacity to absorb ship-based, submarine-launched or aircraft-delivered BrahMos; hence, the original BrahMos created by India remains the default option for export.The then President APJ Abdul Kalam had said that Indian diplomacy and technology had come together to create the Pan-African e-network project for telemedicine and tele-education in Africa. Separately, it had come together with Russia to produce BrahMos. Subsequently, a third diplomatic success was when India joined the Missile Technology Control Regime (MTCR) in 2016 which allowed it to develop missiles up to 300-km range and export them in a responsible manner.Military diplomacy facilitated the Philippines breakthrough. For consistent exports, BrahMos needs to deal with three aspects and hope that circumstances would not deter it. The cost at about $2.75 million for a battery is considered high. India compensates by offering a sovereign-backed line of credit (LOC) for defence exports. However, none of the three ASEAN countries availed of the LOC and have preferred their own budgetary funding, often leading to delays in orders. India should relook the terms of the LOC to make them supportive of exports.BrahMos is the result of a partnership with Russia. It appears that the issues between partners DRDO and Russian rocket design bureau NPO Mashinostroyeniya have been resolved, clearing the path for exports. However, US CAATSA (Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act) sanctions can imperil export efforts. The NPO Mashinostroyeniya is a target of CAATSA. The US ought to see that a Quad partner is assisting countries threatened by China and look at the bigger picture rather than its domestic legislation.Thirdly, the Sino-Russian axis is growing strategically stronger in Northeast Asia, a part of the Indo-Pacific. Though Russia is not active in the South China Sea, it is supportive of Chinese objectives in the region.The Chinese have so far not reacted to the sale of BrahMos to the Philippines. Caution is advised in dealing with the Russian approach to the export of BrahMos to countries whose main threat is from China. This is another task for Indian diplomacy to manage in a rapidly changing scenario. #BrahMos||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/brahmos-export-opens-up-strategic-arena-367937
08-02-2022||---||Cultural creation in age of tech abundance||Has technological abundance — particularly, in the domain of communication and cultural creation — led to a new kind of psychic restlessness and anxiety? Is it that as social media, from Twitter to Instagram, and Facebook to YouTube, envelops our everyday existence, we are constantly striving for visibility, working ceaselessly to produce something that becomes ‘viral’ instantly, and trying to find our essence through the statistics of viewers and subscribers? ‘Share, Like, Subscribe’— is it becoming the vocabulary of our times that even a six-year-old child is getting used to?Of course, none can deny that these new technologies of communication have played an enabling role. For instance, it is because of YouTube that we see a spectrum of new talents articulating their creative skills in diverse fields, from music to political satire, or from cooking to travelling.Because of the decline of monopoly of big names in shaping the logistics of cultural production, we can now discover, say, a rural woman with good knowledge of local food and indigenous recipe; or a young college student as a fantastic singer. Even Bollywood celebrities might envy the popularity of many of these YouTube bloggers. No wonder, these days almost everything is available on YouTube, be it a talk by a professor or a discourse by a new age spiritual guru.Facebook has helped many of us connect, redefine the art of relatedness, and rediscover ourselves as potential writers, poets, cartoonists, photographers, and above all, messengers of all sorts of information. Moreover, when fancy names tweet, it runs faster than newspapers and television talk shows.No wonder, these technologies have become immensely popular. From crowded local trains to coffee houses, there seems to be no escape from the smartphone; we are never tired of watching, posting and messaging.Hence, as it would be said, it is futile to be a puritan, and condemn the popularisation of social media in the name of some abstract ‘high culture’.Yet, even as we acknowledge the flourishing of communication and cultural creation, it is important to remember that technological abundance as such does not necessarily guarantee cultural, moral and psychic refinement. After all, if we do not work on our political/ethical/aesthetic sensibilities, social media, far from causing cultural sanity, might take us to a noisy and stimulant domain of psychic numbness.We ought to understand this dialectics: taking countless selfies through the fancy smartphone does by no means improve one’s photographic art; sending viral messages through Twitter for getting mindboggling viewership is not a literary act; and narrating day after day what one cooks, eats and buys on a YouTube channel does by no means come close to the art of story-telling.In fact, while we have sharpened our tools, we have not given adequate importance to the development of our artistic and intellectual faculties. Hence, is it surprising that amid the ceaseless flow of WhatsApp messages, Twitter-induced bullet points, Facebook posts and YouTube videos, we also find ourselves in a deserted cultural landscape.Otherwise, how do we explain the immense popularity of a daily blogger showing us day and night how she eats mutton, chicken and egg biryani? Or, someone showing the washroom of a fancy resort in a hill station, the act of consuming lavish breakfast, and then, ‘possessing’ the ‘spot’— the sunset point? Or, how do we explain that it is through the same social media that we spread and consume toxic messages, symbolic violence and communal hatred?There are two issues. First, the rapid growth of social media has to be related to the mood of the age — everything has to be fast and instantaneous! And this obsessive speed negates what meaningful art needs — concentration, endurance and reflection.For instance, you cannot evolve as a good singer if the craving for instant fame diverts you from rigorous practice and constant learning. Nor is it possible to do an enchanting travel video unless your travelogue is a meditative reflection on the journey called life. Only then is it possible to capture the silence of the Himalayan peaks, or the whisper of a deodar tree.In other words, the possession of technology does not necessarily transform one into an artist. But then, when the certificate of one million subscribers and innumerable ‘likes’ becomes the sole criterion for defining the worth of one’s creation, art suffers.Second, this terrible addiction to the instantaneity of social media simulations is destroying what we all need to retain our sanity — the art of being non-visible, or the cultivation of meditative silence and mindfulness. In fact, this chronic urge to be in constant circulation through WhatsApp messages, Facebook posts, or our comments on almost everything on earth often cause the mass production and consumption of trivia.It is not information revolution; it is information pollution. Possibly, we need to continually educate ourselves.As a matter of fact, the generation for whom YouTube bloggers are the only icons, or the parents who want their children to start a channel and achieve instant fame and money, or our celebrity gurus and politicians who are inseparable from their Twitter messages ought to be persuaded by great teachers to realise that, for instance, Franz Kafka wrote ‘Metamorphosis’ not in a hurry; or that without the intensity of inner churning, it was not possible for Vincent van Gogh to paint the melancholic sunset; and the light of illumination that the silence of Ramana Maharshi used to radiate, no YouTube blogger can capture through their finest camera.Are we ready to take a pause?  #facebook #Instagram #social media #twitter #YouTube||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/cultural-creation-in-age-of-tech-abundance-367933
08-02-2022||---||Lata belonged to all||The driver of the Uber that took me from my home to Shivaji Park in Mumbai, the place of Lata Mangeshkar’s cremation on Sunday, was playing her songs. One was from Bobby, the biggest hit of the 1970s. Then a mélange of other songs followed — devotional, patriotic, melancholic, joyful, each reviving emotions I have deeply felt since my childhood, as have millions in India and around the globe.In our troubled times, when we have erected walls of bigotry and prejudice, her music will keep reminding us about our own civilisational pehchaan.The taxi was stopped by the cops before the destination. An endless human stream was moving towards the park. With PM Modi’s convoy about to reach the place, all entry points had been blocked. I paid my respects to Lata Didi from a distance and walked towards Dadar beach. The late winter sun was about to set behind the Arabian Sea, and I asked myself, with a lump of sadness suddenly choking my throat, ‘What is the meaning of the words “Lata Mangeshkar amar rahe”?’As I walked back, I found a part of the answer on the faces of thousands of common Mumbaikars standing patiently in a queue to pay their respects. It was a look of silent gratefulness. Her songs had touched them all — in their time of love and happiness, in their moments of pain and suffering, in their hour of prayer and patriotic pride, and in their experience of elation and wonder at all the beauty in the world and its mysterious impermanence. In their days of despair, her songs had also comforted them like a mother comforts her weeping child. To have thus impacted countless lives of people belonging to different religions, castes, classes and languages in lands near and far, is an achievement reserved only for the rarest of rare personalities. And most of them represent that highest calling of life — art. Politicians, businessmen, intellectuals, even the greatest among them, do not receive such love and gratitude, in life or in death.When 76-year-old Umm Kulthum, the nightingale of Egypt and the entire Arab world, died in 1976, the New York Times wrote that ‘she may well have been the most famous woman of Egypt since Cleopatra’ and ‘Today, hundreds of thousands of Egyptians and visitors from other Arab countries moved like a river through Cairo in a funeral procession.’When 79-year-old Amalia Rodrigues, the Queen of Fado (the Portuguese music of sorrow, loss and fate), passed away in 1999, Lisbon witnessed a funeral procession, the biggest ever in the country’s history. PM Antonio Guterres (now the UN Secretary-General) spoke for many when he said: ‘Amalia was the voice of the Portuguese soul.’The funeral of Lata Mangeshkar, who was the voice of the soul of the Indian subcontinent, was not on that scale, mainly because Mumbai has not fully come out of Covid restrictions. Yet, the moment was equally historic. All of India bid an emotional farewell to her most beloved singer who had begun singing eight decades ago.In death, Lata created history in another unique way. From Pakistan’s Imran Khan to Bangladesh’s Sheikh Hasina to Sri Lanka’s Mahinda Rajapaksa to Nepal’s Bidya Devi Bhandari… all conveyed the feelings of their people in their message of condolences. Saberi Ibrahimi, a fan from Afghanistan, said on Twitter, ‘During the 1990s uncivil war in #Afghanistan, with little food & entertainment, the love songs of #LataMangeshkar & Mohammad Rafi kept my family going. They even had religious songs together. As a kid, I couldn’t tell which one was Hindu & which one was Muslim.’Most heart-warming were the Twitter tributes from cricketers, musicians, politicians and the common people of Pakistan. Not surprising since she sang as mellifluously in Urdu as in Hindi and Marathi, her mother tongue. This reminded me of what a young friend of mine in Islamabad had told me a few years ago, ‘If Lata Mangeshkar were to come to give a concert in our country, the biggest of stadiums would not be able to accommodate fans wanting to listen to her live. That’s how popular she is.’I also remembered an interesting episode from the early 1980s. Pakistan was under the military dictatorship of Gen Zia-ul-Haq, and Islamisation of its society was in full swing. Lata was on a visit to a Gulf country, and the Pakistani embassy there invited her to give a concert, which she accepted. The embassy later received a show-cause notice from the authorities in Islamabad, demanding an explanation for inviting ‘a singer from an enemy country’. This received a strong rebuke from a popular columnist called ‘Lahori’ in Dawn, Pakistan’s biggest newspaper. ‘Can music be confined within national boundaries?’ he asked. ‘Do Lata Mangeshkar and Mohammed Rafi belong only to India? Does Mehdi Hassan belong only to Pakistan?’Mehdi Hassan, the shahenshah of ghazals, had once said, ‘I belong as much to India as to Pakistan. The love I have received from Indians is no less than what I have received from my own people.’ When he was on a tour of India in the late 1970s, Vajpayee, the then external affairs minister, had hosted the maestro’s mehfil at his official residence. When Hassan was ill, Vajpayee as PM had sent him a heartfelt ‘get-well-soon’ letter, which was hugely appreciated in Pakistan.I think it will take a long time, and a lot of reflection and soul-searching, for many of us in India and the rest of the subcontinent, to know what Lata meant to us. In our troubled times, when we have erected so many ‘narrow domestic walls’ of bigotry and prejudice separating us from ourselves, her music will keep reminding us that we all belong to one united subcontinental family. Her body has been consigned to the flames. But her deathless voice, which sang ‘Meri awaaz hi meri pehchaan hai’, will keep telling us about our own civilisational pehchaan. #lata mangeshkar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/lata-belonged-to-all-367931
