10-02-2022||---||Two months after Rawat's death, India awaits CDS||The government posthumously honoured Gen Bipin Rawat, the country’s first Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) and a soldiers’ General who conceptualised the path-breaking higher defence apparatus while restructuring combat commands, with the Padma Vibhushan, the country’s second highest award, on Republic Day. Gen Rawat was killed in a helicopter accident on December 8, 2021, while on duty. His farewell to arms and last rites were of an unprecedented high order in the honour, reverence and dignity bestowed on him.The entire panoply of grief and ceremony was impromptu as no SOP has been devised for death in harness of the CDS. Rawat was celebrated as a national hero in death that has no parallel in post-Independence history. President RN Kovind lauded him in his Republic Day eve speech, again a first for any soldier. Awarding the Padma Vibhushan, the unique farewell and the special mention in the President’s speech comprised the greatest collective tribute and recognition ever to a soldier. Prime Minister Narendra Modi too mentioned Rawat in his Lok Sabha speech on Monday.The Padma series was instituted in 1954 with Padma Vibhushan given for ‘exceptional and distinguished service of high order in any field’ and Padma Bhushan for ‘distinguished service of high order…’ Altogether, 325 Padma Vibhushans and 1,287 Padma Bhushans have been awarded. Rawat was the sixth among service chiefs, the only one posthumously to receive the Padma Vibhushan. Others are Air Chief Marshal Arjan Singh (later first and only Marshal of the Air Force) and Gen JN Chaudhury, both chiefs of their service in the 1965 war; Air Chief Marshal PC Lal, Gen Sam Manekshaw (later Field Marshal) and Admiral SM Nanda — service chiefs in the 1971 war. Air Chief Marshal OP Mehra was given the award in 1977. Except for OP Mehra, the others won the award in war.One notch lower is Padma Bhushan that was given to Lieutenant Generals and equivalent rank in the other two services. The recipients are Lt Gens Harbaksh Singh, PO Dunn, JS Dhillon, KS Katoch and Air Marshal PC Lal in the 1965 war. Awarded for the 1971 war are Lt Gens JS Aurora, KP Candeth, TN Raina, GG Bewoor, Inderjit Gill, Sagat Singh, Sartaj Singh and Air Marshals HC Dewan and MM Engineer from the IAF.After 1972, three other Lieutenant Generals were awarded the Padma Bhushan: Adi Sethna (1983), ML Chhibber (1986) and Satish Nambiar (2009) for distinguished service in peacetime. The only person to be awarded both Padma Vibhushan and Padma Bhushan was PC Lal. Ninety eight per cent of the awards were given in war and were supposed to have been discontinued, replaced with PVSM.Only two service chiefs have died in harness: Army Chief Gen Bipin Joshi and Chief of Air Staff, Air Chief Marshal Lakshman Katre. Earlier, when a service chief passed away, minimal ceremony attended his funeral as per rules and conventions. Field Marshal Sam Manekshaw was given a very shabby farewell to arms in Wellington. In the Warrant of Precedence, bureaucracy had placed the Field Marshal along with service chiefs at number 12 along with other service chiefs. Similarly, the CDS is also in the same slot whereas the Cabinet Secretary is at number 11 in the ranking. This gives a veneer of civil service ascendency over the military. The then President APJ Abdul Kalam, on a visit to Staff College, Wellington, had carried a cheque of Rs 1 crore as arrears of pension for Manekshaw when he was in hospital. Tongue in cheek, he told the President: “I hope the cheque doesn’t bounce,” so suspicious was he of the bureaucracy.Having shown outstanding alacrity in appointing and naming Rawat as the CDS in 2019, the government has displayed surprising lethargy in naming his successor. The urgency that Rawat displayed in accomplishing his charter is not reflected any more in the MoD and the PMO. All that the government has done is to appoint Army Chief Gen MM Naravane, who is to retire in April, as the officiating CDS in a stop-gap measure. More than two months have passed without the selection of Rawat’s successor. Two Lieutenant Generals in the queue to become the Chief of Army Staff (COAS) on Rawat’s death superannuated on January 31 and another will retire in March. It is clear that the new Vice COAS, Lt Gen Manoj Pande, who was tipped to succeed Naravane, will do so. It is intriguing why the government has chosen to wait it out till April when Naravane retires, leaving the post of CDS vacant for nearly five months. If it is for maintaining the line of succession for COAS, it showed little concern when it appointed Rawat as the Army Chief, superseding two senior Generals. Or is it that the government is having second thoughts on the implementation of theaterisation at present, given that China-Pakistan collusion has become real and the IAF and the Navy are not happy with the Rawat blueprint?In any case, the new CDS, most probably Naravane, must be appointed to end unnecessary speculation. With an officiating incumbent in place for two months, which might extend to five months, the buzz and urgency normally attached to the CDS office in the basement of South Block has disappeared. The momentum of the reforms process must be revived to preserve Gen Rawat’s legacy. #gen bipin rawat #indian defence||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/two-months-after-rawats-death-india-awaits-cds-368523
10-02-2022||---||Binging on Bhabha, Sarabhai and Bhai||The name Vikram aroused much curiosity among the younger generation of Indians during the launch of the lunar mission, Chandrayaan-2, in September 2019. The module that was supposed to land on the lunar surface was named after the space agency’s founder, Vikram Sarabhai. Another reason for the instant recall of the surname ‘Sarabhai’ is a popular sitcom, Sarabhai vs Sarabhai, which, of course, has no connection with the space scientist. Now, for the first time, Indians can see some glimpses of the life of Vikram Sarabhai on the small screen.The web series, Rocket Boys, is not a biopic but a peek into the turning points in the lives of Sarabhai and his mentor Homi Jehangir Bhabha. It is an attempt to bring out the curious inter-twining of India’s most successful scientific programmes — space and nuclear — and some behind-the-scene stories. However, since we live in the era of post-truth and twisted history, it is better to raise some red flags.The stage for science-led industrialisation was set before the Independence in the work of the National Planning Committee chaired by Jawaharlal Nehru, who advocated an alliance between science and politics. After Independence, this resulted in the development of government research laboratories and concentration of power in the hands of a few scientists who headed scientific departments while working closely with Nehru. Prominent in this group were Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar, Prasanta Chandra Mahalanobis, Homi Bhabha, and later Vikram Sarabhai. Bhabha used to address the Prime Minister as Bhai — a sort of bromance, also seen in Rocket Boys.There were other equally or more eminent scientists but they were not part of this club, like CV Raman, Meghnad Saha and Mokshagundam Visvesvaraya. But no scientist by the name of Mehdi Raza existed — as depicted in Rocket Boys. This character seems to be inspired by that of Saha, who founded the Institute of Nuclear Physics in Kolkata. He joined politics post Independence and became a vocal critic of Nehru and Bhabha in the Lok Sabha. The Dorabji Tata Trust, which supported Saha’s research in its initial years, later funded Bhabha to establish the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR) in Mumbai.The similarity between Saha and the fictitious Mehdi Raza ends here and fiction takes over. Raza appears in the company of Nehru at the inauguration of the first nuclear reactor, Apsara. Bhabha and Raza then share a bottle of whiskey, sitting right in the swimming pool in which the reactor had gone critical a few hours ago. In reality, Apsara achieved criticality on August 4, 1956, while Saha had passed away in February that year. Such dramatised mix-up of timelines and personalities apart, the intense rivalry among different research groups for available resources has been captured to some extent.The decade of the 1960s was a period of turmoil with two wars, famines, food shortages, changing geopolitical equations and leadership changes in India in quick succession. It was also the period when scientific activity reached its zenith — new nuclear reactors were built, a rocket-launching station became operational at Thumba, the Green Revolution unfolded and the Indian Institute of Technology at Kanpur came up. All these projects were competing for limited resources and scientific leaders clashed to secure their own turfs and institutes.Like Saha’s Nuclear Physics Institute in Kolkata, CV Raman too had developed his centre — the Raman Research Institute in Bangalore. The speed at which government resources flowed to the laboratories of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) due to Bhatnagar’s influence on Nehru made Raman caustically remark that it was a result of the ‘Nehru-Bhatnagar effect’ (a la Raman Effect). The Physical Research Laboratory that Sarabhai founded in Ahmedabad started as a private initiative but managed to get grants from the Department of Atomic Energy for the space programme.In the initial years, resource crunch, particularly that of foreign exchange, forced scientists working in all these institutes to fabricate instruments on their own, sometimes from parts procured from war-surplus depots and scrap markets. Portraying such efforts as a sort of jugaad is a great disservice to their ingenuity and hard work.The stories of competition and rivalry in building India’s nuclear and space programmes have been well documented using archival material and oral history by scholars like Robert S Anderson, Indira Chowdhury, MV Ramana and Jahnavi Phalkey as well as in recent books penned by former scientists of the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO).Rocket Boys scores over them when it comes to the human side of Bhabha and Sarabhai. Bhabha’s relationship with Phiroza ‘Pipsy’ Wadia, which was perhaps known only to a close circle of their contemporaries, comes alive in Rocket Boys, though details of it as shown remain suspect. The love triangle of Vikram, Mrinalini Sarabhai and Kamla Chowdhry has been portrayed somewhat sensitively and may have been done so with the inputs and approval of Sarabhai’s children Mallika and Kartikeya.Stories of scientists and scientific development need to be told and retold as and when new material becomes available. Such retelling helps us examine historical characters in a new light.A short biography of particle physicist Bibha Chowdhuri, penned by historian Rajinder Singh in 2018, revealed how her work was ignored though she had worked with both Bhabha and Sarabhai as well as in the laboratory of Nobel laureate PMS Blackett. After this book, TIFR made amends by recognising her work officially three decades after her death.A newly discovered dwarf star was also named after her. Chinmay Tumbe’s essay on Kamla Chowdhry brought out her role as the real builder of the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad (IIM-A), shrugging off the stereotypical image of being ‘the other woman’ in Sarabhai’s life.Some years back, Hidden Figures, a movie based on the life of the first African-American female engineer at NASA, Mary W Jackson, caught national attention in America and the space agency named its headquarter building after her in recognition of her contributions.So, let the show go on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/binging-on-bhabha-sarabhai-and-bhai-368521
10-02-2022||---||Canada acting up||The Canadian approach towards former Indian officials who apply for tourist or other short-term stay visas to visit Canada is becoming increasingly intrusive and obnoxious. This process began around 2010 with former Indian military and paramilitary personnel, but now covers others, including former intelligence officials, and, most strangely, former diplomats, some of whom have served in Indian missions in Canada. While it is the sovereign right of any state to allow or deny entry to foreigners, it is equally expected of responsible countries, especially democratic, to conduct themselves in keeping with internationally expected norms while considering visa applications. This Canada is not doing. And, the fact that millions, some of them illegally, wish to enter Canada is no justification for becoming intrusive or behaving with discourtesy.Bringing parity to the strength of Indian and Canadian representations, reducing defence-to-defence ties and limiting political-level contacts can be some measures. All countries, even those in which tourism is an important part of the economy, seek to ensure that foreigners with criminal records or those not capable of sustaining themselves do not enter the country. Advanced countries also scrutinise visa applicants to deny entry to those who, in their view, are likely to stay on illegally in the country after the expiry of their visas. These are reasonable precautions, though they are irksome for visa applicants. However, it is one thing to seek information that is entirely personal and whose disclosure does not violate the applicant’s country’s laws and rules and quite another when the applicant is asked to give information which is confidential. This is what Canada has been asking of former Indian security officials for over a decade and now this is being extended to other retired officials too.It is true that Canada has a large and growing Indian diaspora which has economically prospered and has done very well politically. Indeed, Canadians of Indian origin have been and are members of the Canadian Parliament and cabinet ministers too. One Indian-origin political leader has also served as a Premier of a Canadian province. This shows that Canadian citizens of Indian origin are gaining political heft and that Canadian society and polity are partly shedding their Caucasian-centric identity. At the same time, Canada’s acceptance of Indian talent, in the area of high technology and medicine, for instance, is to its advantage. This is an aspect which should not be overlooked by Indian elites or the government.A few months ago, a former Indian High Commissioner applied for a tourist visa to visit his child who lives in Canada. He was surprised to get a communication from a Canadian representative in India requiring him to give details of all his assignments as a member of the Indian Foreign Service from the time he joined to his retirement. Normally, if a former ambassador to a country wishes to visit it, he is given a visa without any fuss and on a priority basis. This is a basic diplomatic courtesy. The demand was all the more surprising, for there is little doubt that Canada’s foreign ministry would have made enquiries about the Indian diplomat’s antecedents prior to accepting him as India’s High Commissioner in Ottawa.A few years ago, a senior Indian intelligence official who had served in the Indian Mission in Canada and who subsequently liaised with Canadian intelligence was kept waiting for a tourist visa for months. Finally, the Canadian intelligence intervened and he was given only a 10-day visa!Some time ago, a retired Indian Army officer who had earlier visited the country on a number of occasions and had an active visa was humiliated when he reached Canada. He was interrogated on arrival; his passport was seized and he was told that his case of stay would be considered by an immigration board.In addition to these cases, Canada is now making detailed and unprecedented enquiries about Indian diplomats posted there. Consequently, postings of Indian diplomats are getting delayed. Normally, such delays occur only between countries which have adversarial relations.Canada has targeted former Pakistani defence officers too. Some years back, a Canadian university which sponsored a Track 2 process of Indian and Pakistani retired defence, intelligence officers, diplomats and academics decided to hold a meeting in Canada (normally these meetings took place in a South-East Asian country) but could not do so. The Indian participants in the Track 2 process, of which I was one, were told that Canadian authorities had not agreed to give visas to retired army officers from Pakistan.Now it is for Pakistan to decide how it wishes to handle Canadian intrusive policies on visas. As far as India is concerned, it has to be conscious that its armed and civil services adhere to the democratic traditions of this country. It should therefore be completely unacceptable that its retired personnel are asked to furnish information about their careers, some of which is classified. The only cogent reason appears to be that all this information is sought to ascertain that they have not been involved in human rights violations during their careers on the basis of their postings. This would especially apply to defence personnel in sensitive areas. Meanwhile, Canada’s attitude on Khalistan for all its protestations of support for India’s unity is soft and inadequately responsive.During all these years, India has not taken a strong position on this issue. The time has come to do so, for it is not a matter of individuals and their convenience but of the honour of our defence and civil services. Instructions should be given to all that there should be no response to intrusive Canadian questions. India needs to take a set of measures to show that Canada’s disdain for Indian democracy is unacceptable; certainly, Canada applies a different yardstick for western democratic countries. These steps can include bringing parity to the strength of Indian and Canadian representations, reducing, if not freezing, defence-to-defence ties and also limiting political-level contacts. The continuing laissez faire Indian approach is no longer tenable, especially for a government that takes pride in its nationalistic credentials. #Canada||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/canada-acting-up-368513
