11-02-2022||---||Winter Olympics more about power politics||The 2022 Winter Olympics began in Beijing on February 4 with a spectacular ceremony which its organisers claimed had used 200 technologies, including 5G, AI, high-speed rail and new energy with space management to portray China’s progress from an assembly line of manufactured goods to “intelligent manufacturing”. The organisers were all praise for the facilities provided for the games, though some participants from Russia, Sweden, Finland and other countries had a different story to tell about the “quality of food and quarantine conditions” as many of them tested Covid-positive upon arriving at the Beijing airport, according to reports.The excitement was further marred as the US, UK, Canada and other countries observed a diplomatic boycott of the games to protest against China’s human rights violations. While 105 Heads of State had witnessed the 2008 games, the number dropped to about 32 this time with most being authoritarian leaders. If Beijing had a grouse that the West had politicised the games for its “groundless accusations”, it was not far behind as it chose Qi Fabao, a PLA regiment commander who was involved in the Galwan clash, as the torch-bearer and a Xinjiang athlete, Dinigeer Yilamujiang, to light the Olympic flame. These shenanigans evoked widespread protests, including boycott of the opening and closing ceremonies by India’s Charge d’affaires in Beijing.The cynosure of all eyes at the opening ceremony was Russian President Vladimir Putin, who flew to Beijing after speaking of his confrontation with the US over Ukraine and the eastward expansion of NATO. In their joint statement, China and Russia talked of a new era of global governance underpinned by the UN-based international architecture (wherein they have matching influence due to their Permanent Membership of the UN Security Council) instead of a US-dominated international order. They have traded reciprocal support with China opposing further enlargement of NATO, supporting Russia’s proposals to create “long-term binding security guarantees in Europe” and Russia confirming that “Taiwan is an alienable part of China and opposes any forms of its independence”.Though China and Russia have agreed to support each other for “protection of their core interests”, important differences remain between them as China would not like to alienate the East European countries which are its important economic partners in establishment of any Russian sphere of influence there. Several countries such as the US, Japan and others are opposed to forced annexation of Taiwan by China. Also, many countries like Japan, Germany, Brazil, India and others have strong reservations on the post-Second World War UN architecture, which does not reflect the present realities of comprehensive global power.A major highlight of Putin’s visit was the agreement on setting up the Power of Siberia 2 gas pipeline to be built by Gazprom, which would supply an additional 50 billion cubic metres of natural gas annually to northern China. As China is phasing out its coal-fired power plants, it wants to increase the ratio of natural gas in its energy mix to 15% by 2030 from 10% now and reduce its reliance on ship-based supplies from Australia and others. Being unsure of sanctions on its gas supply to Europe in wake of its confrontation with the US, Russia was also looking for a secure long-term partner for its gas purchase.Putin said Russia was now supplying advanced technology weapons to China; these have included SU-35 fighter jets (4.5 generation), S-400 air defence system, M-171 transport helicopters and Kilo class submarines. With the threat of CAATSA sanctions by the US, the buyers for the Russian arms have dried up and China has emerged as a steady customer. Russia has avoided the sale of ground combat systems, strategic bombers and land attack missiles over the fear of arming a potential future adversary. There are also concerns about China adapting these weapons to capture the foreign markets (for example, Yuan class submarines sold to Pakistan by China are partly based on Russia’s Kilo class).The presence of Pakistan PM Imran Khan at the Beijing Olympics provided yet another confirmation that while maintaining the pretence of not joining any bloc, Pakistan has aproned itself closely to Beijing. Imran began his tour by supporting China on the human rights of Uighur Muslims, but his commercial motives were soon transparent as the media reported that he had gone there seeking several favours from Beijing, i.e. another deposit of $3.14 billion from China to stabilise Pakistan’s foreign exchange situation, a rollover of $4 billion loans and $4.5 billion in trade finance facility.He also wanted more investment and relocation of the Chinese industries in the Special Economic Zones (SEZs) established in Pakistan. To curry favour with the Chinese government, Islamabad agreed to provide $11 million in compensation to the families of 10 Chinese personnel who were killed in an attack by the Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) at Dasu in Pakhtunkhwa province on July 14, 2021. Imran met the Chinese PM, Li Keqiang and signed a framework agreement on industrial cooperation seeking greater investment from the Chinese companies; he also met President Xi Jinping but there was no information if he had agreed to Pakistan’s requests for additional financial assistance. Given that attacks by the TTP and other groups against Pakistan's security forces and the Chinese personnel have escalated in recent days, the Chinese companies would be cautious in taking up new projects in Pakistan.The main objective of the Winter Olympics was projection of China's soft power, to tell the world how it had achieved economic prosperity and rivalled the only superpower, the US now. China’s relations with its neighbours and major powers have soured due to the aggressive and expansionist policies of its rulers. It is an open question how much soft power China would gain by hosting such cultural extravaganzas in the absence of change of its above policies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/winter-olympics-more-about-power-politics-368784
11-02-2022||---||Spur spending for buoyancy in economy||The defining feature of the Union Budget for 2022-23 is the government’s emphasis on public investment and within that its Gati Shakti master plan which seeks to transform multimodal connectivity and logistics efficiency by giving a boost to roads, railways, airports, ports, waterways and more.Infrastructure is the backbone of an economy and without adequate infrastructure in place, it cannot grow beyond a point. A key part of this infrastructure is all the stuff on the ground to facilitate smooth logistics. For example, there is no point in doing great with industrial production if there is not enough capacity on the roads and railways to ship out that production.Constructing that infrastructure and running it both require mostly trained hands and thus jobs are created. But the key reality is that most of these jobs take some time to come. There is a gap between the spending and the jobs getting created. And just as the economy cannot grow without infrastructure, in order to run at some kind of capacity, that infrastructure needs the rest of the economy to meet its own demand. To use our earlier example, the roads and railways need goods to carry, thus utilising their capacity, in order to lead a meaningful existence.The overwhelming current Indian reality is an economy severely mauled by two years of rampaging Covid-19 and only recently appearing to overcome that disruption and resume growth. Initially, small and medium businesses were severely damaged and many closed down, thus throwing out of work a large number of unskilled and semi-skilled workers. Without incomes, they could not spend, thus depriving the economy of a major share of its spending.As this was happening, the large companies making up the corporate sector were less affected. Then as recovery began to gain momentum, the corporate sector was among the first to get back to full or near full capacity utilisation. Their owners and senior executives who barely suffered from any loss of income, which included income from financial investments, in fact managed to emerge from Covid-19 unscathed.According to two experts with the consultancy Bain & Company, the slowdown in personal consumption expenditure by the low and low middle income households is the single biggest problem facing the economy. The situation has been worsened by income growth being concentrated among the topmost income earners. The poor, for their part, being without jobs and income have dipped into their savings, saying goodbye to any kind of discretionary spending.All eyes were on the budget looking for measures to revive consumption among the low and low middle income households. But unfortunately, the budget does not appear to have done much in this regard. Getting into specifics, the analysis noted the absence of increase in the rural jobs scheme MGNREGS spending despite an increase in rural unemployment.The rise in MSP will help agricultural household incomes, but there is no fix for rural unemployment. No rise in subsidies and cash transfers was announced. Equally absent were any cuts in personal income tax. All this, along with persistence in inflation will continue to dampen consumption growth, denying the economy an impetus for overall growth.It is not as if the budget did absolutely nothing. A sharp increase in production linked investment will create jobs for semi-skilled and skilled workers but it won’t impact medium term consumption spending. Several measures to support and rejuvenate small enterprises have been announced. This will increase consumption by their workers and owners in sectors like travel and retail. Among the positives is a boost to low income housing.But the overall picture is that there is little in the budget to address the immediate distress that is playing havoc with consumption among the low and low middle income sections which account for 66 per cent of all consumption. The authors conclude that the budget, it was hoped, would revive consumption through employment, income generation or straightforward cash transfers. But it fell short of addressing this critical need.Taking all the measures in the budget into account, Pronab Sen, former chief statistician of India, feels it will accentuate the K-shaped recovery that is on. In particular, he focused on the Rs 2 lakh crore government capital expenditure announced in the budget. As some of it may be used to bring under the budget the earlier off budget expenditure, actual expenditure increase may not be of the same magnitude.Along with the rise in capital expenditure, the budget indicated a fall in revenue expenditure. This will likely lead to a fall in Central contribution to state-run schemes. As for the credit guarantee schemes and new loans for small and medium enterprises, these can be availed only by units which still have their heads above the water. A move to help revive moribund units is missing. The credit guarantee for employment intensive travel, trade, hotels and communication sectors similarly will remain in limbo. Credit will be taken by units only when they see demand reviving and people will not go out to restaurants or travel during holidays until they have some disposable income in their hands again.An idea of the flavour of the budget can be had from the way the allocations for important ministries have changed in the estimates for the coming year compared to the revived estimates for the current year. The communications ministry sees a massive 93 per cent jump but that is on account of capital infusion into the BSNL. Road transport gets a substantial 51 per cent hike on account of Gati Shakti. Jal Shakti comes next with a 25 per cent hike.As for specific schemes, the gainers are Gram Sadak Yojana (37 per cent), rural drinking water mission (33 per cent), the national education mission 28 per cent), and the national livelihoods mission (14 per cent). As against these, the chief loser is the employment guarantee programme MGNREGS, down 26 per cent. Perhaps the most dramatic is the allocation of a mere Rs 5,000 crore for vaccines, compared to a revised estimate of Rs 39,000 crore.The ministries which have seen their allocation cut is led by consumer affairs, food and public distribution at minus 25 per cent, on account of a cut in food and fertiliser subsidies. In fact, the total subsidy bill is set to go down by 27 per cent. And last but not the least, rural development is seeing an 11 per cent cut in allocation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/spur-spending-for-buoyancy-in-economy-368782
11-02-2022||Some Muslim girls in Karnataka insist on wearing the hijab to college. The college authorities say that will not be allowed. The Kannadigas are following the path trod by the French in Europe||Muslim girls and the hijab||Why should a woman be asked to hide her beauty from the eyes of males, except those of her immediate family? Unless, of course, she is treated as a material possession of the male. The girls who want to wear the hijab say it is their constitutional right and religious duty to do so! Is that duty enshrined in the Koran? I doubt it! The Koran was revealed in the time of the Prophet, when the desert sand wafted by the winds forced both men and women to protect their eyes and mouths by use of suitable clothing.If Islam enjoined the wearing of the hijab as a religious duty, it stands to reason that all practicing Muslim women the world over would wear the enveloping gown as a matter of course. But that is not so. Not only in India, but also in the very heart of Islam, in the Arabian Peninsula, I have seen numerous women with faces uncovered. In my four years as our country’s ambassador in Romania, I met the wives of my counterparts from Islamic countries. The ladies from Iraq, Syria, Egypt and Lebanon wore western dresses! Those from Pakistan wore the traditional salwar-kameez, and those from Bangladesh, the sari without any thought of covering their faces or hair.I presume from this that wearing a hijab is not a religious requirement, like the observance of the Ramzan fast is. Then why all this fuss over a rule that can avoid conflict and politics on the campus? And, more importantly, should a beleaguered community, now in the crosshairs of political Hindutva, pick on a losing cause to take on their tormentors?The hijab has been a garment worn by some (not all or even most) middle class and lower middle class women in Mumbai in the days of my youth. They were from families following the diktats of the mullahs. Their numbers have increased the world over because political statements have to be made. Educated girls, young doctors in leading hospitals can be seen strutting around with stethoscopes around their necks and with their heads covered with fashionable head-scarves that hide every wisp of hair.This I had not seen in my student days! But today, political Islam has succeeded in making its statement in a manner that does not invite retribution, but is emphatic all the same. But escalating the movement a notch further by defying university or college regulations will bring the entire gamut of pros and cons of such statements to public scrutiny. And here, I am afraid, the support a beleaguered minority requires and deserves from enlightened members of the majority community will diminish.In the eyes of liberal and sympathetic Hindus — and non-Muslims — the hijab is a monstrosity that smacks of female subjugation. Why should a woman be asked to hide her beauty from the eyes of males, except those of her immediate family? Unless, of course, she is treated as a material possession of the male. Such a concept is out of sync with current mores. Gender equality is the pinnacle which modern societies attempt to reach. The hijab spells exactly the opposite.In my opinion, if the girls in Karnataka have been primed to test the BJP government in the state with the donning of the hijab as the first test, they have made a tactical mistake, nay, a blunder. The hijab is the last garment to attract the sympathy of well-meaning non-Muslims willing to join the fight against the majoritarian forces of obscurantism.One particular decision of the Muslim clergy has had a lasting, and negative, impression on my sensibilities. A Muslim soldier in the Indian Army captured by the Pakistanis in war or in a border skirmish was suddenly released by the enemy after many years. It was thought that he had died in prison! After a few years of his capture, his wife was married off to a cousin. She had a child from that marriage and was happy by all accounts. On the soldier’s return, the local Muslim clergy decided that the woman should be returned to her original husband. The woman was not asked for her preference. Further, the soldier was not happy to rear the child from the subsequent marriage and forced the woman to part from her own progeny. The woman did not survive this cruel arrangement for long. I learnt that she died soon after.Was this a religious fiat? In Islam has the woman no voice of her own? Does Muslim personal law allow mullahs to overrule a woman’s wish based on her happiness? If the answer is yes, I am sorry to say that my sensibilities do not stretch so far as to subjugate women in this cruel manner. The burka and the hijab are associated to the fate of that poor hapless woman!I have taken up cudgels on behalf of the beleaguered Muslim minority whenever I felt that grave injustice was being heaped on them. Lynching of suspected cattle traders and suspected beef eaters is one such grave injustice. The hounding of lovelorn couples under the pretext of fighting ‘love jihad’ is another. Hindu right-wing vigilantes operating under the pretext of helping the police to enforce laws are a negation of the very principle of the rule of law, but they operate with impunity in BJP-ruled states. I will continue to rant and rave against their illegal and morally unjust acts. It may help the BJP at the hustings but it is against the spirit of the country’s Constitution.But the ideal of gender justice, which seems to be alien to Islamic jurisprudence, as propounded by the mullahs, is sacrosanct to people of my persuasion. I believe that a community which keeps its women subjugated cannot advance.I am not a votary of the politics and the utterances of Owaisi, the firebrand Muslim MP from Hyderabad. But I was one with him when he turned down the government’s snide offer of Z-plus security and asked that he be treated as an ‘A’ class citizen instead. Two Hindu extremists had shot at his car. They were arrested and sent to judicial custody. If a BJP MP had been similarly attacked by Muslim hot-heads, the latter would have the UAPA and sedition laws applied against them, and they would have been subjected to custodial interrogation. Why then the difference in approach while enforcing the law? Does the Constitution divide citizens into two different classes?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/muslim-girls-and-the-hijab-368780
