12-02-2022||Senior Journalist||Congress fighting a grim battle for survival||The Congress is fighting the Assembly polls in Punjab, Uttarakhand, Goa, Manipur and Uttar Pradesh as a grim battle for survival. It is locked in a multi-cornered contest in Punjab, where some pollsters are giving the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) an edge over the Congress, the Akali-BSP combine and the BJP-Punjab Lok Congress alliance. The AAP is said to be finding some traction in Goa and Uttarakhand too. Many see the emergence of the Trinamool Congress in Goa and Manipur at the cost of the Congress.Just like the 2021 Assembly polls in Assam and Kerala, sources close to Rahul Gandhi are confident of the party winning Uttarakhand and Punjab with ease. At the Congress war room at 15, Gurdwara Rakabganj Road, opinion poll surveys have been dismissed and the projections by the in-house data analysts have been given greater weightage. These were the people who had predicted that the Congress would cross the 100-mark in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls and win the Kerala Assembly polls with ease.At the organisational level too, Rahul’s core team is planning sweeping changes, enforcing a ‘generational change’ and setting the stage for ‘smooth’ (read consensual) party polls, including the appointment of a new full-time party president and a new Congress Working Committee (CWC) for a five-year (2022-27) tenure. Rahul’s aides insist that once the Congress wins Punjab and Uttarakhand, he would have the upper hand and only two types of leaders would excel in the party — those capable of winning elections, and the ‘cerebral’ types with a professional background.At variance with Team Rahul’s grand plans, a section of the Congress insiders fears that AAP’s success in Punjab would further undermine the party in Gujarat and Himachal Pradesh, where the Assembly polls are due later this year. A belligerent AAP would try replacing the Congress as the principal opposition force to the BJP, they argue, dreading that a poor Congress performance in Punjab and Uttarakhand would trigger an exodus of sorts — in various directions i.e., towards AAP, Trinamool Congress and the BJP.The BJP has been observing ‘political eclecticism’ in picking and choosing Congress leaders who have a better public image, caste-based advantage or a potential role in public life. Some disgruntled Congress leaders, on their part, have had a degree of discomfort with the BJP and its practising ideology. In a nutshell, they have avoided switching sides. AAP, on the other hand, offers a pitch that these Congress leaders think would weigh light on their political conscience. Ditto for Trinamool Congress, whose party constitution and ideology have been nearly identical with those of the parent organisation — the Congress.There would be more bad news in store for the Congress if March 10 throws up a dismal verdict for the party. A section of regional satraps in Haryana, Karnataka, Jammu & Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh is reportedly contemplating to float breakaway groups. Political hiccups in Maharashtra and Jharkhand are also being speculated.The failure of the Congress to counter PM Narendra Modi’s verbal attacks is also causing ‘in-house’ discomfort at 24, Akbar Road. Modi has been treating the Congress as easy meat due to the party’s large political baggage — from the Emergency to dynastic politics, various acts of omission and commission etc. However, the entry of many young Congress dynasts into the BJP should have given the party an opportunity to counter Modi or point to the Prime Minister’s bid to exploit dynastic politics.Modi has of late been making a distinction of sorts on dynastic politics. In a recent TV interview, much like his Constitution Day speech on November 26, 2021, he tried to justify political dynasty at the entry level but vehemently opposed the supremacy of a family over a party. Modi said in the interview, “When dynastic politics takes place, family is supreme, save the family whether the party is saved or not, whether the country is saved or not, when this happens, what is the first casualty? Howsoever the son, he will be the party chief, the biggest casualty then is talent.” He also said that dynastic politics was stopping young people from entering politics.The Prime Minister has, however, glossed over the fact that every second Lok Sabha MP under the age of 40 is from a dynastic background. The intrinsic link between money and dynastic politics has not been scrutinised both in terms of money management during the elections and protecting the family’s long-term business interests.In Uttar Pradesh alone, the number of second and third generation political families is staggering. Names such as Nitin Aggarwal, Aditi Singh, Nilima Katyar, Sandeep Singh, Pankaj Singh, Archana Pandey, Riya Shakya, Sushant Singh and dozens of others provide a lead on how dynastic culture is not only thriving but being perpetuated by the BJP.Only DMK leader and Tamil Nadu minister P Moorthy chose to respond to Modi, pointing out that people do judge politicians by the work they do. “After Jawaharlal Nehru, Indira Gandhi came to power. So many current ministers are such. O Panneerselvam’s son is the MP from Periyakulam, Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s son had held the party post, Jayakumar’s son was an MP. Don’t look at it as dynastic politics, look into the work done by the heir,” he argued.The Congress, in its wisdom, has preferred to remain silent, giving credence to Modi’s allegations. #Congress #rahul gandhi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/congress-fighting-a-grim-battle-for-survival-369082
12-02-2022||Ex-Special Secretary||How cops have been losing public’s trust||Mumbai Police historian Deepak Rao, who has tracked the growth of the city police from 1669, told a national daily on February 6 that he had never seen such a sorry state of affairs for that ‘admired’ force as it was now. He was referring to the present situation in which both the former Home Minister and previous Police Commissioner are facing criminal charges.In 1995, Gary T Marx, Professor Emeritus, MIT, had said: “Police are both a major support and a major threat to a democratic society.” He added that the police should not be a “law unto themselves”, should not serve the partisan interests of the party in power, and should not use their special powers without realising their social responsibilities.Even the London Metropolitan Police (MET), the model police system in the world, had difficulties in implementing these principles. The MET was established in 1829 by Sir Robert Peel, the then Home Secretary, with the concept of “Policing by Consent”, based on public approval, in addition to the decrees of the Crown and Law. This functioned well till 1877 when a big scandal besmirched its reputation, almost forcing the parliament to shut it down.Initially, a sizeable portion of the London public was not in favour of a centralised police system, as envisaged by Peel. This was first opposed by the powerful St Paul parishes which did not want to repeal the old practice of appointing paupers as policemen, although they were corrupt. The Whigs felt that it was a trick to keep the Tories in power.The public was also worried over possible attempts to trample upon citizens’ liberties through a central agency, resembling, at present, our states’ criticism against the Central police raids. Thus, when Peel’s new police appeared in the London streets on September 29, 1829, in the blue civilian uniform, they were ridiculed as “Blue Devils”, “Raw Lobsters”, or “Peel’s bloody gang.”In 1842, Peel, who was by then Prime Minister, created a group of “Detectives” in the MET after an attempt was made on Queen Victoria’s life in 1840. Unfortunately, some of these officers were involved in the1877 misconduct. The trial of chief inspectors Nathaniel Druscovich, William Palmer, George Clarke and inspector John Meiklejohn was called “The Trial of Detectives”.These officers were asked to investigate a “Turf Fraud Scandal” for cheating a Parisian woman named Mme de Goncourt by Henry Benson, William Kurr and his brother. Benson, a forger, had created a fictitious French newspaper, le Sport, with a fake identity as “Mr Montgomery”. He made the victim part with 10,120 British pounds through a horserace betting fraud. She was about to send another 30,000 pounds when her bank advised her caution. She then engaged a solicitor who tracked Benson and the Kurr brothers.The accused detectives, who were entrusted to arrest the gang, allowed them to escape as they were receiving bribes. Their trial on October 22, 1877 makes one realise how much corruption had then seeped into the Scotland Yard. It was also a case study of how law enforcers could misuse their powers for personal benefit. In this case, all except Clarke were sentenced to serve two years in prison with hard labour.This incident led to a public outcry, compelling the parliament to set up a commission to enquire into the advisability of having a detective division, members of which appeared to be breaking the law in plain clothes. Howard Vincent, a former military officer-turned lawyer who had studied the Parisian Police system, was entrusted by Home Secretary RA Cross in the Disraeli government to take charge of the reorganised Criminal Investigation Department (CID) as director. He was given the powers to report directly to the home secretary, bypassing the commissioner. Incidentally, Cross was the creator of the Indian Intelligence Bureau (IB) in 1887 as Secretary of State for India.The second major scandal involving the MET was on May 23, 2010, when the Sunday Times exposed businessman-gangster David Hunt’s criminal activities through reporter Michael Gillard, who cited confidential police documents. Hunt’s libel suit against Gillard came up for hearing in the high court in July 2013 when security men accompanying him to the court abandoned him, exposing him to physical danger. The case was dismissed by the court.In the same month, three “whistleblower” officers addressed a letter to the then MET commissioner, Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe, that their own colleagues were frustrating efforts to investigate Hunt, a real estate mafia leader, by leaking out their moves to arrest him. The British media had then taken a clear lead at personal risk to their reporters to expose the Hunt syndicate which was involved with organised crime like prostitution, money-laundering, murder, and fraud.During the trial, the Sunday Times requested the MET to officially produce those documents. Instead, the MET sued the reporters and wanted the documents back from them. Also, the MET sued two of its own officers for giving evidence in Hunt’s case. Their only fault was that they had deposed in the court about their own in-house report in 2008 about David Hunt’s criminal activities and that they faced threats to their lives. This gave a distorted public impression that the MET was protecting the Hunt syndicate and harassing the media and police officials who were exposing the crime cartel.Coming specifically to Maharashtra, the problem of politician-police-cash-transfer nexus had started in 1987 when Section 4 of the Bombay Police Act was amended, transferring police ‘control, direction and supervision' functions from the police chief to the government. This made junior policemen gravitate to politicians for choice transfers, diluting the operational control of the chief of police. This amendment needs to be scrapped if the state’s MVA government wants to regain public confidence.Only a vigilant media and an impartial government would be able to protect the citizens’ rights as watchdogs. While the media should watch the police, the Government Secretariat should only supervise a fully professional police force under a police chief who should have full power to rotate his officers, without political interference and also be held totally responsible for all actions of the force under him/her.Views are personal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/how-cops-have-been-losing-publics-trust-369080
12-02-2022||Last week||Majoritarian vote block||A majoritarian vote block is emerging as a scary reality; one that can force our opportunistic representatives to endorse regressive, communal agendas.The Ram temple at Ayodhya wouldn’t be just another place of worship — it would be a temple built after the demolition of the Babri Masjid as a political project to muster support for Hindutva, which sought to create a Hindu vote bank. SP had all along played identity politics to the hilt, banking on Muslim votes along with the leaders’ own community’s support, forging the Muslim-Yadav combination. Even now, in these Assembly elections, SP hopes to ride the Muslim insecurities and secure a large chunk of seats. Yet, the party feels compelled to recant its three decades of politics against the Ram temple! Why?The Hindu vote bank seems to have coalesced, at least in the Hindi heartland for the time being. A vote bank does not necessarily mean only one party can harness the communally polarised mandate, for it essentially seeks to project a set of regressive interests in the name of a community or a group. Often these are only of symbolic value, like a Muslim man’s right to marry and divorce according to the Sharia law, violating the common law. Not every Muslim man was marrying four times or divorcing in a jiffy by uttering a word thrice. But the regressive clergy wanted these privileges of the community protected and would support only those who safeguarded these practices in the name of religion. And those parties who wanted to partake of votes of the community twisted the concept of secularism to cast a protective net over these patriarchal values.Congress, SP, the Left parties and every other mainstream party are guilty of promoting the Mullahs in return for votes. But now some of these parties are being forced to play the Hindutva card too. It is not as if they can ever beat the BJP at its game, but the new context demands paying obeisance to Hindutva symbols, just as they promoted Islamist ones. It is this change of context that is being betrayed by Ram Gopal Yadav’s assurance in Parliament, which only implies that a level playing field between the BJP and the SP cannot be created without accepting the demolition of the Babri Masjid and hailing the construction of the Ram temple at that very site. And the SP is compelled to announce its intentions of building the temple faster and better and to clarify that it never opposed the temple at all.Earlier, in January, Akhilesh Yadav began his campaign with a reference to Lord Krishna appearing in his dream. Such tactics are equivalent to the tricks perfected by these very politicians to seek minority votes. Majoritarian politics gets legitimised not when the BJP, gaining Hindu votes, comes to power, but when a party like the SP — which had all along vowed to protect the rights of Muslims — succumbs to the lures of Hindutva politics. Mathura and Lord Krishna too have a majoritarian context because of the temple-mosque controversy, and here too Akhilesh’s SP is making a promise that it would not go against the diktats of Hindutva politics.It can be argued that the SP is only being smart and not getting overwhelmed by the BJP’s Hindutva rhetoric, and subtly nudging the voters away from the Hindu-Muslim discourse. But then it was smart even in 1992, during the Babri demolition, and in subsequent elections to have gained power successfully, empowering the Other Backward Classes with the help of the Muslim clergy. It is not that the SP is suddenly discovering its canny self during elections. It is simply responding to the demands of a vast populace that is emerging as a vote block, seeking parity in regression with other blocks of votes.The BJP government in Karnataka attacking the hijab and the CPI(M)-led government supporting the hijab in neighbouring Kerala are both aiming to lure vote blocks. Since a large section of Hindu voters of Kerala is still not sectarian and votes for considerations other than those of religion, it is still profitable for political parties there to support the more sectarian vote blocks. Hence, all non-BJP political parties gain by supporting the hijab in Kerala, with the same logic the SP is using to root for the Ram temple at Ayodhya.Earlier identity-signalling for communal endorsement was limited to wooing minority votes across the country, but this enterprise over several decades has triggered a reaction, resulting in the consolidation of a majoritarian vote block, at least in the Hindi belt. A glimpse of such a possibility even in a state like Kerala was visible when the Left was routed and the Congress-led alliance won 19 out of 20 Lok Sabha seats in the 2019 elections over the Sabarimala issue. A majoritarian vote block is emerging as a scary reality; one that can force our opportunistic representatives to endorse regressive, communal agendas. And those fighting these pre-modern forces of group anxieties ought to understand that minority vote blocks are not the answer to Hindutva politics. Modernity demands us to eschew identity markers as a whole — hijab, niqab, tilak, rosary, et al — with no exceptions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/majoritarian-vote-block-369069
