13-02-2022||DURING his stint as national coach in 1990-91||How coaches must deal with the stars||When Kumble was India’s coach, he acquired a reputation of a “headmaster”. His methods did not “go down well” with the players, who were “a bit intimidated” — they had been used to the style of Ravi Shastri: More hortatory, more approachable and friendly, less confrontational.Coaching a team with grown-up men involves disciplining them, dealing with them from a position of authority. This can lead to tricky situations. Bedi’s coaching methods worked well in Punjab — he transformed the team and led it to the Ranji Trophy title in 1993 — and Jammu and Kashmir. But at the state level, he was working with players who were below the international class, and their egos were proportionally smaller. Bedi didn’t find much success with the national team and didn’t last long with it. Same with Kumble. The ‘headmaster’ approach doesn’t work in a national team, especially if it’s led by a man such as Virat Kohli, who is strong-minded and iron-willed — and very intelligent and outspoken.Two power centres in a high-pressure national team environment are problematic: Kumble and Kohli didn’t hit it off, and Kumble had to go. That was 2017. A BCCI official then said: “The way the cricket set-up works in India is that the coach is not the king. So the coach has to understand that.”It was felt that Kumble’s intense methods were causing injuries. “Kumble was pushing hard. The bulk of them (injuries) are non-cricketing injuries. One of the players was stressed out. So the team is not a happy lot,” the official said.It must be noted that the most successful captains of India — Kohli, MS Dhoni and Sourav Ganguly — worked best with coaches who were less ‘intense’ but strong in planning and tactics: Shastri, Gary Kirsten and John Wright. They were good man-managers who exhorted the players and guided them without chafing their egos.Langer caseJustin Langer became coach of the Australian team in 2018, soon after the ball-tampering controversy that led to the ouster of Darren Lehman and ban on captain Steve Smith and vice-captain David Warner. Trying to break from the ugly inheritance of cheating and a mentality of winning at “all costs”, he came up with catchphrases such as “elite honesty”. In reaction, former player Shane Warner commented: “That’s just rubbish, that sort of stuff. Seriously, it makes you want to vomit.”Langer, it’s alleged, actually made some players of the current team vomit — using ‘intense’ methods after, it’s reported, he discovered he had been paid less than the players for a documentary for Amazon!Australian media reported that the day Langer found out the players were getting $41,000 more than him to appear in the documentary, he “took half-a-dozen players and torched them with a gruelling fitness and fielding session in the heat”, and the players “suspect the unplanned session was payback”. At least two players vomited.Pat Cummins, the captain, said the players wanted a calmer, more ‘collaborative’ approach than what Langer could provide. Cummins was criticised by former players, including some of Langer’s teammates from his playing days, such as Ricky Ponting and Adam Gilchrist. Cummins said: “To all past players, I want to say this — just as you have always stuck up for your mates, I’m sticking up for mine.” This episode has parallels to the Kohli-Kumble story. Or even the Ganguly-Greg Chappell tussle: A strong-minded Ganguly got a strong-minded Chappell as coach. No good came of it.It could be argued that Australia don’t need a fiery coach: The players are fiery on their own, having come up through the most competitive, cut-throat — on-field — cricket system in the world.It could also be argued that to win consistently, you need an aggressive captain, because most of the on-field decisions are made by the captain in real time; he must be backed by a sharp-minded coach, who must have great hortative abilities. With the Indian team likely to go through a difficult transition period in the near future, Rahul Dravid will have a tough time proving he’s that man.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/how-coaches-must-deal-with-the-stars-369342
13-02-2022||WE had picked up our daughter after her Class 10 exam and our car was crawling through the city traffic when my husband began to read the poster at the back of the bus ahead of us.||This Valentine's Day, let us not be stingy with love||“Matri Pitri Poojan Diwas,” he read slowly, trying to make sense of what he was reading.“Whaaaa?” responded our 16-year-old.When we figured it out, we all laughed. First heartily and then a bit awkwardly. In front of us was one of the many posters that have sprung up all over Delhi to distract young Indians from the romantic connotation of Valentine’s Day on February 14 and to inspire them to dedicate the day towards worshipping their parents. On another poster, we saw images of the Lord Shiva and Parvati, along with young Ganesha. The caption read: Lord Ganesha also celebrated the day as Parents’ Worship Day.“What a sweetheart Ganesha seems to be,” I thought to myself. I don’t want to mock the idea of being extra-reverential towards our parents on any particular day of the year. Rituals and special days are fun. They are a good excuse to pause and appreciate each other with words and acts that make them feel seen. God knows we can all use an extra dose of gentleness from our loved ones.What makes this messaging seem less than well-intentioned is that it tries to eulogise one kind of love and diminish other expressions of it. This makes no sense, as the self-proclaimed guardians of culture who come up with ideas like mother-father worship day probably know all too well. The world was not invented yesterday and the rest of us were not born today morning.As Valentine’s Day approaches this year, I want to honour the multiple ways in which we experience love. The unspoken, unacknowledged gestures of care; the relationships we don’t count when we try to dishonour love and beat it down into narrow, shallow definitions. Or worse, when the attempt is quite blatantly to criminalise love.Love is generosity. It is gratitude. Gentleness.You know it is love when it makes you feel vulnerable. When it inspires you to lower the drawbridge and offer access to your inner, truer self.Love forces us out of our comfort zone. It demands change. It judges us and makes us critique our own self. We reach this difficult stage in romantic love, we crash into it as parents and our best friendships make us confront ourselves as a reward for trusting each other with candidness.Love means bringing out the best of each other. It also means having to endure the worst of each other. Siblings know this from the beginning. Couples discover it, often to their shock and horror. In love, there is a space for confrontation. Walk into it with humility and confidence. Love is power. It holds influence.Love means learning again and again that we are flawed by design. It teaches us to live with disagreements. Love is patience. It means not calling him and asking if he is upset with me. Because he is busy and I am busy and the love is there. Let it be.Love means taking the pain of the other and feeling it in one’s own body. Love is truly a waste of time.Love is knowing when to let go of the beloved because we cannot always nurture our need for intimacies. We keep the memories safe, we let time and distance heal the rest.Love is teachers reaching out to speak to our essential self, beyond the subject they teach. Doctors and healers validating our pain and bearing witness even if they cannot do much to mitigate it. Writers and artists sharing their stories of struggle, loss and triumph, despite their inhibitions.Love is friends returning to seek forgiveness. Messaging each other to let the other know we think of them much more than we manage to connect. They are not alone. They are loved. Love means validating each other’s remnants of childhood trauma.I am happy to report that love is also fun and games. It isn’t just about changing lives and propping each other up. It is in everyday acts, in the small fragments of time when we are doing nothing of consequence.In our family, I watch my adolescent children learn to parent each other. They bully and they protect. They negotiate with us on each other’s behalf. They let the parents know that we can step back. Exhausted from years of being vigilant to their needs, this is the act of love we learn to appreciate.We don’t need to be stingy with love. We can worship our parents and be devoted to our secret crushes at the same time. We can love animals, trees and the sky and be besotted with the humans in our life. We can love friends and be loving towards strangers. None of these come with exclusivity clauses. None of these cancel the other out. Valentine’s Day mubarak to all of you.— The writer is a filmmaker & author.natasha.badhwar@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/this-valentines-day-let-us-not-be-stingy-with-love-369341
13-02-2022||KURSI nu salam’. One often hears this||The Army never forgets its own||If I happen to be around a place where I had served, I make it a point to visit my old office. The incumbent also extends due courtesy. Although I left my unit over 29 years back after serving for over two decades, the greeting cards for birthdays and wedding anniversary invariably reach me at least three days in advance, The card is duly signed by all serving officers, some not even born when I left the unit in 1992. This is followed by WhatsApp messages on the special day. Such is the association and the bond in the Services.The exchange of pleasantries is not limited to officers. Even subordinates in lower ranks often call to exchange regimental news or to enquire about the well-being of each other. My senior and two jawans never fail to give a call or exchange messages on June 13 each year. That was the day in 1974 when we all came out unscathed from a daytime ambush laid by the enemy on the LoC in J&K. I escaped with a few bullets in my turban.We also try to meet annually at functions like Raising Day or Battle Honour Day. If the unit is in a field area, many retired officers make an effort to meet at a central location. The photographs are circulated among serving officers and we are regularly updated on the unit’s achievements and other activities through newsletters.There are strong reasons for such bonds and bonhomie. We have endured temperatures of minus 50 degrees in Siachen Glacier and plus 50 degrees in Rajasthan’s deserts together for days on end. We sat in ice caves for hours in Siachen during artillery shelling by the enemy and men have even served us piping hot tea there.Retired officers of my brother’s unit have devised a system where an officer staying close-by attends events like weddings or bereavement of retired personnel of the unit, irrespective of the rank. While travelling through a remote village in Kumaon hills with my wife, I was stopped by an elderly person. Though he had never served under me, he saluted and introduced himself as a retired Havildar from one of the battalions of my regiment and told me that he had recognised me from the regimental crest on the car bumper. He invited us for tea, but being late for our destination, we had to politely refuse his hospitality, but it was touching beyond words.The highway from Jammu to Leh and even beyond is dotted with memorial stones of soldiers who sacrificed their lives due to accidents or other reasons while performing their duty for the nation. One such memorial was constructed by 11 Guards near Nurla in the memory of Hav Ved Parkash, who died in an accident while the unit was being inducted for duty in Siachen in 1989. In July 2013, while travelling to Leh, I stopped near Nurla to pay my respects to Ved Parkash, but due to a change of road alignment, I found the memorial stone lying near a big boulder. It was in a bad shape and I walked to the nearby unit, asking for help to place the stone at an appropriate place. I gave some money to a Major for the cost of repairs. Within two weeks, I received pictures of the renovated memorial along with the money, with a note from the Commanding Officer of that artillery unit declining to accept the money for such a noble cause.A Havildar of 21 RR, the unit which my son also commanded, who was sanctioned leave after four months, called up his wife to not buy costly fruit for her ‘Karwa Chauth’ fast because he would be bringing a crate of Kashmiri apples. Unfortunately, a day before he was to fly home, he died in an encounter with terrorists. His mortal remains wrapped in the Tricolour reached his home on ‘Karwa Chauth’ along with his belongings and the box of apples he had bought. Since then, the unit has been sending a box of apples each year on ‘Karwa Chauth’ to all its over 50 Veer Naris. Three cheers to the Army!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-army-never-forgets-its-own-369340
13-02-2022||I WAS 14 when I first saw a caravan go by. It was September 13||The unending ordeal||News of riots had started trickling in at Nankana Sahib where the Muslims were not in large numbers. However, in the surrounding villages, their number was high.On this fateful day, there was an announcement by the local authorities to leave. People thought it was for a few days and everyone locked their houses, packed a few days of ration and clothing and left. My family, that included my blind mother, and my elder brother Tirathram and bhabhi, was undecided. Suddenly, someone riding a tonga called out to my brother to jump in. He was the son of the owner of the factory where my brother worked. On a whim, my brother locked the house and all of us sat on the tonga with hardly anything. Unknown to me, my long journey as a refugee had begun.Our caravan had thousands of people, some on bullock carts, some on foot, clutching their meagre belongings. We were headed to Ferozepur. It was normally a three-day journey but it took us 13 eventful days.On the way, our tonga owner invited someone else to drive. As a result, my mother and I had to get down. For 13 days, I led my blind mother on foot. Seeing my plight, she implored me to leave her behind and carry on.There were far more miserable and difficult times ahead on the way. Our convoy was attacked by Muslims near Bhai Pheru (now Phool Nagar, Kasur district). The road to Ferozepur was deliberately dug up and the canal blocked, resulting in floods due to which cholera spread in our convoy. Wells and other water sources had been poisoned along the way, while handpumps had been dug out.Eventually, we reached Balloki headworks near Ferozepur. The area on the Pakistan side of the Ravi river was under the Baloch military. On the other side, the Gorkhas were in charge of security. There had been a delay in the arrival of Gorkha soldiers and the Baloch soldiers had looted and burnt the convoy ahead of us that was coming from Lyallpur. So we waited there till the Gorkha soldiers could accompany us.We stayed on the roadside there for three-four days. From there, we moved to Ludhiana and stayed at a refugee camp. Thereafter, life for the next few years was spent changing camps. My brother and I did many odd jobs — from working as labourers to selling halwa. Not able to sustain, we came to Nabha at another camp being run by the RSS. My brother found a job and the RSS arranged for my education in Amloh. As I started school, Mahatma Gandhi was assassinated. The ensuing tension ensured another shift to Ambala.Making a living was impossible because of the refugee rush, so my brother went to Delhi in search of better prospects and I came to Batala, where my sister and her family had settled after being uprooted from Jaranwala near Nankana Sahib. I started working with my brother-in-law, who had a lock repair shop. After finishing matriculation, I joined my brother in Delhi.My brother and many other families from Nankana Sahib were living in the Kakwan building. It had been bombed out in the riots but had some underground tunnels and bunkers where many refugees were living till the government allotted houses/land to them.I started working in a soap factory at Rs60 a month. Getting orders was difficult because of my reticent nature, so I moved to Jalandhar and started working with Malhotra Book Depot (known as MBD later). They were my maternal relatives. After a few years, I shifted to Chandigarh and started a bookshop in Sector 22 in partnership — I pooled my experience and the other partner provided the funds. After gaining experience, they threw me out after three-four years. I was back to zero. But I didn’t lose heart and started procuring orders from bookshops at Chandigarh and supplying them with books from Jalandhar on a commission basis.Things were improving slowly. I had started a publishing house, and had started printing essay/letter books and English model test papers. It was February 1967. Chandigarh was having its first-ever election. Srichand Goyal was contesting on a Bharatiya Jan Sangh ticket. The RSS told me to take charge as Goyal’s election coordinator with immediate effect. I could not refuse the Sangh’s order even though it meant all my investment in published essays and test papers came to a naught. I was back to square one once again. Goyal, however, won and became the first elected MP from Chandigarh.I started anew as a manager with a Sector 26-based soap agency. I was also working as the general secretary of Jan Sangh. Life was just getting on track when Emergency was declared. The first warrant of Chandigarh under MISA was in my name. The Sangh ordered me to evade arrest and continue the agitation against this draconian measure. For two months, I was on the run. During that period, my wife and little kids were harassed and questioned about my whereabouts. CID personnel kept a constant watch at my house and my family’s movement. Sometimes, hundreds of cops would surround our house and take my wife or young sons to police station. These two months were no better than the Partition hardships. I was finally arrested on August 27, 1975, and remained in jail for 13 months. Post-Emergency, I started afresh once again and established my shop Desraj Tandon & Sons in Chandigarh in 1977. It had taken me 30 years to start a normal life at last.— The writer is a Chandigarh-based shopkeeper (As told to Renu Sud Sinha)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-unending-ordeal-369339
