14-02-2022||Cyber Law Expert||Digital assets await enabling legal framework||The Budget-2022-23 speech of Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has explored a less-travelled path and opened up potential for numerous opportunities. One of its key features is the mention of digital currencies.Till date, India has had fiat currency in the form of the Indian rupee. However, with the increased reliance on the digital format and with more and more Indians jumping on the digital bandwagon, the government has appreciated the need for having a digital currency. That is why the minister has talked about the introduction of the Central Bank Digital Currency (CBDC).The CBDC concept is evolving. In the layman’s language, the coming of cryptocurrencies has propelled the central banks of various countries to think of providing alternatives to cryptocurrencies. The CBDC is often seen as a digital token which is issued by the central bank of a country.Often, the central bank pegs the digital token to the fiat currency of the country concerned. As the Atlantic Council points out, the Central Bank Digital Currency is virtual money, backed and issued by the central bank of the country concerned. The advantage of the CBDC is that it is the responsibility and liability of the central bank of the particular country.In this context, the Budget speech highlights the proposal for the issuance of the digital rupee using block chain and other technologies by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) from 2022-23.The Budget further highlights that there are tremendous advantages of the CBDC in the form of the digital rupee. It is expected that the Indian digital economy is likely to get a tremendous boost with the coming of the Indian digital rupee.Further, it is also envisaged that the digital rupee and digital currency would lead to a more efficient and cheaper currency management system.This represents the dawn of a new chapter as far as the evolution of the digital currency and digital payments in India is concerned.The term ‘digital’ gets referred to at 35 different places in the Budget speech, relating to different aspects of activities in the digital ecosystem.The Budget speech has broken new ground. It has provided for the first time a scheme of taxation of digital assets. India has been seeing a massive increase in cryptocurrencies and crypto-assets. However, it does not have any dedicated legal framework on cryptocurrencies and crypto-assets.It is interesting to note that more and more Indians have been investing in virtual digital assets, thereby leading to an increase in the magnitude and frequency of transactions in virtual digital assets.Further, the speech provides a distinctive scheme for the taxation of virtual digital assets. The salient elements of this scheme are diverse. It provides that any income from the transfer of such assets shall be taxed at the rate of 30 per cent.Secondly, no deduction in respect of any expenditure or allowance is thereby allowed while computing such income from the transaction of virtual digital assets, except the cost of acquisition of these assets.Thirdly, it has been provided that loss from transfer of virtual digital assets cannot be set off from other income.Fourthly, the scheme provides for tax deducted at source (TDS) on payments made in relation to the transfer of virtual digital assets at the rate of one per cent of such considerations above a monetary threshold.The net effect of these proposals is that the government is seeking to expand the ambit of taxation to virtual digital assets. It is here that the Budget speech walks on thin ice.It needs to be noted that India does not have any legal framework on virtual digital assets. In its absence, the 30 per cent taxation slab proposed on the transfer of any virtual digital asset may be perceived by the common man as an acknowledgment of the legality of such an asset.However, this is a grey zone. For the benefit of those dealing in virtual digital assets, it is essential that an enabling legal framework be appropriately framed so as to support the Budget proposal pertaining to the taxation of these assets.Further, such an approach will bring more clarity and help consolidate the growth of the crypto ecosystem in India.The Indian digital rupee would also require some minimal legal enablement. This is so because the digital rupee as a concept is not recognised in the Information Technology Act, 2000. Appropriate amendments would be required to be made under this Act and under the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1935, to provide a minimal legal framework for promoting the digital rupee.The legalities of the digital rupee will also have to be appropriately worked out. There is a need for more clarification in this regard so that more people could be encouraged to use the digital rupee.All said and done, the Budget speech has opened new vistas of opportunities for the digital rupee and virtual digital assets. However, the opportunities have to be supported with an enabling legal framework so as to ensure that India reaps the benefits of virtual digital assets and digital currency in the coming times. #cryptocurrencies #nirmala sitharaman||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/digital-assets-await-enabling-legal-framework-369625
14-02-2022||Commentator and Author||India-China trade ties not on an even keel||The Chinese media has again highlighted the bilateral trade deficit figures of India, even as the Communist Party of China (CPC) inexorably tramples upon New Delhi’s finance and commerce.What began in 1999-2000 with a modest deficit of $743.85 million has skyrocketed to $69.38 billion in 2021. The gap has widened to an unbridgeable extent in recent years. China’s exports to India have today reached $97.52 billion against India’s $28.14 billion to China.What’s worrying is that there’s nothing to suggest that this humongous deficit will be capped any time soon. It’s worrying also because China’s overall 2021 trade surplus has hit a record $676 billion.With such financial and economic muscle having penetrated deep inside India, and the weak Third World countries along with profit-seeking corporations and the stock market monopolists of the West chasing the “Chinese dream” to make dollars, India should be ready for further hijacking of commerce and trade and forcible occupation of territory by the CPC with its expansionist border law.The scenario appears grim. The whole of $69.38-billion trade profit of China is more than that of India’s 2022-23 $65-billion defence budget. In 2021, China turned the “worst of times” for India into its own “best of times”.Thus, while Indians were dying due to the Chinese-origin virus during the second wave of the pandemic, Chinese exports soared to an unprecedented height owing to Delhi’s heightened “distress import” of medical apparatus and raw material of Covid-related products. Delhi’s distress was the Dragon’s gain.Beijing resorted to an aggressive publicity drive through its CPC-controlled print media. The year 2021 was the “dollar over dead body” year fulfilling China’s relentless pursuit for export, cash and profit.So, what next? Can India reduce her addictive dependence on China which has already emerged as a monopoly merchant in the South Asian market? Will India go the way her smaller neighbours are going into the Chinese pocket?It’s an incorrect political question to pose undoubtedly. Yet, it needs to be impressed upon by India herself that unless and until she tries her utmost to come out of over-dependence on sub-standard Chinese products, troubled times could degenerate into a chronic financial disease for the moneyed and mercantile men of India, for their inability to implement the “self-help” slogan.Indeed, this unending outflow of foreign exchange reserves, for buying Chinese stuff, from state coffers, in medium and long terms could well create an avoidable difficulty with $256-billion debt (43% of the total outstanding of $596 billion) maturing in the next 12 months.No doubt India today has a healthy foreign exchange reserve of $632.7 billion (as on January 7, 2022), but occasional dipping of foreign currency assets and value of gold in reserves are potential pressure points, notwithstanding Delhi’s comfort zone of the reserve which is adequate enough to fund more than 12 months’ imports.For India, however, this adverse trade balance and potential depletion of foreign exchange constitutes only a part of the Chinese challenge as it needs to be linked to, and synchronised with, her sovereignty, territorial integrity and unity. India simply cannot be seen to lose territory for trade; as was done by Russia facing the Napoleonic invasion (19th century) and Hitler’s naked aggression (20th century).Thus, with 2021 bumper trade surplus of a record $676 billion, Beijing in 2022 has become a bigger-than-before threat to India, dominating trade with smaller nations and a loss-making India to slowly render them helpless, thereby hastening an inevitable vassalage before the CPC.In fact, the Chinese have wanted India to be just that for several years. Hence, their former World Bank employee audaciously advised India in 2017: “If you are poor, what’s the point of being secure and sovereign, with your own independent state? We in China don’t see things the same way.” Join the “club for cash” and ignore “sovereignty” issues.When will India’s wealthy and influential section of the merchant and trading class give respect to the sovereignty and territorial integrity of their own country? When will they hold the country’s territory over trade and profitability? When will they visit the families of those soldiers whose bodies come back in coffins? Can’t they ever make any contribution to the bereaved widows and orphans? Should they put the entire onus solely on the state to bear the financial compensation to the dead soldier’s kin?That said, today’s bigger picture of the omnipresent Chinese perfidy needs to be borne in mind by the Indian establishment to go all out to extricate the 1.3 billion heads from a potential disaster waiting to happen.Thus wailed FBI Director Christopher Wray: “No country poses a greater threat to the US than the Chinese” which has “stolen staggering volumes of information” and causes deep job destroying damage across a wide range of industries, so much so that “we are opening new cases... every 12 hours.”The FBI Director should know better. It’s the wealthy Wall Street corporations who have damaged the Washington state most. It’s simple: They entered the Dragon’s sanctum sanctorum for dollars; they are trapped and any attempt to extricate oneself from the Dragon’s gang will result in inevitable fatality.Coming back to India, it seems there’s no end to Delhi’s agony. Day in and day out, India appears to be weakening herself. Else, how the espionage-riddled Chinese telecom gets it? Huawei bagging Rs 150 crore Airtel deal? How come Vodafone-Idea has “given... expansion contract to ZTE? How the Chinese companies are getting respite inside India despite all crimes in the hinterland? How will India deal with a bigger threat to her safety, security, unity, integrity and sovereignty?By only through diplomatic semantics in meet-the-press briefings! And taking “note of” and expressing “concern” and “regret” through the media? Let’s be real. Chinese communists are bigger capitalists than the capitalists. Today’s Chinese officials have become venture capitalists.So, it’s no longer a surprise to find Chinese-owned non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) committing massive fraud in India and getting booked under the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA).The single aim of the CPC is profit, that too at any cost, by ravaging the economies of other countries, in which India is a primary target. Hope India realises the reality, now at least. #China||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/india-china-trade-ties-not-on-an-even-keel-369623
14-02-2022||Strategic Analyst||Pakistan back to old games||In a five-year-long parallel effort by UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and South Korea’s First Lady Kim Jung-sook to claim Ayodhya’s legacy, the South Korean lost out last week. On February 27, in the fifth phase of polling in UP, voters in Ayodhya will decide whether Adityanath’s party, the BJP, will fare any better than the First Lady.Last week’s social media posts on behalf of foreign companies operating in Pakistan to mark ‘Kashmir Solidarity Day’ constitute a well-laid trap for India.Ayodhya has been a sweetener in the flourishing bilateral relations between India and South Korea: until some Pakistanis decided to be the fly in the ointment as it were. Social media posts on behalf of South Korean companies expressing solidarity with pro-Pakistan Kashmiris now threaten to disrupt years-long, laser-focused efforts to develop South Korea into one of India’s most important external economic and foreign policy priorities. The long sequence of events over four days to salvage this relationship is best described in the words of Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) spokesperson Arindam Bagchi.‘We had seen a social media post on the so-called Kashmir Solidarity Day was made by Hyundai Pakistan. Immediately, on 6th February, our Ambassador in Seoul contacted the Hyundai headquarters and sought an explanation. The offending post had been removed subsequently. The Ambassador of the Republic of Korea (RoK) was summoned by the MEA on 7th February. The strong displeasure of the government on the unacceptable social media post was conveyed to him. It was highlighted that this matter concerned India’s territorial integrity on which there could be no compromise. We expected the company to take appropriate action to properly address these issues. Foreign Minister of RoK, Chung Eui-yong called External Affairs Minister on 8th February. RoK Foreign Minister also conveyed that they regretted the offence caused to the people and Government of India by the social media post.’Kim’s immediate predecessor as First Lady, Kim Yoon-ok, claims to be a direct descendant of Princess Suriratna of Ayodhya, who travelled to Korea in 48 BC at the age of 16 and married Korean King Kim Suro. Surirana subsequently became Queen Heo Hwang-ok of Geumgwan Gaya, what is now Gimhae city in South Korea. It was during the presidency of Kim Dae-jung, another descendant of Queen Heo, that India and South Korea decided to set up a memorial in Ayodhya for its Princess Suriratna, who has an important place in Korean history. In 2018, the incumbent First Lady Kim went to Ayodhya to inaugurate the renovated memorial, now known as Queen Heo Hwang-ok Memorial Park.What Adityanath has done in Ayodhya is well known and he reminds Indians every day of it — on television, newspapers, billboards etc. All the more, in the run-up to the UP election. His efforts have been immense compared to South Korean activity in Ayodhya. Yet, in the seven years since Modi became PM and devoted special attention to relations with Seoul, the legend of Princess Suriratna and South Korea’s Ayodhya connection has caught the imagination of Indians. It gave a special flavour to India-Korea friendship, which now threatens to unravel because of Pakistan’s mischief.Last week’s social media posts on behalf of foreign companies operating in Pakistan to mark the so-called Kashmir Solidarity Day constitute a well-laid trap for India. It is absolutely vital for New Delhi’s external affairs that India does not fall into this trap. Indications in the one week since Hyundai became a household name in India — for reasons which are viewed unfavourably — are not promising.To start with, most Indians have not comprehended that it was Hyundai’s franchisee in Pakistan, the Nishat Group, which put out tributes ‘commemorating the sacrifices of Kashmiris struggling for self-determination’ on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. Hyundai, the South Korean conglomerate, had no part in it. The Nishat Group is Pakistan's largest business house, one of the 22 families which own Pakistan. After the army, it is these 22 families which notoriously control Pakistan. The Imran Khans and the Nawaz Sharifs matter less than these families in Pakistan’s curious and opaque state of play.The Bhuttos and the Sharifs come and go in Pakistan. They can be imprisoned at will. Before or after Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto’s time in the most powerful office, none of these 22 families have endured any suffering in Pakistan. It was Bhutto who paid with his life for harassing these families, which was among his many fatal follies. If Indians overlook the reality that conglomerates like the Nishat Group have a cosy relationship with the army and have their own agendas, it will be a big mistake.This is not to say that Hyundai can wash its hand of the conundrum. Indeed, they did not. They did the best they could under the circumstances. As soon as the parent Hyundai Motor Company became aware of its franchisee’s deliberate mischief, they reacted promptly and decisively, albeit red-faced. ‘It is clearly against Hyundai Motor’s policy that the independently-owned distributor in Pakistan made unauthorized Kashmir-related media posts from their own accounts.’ The key words in the statement are ‘from their own accounts’ and ‘unauthorized’. This is Hyundai’s dilemma in Pakistan. The statement added that the distributor misused Hyundai’s brand identity and has been firmly told that what they did was inappropriate.Why did the Nishat Group do what it did? Or for that matter why did Pakistani franchisees for KFC, Pizza Hut, Schwabe, Honda, Isuzu, Kia Motors, Bosch Pharmaceuticals, Osaka Batteries all do what Hyundai did on Kashmir last week in one way or another? All these multinational corporations are represented in Pakistan by one or other of the 22 rich families. This is what Indians who were out on the streets last week protesting against Hyundai and are still ranting on social media should pause to consider. #hyundai #Pakistan||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/pakistan-back-to-old-games-369622
