15-02-2022||Senior Journalist||BJP faces spirited challenge in Uttar Pradesh||The crucial Uttar Pradesh elections are not going according to plan for the ruling BJP. In a state with changing demographics, this battle has variations as the state votes in seven phases. But in the first phase of polling on February 10, the Jat voter, alienated from the BJP after the farm protests, created a momentum that has kickstarted the opposition’s game. In districts such as Muzaffarnagar, Shamli, Baghpat, Meerut and parts of Mathura, this assertive peasant caste came out in large numbers and almost surrounded polling centres, exhorting people to vote for the SP-RLD alliance.Worryingly for the BJP, the second-phase seats have voted in districts with the largest Muslim population in the state. The figure goes up to 50 to 60 per cent on some seats in Moradabad, Rampur and Amroha, besides substantial numbers in other districts. Although multiple Muslim candidates contest on each seat, most minority voters have coalesced around the SP that is seen as a winning front. Besides, this is also the area where in the face of the BJP wave of 2017, the SP had held on to some seats.The third phase of voting on February 20 stretches across swathes of west UP to the central parts of the state. This phase also covers Etah, Etawah and Mainpuri districts with a large Yadav presence. Like the Jats, the Yadavs are very enthusiastic about voting out the BJP. Akhilesh Yadav, the former CM and SP chief, also stands from the seat of Karhal in Mainpuri district and his presence can be a force multiplier in the third phase. In the complex socio-political realities of Uttar Pradesh, there are communities that can be seen as ground influencers and Jats and Yadavs fall into that category. Historically, both caste groups have played a role in bringing about social and political change and transforming the power dynamic. This means that it’s not the number of their own votes alone that counts, but their capacity to change the atmospherics and chemistry. In the last elections, many Yadavs too had supported the BJP but they are now returning to the SP and whipping up a tailwind.The fight therefore is intense for every seat. The ground machinery of the BJP is superior. They have mapped each constituency and cadres are making an outreach in a systematic way, door to door and through social media. There is a scientific system they are following, that includes lists of their own supporters and an attempt to chip off individuals and/or enhance divisions in the opposition vote. They are operating with a better skill set and statistically, the BJP is formidable in the state, winning 40 per cent of the vote in the last assembly poll and nearly 50 per cent in the 2019 election. In the last seven years, with the PM shifting his seat to Varanasi and with Yogi Adityanath chosen to be the chief minister, Uttar Pradesh has also been seen to be the new Hindutva laboratory after Gujarat.But in this election, the communal chatter on the ground has not reached the threshold necessary to create a so-called Hindu mobilisation that historically helps the BJP. Yet the national party’s core voter stands with them as does a section of the workers who have lived off free rations in the months of the pandemic. What is different is that the BJP is not really being heard as many of the issues they are raising are not finding a resonance with people. This means that even voters who like the CM and PM have no great recall right now about what their agenda really is. The PM’s recent rallies, such as the one in Saharanpur, drew poor crowds and a party that usually excels in creating a narrative is having to respond to the agenda set by the opposition. Yet, some of the weaker sections of society, that have been the beneficiaries of welfare schemes, are being mobilised quietly to vote for the ruling party.The SP-led opposition conversely finds method in a sort of chaotic madness that can be seen in a campaign that varies from seat to seat. These parties have given tickets to those seen to be the strongest candidates and then left it to the nominees to subsequently organise the campaign. But the SP is also a rooted party in the state and its way of marking a presence has been to distribute thousands of red caps. Across the state, one now sees red caps bobbing up and down. It is a psychologically strong way to mark its presence. So, while the BJP cadre is moving with spreadsheets and a plan, the SP worker is there with a cap and lots of josh (passion). Crucially, the party believes it has offset the BJP’s advantage of being in power by the promise to revive the old-age pension scheme for all retired government servants and teachers; the state machinery will not therefore be hostile, the SP hopes.The SP seems to have understood the skill of narrative creation. So much so that after the first phase of voting, Akhilesh Yadav decided to withdraw spokespersons from television debates for the time being. The thinking is that the election speaks for itself when all the alliance leaders are giving regular interviews and being covered on the campaign trails. The SP does not want to be side-tracked by debates created by a section of the broadcast media that is seen to be working to help the BJP.By the time the fourth phase kicks in and proceeds till the seventh and last phase on March 7, the election will move to regions where the number of forward castes, such as Thakurs and Brahmins increases. Both social groups generate momentum and influence others to vote. It is in these parts, extending from central to east UP, that the SP-led alliance hopes to pitch the election as backward versus forward, and play on the original Mandal formula. So far, the alliance has the momentum and the BJP the machinery. Whether the BJP loses a hundred seats or the entire state, it is facing a very spirited challenge that’s actually grown from a severe economic downturn. #up poll||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/bjp-faces-spirited-challenge-in-uttar-pradesh-369914
15-02-2022||Amit CowshishEx-financial Adviser||Military modernisation lacks enough funds||Rahul BediSenior JournalistIndia’s defence budget for the upcoming financial year indicates, yet again, the ever widening gap between the vast money customarily demanded by the armed forces and the relatively modest outlay allocated to them in return, by the federal government.Like its previous editions, the military budget for the financial year 2022-23, or FY-23, was little more than a regurgitation of routine and predictable notions to overcome the enduring resource crunch and an overall reluctance to accept fiscal reality in an economically depressed milieu.The total defence outlay of Rs 5.25 trillion for FY-23 represented a year-on-year growth of 9.82%, which, though higher than the FY-22 allocation, was lower in gross domestic product terms, which had dropped from 2.15% to 2.04%. Its share in the total Central government expenditure too has declined from 13.73% to 13.31% at a time India faces a collusive threat along its northern and western borders from nuclear rivals China and Pakistan operating in tandem.Disturbingly, the abiding gap between the demands of the services for enhanced capital and revenue expenditure for military modernisation and operating expenses, including salaries, too had progressively widened from Rs 23,000 crore in FY 2010-11 to Rs 1,25,480 crore in FY-22.According to the Ministry of Defence’s (MoD) own estimates that were conveyed to the 15th Finance Commission that wound up in late 2020, the defence budget shortfall in FY-23 could be as high as Rs 2.81 trillion. Over half this amount or some Rs 1.62 trillion was for capital expenditure aimed at military modernisation and augmenting operational capability.One of the defence budget’s principal challenges, however, remains the ever escalating salary bill of the services that comprises a major share of the revenue budget which caters primarily to operating expenses. This salary component had almost doubled from 36.81% of the services’ total revenue budget in FY-01 to 66.94%, or Rs 1,49,403 crore in FY-23.The increase in the salary bill of the Army, the most manpower intensive of all the three services, was the sharpest, escalating from 40.36% of its individual revenue budget to 70.78%, or Rs 1,16,707.31 crore for the same two-decade period FY-01 onwards.Conversely, this massive hike was in inverse proportion to the forces’ stores budget, which catered variously to expenditure on rations, clothing, equipment spares, ammunition and other sundry combat and support kit to keep India’s military battle-worthy. This allocation had dropped by over a quarter from 43.65% to 16.18% during the aforementioned time span for all the three services. Alongside, it had spawned a similar ‘crowding out’ of the services’ ‘works’ budget that catered to expenditure on vital civil infrastructure of buildings and varied installations. This too had declined by almost half, from 9.62% in FY-01 to 5.7% in FY-23, equalling a mere Rs 12,728 crore.The magnitude of these deficiencies can be gauged from the MoD’s assessment, conveyed to the Finance Commission that the services would face a collective shortfall of Rs 6.79 trillion in their revenue expenditure for FY 21-26, a precipitous gap that could eventually impact operational efficiency adversely.The obvious reality these numbers reveal is that resources to meet the operational expenses of the services was progressively contracting at a time when they needed them the most, as their responsibilities had multiplied manifold following the continuing stand-off with China’s People’s Liberation Army in eastern Ladakh that began in May 2020. Manpower and salary related issues assume even greater financial significance, as they were interlocked with pension payments, which too had grown almost ten-fold from Rs 12,000 crore in FY-01 to Rs 1.19 trillion in FY-23, and were poised to proliferate further.Similarly, monetary woes besieged the services capital outlay which had grown a modest 8.5 times from Rs 17,926 crore to Rs 1.52 trillion during the same 20-year period. With an overwhelming proportion of the capital budget, reportedly as high as 85-90%, being consumed by committed liabilities, or payment for previously acquired materiel, limited funds were left over to execute new acquisitions. Former Army Vice Chief Lt Gen Sarath Chand (retd) had told the parliamentary standing committee on defence in 2018 that the marginal budgetary hike had ‘dashed their hopes’ of modernising the force. He further stated that the capital allocation for the Army’s modernisation was ‘insufficient’ even to cater to committed payments or money already owed.On closer inspection, such fundamental issues find no mention in Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s budget speech, obscured as they were by grandstanding and populist measures guaranteed to grab headlines. Sitharaman made two such announcements: that 68% of the capital acquisition budget would be reserved for domestic material procurement in FY-23 — up from 58% in the current fiscal. She further announced that 25% of the research and development budget which, in all likelihood, formed part of the overall capital budget of Rs 11,981 crore allotted to the Defence Research and development Organisation (DRDO), would be set aside for the local industry, start-ups and academia to design military equipment to further self-reliance in defence equipment. Both pronouncements might be music to India’s defence industry, promoting indigenisation to some extent, but it would in no way help resolve the overall problem of scarcity of funds for modernisation.However, amid all the budget’s financial jugglery, the hike in capital allocation for the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) — up from Rs 2,500 crore in FY-22 to Rs 3,500 crore in FY-23 — and the Indian Coast Guard (ICG) — up from Rs 2,650 crore to Rs 4,246.37 crore — were long overdue. Both outlays reinforced the government’s resolve to augment the country’s border and coastal infrastructure, which for long, had featured only as footnotes in the previous defence budgets.In conclusion, the FY-23 defence budget was more or less in consonance with previous versions, but once more had failed to address the fundamental problems of inadequate capital and revenue outlays. Several military analysts and retired and serving service personnel said it also lacked a ‘road map’ for comprehensive and viable defence financial planning and for networking the myriad capabilities of several MoD instrumentalities like the DRDO, the Indian Coast Guard and the Border Roads Organisation, amongst others. The high-level Defence Planning Committee, set up in 2018, was mandated with this unifying role, but like many others of its ilk, it too appears to have walked into the sunset. #indian defence||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/military-modernisation-lacks-enough-funds-369907
15-02-2022||Distinguished Fellow||Australia warms up to India||Nothing better demonstrates the churn in the Indo-Pacific as the manner in which Australia turned from being a close partner of China to an adversary, all within the space of four years.Australia could become a major partner, but India must not only revive economic growth and revitalise trade policies, but also ensure social peace.In 2014, the two countries agreed to a ‘comprehensive strategic partnership’. Four years later, the relationship hit an iceberg. In some ways it was not too different from the Indian experience, though New Delhi never quite warmed up to Beijing as Canberra did. But the Wuhan and Chennai summits of 2018 and 2019 seemed to suggest that everything was going great, despite issues like Doklam, and then in 2020, the Chinese were all over eastern Ladakh.A lot of what happened was the outcome of China’s changed behaviour — its assertiveness along its maritime edge with Japan and the South China Sea and on the landward side with India. This was accompanied by crackdowns in Xinjiang and then Hong Kong and the launch of its ‘wolf warrior’ diplomacy.All of this began to nudge both India and Australia closer to the United States, which had by 2017 realised that Beijing had been using Washington’s engagement policy to undermine American interests.The signs of trouble were evident in Beijing when Canberra banned Huawei from its 5G network in 2018. Already concerns were being raised about the role of Chinese influence operations in Australian politics. But things went from bad to worse when Canberra joined the chorus for an investigation into the origins of the Covid-19 pandemic in 2020. These actions were viewed by Beijing as part of the Trump administration’s attack on China.By the end of 2020, China had systematically blocked a range of Australian exports — coal, barley, beef, copper ore, sugar, wine and timber. But for their part the Aussies doubled down, hitting at the influence operations, participating in the enhanced Quad meetings, tearing up the Victoria state’s BRI deals, and at the end of 2021, supporting the diplomatic boycott of the Winter Olympics.In April 2021, Home Affairs Secretary Mike Pezzullo declared that ‘free nations’ were once again hearing ‘the drums of war’ in a prelude to Australia signing a new security alliance with the US and UK, called AUKUS, in September.So, it is not a surprise that India and Australia have been looking at each other with greater interest in the past year. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar’s visit to Australia last week marks a new phase in the relationship between the two countries.The distance between Melbourne and New Delhi is almost the same as the one between New York and the capital. Australia is, indeed, far away and this distance is accentuated by the fact that it does not have the kind of salience that the US has on the Indian mind. Yet, Australia, though a country of just 25 million, is a rich country, with a 2021 nominal GDP of $1.6 trillion, almost as much as Russia.People-to-people ties between India and Australia have been growing since the beginning of this millennium. Some 6,19,000 people said in the last census that they were of ethnic Indian background. Indians are migrating to Australia in large numbers and 1,15,000 students were studying there in 2020 before the Covid disruption.As part of the general shift away from non-alignment of his mother and grandfather, Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi had reached out to the region in 1986 through official visits to Australia and New Zealand. It was only 28 years later that Modi followed.The Aussies, who also view themselves as an Indian Ocean power, had harboured suspicions of India in the 1980s and 1990s. A flashpoint came in the unduly harsh treatment meted out to India by Australia in the wake of the 1998 nuclear test. It took a long time for New Delhi to get over it. Many have not forgotten the Australian role in torpedoing the first Quad in 2008.Blame it on Covid or coincidence, but 2020 was the year in which both Canberra and New Delhi began to get together finally after falling out with Beijing and even signed a ‘comprehensive strategic partnership’ agreement.India and Australia are now on track to build durable relations. While one part of the security equation has been taken care of by AUKUS, the two can perhaps shape defence ties based on their common interests in the Indian Ocean Region.Simultaneously, they can focus on the opportunities offered by the Quad grouping. In their first-ever summit in March 2021, the Quad leadership widened the remit of their organisation towards shared partnerships in areas like vaccine manufacture and distribution, climate change, critical and emerging technologies. Quad has a long-term vision of promoting infrastructure and ‘quality’ development in the region, as well as creating ‘trusted and resilient supply chains’ away from China.India and Australia will embed their strategic ties in the larger Quad engagement, which importantly includes Japan. Additionally, India stands to benefit from Australia and Japan’s deep networks and knowledge of the ASEAN region.India-Australia annual two-way trade in goods and services is just about $18 billion, whereas Australia’s trade with China is in excess of $150 billion. Efforts are on to finally work out an FTA. With its resources like coal, iron ore, other minerals, agricultural products, education and skills training and healthcare, it could become a major partner in India’s growth story. But a lot of that presupposes India being able to get its act together, not only in terms of reviving its economic growth and revitalising its trade policies, but also ensuring social peace in an increasingly divided country. #Australia #China||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/australia-warms-up-to-india-369900
