16-02-2022||---||Europe in state of uncertainty over Ukraine crisis||THE second largest country in Europe, with a population of 43.8 million, Ukraine has always aspired for independence. With rolling plains and river valleys, the land is unequally divided by the 980-km course of the Dnieper river. It is gifted with a long coastline on the Black Sea and the Sea of Azov. Dnieper, with great historic and emotional significance, has in the past facilitated division of the country between competing powers. The landmass was trifurcated and in recent history till June 22, 1917, was bifurcated between Poland and Russia. From the time of Tsarist Russia, the Black Sea coast and Sevastopol have been coveted strategic assets, for trade and power projection. Through all the vagaries of time and power politics, Kyiv and the Ukrainian people remained a great bulwark of the eastern Slavic culture, as well as the centre of the Eastern Orthodox Church of Ukraine.The present incendiary environment between Ukraine and Russia, together with the larger players, echoes an earlier strategic crisis. While a powerless League of Nations failed to prevent World War II, today the empowered UN has been successfully emasculated by polarisation among the five permanent members of the Security Council. Attitude to Ukraine as a nation as well as a territory carries a flavour of the view on Czechoslovakia, at the height of the Sudeten crisis of 1938. The veiled threats and precipitous military developments bring back memories of the Cuban Missile Crisis of 1962. Viewed classically, insensitivity to Ukraine’s legitimate aspirations are a negation of the concept of the Westphalian state and international law.Ukraine, with 77.8% Ukrainians and 17.3% people of Russian origin, even under the Soviet regime had the right to independent foreign relations and the right to maintain an independent military. Both Ukraine and Belarus were independent members of the UN. While these functions became constrained by the Soviet Constitution of 1977, Ukraine was quick to declare autonomy on July 16, 1990, as well as independence on August 24, 1991, as the Soviet Union unravelled. The present crisis must be viewed in the light of definitive protests of the Orange Revolution (2004-05) and the Euromaidan protests in Kyiv of 2014. Ukrainian consciousness, though internally split, has convincingly asserted its desire to be in control of its own future; consequently, the desire to be a member of the European Economic Union and the attempt to be a NATO member in 2008. Ukraine seeks to unshackle from Russia.Demography and geography, however, weigh against this. To the east of the Dnieper, large sections of the Russian minority are linked to Russia. The 2014 annexation of the Crimean peninsula, securing of the Black Sea bases by Russia is a reality. Russia provided gas to Ukraine, which it stopped in 2015, forcing a more expensive import from Poland and Hungary. Overland pipelines from Siberia to Europe cross through Ukraine, yielding transit benefits. The flow since 2014 has been cut back and in 2020 dropped by 25%. Russia now intends to divert gas flows through Nord Stream 2 and Turk Stream, further impacting Ukraine’s economy. Enveloped by Belarus and Russia on three sides, Ukraine has not been without Russian overwatch for decades. While Russia claims the violation of the Minsk agreement of 2014, it is silent on the guarantees it gave on sovereignty in the 1994 Budapest Memorandum. It is at Budapest that Ukraine voluntarily gave up nuclear weapons and also undertook huge demobilisation.Russian politico-military posturing and deployments are in tune with their strategic assertion. The conflict in Syria provided Russia with the opportunity to perfect their expeditionary capabilities as well as hone tri-services combat execution. Russia has always had the capability of bleeding Ukraine in an insurgency centred in the eastern Donbass region. Ukraine due to its voluntary massive demilitarisation and lack of military modernisation, is largely indefensible. The present overpowering deployments along the Russian and Belarus frontier, are unmatchable by Ukraine. It is a time-tested stratagem, to militarily overawe an inferior adversary and keep denying offensive intent. Using Ukraine as a fulcrum, Russia seeks leverage with Europe, NATO and the US.Europe faces tough choices. As much as 50% of the EU gas supplies are from Russia. Some countries are 100% dependent and more significant economies like Germany and France, 50% and 25% dependent. There are no short-term alternatives to Russian gas. Most NATO members are recipients. The US spectrum of possible sanctions will have to take into consideration NATO sensibilities. Ukraine is not a NATO member. It has an inability to defend itself. The US does not have a combat in theatre presence and will not risk such a presence. Given the proximal dynamics, the Russian stance is for now on a ‘strategic high ground’.In the recent press interview post the conference with French President Macron, President Putin has flagged the danger of Ukraine becoming a NATO member and dragging NATO into an unwanted war. He has alluded to a nuclear outcome to this future war. Russia’s assessed 4,500 nuclear warheads remain a potent reality. The 21st century, however, has a very dominant element of unpredictability. If Russia remains undeterred and escalates militarily, it will soon enough enter a dangerous terrain. All said, the US is a nuclear superpower and has an incomparable ‘intelligent’ and ‘no contact’ war-fighting capability. Resultantly, Russia may suffer unintended consequences.The Indian embassy in Kyiv has asked Indian nationals to leave the country temporarily, while the US is relocating its embassy to the western city of Lviv. While negotiations and parleys to avoid a conflict continue, it is the new strategic paradigm that we need to appreciate. There is an overpowering convergence between Russia and China. Russia seeks its mantle of greatness. China, convinced of its own pre-eminent future, disregards all rules of international ‘business’ unless it benefits its ends and intentions. Post-world wars, international institutions are consciously targeted or disregarded. Tandem vetoes and co-positions in the UNSC have successfully stymied the UN as evident in Syria, Myanmar and Ukraine. With an untrustworthy and brooding Chinese presence along our northern borders, we need to remain conscious of this ‘strategy of impunity’, which so ideally suits the Chinese psyche as well.There seems to be a shared learning between China and Russia. China was the first to analyse and compliment the Russian methods and operational outcomes in the Syrian war. Russia has chosen to create ‘facts on the ground’, a methodology followed by China in the South China Sea. Russia has carried out an envelopment of frontiers with respect to Ukraine with expeditious use of Belarus territory. China can be expected to use similar methods when expedient along our northern borders. Composite crisis seldom has simple outcomes. Consequences of the Ukraine crisis will cast a long shadow on international power dynamics.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/europe-in-state-of-uncertainty-over-ukraine-crisis-370188
16-02-2022||---||The limitations that cops face during polls||SOMETIME back, we saw video clips that showed candidates making threatening statements to other contestants in their Assembly constituencies, as also direct threats to voters at some places. The current elections in five states have witnessed communal speeches, flouting of the pandemic protocols as well as the Election Commission’s directions regarding prohibition of public meetings, and reports of polling officials being beaten up.Such incidents that become known are only the tip of the iceberg as much more happens. It is the responsibility of the police to take action as per the law immediately. In view of the instant electronic evidence availability, there should be no difficulty in making arrests and taking further action. But that doesn’t happen. And since there is no deterrence, this dismal show goes on, much to the dismay of the citizens.Why don’t the police take action? The basic reason is the political pressure if those belonging to the ruling party are involved in such misconduct and the apprehension of action being taken against the policemen if the opposition parties doing wrong things come to power.This sad state of affairs is due to the fact that the police forces in the states have become like the private armies of the ruling political parties because the cops are accountable to the government, that is the political party in power, and not to the law or to Parliament. The situation has deteriorated to such an extent that even the security of the Prime Minister was put at risk recently in Punjab.In regard to the elections, the police have other pressures and problems on hand. Even though officially the election season is for about two months — like currently, the Election Commission announced the poll dates in mid-January and the vote counting is on March 10 — for the police, the season starts a few months in advance of the announcement and continues after the results are declared due to victory rallies or possible post-poll violence, as it happened in West Bengal on a big scale recently. So, the police are generally busy for about five months during the elections to the state Assemblies and then during the elections to the Lok Sabha additionally.The election-related job of the police is manifold. It includes providing security to the candidates, making law and order arrangements during public meetings and rallies, escorting of polling parties and securing the ballot boxes, making arrangements in the booths, keeping violence in check, registering FIRs and investigating crimes committed during this period, collecting intelligence, ensuring peaceful polling and counting of votes, handling victory processions, helping other agencies conduct raids to unearth unauthorised cash, ensuring compliance of pandemic protocols and directions of the Election Commission — the list goes on. And, they have to do all this in addition to their normal policing work.Let us look at their resources. Their sanctioned strength is much less than the required strength which should, in fact, regularly increase due to the increase in the population and, hence, crime, including new types of crimes like cyber crimes. And the additional strength, if sanctioned, should be accompanied by support systems like transport, communications, weapons, computers, forensic support, buildings, residential accommodation etc.But not only is there no proportional increase, the existing strength also has about 30 per cent vacancies. Many police stations do not even have the basic facilities. As recently as on February 10, the Standing Committee on Home Affairs in its report on the police tabled in Parliament stated that 257 police stations in India do not have any vehicle, 638 are without a telephone, and 143 without a wireless set or mobile phone. Financially also, not sufficient support is given to the police. The police modernisation amount announced by the Central government a few days ago is Rs 26,275 crore for five years. But out of this, more than Rs 18,000 crore will go towards security-related expenditure in Jammu and Kashmir, Left wing extremism areas and the North-East. So, nothing much is left for improving the police functioning in other states. And the states themselves hardly spend the required money on the police.Thus, the police face a lot of difficulties. They work under a lot of pressure and stress and yet are expected to deliver without fault. Of course, they still do a lot of good work, but they get no appreciation. All they get is a lot of flak all the time.During the elections, the Central Armed Police Forces are also deployed in large numbers, mainly the CRPF. Their battalions and companies keep moving from one place to another by all kinds of transport to help in the conduct of the next phase of elections in the same state or different states which are sometimes far off. Like, at present, some will move from one part of UP to another or to another state like Uttarakhand, Punjab, Goa or Manipur.It involves a lot of logistics as they have to move lock, stock and barrel, even carrying rations and fuel with them. On reaching the locations, at times they don’t get enough rest or accommodation or other basic amenities, amounting to living and working in inhuman conditions. Then, different forces have different set-ups in their formations and that also, at times, creates problems during deployment.The police should be given proper strength, logistics, finances and freedom from political control if they are expected to act fast and impartially as per the law during the elections and other times. Additionally, it will be good to have some extra strength sanctioned exclusively for election work in each state as elections are a regular occurrence. It will ease the burden on the police and allow them to do their normal work during elections also.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-limitations-that-cops-face-during-polls-370181
16-02-2022||---||Not as good as their word||HIGHFALUTIN titles never signify a sincerity of intent. In Uttar Pradesh’s election season, grandiose claims are not scarce. Short of proclaiming there’s heaven on earth, political leaders conjure every trick there is. Last week, the poll manifestos put out by three parties—the SP, BJP and Congress—flaunted titles that combined purpose with hyperbole. The SP’s document was called ‘Samajwadi Vachan Patra’ and the BJP’s ‘Lok Kalyan Sankalp Patra’. The Congress, which appears to be a peripheral player, released the ‘Unnati Vidhan’. The BSP is going without a policy statement, although its leader Mayawati now and then makes declarations in her speech.Unmistakable in the string of promises contained in each manifesto was the shadow of the farmers’ agitation.Unmistakable though in the string of promises contained in each manifesto was the shadow of the farmers’ agitation that rocked parts of UP and coalesced the dissent against the Centre’s laws with the state government’s failure to address the core issues of sugarcane farmers. The kisan andolan formed the backdrop of a party’s policy statements. The SP — which believes it is best placed to capitalise on the agrarian unrest with its ally, the RLD — declared that by 2025, all farmers would be debt-free, for which a debt relief law will be passed to alleviate the sufferings of small and marginal farmers. Central to the SP’s pre-electoral pitch was free electricity for irrigation (farmers complained that power consumption in fields was unmetered and the rate was ‘arbitrarily’ fixed) along with interest-free loans, an insurance cover and pension. In the light of a serious shortage of di-ammonium phosphate and urea before the sowing season in October-November 2021, the SP stated farmers owning less than two acres would also get two bags of DAP and five bags of urea. In a few places, sowing was put off because the vital inputs were not available. It was said urea supplies were diverted to plywood mills which are a major consumer and constitute a powerful economic lobby.The BJP was on the back foot ever since the farmers’ protests snowballed into a movement that caused a law and order crisis. Unlike the demonstrations against the CAA that were quelled by the police and converted into a politically polarising issue, the farmers were not easy pickings. Things reached a boiling point when the son of a Central minister, Ajay Mishra Teni, mowed down farmers protesting peacefully at Lakhimpur Kheri. Ashish Mishra was subsequently arrested and jailed, but released last week, leading to an outcry among the peasantry.The BJP’s manifesto was not as expansive on agriculture as the SP’s, but held out assurances of free electricity for irrigation, modernising sugar mills, setting up new sugar cooperatives and guaranteeing settlement of payment backlog with interest within 14 days. The last is a pledge nearly every party takes before an election, but rarely redeems it.The Congress tried to be one up on the BJP by promising to waive aside farm loans within 10 days of coming to power and purchasing the cash crops at enhanced prices. However, the Congress was also the only party to address the problem arising from the rogue cattle let loose by their owners because the Yogi regime stringently enforced a law against bovine slaughter which prohibited the sale of unproductive animals to the abattoirs. The cattle are supposed to be housed in specially made shelter homes, but these are few and far between and the animals just too many left to pillage fields. The Congress affirmed a monetary compensation for damaged land and offered to purchase dung at Rs 2 per kg as an incentive to retain sterile animals.Among the standout points in the manifestos was the SP’s promise to create an Urban Employment Guarantee Act modelled after the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act to augment employment and restore the old pension system for superannuated government employees and teachers—a big constituency in UP. The BJP government persisted with the National Pension Scheme (introduced by the Centre in 2004) under which the pension’s worth depends on the corpus saved by an employee at retirement and is subject to the fluctuations in investment value. The notion of subjecting savings to market vagaries unnerved several ex-employees, although the BJP government tried to convince that the NPS was ‘more beneficial’ because the amount received could be invested in other saving schemes. Employees preferred the old pension scheme which they saw as a security net because an employee got an assured amount, regardless of how much contribution was made towards her pension during her working years. The SP’s promise had kindled interest and enthusiasm among the government employees, most of whom were committed to the BJP since 1989.The BJP was caught between addressing its core Hindutva constituency and pandering to the demands and expectations of the larger electorate it had formed over the years. After a string of averments on welfare programmes, its ‘sankalp patra’ bared a core commitment: enhancing the minimum punishment for ‘unlawful conversions’ from five to 10 years’ imprisonment with a Rs 1 lakh penalty. While the SP had slots for women and Dalits and the Congress for Dalits, the BJP’s manifesto had a special place for the backward castes, a cherished electorate of the party: subsidised boats for the Nishads who are engaged in fishing and overall rural development through a scheme named after ‘OBC leader Kalyan Singh’.Crunch time will come five years hence when the party/coalition in power will be judged on whether it was true to its word or whether the manifesto was not worth the paper it was printed on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/not-as-good-as-their-word-370176
