17-02-2022||---||Rocky ride for Imran||Imran Khan had a very different entry and rise in Pakistani politics from virtually all his predecessors, ranging from Mohammed Jinnah to Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto, Benazir Bhutto and Nawaz Sharif. The planning behind the entry and rise of Imran Khan in politics was, however, not through any political party. It was facilitated by a former ISI chief, Lt Gen Hamid Gul.There are too many imponderables. Army takeovers and regime change are not unheard of in Pakistan.I got to know Hamid Gul personally in Islamabad. Conversations with him during the height of the Kargil conflict were revealing about how long-time military dictator Gen Zia-ul-Haq ruthlessly ruled the country as its President and army chief. Zia led the country into adopting radical Islamic practices and policies nationally. As DG (ISI), Gul played an active role in fomenting conflict by radical Islamic groups, in both Afghanistan and J&K. Despite his efforts to portray himself as a liberal, Cambridge-educated cricketer, Imran Khan was in close touch with Gul, who became one of the founding members of his Tehreek-e-Insaf Party, now ruling Pakistan. Not surprisingly, Imran Khan’s growingly Islamist party was built on the support of the Pakistan military. Guided by Gul, Imran became a radical Islamist, articulating rabidly anti-Indian policies, while portraying a ‘liberal’ image to his western friends. He also has the dubious distinction of ruining Pakistan’s relations with erstwhile good friends, like the UAE and Saudi Arabia, by thoughtless actions, like his growing ties with Turkey and Malaysia. This, even as India’s relations with Arab Gulf countries like Saudi Arabia and the UAE  grew stronger.Pakistan has a record of living beyond its means and accumulating debts. Imran Khan has little choice now but to tighten his belt and accept growing conditionalities imposed by creditors for doles from the strictest international lender, the International Monetary Fund. According to recent studies, and reports of the Pakistan government, Pakistan has virtually doubled its external debt to over $85 billion in the past three years, while setting new records of external borrowing. Sri Lanka has, however, shown the foresight of not repeating its folly of borrowing more than it could repay from China for the Hambantota Port. Pakistan, however, seems to be digging an even deeper hole of unpayable debts, including to its friend, China. Pakistan continues to borrow recklessly from China for its much-touted CPEC. At the same time, China has taken virtually full control of the Gwadar transportation corridor, even as Chinese fishing boats use Gwadar extensively to denude the fishery resources of the Arabian Sea. US President Biden  has not spoken to Imran Khan after he took over. Moreover, Washington is not going to forget the humiliation that Pakistan led the US through, in Afghanistan.Successive Pakistan prime ministers have recognised that while they could mould the directions of the country’s foreign and security policies, it would be dangerous for any ruler to take on the country’s military leadership, especially on issues of national security, and on relations with neighbours, India and Afghanistan. Imran Khan, however, seems to have set himself a route, which is increasingly at odds with Pakistan’s army chief, Gen Qamar Javed Bajwa. Imran Khan forgot the reality that while he could seek ways to get around some of the policies that the army chief does not support, it would be dangerous to undermine the army chief’s role.  Imran Khan’s problems with the army arose from the personal rapport he developed with his flamboyant and ambitious ISI chief, Lt Gen Faiz Hameed. The ISI boss made a serious mistake in seeking to become the centre of global media attention, when the last Americans were flying/fleeing out of Afghanistan. The ISI chief, thereafter, supervised, amidst worldwide publicity, the removal of senior Taliban leaders like Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, who were forced to flee from Kabul to Kandahar. They nevertheless soon returned to ostensibly less important, but influential positions. This  move was executed with the help of the powerful ISI-backed Haqqani network of the Taliban, which operates from both Pakistan and Afghanistan.Infuriated, Bajwa responded swiftly, transferring the ISI chief to  the post of Corps Commander of troops of the Pakistan-Afghanistan border, which deals with challenges the Pakistan military is facing from  the Afghan Taliban, together with the separatist and nationalistic Pashtun Tehrik-i-Taliban, Pakistan, operating on both sides of the Durand Line.Neither the Taliban nor the Tehrik-i-Taliban show due respect for the Durand Line as the international border separating Afghanistan and Pakistan. Afghanistan’s deputy foreign minister Abbas Stanikzai noted on January 6: ‘The Durand Line is an issue of the whole nation, not just the government. It doesn't belong to the government. We will give the responsibility to the nation, so that the nation will make the decision.’ The political clock is now ticking within Pakistan on Pashtun territorial claims across the Line. Moreover, amidst  differences with General Bajwa, Imran Khan is also facing a restive Baloch population, angered by  violations of their  maritime frontiers by Chinese fishermen, and the erosion of their rights in Gwadar.The coming 18 months will see important changes within Pakistan. Bajwa is scheduled to retire in September. The opposition is, meanwhile, flexing its muscle to secure enough defections to bring down Imran Khan’s government. That can succeed only if the army gives the green signal to all concerned. Moreover, Bajwa will have to recommend the name of his successor. Imran Khan would prefer to appoint his protégé Faiz Hameed as the next army chief, with whose support he can ensure that he gets re-elected, before October 12, 2023. This could cause ripples within the army, as Faiz Hameed is the junior-most three-star General, among the Corps Commanders. Would the army respect such a decision by a discredited Prime Minister in such circumstances, or would it act pre-emptively to enforce its priorities? There are too many imponderables right now. Army takeovers and regime change are not unheard of in Pakistan!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/rocky-ride-for-imran-370481
17-02-2022||---||Address mismatch between skills, jobs||The paucity of jobs for the youth is the biggest crisis facing this country right now, even as the third Covid wave is gradually dying down. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has quoted data in Parliament to point out that the unemployment rate has gone back to pre-pandemic levels. But the fact is, this had already risen too high by the time the virus reached our shores. So a pre-pandemic ailment became far worse with repeated lockdowns during 2020 and 2021. The unemployment rate was 6.57 per cent in January 2022, lower than the 7.19 per cent recorded in January 2020. This is still much above the 5 to 5.5 per cent which used to be considered normal in the past.The reality of joblessness confronting young people is captured effectively by data showing that even in January 2020, only 37 per cent of people between the ages of 20 and 24 were employed. The data is according to the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) which undertakes regular surveys. The situation obviously worsened during the pandemic as millions of commercial establishments had to shut down due to movement curbs. The outcome was a surge in demand for rural job schemes as skilled workers were left stranded in their rural homes and forced to take on lower quality jobs than the previous ones in urban areas. In post-budget briefings, government officials have been saying the situation has eased and the demand for rural jobs is on the wane. In fact, they say this is the reason that the allocation for MGNREGA has been lowered in the 2022-23 budget proposals.This may be so but the reality on the ground is visible in both urban and rural areas where young people are desperately hunting for jobs, many of which were snatched away by the pandemic. The situation was highlighted by the violent protests over railway jobs in Bihar as over a crore applied for about 35,000 jobs. This is not an isolated incident. Similar events have taken place in the past owing to the scramble for the limited, coveted government jobs. The job issue is thus not new, the pandemic has merely brought it into the limelight.On the other hand, there is a completely different scenario in the formal sector of the economy. Here, there are not enough applicants for the existing job openings. It is deeply ironic that reports of talent shortages and attrition in certain sectors are affecting many corporates. Not only that, there are stories about “revenge hiring” at the top business schools where fresh graduates are being snapped up by companies at inordinately high salaries. To some extent, it can be understood as corporates coming back to normalcy need to hire executives in a hurry. At the same time, the phenomenon has emerged even as large swathes of youth are unable to find jobs with their existing level of skill sets.The issue of attrition and the need for highly skilled talent in sectors like information technology has been talked about for several years. In fact, the growing focus on AI (artificial intelligence) has meant that well qualified software engineers have had to seek re-skilling to meet the demands of the IT industry. It is in this context, that one must look for a deeper underlying cause for joblessness in the economy. It comes back to a long-neglected area — education.The solution being envisaged right now for the job emergency is to aggressively push investment in infrastructure which will in turn translate into projects of all kinds. And this in turn will provide more jobs. But the problem is, unless the education system is overhauled, most people applying for these jobs will remain in the unskilled or semi-skilled category. In other words, the high-value salaried jobs for which there is a huge demand will continue to remain out of reach of the bulk of youth as they simply do not have the skills to qualify for them.The long-term answer is therefore to review and upgrade the quality of education. Ever since Independence, this is a sector that has been kept on the backburner, just like health. In the case of health, it is the pandemic that has highlighted the weaknesses of infrastructure in most parts of the country. Similarly, the virus has exposed the fault lines at all levels of the education system. The immediate crisis has been the digital divide that has forced children who are unable to access online devices to forego education for a two-year period. Even those with access to online learning have found it has pitfalls and there is little substitute for physical classrooms despite the mushrooming of education portals. The pandemic also underlined the low priority for education as schools have been the last institutions to be opened even after markets and restaurants while weddings are allowed to have large gatherings. This is in spite of the fact that many countries have kept schools open with appropriate protocols through much of the pandemic.As the focus now moves to re-opening of schools, the weaknesses of the government school system have become ever more obvious. Central and state-run schools have for decades failed to achieve proper learning outcomes. Annual surveys done by NGO Pratham, for instance, have shown that most children do not achieve the learning skills required for their class levels.The fact that the crumbling government school system can actually change for the better, however, has been shown in Delhi. The Aam Aadmi Party government has evolved a model which has led to a sharp rise in the pass percentage for school-leaving children. Their curriculum changes including the focus on entrepreneurial skills are also a refreshing shift from the existing approach of preparing students only for salaried jobs, preferably with the government. This model can be a starting point for radical changes in education by other states as well.Education and jobs cannot be delinked. The long-term solution to unemployment has to be a proper foundational education followed by higher skill sets matching the needs of the economy. Otherwise, the job conundrum will not only continue but also end up tearing the country’s social fabric.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/address-mismatch-between-skills-jobs-370482
17-02-2022||---||Stringent checks needed to curb human trafficking||The menace of global human trafficking has come to the fore after a family of four from Gujarat perished on January 19 in extremely cold weather near Manitoba on the Canadian border. Their tragic end came while trying to enter the US illegally after their long travel from Dingucha village of Gandhinagar district near Ahmedabad. They embarked on a dangerous route with the help of a well-organised human trafficking racket that operates in many Indian states.The Manitoba incident did not cause much ripples in India. However, it has caused great concern both in Canada and the US as they routinely face a steady tide of human trafficking. The victims of this pernicious trade are helpless people who choose to leave for a better life akin to migration of wildlife across borders when the habitat cannot sustain them. This sordid practice graphically shows that the human traffickers do not go ‘hungry’ since there is greed to go abroad anyhow. Why has it not caused any revulsion among the people and consternation among the Indian policy-makers?In the backdrop of the Manitoba incident and efforts of people from the disadvantaged sections to enter the US and Europe, in his February 8 address at St. Peter’s Square on International Day of Prayer and Awareness Against Human Trafficking, Pope Francis expressed grave concern at the systematic human trafficking that endangers the lives of scores of people. “This is a deep wound inflicted by the shameful search for gain without any respect for the human person,” the Pope said.Since early 2020, as many as 124 million people have been globally pushed into extreme poverty by the Covid-19 pandemic. It has left millions vulnerable to human trafficking that takes place for varied reasons including sexual exploitation, forced labour, forced begging and forced marriage. In fact, trafficking in women and girls for sexual exploitation, especially from violence-ridden societies, continues unabated. The echoes from the speech of 2018 Nobel Peace laureate Nadia Murad, a trafficked Yezdi woman, still reverberate across global forums.Children constitute one-third of trafficked victims. It has tripled in the last 15 years. They are used as forced labour, sex slaves and soldiers. Adults are trafficked for organ harvesting. According to the Global Report on Trafficking in Persons, released in 2021, five adult women and two girls form part of every 10 victims and targeted for sexual exploitation. During 2019, 62% of the victims were trafficked in the US for sexual purposes. Traffickers now use cyber technology to identify, control and exploit people through online platforms for sexual exploitation, forced marriage and other abuses.To squarely address the global human trade (now the word ‘trafficking’ is used to avoid past memories of the hoary human trade for slavery), the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) adopted resolution 53/111 of December 9, 1998. It established an inter-governmental process for elaborating a comprehensive global convention against transnational organised crime that includes trafficking in women and children and transporting of migrants, including by land, air and sea. It took shape of the UN Convention against Transnational Organised Crime (UNTOC) through the UNGA resolution 55/25 of 15 November 2000.The UNTOC came into force on September 29, 2003. In 2004, in his message to the UN Office of Drugs and Crimes (UNODC, Vienna), then UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan dubbed the global forces that fuel human trafficking as the ‘uncivil society’. “They are terrorists, criminals, drug dealers, traffickers in people…They thrive in countries with weak institutions, and they show no scruple about resorting to intimidation or violence. Their ruthlessness is the very antithesis of all we regard as civil,” Kofi Annan said.The UNTOC has two protocols that deal with: (i) Trafficking in persons, especially women and children (2000); (ii) Smuggling of migrants by land, sea and air (2000). They form the primary corpus of global instruments to deal with the menace of human trafficking. The trafficking protocol defines it as the “recruitment, transportation, transfer, harbouring or receipt of persons” through illegitimate means, especially for the purposes of sexual exploitation, forced labour, slavery, servitude or the removal of organs.The trafficking protocol applies to the cases wherein prevention, investigation and prosecution of the transnational offences involve an organised criminal group (Article 4). It also calls upon every State to adopt legislative or other measures that permit trafficking victims to remain in its territory. Similarly, the Smuggling of Migrants Protocol calls upon all the States to take an effective action to prevent and combat the smuggling of migrants by land, sea and air. It has set up the UN Voluntary Trust Fund for victims of trafficking in persons. “We also provide essential support to victims, and bring perpetrators to justice and help empower them,” UNODC Executive Director Ghada Waly said. It led to the Blue Heart global campaign to indicate the “cold-heartedness of those who buy and sell fellow human beings”.As shown by the tragic incident of a Gujarati family frozen to death in Manitoba, such migrations are illegal in nature and take place through fraudulent travel or identity documents. India has signed the UNTOC on December 12, 2002, and ratified it on May 5, 2011. The Indian declaration to it states that it “shall apply the convention as the legal basis for cooperation on extradition with other States parties to the convention”. It has also undertaken to provide “international cooperation for mutual legal assistance” either through “applicable bilateral agreements” or “on reciprocal basis”. The Secretary, Ministry of Home Affairs, is the designated ‘Central authority’ for the purpose.Notwithstanding the imposing corpus of global international legal framework, including Sustainable Development Goals 2030 (Targets 5.2, 8.7 and 16.2) and the Indian undertakings, the menace of human trafficking has assumed alarming proportions. The tragic deaths of victims of human trafficking and smuggling indicate only the tip of the iceberg. Scores of Indians are carted away ostensibly for better prospects by the traffickers who operate under attractive garbs with impunity. India has a good corpus of domestic criminal laws. However, the gravity of human trafficking calls for comprehensive policies, programmes and institutional measures. We need to effectively implement them for preventing and combating trafficking in persons as well as protect the victims, especially women and children.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/stringent-checks-needed-to-curb-human-trafficking-370484
