18-02-2022||All talk these days is about elections. No state Assembly elections have attracted so much attention. What is the reason? It is obvious that the Modi-Shah duo feel the ground slipping under their feet. And so it seems to ordinary citizens with a modicum of interest in the country’s politics.||The Opposition challenge||Modi spoke to the nation a day before the first round of polling in the crucial UP elections. He went on national television loudly and boldly proclaiming that the BJP would sweep all five states! If he had that level of confidence, he need not have bothered to gamble on a one-on-one interview, something that he has been avoiding all these years.Can voters be taken for a ride endlessly? Can lack of jobs and rising prices be neutralised with just some free foodgrains, and if so, for how long?He even answered some tricky questions which he had obviously anticipated. These included some of the charges against him that had stuck. The charge of forgetting that immigrant labour in big cities live on daily wages and will go without a meal if they are out of work for any length of time and that he had not spared a thought for them when proclaiming a total lockdown on a four-hour notice, must have rankled! In his inimitable style, Modi shifted the blame to the Opposition without batting an eyelid.He accused Arvind Kejriwal and his young followers of driving round the bastis of Delhi, where the migrants lived, urging them to flee! He accused the Congress of purchasing bus and train tickets for the migrants, though he, had told them to stay put at their workplace and that they would be looked after. I confess I had never heard this one before. And I realised that this was one of our PM’s sleights of hand! A few more like this were also included in the course of the 70-minute interview.The fact that he gave the interview and had decided on explanations in advance point out to a certain nervous feeling intruding into the thought processes of an otherwise confident leader. His appeal is obviously fading and he has sensed it. The reverence with which people used to speak of him earlier is fraying. The results of the coming five state elections will disclose the mind of the electorate. Can they be taken for a ride endlessly? Will the economic difficulties they face not alter perceptions? Can lack of jobs and rising prices of essential commodities be neutralised with just some free foodgrains, and if so, for how long?I spoke to some close relatives in Goa. A small state, with just a few lakh voters. But important enough in 2017 for the BJP to lure 10 of the 17 Congress legislators to defect and join the BJP en masse! My relatives told me that there was a sudden surge of support for the Congress. That did surprise me, though I was aware that the BJP had lost a lot of ground because of its poor performance since Manohar Parrikar’s demise. Yet, I do feel that the BJP will emerge as the single largest entity in the Assembly because the AAP and the TMC will split the Opposition votes. But the final verdict will be a split Assembly with no clear winner.In Punjab, where I have many friends, the Congress and the AAP are competing for pole position. The choice of Charanjit Singh Channi as the Congress pick for Chief Minister has galvanised the large SC segment (more than 30 per cent) of voters. The BJP’s new-found ally, Capt Amarinder Singh, has not drawn crowds as he thought he would. How Modi concluded that the BJP would sweep all five states is a puzzle.In Uttarakhand also, the BJP will not find it easy. On the contrary, it looks to be a three-cornered contest with the AAP, led by a retired Colonel, making the contest unpredictable. I confess I do not know much of what is likely to happen in Manipur. Perhaps, Modi may be right about that state.The real test will be of the most populous state, Uttar Pradesh, with its poor social development indicators. Its Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, fears that his state will go the way of West Bengal, Kerala and J&K if it chooses Akhilesh Yadav over him. If that does happen I do not know if the literacy rate, the infant mortality rate and the child development indicators will improve, but if they come even halfway near Kerala’s, people of UP should be overjoyed.I guess Yogi is not thinking of such indicators when he makes his out-of-the-box statements. He has only the ‘20’ component of the 80:20 in his mind! He fears the ‘20’ will gain ascendancy in a state turned crime free through ‘shoot at sight’ orders issued by him. That illegal order gained him much support for the initial period of his reign. But that advantage was lost when he mucked up the anti-Covid measures when the second wave struck.The state of joblessness in this poverty-stricken part of the country will weaken his efforts to incite the anti-minority hate and fear that he has been banking on for his return to power. Even if he squeaks through, it will be with a much-reduced margin, and if the margin is considerably less than in 2017, his standing in the party and his party’s standing in the polity will take a massive hit.In the meantime, the Union minister’s son, arrested for allegedly ordering the mowing down of farmers at Lakhimpur Kheri, is out on bail. It is noteworthy that our system of justice facilitates the release of murder accused on bail if they belong to the ruling party’s list of supporters and ensures that even young students criticising government policies languish in jail for years together, like anti-CAA and NRC protesters from JNU and Jamia Millia did (some are yet to be released from Tihar). Will this injustice strike the voters in UP? Will it inspire them to oust Yogi’s regime? I doubt it! It amazes me that our fellow citizens take such injustices in their stride!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-opposition-challenge-370792
18-02-2022||---||Govt’s growth push comes with riders||UNION Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman successfully defended the Budget in Parliament. Even former Finance Minister P Chidambaram’s intervention in the debate on the Budget was quite pale. Though he came up with the witticism that the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government was a ‘No Data Available’ government, he did not nail the government’s failures, and there were many. But a complacent government and a weak Opposition do not mean that the problems the Indian economy continues to face have vanished.The latest figures for India show that retail inflation is ready to breach the upper limit of the four to six per cent that the Reserve Bank of India’s Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) has set itself on calibrating the interest rates. The Consumer Price Index (CPI) for January at six per cent, and the Wholesale Price Index (WPI) at 13 per cent, are not to be brushed aside as events of local and temporary turmoil. Inflation is not alarming if the growth rate is promising, and the fear among economic experts that there could be a recurrence of the 1970s phenomenon of stagflation — inflation without economic growth — should be a matter of concern.Sitharaman, in her reply to the debate on the Budget in the Rajya Sabha, said India was not facing the high and persistent inflation rates dogging countries like the United States because India did not indulge in cash doles. Her statement was not surprising. Despite the general advice offered by experts about fiscal stimulus of some kind to tide over pandemic stress and distress, the Modi government refused to dole out cash though it gave out free foodgrains to ration card holders; it offered incentives and loan guarantees to the industry, but refused direct subsidies. The government’s stance, whether right or wrong, effective or not, liberal or conservative, reflected a mindset, an attitude, and even a philosophy of the government: the state would not spend if it can help it, and that the government should keep away from economic activity as such. Of course, we must reckon with the fact that Sitharaman’s statement was made in a political context. She wanted to deflect the Opposition’s criticism about the state of the Indian economy and the government’s inadequate and inefficient role in it.Inflation remains a concern to the common people — the middle and the poor classes as well as the Bharatiya Janata Party’s neo-middle class, though the government wants to take solace in the fact that the Indian inflation rate is moderate compared to that of the United States and the European Union zone. The disruption in economic activities caused by the pandemic have not yet passed. The country has withstood the pandemic’s blow, but there was a cost to it. The economy is yet to recover. And inflation still poses a threat.The RBI’s ‘accommodative stance’ and its decision not to raise the interest rate is indeed a calculated risk. RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das seems to feel that the central bank should not impede prospects of growth by raising the interest rate now or in the immediate future which is both a pragmatic and brave stance. The stable interest rate regime has not had its benign impact so far because the private sector refuses to bite the bullet as it were. The credit off-take is not too great. There might be unicorn start-ups, and export earnings are on the increase, but manufacturing activity has not yet picked up. Jobs are not happening. In her post-Budget interaction with the industry body, the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), Sitharaman exhorted the private sector to take risk and to invest. It is yet to happen.That India is the fastest growing economy among the top ones has no economic value though it provides political ballast to the government. Sitharaman, while responding to the criticism that Bangladesh’s growth rate would exceed that of India, said that a 10 per cent growth in a small economy like that of Bangladesh is equivalent to one per cent growth in a larger economy like that of India. The analogy holds good, India clocking a faster growth rate than the United States and China does not carry much weight either. But it is a brownie point which should be grabbed for whatever it is worth, and the Finance Minister did.The Indian economy is not floundering as much as it is adrift. And that is not a good thing. What seems to be sustaining the economy is the agricultural sector with its successive good harvests due to good monsoon. But the success in agriculture does not solve the many other challenges that India faces on the economic front. Agriculture, with its potential for agri-business, does not provide enough jobs, and it does not take the country into the high growth orbit. What is needed is spurt in manufacturing and in the services. The impact of the pandemic has been such that the recovery on these two fronts will be slow.The government’s thrust in the infrastructure sector will serve as a useful incubation period, but the move forward will depend on technological and business breakthroughs. The public and private universities — yes, there are not too many in the private sector with proven strengths — must become centres of old-fashioned research and development. More than 30 years ago, the Govardhan Mehta committee report talked of linking the universities to R&D and break with the earlier practice of setting up independent and self-contained institutions of excellence. The Modi government seems to be following the earlier practice of increasing the number of institutions of excellence. The Indian private sector is not capable of supporting R&D, and it is so in other parts of the world. So, along with infrastructure, R&D should be the concern of the government. In the case of a BJP government, an atavistic worldview is a big obstacle to pushing R&D in the country. The mindset that ancient India had achieved scientific and technological peak discourages fresh breakthroughs. India’s economic future depends critically on a modernist worldview.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/govts-growth-push-comes-with-riders-370797
18-02-2022||Why does the Siachen belt continue to remain a vexed issue eluding a clear strategic and operational perspective? Evaluating the entire spectrum from the adversary’s viewpoint throws up clear options for both sides. This has seldom been attempted. ||India needs tactical advantage over China, Pak||A fixity of purpose to remain one step ahead of the enemy will help avoid being in a reactive mode, often causing political embarrassment. Coupled with this is the need to change the concessionary approach, which hasn’t worked so far, into a no-nonsense approach.Abhijit Bhattacharyya’s recent article (‘Siachen demilitarisation not worth the risk’), suggesting the continued occupation of Siachen, is well-meaning. However, vacating the icy wasteland does not ipso facto imply ‘cessation’, nor relinquishing sovereignty, and also not retaining domination or control.In my opinion piece ‘Siachen: A new perspective’, published in The Tribune on July 11, 1989, I had given the example of a woman perturbed because her son would not eat spinach. “Why do you want him to eat spinach,” asked the counsellor. To make him strong, said the woman. Are there other ways to make him strong, she was asked. “Yes, by taking eggs and fruit, which he likes,” admitted the woman. Similarly, there are other ways to retain Siachen by avoiding the ‘spinach diet’ — continued occupation at an immense cost.The Siachen glacial belt became contentious because the Line of Control was left undefined in 1949 and then again in 1972 beyond a certain point (NJ 9842). Pakistan cleverly construes the LoC to run northeast up to the Karakoram pass with the obvious intent of linking it with China to which it (Pak) ceded a chunk of Indian territory. India does not recognise the ‘Sino-Pak border’ agreement as neither has any locus standi over the Indian territory. Pre-empting Pakistan’s plans, India occupied the Soltoro range to establish control over Siachen in 1984. We have been holding this tract for 38 years. Spanning 80 km in length and 20 km in width, it abuts illegally occupied territory by Pakistan on the west and illegally ceded territory to China by Pakistan on the north.Our concerns bordered on Pakistan and China colluding to act in concert through Siachen to threaten the Nubra valley, north of Leh. Strategists in India fear that such a collusive threat by Pakistan and China would turn disastrous and continued occupation of Siachen would prevent this. How possible is this collusive threat to Siachen? To wear the enemy’s hat and think through his perspective is a very interesting process, called ‘intelligence appreciation’ in military parlance. Factoring all aspects from the enemy’s point of view, it pays dividends beyond expectation. The terrain does not discriminate. It affects everyone equally. A comprehensive terrain analysis leads one to determine the enemy’s aims and options. How accurate this can be will be apparent presently. With heights ranging up to 24,000 feet, passes are at 18,000 feet. Sub-zero temperatures up to minus 70 degrees, apart from restricting human endurance, often result in medical emergencies. Restricted by weather and low visibility along with curtailed performance of helicopters, pilots employ extraordinary skills to fly in supplies and evacuate casualties. The possibility of a crevice opening under your feet devouring humans in sheer ice is a constant fear.Siachen is thus clearly impassable on a scale required for a worthwhile offensive. To plan an offensive through this tract by Pakistan or China would require superhuman effort. To think about moving weapons, equipment and requisite logistics is militarily not possible. In my 1989 article, it was assessed: “That  the glacier is nothing more than a sore thumb is evident from the fact that any offensive by Pakistan in the Ladakh region can be better achieved by a direct thrust into the Kargil sector as it is more easily accessible.” Ten years later, the Kargil war happened.“Should  Pakistan and China wish to act in concert, they do not need to traverse the Siachen area. They would wish to prick India at widely separated points in order to dissipate our forces and reaction capability,” the assessment said. We now see this happening in east Ladakh with China trying to consolidate its hold over Aksai Chin and the claim line in keeping with its strategy of salami slicing to occupy key features. From the Depsang  plains in the north down to Galwan and further to Pangong Tso, China is well ahead of its claim line. India was forced into inducting sizeable forces in a move requiring huge logistics, including airlift, a kind of ‘Siachenisation’ of Ladakh, to be maintained at phenomenal costs. This happened when we had a fully functional DMA under the CDS.Over Rs 5 crore a day is estimated to be spent in Siachen, upgrading defence and losing men and material for almost 38 years. That our fears of Pakistan and China using this wasteland in a collusive threat are unfounded is apparent. An appreciation to obtain the bigger picture is thus imperative and invaluable to foresee likely enemy actions.There exists another vulnerability of which our adversaries take advantage. A study conducted for the Faculty of Research and Doctrinal Studies in Command and Staff College, Quetta, is revealing. Two traits of Indians mentioned in the study are relevant. It says that Indians are patient to the point of absurdity. The second trait is ‘intellectualism’, described as the Indian inability to defend with the weapon because of which he is forced into a strategy for defence based on the idea and the word. China’s view of India is no different. Note our response to the Chinese army now building a bridge across the tactically significant Pangong Tso lake which will provide to it distinct advantages. The issue was raised in Parliament and ‘condemned’. Our recent statement on the Quad platform, though true, is indicative: “The tense situation at the LAC has arisen due to the disregard by China in 2020 of written agreements with India not to amass forces at the border.” It explains the Indian hesitation to use force until pushed into a corner.To drastically change this ‘tolerant and reaction mode’ becomes a dire necessity. Aggressiveness we have displayed in ample measure responding to ingress, it must now turn proactive. Back to Siachen. Pakistan’s arteries feeding the glacier are vulnerable to interdiction should it embark on any mischief, including sending civil mountaineering expeditions to the area. Vacating it after an agreement to recognise the current position along the Soltoro ridge as the Actual Ground Position Line (AGPL) will help Pakistan also.  While it scrapes the bottom of the barrel, FATF rides its back. India should declare unequivocal sovereignty over the tract. Latest state-of the-art surveillance measures, combined with land and air-based stand-off weapons, will assist in retaining control and domination of the area. The mantra then is constant contemplation to stay ahead of the enemy in thought and proactive action, in a business-like approach. It will be cost-effective and give traction to the Indian Army like never before. It will, in turn, ease calls on the IAF considerably.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/india-needs-tactical-advantage-over-china-pak-370803
