20-02-2022||IN the bubbling cauldron of political reportage||When fiction is often fact, and vice versa||I was a late entrant into the world of Hindi writing, having spent my youth reading novels written or translated into English. Yet, there was a muscle memory of a world that vanished the further I went away from my own native land — Uttar Pradesh and now Uttarakhand. Life in mofussil India has a completely different rhythm and time cycle from our self-important metros, and it burns like a slow fuse inside those of us who spent our formative years there.Uttar Pradesh is not a single province: it is many areas yoked uneasily together. Small wonder that many parts of it are demanding to be set free from power structures set decades ago. My own natal state of Uttarakhand, for instance, was never a part of the cultural world of Avadh. We were mountain people and were always defined as Paharis, rustic hillbillies to the mannered court of feudal ‘deshis’ (which is what we still call all those who do not belong to our region). Similarly, Bundelkhand had more in common with Madhya Pradesh than with, say, the Jatlands of western UP. The old British nomenclature of Avadh’s cabal towns (Cawnpore, Allahabad, Banaras, Aligarh and Lucknow) defined a region that was rudely woken out of its mannered ‘Ganga-Jamuni tehzeeb’ by the ‘parvenus’ who nudged themselves into the political space post-Mandal.The gradual but unmistakable political rise and decline of various regions in UP can never be understood through opinion polls and surveys that clinically study data devoid of human voices. For that, I see no better barometer than the stories that have faithfully documented these stirrings. How ironic it is that a short story written by the great Premchand more than a century ago, titled ‘Thakur ka Kuan’, gives one a deeper understanding of UP’s caste politics and the oppressive relationship between its Thakurs and Dalits. Gangi, a woman from the sweeper class, sneaks into the landlord’s property to steal water from his well for her ailing husband, who has fallen sick because local musclemen had tossed a dead animal into their well. Her trepidation and desperation are described so vividly that the reader almost gags at the foul stench from the well in her basti.The symbolism of the poisoned well in the Dalit basti of the village helps one understand the reason why the BSP vote is an abiding puzzle to our psephologists. Eastern and western UP are two separate poles: one the prosperous land of the kulaks, the other the rough terrain of Bundelkhand and the Vindhyas. Jhansi, Lalitpur, Datia, Ghazipur, Orai, Kalpi are names I recognise from my childhood and the stories that my grandmother, who spent a long time in Orchcha, would tell us. This was Robinhood territory, where dacoits stole from the rich to help the poor. ‘Ganga Jamuna’, one of Dilip Kumar’s finest films, and later ‘Paan Singh Tomar’ with the unmatched Irrfan Khan, are haunting reminders of what turns a desperate man into a baghi. The Chambal ravines that provided them with hideouts and the love and trust they enjoyed in these villagers are branded in my memory.Long before our intrepid and often hysterical reporters arrived, there were writers who had portrayed the terrifying isolation of these areas in their stories and novellas. This is an India that we do not see on our television channels, nor one that those who want to serve us elections on our plate can ever hope to fathom. Sitting with data in front of them, they may crack the arithmetic of vote percentages and yet miss the chemistry that determines why exit and opinion polls so often go wrong. Added to this is the fog created by biased reportage that provides the viewer or reader with information, but no wisdom.This last week has covered the territories that were part of my childhood and girlhood. I know that times have changed since then, yet I still hold that human nature and regional psychology take centuries, not decades, to alter. And in regions where development never reached, people still steer their lives looking at the heavens and changing seasons. Additionally, I have greater faith in the wisdom of the Indian voter than in those political psephologists who change their predictions to suit their patrons and preferred political parties.Punjab will show us whether the old stranglehold of the rich, high-born landowners will finally give way to the aspirations of the Dalits and landless peasants. From all accounts, a clean sweep is needed and guess what? There is a man ready with a broom to dive into the two-party blood feud that has tossed political power like a ball between themselves.So, read your Manto again to remember afresh the madness that once almost destroyed this fertile and prosperous land. ‘Gud-gud di laltain…’, mutters Toba Tek Singh, the eponymous lunatic of Manto’s memorable short story, who turns out to be the sanest voice in a Punjab gone mad. Believe me, fiction is fact.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/when-fiction-is-often-fact-and-vice-versa-371350
20-02-2022||I WAS around 10 when I started the ‘Anti Bullying Squad’||Why I started 'Anti Bullying Squad' and pitched for an app||What inspired me to start the enterprise was an incident in which I witnessed a six-year-old girl getting bullied. I guess I could say that incident changed my life, and gave me a sense of purpose. It is when I decided to embark on this anti-bullying mission.Initially, when I had just begun my enterprise in 2018, I started by going to different schools and campuses and taking sessions with students on bullying. However, the pandemic forbid that. Everything moved online, and so did I. I decided to quickly adapt by taking online seminars on bullying and cyberbullying. I took sessions with several schools and NGOs. I did several Instagram Lives, podcasts, online interviews and exploited social media to reach out to as many kids as I could.Something I noticed was that students were able to open up way better online than offline because nobody was physically present to judge them. People were more forthcoming in sharing their bullying incidents with their cameras switched off. They just wanted to be heard. During one of these sessions, a 10-year-old boy shared his bullying experience. He told me that he used to get slapped and kicked on his shin in the school bus by his seniors every day. In fact, he was thankful to the pandemic for his school closure. It had become so painful that his right shin had been totally bruised. When he tried to talk to his parents about it, they just brushed it aside as a part of growing up. He had come to a point of having suicidal thoughts as he just couldn’t take it anymore and even his own parents weren’t supporting him. He felt helpless.Another girl shared her experience from when she got cyberbullied. She spoke about how somebody she knew, and was very close to, created an online group and leaked personal information about her identity. Because of this, she started getting homophobic comments and messages and these made her extremely conscious and embarrassed. She mentioned that she was scared that her friends would betray her and started to feel lonely. Moreover, she stopped feeling comfortable in her identity.Not just young kids, but also those slightly older shared their past experiences. One lady told me that both her teachers and peers used to pick on her skin colour and body type, calling her names like ‘Kali’or ‘Moti’. And the worst part was that she didn’t even realise that was bullying. She thought she deserved to be treated that way, when, in fact, no one does.Students would reach out to me after sessions as well. In fact, my email and Instagram DMs (direct messages) were full of personal messages of people sharing their bullying experiences. Most of them didn’t even ask for any help, all they did was vent out and talk because they needed someone to listen.These sessions and listening to the numerous experiences made me realise I have to work on creating a much bigger impact. I have to reach out to students on a larger scale. In order to do that, I decided to shift from live online sessions to a self-paced online programme of one hour that would talk about all aspects of bullying from the perspectives of the key participants. Through this, I sincerely hope I was able to educate and impact thousands of children and adults. I also collaborated with one of India’s largest independent youth volunteer non-profit organisations, Bhumi, for a seminar on bullying and cyberbullying.Over the course of three years of working on this cause, one thing I can say surely works — whatever is reported can be resolved. Then an idea struck me of building a mobile app around the current education infrastructure, so that all the bullying problems can be resolved. I worked on creating ‘Kavach’, an incident-reporting mobile app through which any child or parent can report bullying anonymously. These incidents can be viewed by the school as well, and they can take appropriate action to sort them out. It also provides a self-paced training programme, ‘Bullying Deep Dive’, consisting of 10 short videos to educate children about various aspects of bullying. The application also acts as a deterrent.I presented the idea and got funded on the television reality show ‘Shark Tank India’ for the app. This was a huge milestone as I was the youngest contestant. I have also reached out to school counsellors and they have welcomed the idea of this app, especially the analysis feature, that allows the schools to view reports on patterns and trends of bullying in their institutions.I have also been invited by the Ministry of Culture to be a part of the song ‘Mauka Hai’ along with 40 ‘youth icons’ to inspire the youth to build a stronger nation together.It has been a great 2021 and I get a feeling that this is just the beginning. 2022 has a lot of work ahead for me.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/why-i-started-anti-bullying-squad-and-pitched-for-an-app-371348
20-02-2022||WHEN historians record the past two years||The aftermath of pandemic||We have been hit successively by fresh waves of Covid and they have impacted nearly all aspects of our lives. We still don’t know if we have seen the last of it or new strains and mutations will manifest themselves in the future. Various medical experts, research organisations, pharmaceutical companies and governments continue to feed on the insecurity of people with a plethora of forecasts. We have all but forgotten how it originated — in China or USA, or was it a thunderbolt hurled by the gods in their anger at us? Government laboratories, research organisations and universities put in their best to urgently develop the vaccines to save mankind from the dreaded disease. The pharma industy was part of this tremendous effort and rose to the occasion (also gaining tremendously subsequently). Countries raced against each other to get hold of the maximum number of vaccines and in this race, the developed world as usual got the better of the others.What has been the impact of these two years of devastating lockdowns, curfews, closed schools and colleges, closed or inaccessible courts, closed hospitality and entertainment places, etc? For the first few months, the landscape looked like a vast wasteland and every home a fortress and every human being an island unto himself. The isolation was complete, no calling on anyone, no parties (except at 10 Downing Street), no shopping, no venturing out. The only means of contact was a cell phone and the only recreation was reading or television. There was stillness in the air, suspense in the household and despair the ruling emotion. The isolation created its own psychological problems in the hours of loneliness and gave birth to morbid, overheated imaginations. Every scratch in the throat, every cough, slight fever and off you went imagining all kinds of grim possibilities. The impact was felt by all but most of all by the aged and the students. As it is, old age is the embodiment of loneliness, but disease and isolation make these things worse. The young schoolchildren locked up at home for two years, bereft of the company of their peers and stuck in front of computers for online studies — what is it going to take to fill the gap of these last two years? How is their psychological balance going to be affected in the long run? Will they ever fully recover, and will online education be enough to compensate for the loss of the physical interactive classroom?However, what about those millions of children who could not afford online education and had no computer or smartphone at home; sometimes three or four children were sharing one phone or climbing to a higher elevation to get a signal. Rather than let them sit idle, some of the poor parents drafted them into the labour market — where will they get the childhood back or the education? At least two batches of poor students have succumbed to this. No amount of reservation, no amount of free dal and rice, no amount of free bicycles, etc, will ever be able to replace the lost education. It is education and good health that are the magic words to fight poverty. One hoped against hope that a nationwide effective health and education infrastructure would be the focus, post this event. The latest budget has put paid to this hope as there are no additional provisions or funds for the kind of infrastructure and drive needed. The same old decrepit dispensaries and government hospitals will continue. Unemployment has always been a challenge with our population and with the mishandling of the pandemic, the number of people out of jobs is only increasing. Even the annual migration of labourers is on the decrease because unemployment is everywhere, plus the migrants still remember the hammer that descended upon them after the first lockdown. Migrants became the nowhere people, thrown out of jobs in the metros and unwanted in the states; the highways became their home till they were finally accepted back in their villages. The farms and industry have no new jobs to accommodate these numbers.In the meantime, in some states, they will get some money, food and liquor for a short time because of the elections taking place. The politicians do not talk of health or employment, they are magicians with bags of tricks and freebies which they dole out and grab the votes of the gullible. There is no talk or a promise of setting up a ‘National Commission’ to go into the total failure of the Central and state governments to meet this emergency, especially during the second phase of Delta when there had been enough of a warning. No sir, we were busy backslapping each other for being the best in the world and then men began to fall like flies in large numbers. There was no post-mortem of those who died, will there be no post-mortem of the role of the state? There can be remedies if we accept that there is a problem, but we are in a denial mode.Developing countries have been on the move, they have anticipated likely tremors in the economy and have taken on or are taking remedial measures. They printed money when that was needed and now, they are taking measures to control inflation. Their unemployment figures are lower than before, the political setups and the central banks are ready with a slew of measures to take corrective measures to shore up their economies. What about us? What is the plan… will someone please share it? A judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court recently asserted, “We are the fifth or the sixth largest economy in the world and, therefore, the excuse of us not being as advanced as other countries is no longer available to us…”Is it too much to ask that the governments, both at the state and Centre, commanding vast financial and human resources of the sixth largest economy, come up with a ‘Marshall plan’ with a defined timeline to sort out this bane of poverty and human misery? Poverty is manmade because the extreme disparity between the super-rich and the poor in our country has been allowed to happen… it is a systemic failure of governance both past and present and it is shameful. High time the leadership corrected course and this pyramid of disparity.Today, we are increasingly threatened at our borders by hostile neighbours. Old alliances look increasingly fragile and new ones distant. The multitudes of unemployed youth are a breeding ground for internal conflict as they are easily manipulated by extremist elements. We need to channel, train, and deploy this human resource for the benefit of the nation and not let it become a part of the problem. We need to allow our entrepreneurs to flourish, we need to support our farmers, thereby ensuring that the rural economy is strong. We need to provide for universal healthcare and education. The alternative is too painful to imagine — all you have to do is study the changing political map of our geographic region over the past 300 years to refresh our collective memories on what failure would look like.— The writer is ex-chairman of UPSC, former Manipur Governor and served as J&K DGP||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-aftermath-of-pandemic-371345
