21-02-2022||---||Reform health financing for value-based care||Apatient walks into a private dispensary with a chronic, hitherto neglected, albeit elective health condition. He waits at the reception for his turn, only for the doctor to emerge from the cabin and cursorily enquire about the patient’s complaints. A request by the patient to be examined thoroughly for his illness is quelled with ease. He departs after paying Rs 300 in consultation charges and Rs 1,000 for physician-dispensed medicines, without a case paper, and with a nagging scepticism about the doctor’s diagnosis. The medicines do little to alleviate his suffering, vindicating his mistrust. The patient drops the follow-up visit that would have cost him another Rs 150 for consultation. Similar are the poignant tales of many healthcare encounters in India.The past decade saw an explicit acknowledgement by the government that India’s primary healthcare system is anything but comprehensive, and that emphasis on chronic, non-communicable diseases remains deficient. Ever since Independence, reproductive health and allied areas have captured the lion’s share of the limited funding for the health sector, while changing several denominations starting from the erstwhile ‘family planning’ programme to the recent and more agreeable ‘Reproductive, Maternal, Neonatal, Child, and Adolescent Health’. Further to the Task Force for Comprehensive Primary Health Care’s (2014) recommendations, 1.5 lakh sub-health centres (SC) and rural/urban primary health centres (PHC) were planned to be refurbished into Health and Wellness Centres (HWC), which would provide comprehensive primary care with a keen emphasis on chronic diseases. HWC is India’s model for multidisciplinary primary healthcare, a celebrated concept in global health, featuring enhanced use of data systems, listing of catchment population, assured basic drugs and diagnostics, and an emphasis on wellness and health promotion. However, one distinguishing trait of archetypal multi-disciplinary primary healthcare teams — that of dynamic, value-based incentives for healthcare providers — remains under-expressed.While reforms in health financing have been slow and scarce in India, a number of macro-level health financing reforms have been envisaged over the years. Following the health sector reforms of the 90s, the traditional ‘command and control’ administrative organs of health programmes and hospitals were attempted to be supplanted with societies having greater managerial autonomy. Performance-based incentives and grants for states, and a spate of public-private partnership models have also materialised. However, micro-level, provider-payment reforms have had very little systemic penetration, more so in the primary care space. With few exceptions, archaic modalities of provider payment, such as salaries and line-item budgets in the public sector and fee-for-service in the private sector, still remain predominant. Reforms entailed in this direction by publicly financed health insurance in the past couple of decades remain circumscribed in scope due to their low uptake.In 2019, performance-linked incentives were announced for SC-HWC staff, primarily based on certain service coverage indicators. A commendable step nonetheless, they obviously remain too limited in their quantum and scope to engender a significant systemic impact. The world over, value-based reimbursement is gaining increasing popularity in primary care systems, while prospective payment models are increasingly being seen as antiquated. Value-based systems base provider incentives on the value they deliver, chiefly on achieving certain clinical, economic or public health outcomes. While macro-level financing reforms have their own significance, the more downstream, ground-level incentive structures have a more intimate relationship with all the three intrinsic goals of health systems, viz., improvements in health, responsiveness and fairness in financing. In addition, efficiency concerns in healthcare are becoming increasingly paramount as the balance tips more and more towards chronic illnesses in the population. As we envision a more effective, responsive and accountable health system for the country, sticking big time to archaic incentive structures becomes absurd, especially as generations of reforms in other areas of healthcare keep passing us by.The current payment and reimbursement structures create incentives that are not only perverse but also disparate across the landscape. Refer to the aforementioned clinical encounter. The larger private sector fuelled by diabolical out-of-pocket payments has little or no incentive to control costs or deliver value, complemented perfectly by an unregulated industry landscape that fosters supplier-induced demand, arbitrary rate-setting, and opacity in dealings, and leaves fewer avenues to uphold the patient’s autonomy and rights. On the other hand, the public sector has strong incentives to underperform, again compromising on value in healthcare. While the impact of this on hard health outcomes is debatable, it invariably chips away at patient satisfaction and trust in the public health system.Operationalising value-based approaches can be challenging, especially where health outcome indicators are concerned which are often elusive to measurement. For sure, the current under-regulated healthcare landscape militates against it, and sustainable financing reforms will need to be accompanied, rather preceded, by a series of broader systemic reforms in the health sector. The immediate prescription is to resolutely introduce and scale them up in the public sector first and foremost. This, apart from improving care and productivity in the public sector, can have significant positive spill-over to the private sector. In this regard, the role of expanding the digital health infrastructure, which has recently received a lot of government attention, becomes crucial. India’s National Digital Health Mission has mainly been hailed for the clinical convenience it would accrue to patients and providers. Widespread recognition of its potentially far-reaching systemic benefits can impart far greater impetus to the mission.Health systems are known to follow path-dependent trajectories, wherein change becomes progressively more difficult after a certain pattern sets in. Entrenched incentive structures will present considerable resistance to reform unless it is an unlikely ‘win-win’ for all stakeholders concerned. And the wait for the elusive ‘perfect moment’ to act can only be counter-productive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/reform-health-financing-for-value-based-care-371606
21-02-2022||---||UP holds key to 2024 political narrative||The BJP has the highest stake in the ongoing Assembly polls for obvious reasons. In power in four of these five states, it has to counter anti-incumbency and defend its performance of five years. How it fares in Uttar Pradesh will naturally set the tone for the 2024 General Election, which is of supreme importance to Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Winning UP in 2017 (with a majority of 312 out of 403 seats) had created the momentum for the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Even in 2014, had the BJP not managed to get 71 Lok Sabha seats in UP, it might have been heading a coalition government, and the political trajectory of Modi might have been very different.But UP 2022 is really not just about winning the current election, which the BJP knows it has to do for a variety of reasons. Or about 2024!The immediate fallout of the UP outcome will be on who sits in Rashtrapati Bhavan in July when Ram Nath Kovind’s term comes to an end. Losing UP, or barely scraping through can become dicey from the point of view of installing a person of BJP’s choice as President.UP 2022 is also about Yogi Adityanath. All eyes are on him today and March 10 will determine the role he will come to play in the time to come. The two leaders to watch in this election are Yogi Adityanath and Arvind Kejriwal. Their future politics hinges a great deal on how their parties fare in UP and Punjab. For, both these leaders are positioning themselves for a post-Modi India.Already there are whispers in the UP countryside that this is an election which will also decide the future prime minister, just as the 2012 state elections in Gujarat had set Modi on the path to Raisina Hill.If the BJP does well again this time and wins a comfortable majority, it will be seen as a feather in Yogi’s cap. He will then begin to be viewed as a claimant for the Dilli gaddi at a future date.There are sections within the RSS family who feel the next stage of the journey towards a Hindu Rashtra will be driven by the Hindu icon, saffron-robed Yogi Adityanath. Yogi has a cult following amongst a section of people, which is different from the following that Modi enjoys.The hate speech by Yati Narsinghanand in Haridwar calling for eliminating Muslims and the statement by Karnataka BJP minister KS Eshwarappa that the “saffron flag may become the national flag in the future” are trial balloons. They are designed to test the waters, to see how they are received at the popular level.Yogi is the poster boy of hard Hindutva and the party has used him in different states at poll time, in the process enabling him to acquire an all-India profile. While he has talked about his achievements in UP, such as improving law and order, he has unwaveringly articulated issues which will go to create Hindu-Muslim polarisation in the state and consolidate the Hindus to stand behind him. A five-time MP from Gorakhpur, this is the first time he is contesting in the Assembly polls.As is well known, he renovated the Hindu religious sites at Varanasi, Mathura, Prayagraj and Chitrakoot. He is taking the credit for the Ram temple being built in Ayodhya. In January, he pitched the election as a fight between “80% versus 20%”, implying it was a battle between the Hindu majority and the Muslim minority (though later he explained it away.) He said those dreaming about ‘Gazhwa-e-Hind’ would not succeed, that the country would be run by the Constitution and not the Shariat. And then he exhorted UP-wallas to vote for the BJP and not make a mistake which could convert UP into a “Kashmir, Bengal or Kerala”. It had these states — and others — up in arms and was clearly an allusion to “Muslim appeasement” which the UP chief minister continues to emphasise unfazed.How much of this has actually worked on the ground this time remains to be seen. For Akhilesh Yadav and Jayant Chaudhary have been drawing enthusiastic crowds. Certainly in Western UP, where the famers have been on the warpath and the Jats have moved away from the BJP, many had said that they were “not going to be taken in by the Hindu-Muslim” rhetoric, as they had been after the 2013 Muzaffarnagar riots which had influenced the 2014, and indeed also the poll outcome in 2017. From all accounts, the first two phases of the poll held in West UP on February 10 and 14 have gone well for the SP-RLD combine. But there are five more to come.If the BJP loses UP or just scrapes through, managing to cobble together a government with smaller parties, it will spell trouble for Yogi’s continuation as chief minister and his national ambitions. He may well be replaced by someone “more suitable” — possibly someone representing the lower OBCs — keeping in mind Modi’s plan for 2024. This category, the “Extremely Backward Castes” — they voted for Modi in sizeable numbers in 2017 and 2019 — have acquired an importance all their own, particularly after a dozen or so ministers and MLAs quit the BJP to join the SP, several of them EBCs.So far, it has proved difficult for the BJP to curb Yogi. The BJP brass tried to rein him in by sending bureaucrat AK Sharma, who enjoyed the Prime Minister’s confidence, to UP. The idea was to make the government official-turned-MLC Deputy CM. But the plan came unstuck because Yogi would have none of it.Many in UP are looking for a change today. The sentiment seems to be for the opposition alliance headed by Akhilesh Yadav.But then elections today are not just about people’s sentiment alone. They are also about a machinery to manage the sentiment. And the BJP as we know has a massive, well oiled, resource-rich machinery at its command which can manage the “last mile” issues.Of course, much will depend on whether this sentiment reflects a mere ‘dissatisfaction’ with the government or it is something stronger, an aakrosh (anger) which is harder to placate, and can have serious implications for the party — and for Yogi Adityanath’s future.   #up poll #yogi adityanath||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/up-holds-key-to-2024-political-narrative-371603
21-02-2022||---||US hijacks Quad to Europe||US State Department spokesman Ned Price has clarified that Secretary of State Antony Blinken’s discussion with his Quad counterparts during the grouping’s ministerial at Canberra recently focused on the current US-Russia standoff. Price didn’t have to fling into public domain such discussions behind closed doors but he chose to, partly to clarify but mainly to pin India down. Price implied that there was ‘a strong consensus’ at the Quad ministerial to ‘reinforce the rules-based international order’ — namely, to condemn Russia.Having become a sore point in India-China relations, Quad may sow seeds of distrust in Russia-India ties too. Price insisted, ‘We know that our Indian partners are committed to that rules-based international order.’ EAM Jaishankar, of course, had been evasive and seemed to convey that Russia wasn’t the Quad ministerial’s business. However, Price stated that ‘rules-based order’ was a ‘core tenet that applies equally in the Indo-Pacific as it does in Europe, as it does anywhere else.’ Of course, both Price and Jaishankar cannot be right. Welcome to Blinken-Jaishankar tango.Price’s definition of the Quad mantra of rules-based order causes worry. What is the guarantee that some day, it may not come to haunt India too — say, if the US chooses to apply the ‘core tenets’ to Nagaland or J&K? India may not always be fortunate to have Jaishankar’s services to temper the American moods. There are scores of case studies where the US had turned against its own allies. Remember the US’ brutal trade war with its Cold-War ally Japan in the 1980s? Japan couldn’t afford to get confrontational or take retaliatory measures (unlike today’s China) and instead went down on its knees to shift the accent of its foreign trade policy from ‘incentivising’ exports and restricting imports to ‘revitalise exports and free imports.’ But Washington forced Tokyo to capitulate on an array of American diktats such as a landmark agreement stipulating a permanent 20% market share for US semiconductor products in the Japanese market, and cranking open the flood gates for American agricultural products!In fact, the US is only applying some norms selectively to Russia. Price’s basket excludes tenets such as multipolarity, cultural diversity, colour revolutions, non-interference in the internal affairs of other states, equal rights of peoples to independently determine their development paths, the centrality of the UN-driven international architecture and so on. Evidently, Washington has a problem with the bulk of tenets that would meaningfully contribute to global and regional peace and stability. Its tenets are narrowly defined tools for imposing its global hegemony.The US is whipping up war hysteria that Russia is about to ‘invade’ Ukraine, but in reality, profound issues of international security and the world order are playing out. The core issue is the invidious attempt by the US since the mid-1990s to expand NATO, contrary to the assurances it had given to the Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev in 1990. NATO today is approaching Russia’s doorstep as it intends to give membership to Ukraine. Such an eventuality would mean that NATO missiles could be deployed in Ukraine, within 5 minutes’ striking distance of Moscow.Russia will not compromise on its national defence or allow the US to dominate it. Moscow’s diplomacy is working on the European opinion, which is averse to war with Russia and is nervous about likelihood of massive refugee flow from Ukraine, the probable disruption in the supply of Russian gas supplies and the derailing of their post-pandemic economic recovery. There is disquiet within the European camp as to where all this US brinkmanship is leading. They know that US’ ‘sanctions from hell’ won’t deter Russia. Europe is seeking strategic autonomy. The present crisis has fuelled the latent frictions in the alliance system.Last week, reports appeared that in a high-stakes diplomatic effort to shelve its ‘systemic rivalry’ with Beijing, in open defiance of the US’ Indo-Pacific strategy, the EU has scheduled a summit meeting with the Chinese leadership. French President Macron called up President Xi Jinping to compliment him on the Beijing Olympics and pledge that ‘France will make all-out efforts to advance the positive agenda between the EU and China’. They reached consensus on a six-point agenda. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson is reportedly seeking high-level ministerial trade talks with Beijing for the first time since 2018, while his Chancellor of the Exchequer Rishi Sunak is working to bring back a major trade summit, the UK-China Economic and Financial Dialogue, which has not been held since 2019.The Canberra ministerial is a wake-up call that should make us realise that by travelling on the Quad road paved by the UPA-1 in 2007, India finds itself in wilderness. The present government had the option to take a clean break but instead chose to revive the moribund Quad platform in 2017. Today, as the world order is on the cusp of a phenomenal transformation, Washington has unilaterally decided that Quad must be turned into a vehicle for the Biden administration’s dual containment strategy against China and Russia. The hidden agenda is that Quad, having become a sore point in India-China ties, holds potential to sow seeds of distrust in Russian-Indian relationship too, which would effectively destroy India’s strategic autonomy. EAM’s stony silence is shocking.Now, what if US-Russian tensions subside as Washington runs out of options? What we are witnessing are the birth pangs of a new world order. Indians cannot behave like the lotus-eaters in Greek mythology, living on an island, who ate the lotus and forgot their home and loved ones, and only longed to stay with their fellow lotus-eaters. #quad||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/us-hijacks-quad-to-europe-371599
21-02-2022||WITNESSING bigotry seeping deep into our social fabric makes me sad and uneasy||Reposing faith in togetherness||The 27 Punjab was the first unit in the Punjab Regiment where the mixed class composition was applied as an experimental measure, which ultimately turned out to be a thundering success. The mixed class composition had to be ruthlessly ensured for the entire battalion, down to its companies, platoons till the lowest rung, the section level. A section has a strength of 10 jawans; it was to have three Sikh troops, three Dogra troops, and three or four soldiers belonging to Other Indian Classes. The same had to be applied to the specialist sections and platoons.The credit for the strict implementation of this principle went to my first three Commanding Officers with whom I had the fortune to serve. These three illustrious personalities lent a strong foundation to 27 Punjab. No wonder, my first CO rose to be the Adjutant General of the Indian Army, Lt Gen Mohinder Singh. The second CO, Lt Col JS Sethi, kept the ethos of the unit intact under very difficult circumstances, even at the cost of staking his career, and the third CO, Brig MPS Bajwa, was credited with the capture of the most strategic feature of Tiger Hill, which turned the course of Kargil war in our favour. Not many know that it was Brig Bajwa’s handwritten citation, inserted by him in the pocket of the body of a Pakistani army Captain, Karnal Sher Khan, that got him their country’s highest gallantry award, ‘Nishan-e-Haider’. It takes oodles of moral courage and chivalry to acknowledge the bravery of the enemy. This amply proves the caliber of commanders of the Indian Army at all levels.Getting back to our first mixed class composition battalion, I recall, every Sunday, in our unit, a brief religious ceremony used to be organised known as the ‘gurdwara-mandir parade’, with everyone in attendance. As a Second Lieutenant, I was wonderstruck when, for the first time, I entered the premises of the ‘Sarv Dharam Sthal’ (all faiths under one roof) and turned my gaze towards the sanctum sanctorum. Under a majestic, well-decorated canopy were placed idols of Gods of all religions, along with Guru Granth Sahib. It exemplified the true spirit of India.Being the junior-most officer, I was expected to know, by heart, the basic hymns of all the religions to which our troops belonged. On Janamashtami, I was detailed by my Commanding Officer to give five minutes’ brief on Lord Krishna. The other day was Guru Nanak Dev’s birthday and I enlightened the whole battalion as to what the first Sikh Guru stood for. Though there were just a few Christians, my CO ensured that I speak something about Jesus Christ on Christmas.Before the start of any professional event, be it the battle physical efficiency tests, the 40-km long route marches, or even the tough inter-battalion competitions, I remember our soldiers shouting ‘jaikaras’ (war cries) of ‘Bole So Nihal’ and ‘Durga Mata Ki Jai’ in equal measure. ‘Bole So Nihal’ was always led by a Hindu soldier, and ‘Durga Mata Ki Jai’ was always led by a Sikh. In fact, this kind of synergy gets amply infused in the soldiers’ minds when they take the oath at their regimental centres while religious instructors of all faiths march past them. No wonder, the Indian armed forces best represent the country’s unity in diversity, and remain a beacon of hope in these difficult times.  #indian army #indian defence||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/reposing-faith-in-togetherness-371349
21-02-2022||Defence Analyst||Quad will spur India to all-domain operations||While the war clouds over Ukraine over the NATO-Russia standoff appear to have dissipated somewhat (and saved India the blushes over having to take sides, albeit having to abstain in a crucial UN debate on the matter), there appears to be a build-up in the Asia-Pacific. India’s strategic role in the evolving Indo-Pacific Quad is becoming substantial day by day. As and when the Quad assumes its rightful military dimension, the newfangled phraseology of ‘all-domain operations’ would become even more applicable in the context of the expanded IAF air operations.Traditionally, leading global players in the business of power projection have tended to use jargon to make up for actual capabilities. But we may just be on the cusp of some path-breaking war-fighting concepts. All domains would encompass aerial actions by air forces in the land, sea, air, space, and cyberspace — with the integration and sharing of information across all operations being enabled by high-speed computing at nearly the speed of light.This would be an ideal opportunity for India to sit at the high table of international war-fighting, with distinct advantages over adversaries such as China and Pakistan.Seamlessly integrating operations across domains not achievable by adversaries ought to be our aim, too, as was touted recently by Admiral Christopher W. Grady, the US Vice-Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Though one cannot expect this to be a cakewalk by any means, war would continue to be as messy and unpredictable as always. In India’s context, the all-domain operations would entail a ‘two-front war’ necessarily, against the threat spectrum in our neighbourhood.The timing as far as the IAF is concerned is crucial too, with new technologies and force accretions being on the anvil. This, of course, would include the Rafale, the Tejas and its derivatives, the SU-30 and MiG-29 upgrades and whichever platform wins the 126 MMRCA flyoff. Add to this the entire panoply of modern transporters and heli-capabilities, such as the Super Hercules, the C-47 Chinooks, the Apache AH-64, C17 Globe Masters, force multipliers like aerial tankers and AWACS/AEW and Aerostat radars, all tied in through secure communications and data-linking.Air assets of the Indian Army, Navy, Coast Guard, the paramilitary forces and the DGCA, such as radars and all types of AD guns and missiles, would need to be brought into our all-domain integration through optimal C4 I2 engineering.We have dabbled in a National C4 I2 project for some years now, though it has not succeeded in proper integration into the system. Once the requisite architecture is in place and continuous exercising and operationalisation thereof has been done, our national all-domain expertise would get optimised.Down the line, the IAF would need to look at aerial platforms of the like of the JSF F35, which have already demonstrated the capability of sharing operational data from diverse locations such as Texas, Hawaii and Australia.In India’s case, ISRO would need to be integrated wholly into the defence C4 I2 architecture, what with satellite communications and space-based imagery sensors and search and rescue elements, including Combat SAR, being valuable combat assets.It was heartening to see the Indian Tejas being demonstrated at the Singapore air show along with other advanced aircraft, including the F35. Participation in such fora would enable the IAF to learn the ropes in cyber, electronic warfare, sensor and big-data fusion capabilities, which constitute the backbone of the all-domain warfare.Being au fait with such modern war-fighting milieu would enable our military commanders to act expeditiously and exploit the enemy’s OODA (observe, orient, decide, act) loop. The post-pandemic scenario would pave the way for considerable business development revolving around legacy aerial systems and command and control software and hardware.The real challenge is to have systems and platforms capable of gathering the required operational data and processing and analysing it appropriately and transmitting it quickly to a multitude of subscribers in the loop.Lots of upgrade and retrofit would be called for. There would be advantages to be gained if source codes are indigenous and the government’s Atmanirbharta programme would play an important role, especially with the brainpower resident in our IITs and other institutions of higher learning in the civil and defence sectors.In the earlier days, when the IAF was considering upgrades, integrators such as the 1553 data bus, played a big role in enabling different weapon subsystems to talk to each other. The Matra Magic missile integration on to the MiG 21 Bis is a classic successful case in point. This approach would bear fruit even into the all-domain future, especially for developing nations like ours, as wepossess considerable ‘legacy hardware’ in our inventory.Our expertise in the digitisation of analog systems, such as the digitisation of the troposcatter communication hubs, for example, would pay rich dividends going forward. Entities such as the Software Development Institute in Bangalore (credited with developing software for the Sukhoi-30) would play stellar roles in this respect.So, we would retain our legacy equipment, and optimally integrate them into our ultra-modern national and sub-service C4 I2 architecture to get seamless tactical and operational mosaics.Another area to facilitate all-domain expertise is that of international air and other military exercises. We already do participate in a slew of such exercises, including the Red Flag in Alaska.All-domain concept proving and integration with other friendly forces need to be dovetailed into such exercise settings so that shortfalls in indigenous engineering capabilities, if any, could be addressed suitably by learning from better systems and practices of our international partners. Also, all-domain war-fighting needs to become a standard fit in the research and development syllabi of our academic service institutions. #quad||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/quad-will-spur-india-to-all-domain-operations-371081
21-02-2022||Political Scientist||We need to build a deliberative democracy||There was a time when elections in India were described as ‘the carnival of democracy’. Today, they are a theatre of war. And war has no rules. In the Mahabharata, law-giver Krishna advises deceit: recollect the killing of Karna, the tragic hero who epitomised courage, valour, honour, generosity and loyalty. Analogously, in the current elections to five Assemblies, every rule protecting human dignity has been violated. Wild allegations are thrown around, history is distorted, people are divided, the hijab becomes a core issue, poverty and unemployment are non-issues and politicians strike Faustian bargains. Political languages are turned upside down, and we no longer know who stands for what, or whether they stand for anything at all.The unnecessary hype over elections is odd. In parliamentary democracies, elections come and go, politicians appear and disappear, and life goes on. In India, elections are a matter of life and death. Television channels carry no other news. Ministers of the Central government focus their attention on state and even panchayat elections, and pay scant attention to what they should be doing: governing the country, providing jobs, ensuring wellbeing, moderating political excesses.Considering that every year some or the other state goes into the election mode, we are fated to live amidst this hysteria and this name-calling, this empty symbolism and even emptier rhetoric.The solution to this problem is not one election for state Assemblies and Parliament at the same time. We will merely further the politically unwise project of homogenisation. We have to recover a sense of the place of elections in a democracy. This, of course, depends on how we conceptualise democracy. Minimalist theories of democracy suggest that this form of government is preferable because it enables a peaceful transfer of power from one set of elites to another. This justification of democracy is completely unpersuasive. It reduces citizens to mere voters. But we are shareholders. We have the right to participate in the making of decisions that affect us individually and collectively. We have the power to hold our representatives accountable.Democracy is the only form of government that enables us to be authors of our own lives; which allows us to write our own histories. The histories we land up with may not be the histories we wanted to write, but this is not the issue. The issue is that the capacity to author our own lives, and to speak back to a history not of our own making, nurtures agency. We act, we are not acted upon. Nor should we be spoken down to, or even spoken of without our authorisation and our consent.We are social beings. We can hardly write our own histories without others, without their knowledge, their moral judgments, their solidarity, and their compassion. We write histories of ourselves amidst others. This is the basis of substantive democracy. It concentrates on the creation of a deliberative community. In this metaphorical space, citizens engage with each other on issues that are of common, and of public concern, as equals.The notion of democracy as deliberation has become even more important today because we have realised that plural societies like ours confront a major problem. How do people who subscribe to different conceptions of the good, who speak different languages, and who worship different gods learn to live together in some degree of harmony?Our power elite will try and intensify differences, because this benefits them. They reduce politics to administration. But democratic politics resists invisibility. Therefore, one politically viable alternative is to initiate a conversation among ourselves, to create a deliberative community, and just connect. This enables us to make the move from a purely ‘self-regarding’ perspective to an ‘other-regarding’ one. Through deliberation, we establish that we respect others as free and equal partners. And this by itself contributes to the ironing out of senseless conflicts that arise out of the lack of recognition.It is not easy to create and sustain a deliberative community. We live in an unequal world. There will always be conflict over land, over distribution of resources, between castes, between religious communities, between ideas of what our society is and what it should be, over nation and nationalism, and over ideologies. There will be no one version of which procedure to iron out differences is fair and just.But then, there is no such thing as a post-conflict society, as Plato had envisaged. We cannot be sure that reason will rule over passion or, that if only philosophers become kings or kings are philosophers, we will secure harmony. We have to live with conflict the way we live with our own selves as divided and troubled souls. We may reject Plato’s notion of an ideal society, but we have to accept that our city or our country reflects divisions of our souls and fragments of ourselves.When we are troubled, we talk to a friend, and sort out our problems. Similarly, members of a deliberative community have to keep a conversation going to resolve issues. Elections are but one moment, albeit a defining one, in a democratic life.Democracy is not about the ruler and the ruled, it is about the ruled holding the ruler to account by the creation of a deliberative community. It is time to reject the notion of democracy as elections and to reinstate the notion of democracy as deliberation that allows us to author our own histories. #democracy||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/we-need-to-build-a-deliberative-democracy-371079
21-02-2022||Senior Economic Analyst||PSU 2.0 to take on Chinese imports||It is now widely accepted that India is facing the mother of all demand crises. Our factories are running at way below capacity, because people don’t have enough money to buy the goods they produce. From politicians to pink-paper pundits, corporates to columnists, everyone agrees that the only way to stimulate demand is to put money in the hands of the poor, so that they buy things. The quibble is over what route to take — whether to invest in infrastructure and MGNREGA to create jobs, or to directly hand over cash to people in the form of a dole or universal basic income.Spending by the Indian Government will fatten the bottom lines of Chinese companies.But none of these will move the demand needle even marginally. The Modi government’s supposed infrastructure push in the latest Budget will add just Re 1 per person per day to the income of the poorest 20 per cent of Indians. One can double that amount, and still, almost all of this additional income will go to add some nutrition to the very basic food India’s poor eat.So, is giving cash directly to the poor a better option? A simple thought experiment will give us the rudiments of an answer. In 2013, a UN report estimated that a very simple meal — dal, chawal, onions, tomatoes and vegetable oil — cost Rs 13.50 in India. If one uses that to calculate the present, inflation-adjusted, cost of three meals today, it comes to a daily expense of about Rs 50 per person.Comparing that to the average per capita income estimates that one can derive from the World Inequality Database (WID), we can safely say that the bottom 10 per cent of Indians cannot afford even the simplest of meals. The only way they can survive is if they get free food. The next 10 per cent also need food subsidies to sustain any other essential expenditure, and those between the 20th and 40th income percentiles can afford some additional nutrition, but have almost nothing left to spend on shelter, health and education.Any extra money that they get will be spent, first on food, and then on essentials required for subsistence. Hardly a trickle will flow into consumer goods. If there is anything left after meeting essential expenses, it will be used to buy the cheapest possible products — cellphones, batteries, clothes, shoes, clocks and watches — all produced in China. In other words, spending by the Indian Government will fatten the bottom lines of Chinese companies.The biggest reason for this is that our companies — whether in services or manufacturing — mostly cater to the top 10 per cent of Indians. Even when they speak of expanding beyond that space, they probably look at a catchment area of another 20 per cent. The only major exceptions here are the telecom service providers who have a very wide reach. But telecom services have been affordable till now because of the pricing war between two giants, and the bulk of the earnings for these companies comes from the top 20-30 per cent of users.The bulk of our companies have reached the limits of the consumer base they can address given the costs of their products. And no amount of government spending can raise the remaining part of India’s population to a consumption level where they can afford to buy goods and services produced by the big Indian companies.The only way to deal with this problem is to accept, even if for the short term, that India is divided amongst the affluent and the extremely poor. Government policies need to be bifurcated to address the economic crises these two Indias are currently facing. It will have to begin with the bottom half of Indians who cannot afford to buy basic consumer goods, and even when they do, they buy cheap Chinese products which have flooded the market.The only way to provide goods and services to the poorest people is for the government to produce them. The public sector focused on heavy industries, electricity and infrastructure, when India became independent. We need a public sector 2.0 now, which focuses on producing cheap, utilitarian, sturdy goods and no-frills services that India’s poor need to improve their standard of living. A large part of the cost of the organised private sector is design, sales and marketing and mega pay packets of top managers.When the government produces consumer goods — hair oil, soaps, shampoo, toothpaste, batteries, cellphone-chargers, bulbs, shirts, saris, footwear — it can cut out many of the non-core costs. Even after that, the government might have to provide budgetary support and arrange for cheaper financing for PSUs that produce for the poor, so that they can compete against Chinese products.More importantly, the move away from finish and design will allow these PSUs to run labour-intensive production processes. The focus has to be on maximising employment rather than profits. People need to be given jobs at decent wages so that they can afford to buy the goods and services they produce. It will mean running high central deficits for several years, but the virtuous cycle of income and demand that it will unleash will ultimately generate more taxes and help reduce government debt.The production of goods and services for the poor will also have a multiplier effect on the production of goods and services for the affluent. Firstly, the government sector will buy inputs from the organised corporate sector. Secondly, there will also be new white-collar jobs in the government sector — both in PSUs and in administration. These people will not buy the cheap, sturdy and utilitarian products that the government produces. Instead, they will help expand and reproduce the market for high-quality goods and services that India Inc. produces for the top 20 per cent of Indians. Thus, the government’s active role in producing for the poor, will end up solving the demand problem for the organised corporate sector as well. #China||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/psu-2-0-to-take-on-chinese-imports-371077
