22-02-2022||Vice-chancellor||Time to take trade cartelisation seriously||THE Competition Commission of India (CCI) recently imposed a collective penalty of over Rs 1,788 crore on five tyre companies for indulging in alleged cartelisation. The regulator also imposed a penalty on the Automotive Tyre Manufacturers’Association (ATMA). This was in consequence of collusion between these companies which was in contravention of Section 3 of the Competition Act, 2002. A cartel is said to exist when two or more enterprises enter into an explicit or implicit agreement to fix prices, limit production and supply, allocate market share or sales quotas and engage in collusive bidding or bid-rigging in one or more markets. These four types of agreements between enterprises engaged in similar or identical trade of goods or provision of services are known as horizontal agreements. These are presumed to have an appreciable adverse effect on competition and are void.In exercise of powers vested under Section 19 of the Act, the CCI may enquire into any alleged contravention of the provisions of Section 3 of the Act. It may do it either suo motu or on receipt of a complaint by a whistleblower alleging such a violation. Furthermore, the Central or State government or any other statutory body may also direct the CCI to take cognisance of any illicit action by an entity in the relevant market. If the CCI finds a prima facie case, it directs the Director General (DG) to carry out a detailed investigation. On the basis of the DG’s report, objections are invited. The CCI conducts oral hearings and if it finds that an agreement is anti-competitive or that a cartel exists, it may impose penalties.The distinctive features with which the CCI identifies cartels are secrecy, concealment activities by companies, retaliation threats such as temporary price cuts or through isolation of the cheating member. Additionally, the CCI has the power to award lesser penalties in lieu of information from members of a cartel themselves under Section 46 of the Act.The cartel enforcement regime by the CCI can be divided into the amount of penalty imposed by it and evaluation of the methodology used to penalise them. The penalties provided under the Act are those related to civil offences i.e., cease-and-desist order under Section 27 (a) and civil fines or penalties under Section 27 (b). Civil penalties contained in the latter provision have two components — general for all types of agreements and abuse of dominance and the other part is specific for cartel agreements, which are more severe in nature. The prescribed limit for general civil penalty is not more than 10% of the average of the turnover for the three preceding financial years, the limit for the specific penalty for the cartel is up to three times of its profit for each year of the continuance of such agreement or 10% of its turnover for each year of the continuance of such agreement, whichever is higher.A comparison of the turnover-based penalty and profit-based penalty depicts that aggregate turnover during the cartel’s life is highly likely to be larger than the average of the last three years’ turnover. This is trivially true for cartels lasting three or more years; but even for a one-year cartel, it is true if the turnover in the cartel year is higher than the average annual turnover of the non-cartel years. In general, longer-lived agreements will attract a much harsher penalty under the cartel-specific penalty regime than the general penalty regime. Also, it is easy to figure out that three times the profit will always be higher than 10% of turnover if the profit/sales ratio is more than 3.33%, which is on the lower side under normal circumstances. So, the profit-based cartel penalty will normally be higher than the turnover-based penalty. Finally, a penalty based on actual profits will always be higher than one based on the excess profits (overcharges) attributable to collusion.The penalty status of the cases in which the Commission found a contravention of Section 3(3), and their current status in the higher courts (National Company Law Appellate Tribunal and the Supreme Court) is that there are 16 cases where only cease-and-desist orders were passed under Section 27 (a) and no fines were imposed. In half of these cases, non-imposition of penalty was due to similar penalty imposed on the respective firms/associations in a concurrent case. In four other cases, restrictive contractual arrangements were modified/removed; hence, no penalty was imposed. Further, the methodology for cartel sanctions under the Act provides that the calculation should be done on the basis of the firm’s profit during the whole period of cartelisation. The law provides for total profit rather than excess profit. However, the CCI has rarely used profit in fine calculation in a majority of the cases decided in the last three years. This is so as the cases which came before it were of trade associations where distributors who constituted the associations had very small income or turnover.Under the Indian law, it can be stated that the assessment of cartels is further complicated by the inconsistent pattern of penalties imposed by the CCI. Even the rough, exploratory calculation shows that fines are considerably below optimal than what was statutorily permissible. This has been due to several reasons such as the use of the turnover rather than profit base, calculations based on an average of three years (with either base) rather than the actual duration of the cartel, penalties at much lower rates than the allowable maximum, imposition of penalties on the revenue of trade associations which would be a tiny fraction of the turnover or profits of their members, failure to impose enhanced penalties on recidivists (such persons have involvement in multiple cartels even after previous sanctions or penalties imposed on them), imposition of penalties in only a single case when offences were established in multiple similar cases and the waiver of penalty on state-owned enterprises or MSMEs.Views are personal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/time-to-take-trade-cartelisation-seriously-371930
22-02-2022||Former Ambassador ||How Ukraine imbroglio can impact India||THE standoff between Russia and US-Europe over Ukraine has come at an inopportune time for India. As a UN Security Council (UNSC) member, India is contributing to ensuring peace, security and stability in the world. This role has opportunities for enhancement due to the inability of the permanent five (P5) to act in unison.In the case of Ukraine, the P5 are threatening to go to war with each other, with the UK, US, France on one side, and Russia supported by China on the other. This takes matters totally out of the hands of the UNSC, making it redundant.The Ukraine crisis is curtailing Indian role in the UNSC. New Delhi is doing its best to remain relevant. India is developing relations with the EU and other European countries. This initiative leads India to support the Normandy process and the Minsk agreement, which are European efforts to engage Russia on Ukraine. India would prefer the European way of dealing with Russia than the tough posture which the US wants NATO to adopt. European countries will toe the US line if war erupts. That reduces the efficacy of India’s European initiative presently. India is calling for diplomacy as that will defuse the tension and also give India more leeway.The Russian posture on Ukraine and the reaction to it, strengthened the Sino-Russian partnership. The Xi-Putin summit at the Beijing Winter Olympics lent firmness and robustness to that relationship. China is challenging India, has overthrown extant agreements and increased its military threat. This does not augur well. For long, India depended on Russia for strategic partnership. It still largely depends on Russia for military hardware. While the defence relationship is mutually beneficial, the Sino-Russian axis curtails the Russian ability and intent to support India as in the past.Russia’s confrontation with NATO will lead to rigorously imposed sanctions. India has delicately negotiated to stay out of CAATSA (Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act) with the purchase of S-400 Triumf missile systems which may not work when a war-like situation prevails. Countries like Germany have stark choices on economic issues, and India will be faced with similar choices on defence supplies from Russia with tougher sanctions that the US is ready to impose.India-Russia trade of about $9 billion annually is about 1% of India’s global trade. The significance is the impact on defence, energy, grain delivery and prices.Curtailing of defence supplies will impact India’s ability to respond to China. The diversification of defence purchases that India achieved would come into play but without the competitive pricing and transfer of technology of Russian equipment.Strategically, Russia will not attempt to restrain China. In exchange for Chinese support for Russian intent in Ukraine, they would concur with Chinese initiatives in the Indo-Pacific. Russia’s nuanced divergence on India could melt away if the Ukraine crises blows up as both NATO and Russia seek clear Indian support which India hesitates to provide.The Ukraine crisis brings Russia and China closer and diverts the attention of Western powers towards Ukraine. The Europeans would have a lesser appetite for the Indo-Pacific once they are embroiled in European matters. France held its Indo-Pacific conference right after the Munich Security Conference this month. They wish to continue to deal with the region while engaged with Russia as well. However, the EU member countries do not have diverse abilities and their Indo-Pacific polices are likely to be on hold till the Russian challenge is settled.At present, US naval forces are at strength in the South China Sea and the broader Indo-Pacific as Taiwan is at stake. They will need allies Japan and AUKUS to play a role. They could well call upon India to act in the Indo-Pacific even if India is not directly involved in an operation around Taiwan.This is not different from what India is doing in the Indo-Pacific at present, but India expects support for its position with China on the border issue, as was discussed at the Quad foreign ministers’ meeting in Australia recently. Indian activity, in the midst of the Ukraine crisis, may not be ignored by China and Russia.India’s energy security is a matter of worry as there is already a $20 per barrel increase in the price of oil over the estimates used by the Economic Survey 2022. This impacts India’s growth story. Russia is a significant oil producer and the Ukraine crisis and sanctions on Russia would destabilise the oil market. This would gravely impact India’s development plans.In 2021, India imported merely 1% of its oil and 0.2% of its gas from Russia. GAIL has a 20-year contract to import 2.5 million tonnes of LNG from Russia annually. It’s not the direct supply but the prices that will be impacted negatively. Thus, India’s repeated calls for peaceful resolution. The diversification of Indian energy supplies over time will perhaps protect supplies but not control prices.Similarly, if the Ukraine crisis leads to Europe, particularly Germany, curtailing gas imports from Russia, it will bring other gas providers to strategically shift supplies to Europe impacting Asian economies. The gas prices nevertheless will rise. The pandemic has slowed down India’s investment in Mozambique in gas offtake and this needs to be hastened to diversify gas imports and stabilise gas pricing in India.There are nearly 25,000 Indians in Ukraine, mostly students. They have been advised to leave Ukraine as flights are still available. Indian mission families too are leaving. This is the correct advisory planned well ahead of a full-scale crisis. Students remain averse to depart when it is feasible, to avoid spending on high-priced tickets. They believe that the government will always step in to rescue them once a crisis unfolds. This attitude needs to change.This is an inflection point for India as the Ukraine crisis challenges its ability to influence events in its favour, avoid an impact on its economy, without taking sides in a crisis of indirect interest to it. Such impacts of globalisation need careful handling.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/how-ukraine-imbroglio-can-impact-india-371927
22-02-2022||Sociologist||Rooted cosmopolitanism||As a teacher, I have always found myself in a multicultural classroom characterised by heterogeneity, and yet a rhythm of connectedness. I have seen young Muslim girls wearing hijab, and reflecting sharply on Karl Marx and Michel Foucault. And I am lucky to find European students showing deep interest in Gandhi’s ‘experiments with truth’. Even though Hindus, Muslims, Sikhs, Christians, or students wearing hijab/turban/kurta/jeans occupy the same space, I have not found any problem. Instead, this visible diversity distinguishes a living/vibrant classroom from a bunch of Army jawans wearing the same uniform with soulless homogeneity. Furthermore, the exchange of ideas in a classroom of this kind seeks to accomplish what we ought to strive for: the ability to live with and learn from others, even when one is not ashamed of one’s cultural identity. This is what I regard as rooted cosmopolitanism; and a heterogeneous society like ours needs this.Why should a Hindu be deprived of the ecstasy of Zen Buddhism or Sufism? You might love your hijab, but why should it be impossible for you to embrace Jesus’s sermon?But then, it seems we live in a sick society characterised by majoritarian violence, intense cultural and psychic insecurity, and obsessive preoccupation with the way organised religions define and mark one’s identity. And, as the recent hijab row in Karnataka indicates, even our educational institutions are becoming toxic, regressive and divisive. Imagine college students, instead of engaging with deeper questions relating to science, philosophy and literature, are shouting slogans like ‘Jai Shri Ram’ or ‘Allahu Akbar’. They are supposed to be wanderers, work together, and enchant the classroom with a rigorous debate on great books and ideas. But then, the hyper-nationalist champions of Hindutva are so insecure that they feel threatened when they find a Muslim girl with hijab riding a motorcycle, and refusing to be silenced by their aggression. The tragedy is that academic bureaucrats, instead of cultivating the ethos of a dialogic/critical/reflexive pedagogy, get obsessed with the dress code. It is not secularism; it is essentially a design to target and humiliate the Muslim community.As opposed to this communally charged environment, imagine a classroom where students are encouraged to ask a complex question like this: Can it be said that what one wears is necessarily always one’s free choice? Think of, for example, a beauty queen wearing a fancy garment. Is it a free choice? Or is it that the market-driven beauty industry and associated ‘brand’ consciousness have already defined what she should wear, even if she thinks she is modern and free from all orthodoxies? Likewise, when a Hindu woman sees sindoor as a distinctive symbol of her marital status, is she really free? Or, is it that she has already been conditioned by her religious tradition? It is possible that because of socialisation and resultant internalisation, this conditioning looks so normal and natural that she begins to see it as an act of her choice. Likewise, a Muslim girl too might confuse her conditioning with voluntarism when she says that she has freely chosen to veil herself. We can say that as culturally embedded beings, it is impossible to be absolutely free from the symbols like turban, sindoor, hijab or even American blue jeans. But then, to evolve and grow up as a mature learner is to be aware of this dialectic. Only then is it possible to be receptive, expand one’s horizon, realise that there is something more in life than what one wears or eats, and even cherish hybridity with the lightness of being.The irony is that the all-pervading politics that manufactures and stimulates our limiting identities, ghettoises our consciousness, and erects walls of separation. While militant Hindu nationalists radiate the symbols of aggression, the Muslim clergy continue to defend oppressive practices to limit the movement of women. And amid this vicious cycle of majority communalism vs minority communalism, even our ‘secular’ parties, instead of pleading for multiculturalism or rooted cosmopolitanism, choose to remain diplomatic. It is tragic that we love to see ourselves as part of Muslim/Hindu/Jat/Dalit votebank. It is unlikely that the prevalent political culture can emancipate our consciousness. Is it, therefore, surprising that the political class is exploiting the controversy over the hijab row for utilitarian interests?I have no hesitation in saying that it is only through a creatively nuanced critical pedagogy we can move towards a society that liberates itself from the burden of identity politics. It is in this context that the meaning of the art of living with heterogeneity and cultural pluralism has to be understood. I am born in a Hindu family. But then, why should it deprive me of the ecstasy of Zen Buddhism or Sufism? Or, you might love your hijab, but why should it be impossible for you to embrace Jesus’s Sermon on the Mount? Or, why should it be impossible to keep Karl Marx’s The Communist Manifesto as well as Thich Nhat Hanh’s Living Buddha, Living Christ on your bookshelf? A vibrant/dialogic classroom that opens the windows of consciousness can take us to the true spirit of multiculturalism — the spirit of fusion of horizons.As an educator, I feel like urging these angry Hindu/Muslim students obsessed with their identity markers to pause, and think of, say, Gandhi and Tagore. Gandhi’s ‘sanatani Hinduism’ was inseparable from the touch of Tolstoy and Ruskin, and continual cross-religious conversations. Likewise, Tagore’s Upanishadic prayers enabled him to embrace the entire world, and interrogate the ideology of militaristic nationalism. They were the living illustrations of rooted cosmopolitanism. Will these students dare to learn?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/rooted-cosmopolitanism-371921
