23-02-2022||---||Delinking 1950 report from J&K delimitation||ON September 15, 1950, at the village of Lake Success in Nassau county of New York State, temporary home of the United Nations from 1946 to 1951, the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) received a report from the former Chief Justice of Australia, Owen Dixon, on Jammu and Kashmir. Appointed by the UNSC to mediate between India and Pakistan on J&K, the 64-year-old Australian jurist made some categorical recommendations.Dixon had visited J&K on both sides of the Line of Control, shuttled between New Delhi and Karachi, and brokered a meeting between the two prime ministers on July 20, 1950. He recommended that the Hindu-majority Jammu plains should go to India whereas their culturally and linguistically akin Muslim areas of Rajouri-Poonch, situated near the Line of Control, should go to Pakistan. It gave Ladakh to India, Gilgit-Baltistan and Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) to Pakistan. The Dixon report remained a non-starter as it was a de facto invitation to Partition-type mass killings and mass displacement within J&K. In hindsight, the report lacked the rigour to reflect the complex realities of the former princely state, in terms of a complex layout of religious, linguistic and ethnic patterns that defied binary interpretations of the majority-minority.Surprisingly, in 2022, as soon as extracts of the J&K Delimitation Commission report became public, the 1950 Dixon proposal got invoked by political actors from J&K, including former Chief Minister Farooq Abdullah, as they alleged that the recent delimitation report is inspired from the same. The bulk of the preliminary Delimitation Commission report relates to the new constituencies of the proposed legislative assembly of J&K in the post-August 5, 2019, scenario. The alleged linkage of the Dixon report with the voluminous Delimitation Commission report hinges on the proposal of redrawing of the Kashmir valley’s former Anantnag parliamentary seat. The report recommends merging parts of the old Anantnag parliamentary seat with the Muslim-majority Rajouri and Poonch districts which were earlier part of the Hindu-majority Jammu-Poonch parliamentary constituency. De facto, two culturally distinct Muslim-majority areas on either side of the Pir Panjal mountain range were combined to form a parliamentary constituency.The UT of J&K, with just five Lok Sabha seats, matters little to the broader electoral considerations in government formation process in New Delhi. However, the creation of the newly demarcated parliamentary seat seems to have touched a raw nerve. This can better be explained by the multi-dimensional tragedy that had hit J&K in 1947 and the impact of institutionalised inter-generational Partition-related memories. Muslim-majority Kashmir valley remained peaceful in 1947. The areas to the south of Pir Panjal that formed nearly 60 per cent of former princely state’s population shared linguistic, cultural and strong familial ties with neighbouring Punjab. Just like undivided Punjab, outside Kashmir valley, Muslims suffered in the Hindu-majority areas and Hindus as well as Sikhs in the Muslim-majority areas of J&K. The division of J&K between the two countries was largely a de facto bifurcation of culturally akin non-Kashmiri speaking segment. However, the Muslim-majority districts of Rajouri-Poonch areas, the area that adjoins PoK and has significant Hindu-minority population, remained a component of Jammu province’s administrative as well as electoral jurisdictions. A few long-time observers viewed this as a secularising and stabilising force. For instance, in the overwhelmingly Hindu-majority Jammu-Poonch parliamentary constituency, a Gujjar Muslim candidate Talib Hussain Chowdhary won in the 2002 bypoll. Rajouri-Poonch had nearly one-third of the total electorate.Ethnic and cultural differences apart, the mighty Pir Panjal, a group of mountains in the Lesser Himalayan region, separates Rajouri-Poonch from the Anantnag district of Kashmir valley. Logistically, the two areas are connected by a fair weather route, better known as Mughal road, as the Mughals took this route as they headed to Kashmir for summer vacations. This road can only be traversed during the 3-4 months of summers and is snow-clad for the rest of the year. Otherwise, an elected candidate of the proposed constituency will have to travel 500 km from Rajouri-Poonch to Anantnag district via Jammu plains. The old all-weather road connection with Kashmir valley of this belt was via Uri but that is blocked by the Haji Pir mountain pass which is now part of PoK. Notably, Rajouri-Poonch hilly areas along the Line of Control came out of militancy around 2005. Feeble demands for separating the districts of Rajouri and Poonch from Jammu province were made by various quarters. Former Jamiat-e-Islami leader from Kashmir valley, Syed Ali Shah Geelani, reportedly asked the people of Rajouri-Poonch to demand merger with Kashmir valley, a concept better known as Greater Kashmir.In 1998, the ruling National Conference officially proposed separate provincial status to Rajouri-Poonch. This proposal too was alleged to be inspired by the Dixon report, as it asked for separation of Muslim-majority areas from the Hindu-majority province. These proposals instilled anxieties among Muslims in Hindu-majority areas and vice-versa.Embarrassed by the criticism of the 1998 report, a few years later, National Conference leader Omar Abdullah, on a television show, distanced himself from the proposal. Meanwhile, in Hindu-dominated Jammu plains, there were occasional demands for separation of Jammu from the Kashmir valley. This triggered a reaction in Rajouri-Poonch as some demanded separation from Jammu plains. However, this is the first time that a statutory body has de facto recommended bifurcation of an old parliamentary constituency and combined two culturally distinct Muslim societies to form a new one.The claims of alleged linkage of the 1950 Dixon report with any proposal of the draft report of the 2022 J&K Delimitation Commission led by Ranjana Prakash Desai, a former judge of the Supreme Court, are stretched. One was the UNSC report and another is the report of a commission created by the Indian government to propose the redrawing and allocation of assembly seats in the post-August 5, 2019, scenario. The international context is vastly different in 2022. The only significance is the fact that even the redrawing of two parliamentary constituencies could potentially disturb the tenuous social bond and equilibrium. And it can rake up old anxieties that are connected with the turbulent events of 1947.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/delinking-1950-report-from-jk-delimitation-372153
23-02-2022||---||Why Bhutan is India’s Achilles’ heel||THE US Department of Defence’s annual report for 2021 says that Chinese intrusive activities have continued in the Chumbi valley, including inside Bhutan, augmenting the threat to the Siliguri corridor, despite the resumption of border talks between them. Such is the sweep of the Chinese aggression across its two remaining unsettled borders with India and Bhutan.That India unilaterally offered to revise the Treaty of Perpetual Peace and Friendship, 1949, with Bhutan, encouraging Nepal to ask for a similar update of their 1950 treaty is untrue.In his autobiography, The Presidential Years 2012-17, Pranab Mukherjee explains how the treaty revision occurred. In early 2007, a two-hour closed-door meeting took place among Bhutan’s king Jigme Singye Wangchuck, Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and Foreign Minister Mukherjee. Crown Prince Khesar Namgyel Wangchuck was present during the entire discussion. Though his father had already abdicated, he was crowned only on November 1, 2008.India was not keen to revisit the treaty, but the King insisted. Mukherjee told the King: “We are vitally interested in preserving the concept of the joint security of India and Bhutan being common and indivisible.” Both Singh and Mukherjee urged the King to reconsider revising the treaty, but he did not budge.Instead, the King presented a draft treaty in which “common security” was central and contained in Article 2 of the treaty: “Both countries will cooperate closely in issues relating to national interest.” The operative part was “neither government shall allow the use of its territory for activities harmful to the national security and interest of the other.”The 2007 treaty was signed by the then Crown Prince, who is now King Khesar, and Mukherjee. It replaced the old Article 2 — of Bhutan being guided by India in its external affairs with the issue of common security embedded. In terms of strategic security, Bhutan presented India more practical and operational terms for intervention, though there is no SOP between the two sides, either in Thimphu or New Delhi or even in Kolkata’s Eastern Command responsible for the security of Bhutan.The King is the ‘sanctum sanctorum’ in Bhutan. There is no defence minister; de facto the King is. The Major-General in charge of the Indian Military Training Assistance Team (IMTRAT) is the King’s military adviser, although the tiny Royal Bhutan Army (RBA) as a Lieutenant-General as its Commander.The King is believed to have done some loud thinking with his Indian military adviser about inviting Indian troops other than the 1,000 or so Indian soldiers deployed with IMTRAT.The Indian Army units, which are to be deployed in the event of an emergency, have not visited their operational areas, except for their commanders. Skeletal troop movement for operational training is kept below the radar; so is the visibility of the Medical Assistance Mission, which is acknowledged by the Bhutanese as a key asset.Still, the Bhutanese youth resent the presence of the Indian troops on their soil even as business houses want diplomatic relations with China, which has exploited this chink, especially after the Indian intervention at Doklam. Bhutan fears China.In June 2017, PLA Engineer units constructing a road in the Chumbi valley from Yatung, extending across the Doklam plateau towards the Jampheri Ridge while approaching the disputed trijunction of Gymochen, were intercepted at Doklam by 8 JAK LI deployed on the Doka La post. Disputed between Bhutan and China, Doklam poses a direct threat to the Siliguri corridor. The Indian intervention at Doklam was consequent to invoking Article 2 of the revised 2007 treaty. The RBA deployed on their post at the Jampheri Ridge did not join hands with the Indian soldiers who held the line for 72 days, till the disengagement on August 27.The Chinese learnt cardinal lessons from the Indian intervention at Doklam that challenged and arrested PLA intrusions in violation of the standstill agreements of 1998 and 2012.One of the reasons for the PLA aggression in East Ladakh in 2020 was the Indian rebuff to China at Doklam. Disengagement from Doklam did not stop the aggression. The PLA has since fortified defences north of Doklam, extending the road along another axis — the Mochu river — towards the Jampheri ridge and built dual-use villages inside Bhutan. The Bhutanese have denied the existence of the village identified by Google Earth imagery.India, too, had turned a Nelson’s eye, not invoking Article 2 of the treaty, with one Indian diplomat remarking that it is a “civilian matter”. Obviously, India did not want to start a second front after East Ladakh. With fresh intrusions inside Bhutan, China wants its swap package — 269 sq km in the west at Doklam exchanged for 495 sq km in the north — to be implemented, though the Chinese have already occupied most of the disputed Doklam. The Chinese have done yet another fait accompli: in contravention of the 1890 Convention (which China invoked in 2017), they unilaterally declared the Mochu river the border with Bhutan, which is undemarcated.Following the Chinese intrusions, a three-step Framework China-Bhutan Accord was reached last year which China has called a deadlock-breaker that may become the first step towards a border settlement, though it is inconceivable that India was not consulted, as is the practice before border or expert group negotiations. External Affairs Ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said: “We have noted the developments and are aware of it.”India has also had its own three-step Framework Agreement of 2005 with China on border settlement, which was scuttled by the Chinese. Beijing has displayed power and belligerence in occupying Doklam and making an ingress southwards towards Jampheri in the Bhutanese territory. Trading Doklam in the west with territory in the north will breach Article 2 of the treaty.But the bigger question is: If the PLA crosses India’s red-lines in Bhutan, would K5, the fifth King, Khesar who did the 45th NDC course in New Delhi in 2005, invite the Indian troops for assistance? And if not, would the Indian troops unilaterally intervene, as they probably did in Doklam, invoking Article 2?Bhutan is India’s Achilles’ heel.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/why-bhutan-is-indias-achilles-heel-372152
