24-02-2022||---||IT sector reaping dividends of innovation||INDIA’S information technology sector seems to be having a dream run. The industry association, Nasscom, has projected that the sector is likely to end the current financial year (2021-22) with a total turnover of $227 billion after growing at 15.5 per cent, the highest in over a decade, by adding $30 billion in revenue.If the industry maintains an 11-14 per cent growth rate over the next few years, it is projected to reach a formidable total turnover of $350 billion by 2026.Other than its own growth prospects, the sector is critical for the country as software and services exports account for nearly half of India’s overall exports. According to RBI statistics, in 2020-21, India’s overall exports touched $291 billion, with the software and services part within it accounting for $134 billion.The sustained growth of the IT sector has been made possible because the industry now has more going for itself than just the cost — the lower pay by global standards which Indian engineers are willing to work for — which earlier used to be its sole differentiator. The industry can now boast of rapidly developing an innovative capability which is delivered in two ways.One is industry leaders offering total solutions to businesses instead of delivering just individual tasks and projects. Indian IT leaders now increasingly sit down with senior executives of their clients to determine what is good for the business and then devise an IT pathway to get there. For this, they have had to acquire what is called domain knowledge — what moves the particular industry. So, they are now delivering not just IT solutions but also consultancy services which help in devising the IT roadmap in which the IT solutions and projects are a part.The second way of delivering innovation is through startups. These are now mushrooming and, in many instances, drawing foreign funding through private equity and venture capital players. The fact that startups are going places is indicated by three aspects — total number of startups, total funding coming in, and what is most dramatic, the burgeoning number of unicorns — privately held firms that achieve a valuation of over a billion dollars (valuation is the perceived value of the company, arrived by the total number of shares multiplied by the share price). All startups, not just unicorns, are high-tech driven and substantially powered by IT.Startups have gone from over 700 in 2016-17 to over 14,000 in 2020-21, that is grown 20 times in four years. The list of global investors in Indian startups and unicorns is led by Sequoia, Tiger Global, Accent and Softbank — the biggest of names. Venture capital funds worth over $6 billion were launched in India in 2021. More than $39 billion has been invested in Indian startups in 2021 alone. The sharp rise in the funding of Indian startups has been driven by the recent success of public issues of startups and the pandemic pushing digital adoption, all underlining the role of tech companies.Early this year, India could boast of 83 unicorns. Of these, as many as 44 have been added last year (2021), which underlines that this is a very recent phenomenon. India now hosts the third largest number of unicorns in the world, after the US and China, in the process overtaking the UK, which is now at number four.The good fortune of the industry is that it has all through its life received active support from the government of the day, right from the 1991 Budget in which the then Finance Minister Manmohan Singh exempted software export earnings from income tax. Thereafter, successive governments have proactively changed the regulatory environment for the industry so that the ease of doing business — the bugbear of a lot of industries — keeps getting better.Mid last year, the current government brought in reforms for the ‘other service providers’ so that work from home and work from anywhere were made easier and distinction between domestic and international ‘other service providers’ was removed. It has other reforms in the pipeline, like in the sphere of SEZ exemptions.It is not as if the IT sector does not have its share of problems and challenges. The foremost of them is the shortage of skills. When a people-driven sector grows this fast, sector players compete with one another in trying to attract skilled people. This competition is leading to a very high attrition rate — staff leaving for better offers. In the process, IT companies are forced to sharply hike the compensation packages that they are offering to retain staff or be able to attract the right sort of staff. In the process, IT companies are pushing up their staff compensation bills to a level where it is bound to affect profit margins.Till now, we have been talking about the number of startups emerging, the investment they are attracting and the valuations they are achieving. But valuation is also an arithmetical, and at times, theoretical figure. When a company successfully closes a new round of funding of, say, a couple of hundred million dollars, then the price that it gets per share issued determines the value of the company.But it is not as if that valuation is always realisable. In fact, it is often not. Valuations start to tumble when there is a bear run in the stock markets, which impacts how much and at what cost companies are able to raise capital in the near future. This is, in fact, what is happening right now. The threat of a war breaking out over a feared Russian invasion of Ukraine has set the stock market stumbling and this is bound to affect future valuations.Hugely rising compensation bills of companies have a negative impact on what ultimately matters: the bottomline. Profit levels and profitability go down, reducing the attractiveness of future stock offers among ordinary investors. The big challenge that the Indian IT companies will now be facing is ensuring that their profits grow healthily, even though by not as much as their revenue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/it-sector-reaping-dividends-of-innovation-372455
24-02-2022||---||Promote the whys & hows||EVERY year, February 28 is observed as National Science Day (NSD). On this day in 1928, CV Raman announced to the world his discovery of the Raman Effect which was to win the Nobel Prize for physics two years later. NSD was instituted in 1988 to mark his birth centenary. However, the National Council of Science and Technology Communication (NCSTC), which promoted the idea, opted for the day of the discovery and not Raman’s birthday to observe NSD. The thinking behind this was more to celebrate the spirit of enquiry and not just the personal achievement of Raman or his Nobel. This year, NSD is preceded by a week-long celebration to mark 75 years of Independence. The week has been christened ‘Vigyan Sarvatra Pujyate’, following the current practice of branding all such celebrations or events.The manner in which National Science Day is being celebrated makes it an ill-conceived government tamasha.Given that the backdrop for NSD this year is ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’, it would have been an apt occasion to look back at India’s achievements in science and technology since 1947. The celebration, however, is painted in a cultural hue — it has a Sanskrit tagline and also has a day dedicated to the celebration of ‘75 inventions and innovations of Swadeshi/traditional S&T’.The tagline ‘Vigyan Sarvatra Pujyate’ means ‘science is revered everywhere’. It gives an impression that it is from an ancient text, but it is not. It has been derived from a Sanskrit adage that says ‘Vidwan sarvatra pujyate’, meaning the learned are revered all over. A rough translation of the sloka means ‘while an idiot is celebrated only in his house; a village headman is respected in his village; a king is worshipped in his country, but a learned man is revered everywhere’. The Ministry of Culture and the office of the Principal Scientific Adviser (PSA), organisers of the event, need to explain why they have twisted the sloka, replacing ‘vidwan’ with ‘vigyan’. It amounts to intellectual dishonesty on the part of the two agencies. The twist is serious because one may be reverential of an individual learned person but not of science. Being reverential to science goes against the very spirit of being inquisitive and questioning, which is also integral to the Indian tradition.Branding apart, the manner in which NSD is being celebrated makes it an ill-conceived government tamasha. The fixation with everything 75 — 75 events, 75 posters, 75 films etc — trivialises the purpose behind NSD. Science popularisation should not be restricted to showcasing India’s achievements and milestones but should also include propagation of the scientific method, debunking superstitions and myths, and bringing science closer to ordinary people. This can happen with the active participation of communities, civil society and activists outside the government agencies. In its formative years, NCSTC played a catalyst in bringing together voluntary groups under the umbrella of the All India People’s Science Movement, in the wake of their upsurge following the Bhopal gas tragedy. Around the same time, the Kerala Sasthra Sahithya Parishad (KSSP) was involved in the National Literacy Mission and in the formation of the pan-India movement, Bharat Jan Vigyan Jatha.The NCSTC Network was the first effort that institutionalised networking of voluntary, governmental and semi-government organisations for the promotion of values of science in the public. NCSTC helped groups that debunked miracles by ‘godmen’ in villages and waged a war against superstitions associated with solar eclipses. Government agencies prophesying to promote science or connect science with society do not support such popular activities, forget engaging with voluntary bodies. As a result, all their programmes are reduced to Centrally-planned and executed ‘events’ tailor-made as photo-ops for ministers and officials, and amplification through social media handles. Students are involved but in senseless activities such as creating some vague records for the Guinness Book, such as ‘the largest gathering of people dressed as Einstein’ or ‘the most people assembling rainwater harvesting kits online and in a single venue’. State Councils for Science and Technology were formed in the 1980s but most of them have become defunct or exist only on paper.All agencies like NCSTC and their parent bodies should rethink their role and reposition themselves as genuine science popularisation bodies and refrain from being used as publicity wings of the science minister or the government. They could become resource centres on public engagement with science for national laboratories, universities, IITs and state governments, providing them tools and expertise necessary for science popularisation. There are ways in which our scientific institutions can engage with society and communities around them. For instance, scientists and students in higher education institutions can help improve the teaching of science in schools around them. They can engage with children and guide them in selecting careers in science.Some successful models already exist, such as the programmes run by the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research in Mumbai or the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research in Pune. A great example of community engagement on a scientific issue is ‘Superheroes against Superbugs’ — an initiative on antibiotic resistance promoted by the DBT/Wellcome Trust India Alliance. Public engagement projects of the Astronomical Society of India are helping spread knowledge about astronomy. There are multiple ‘citizen science’ initiatives in different parts of the country, such as Weather Watch and RAD@home Astronomy Collaboratory. All such projects need support so that they can be strengthened and replicated. Scientific issues like climate change, energy, food security, water conservation, recycling, e-waste, electric mobility and wildlife protection need constant engagement with people. Instead of wasting public money on grand events, government agencies engaged in science popularisation should direct their resources towards genuine engagement with people and communities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/promote-the-whys-hows-372454
