25-02-2022||---||Corporate margins aiding rising inflation curve||As retail inflation swings out of proportion, the world is witnessing a new phenomenon. In lot many ways, it was known to exist earlier, but not so starkly. As inflation rises, so does the profit of companies, this time recording a historic increase. While the company’s profits soar, the CEOs and other top executives walk away with hefty salary increases, stock buy-backs, and rise in dividend payments.Although the companies say there is nothing they can do, consumers are being told that “off the chart” inflation they are faced with is the outcome of higher wages, and a crazy rise in production costs. There is no denying that the pandemic had caused supply chain disruptions, but the high and steady rise in inflation the world encounters defies the simple logic of supply-demand distortions. It hides more than what it reveals.In January, retail inflation in the US has hit the highest in 40 years, rising to a peak of 7.5 per cent. In the UK, inflation has already touched a 30-year-high at 5.4 per cent, and the Bank of England warns of inflation further rising to 7.1 per cent by April. As the retail inflation in India soars to 6.1 per cent, fears are already being expressed that imported inflation may drive the consumer prices high. “India does need to be wary of imported inflation, especially from elevated global energy prices,” Economic Survey 2022 had warned.In the midst of rising inflation, a headline in international business newspaper The Financial Times (February 7) caught my attention: ‘Tyson Foods loves Inflation’. And left me wondering, whether the high inflation rate the world is witnessing is because of economic reasons beyond control or more so by simply repackaging and marketing corporate greed as inflation.The more I researched, the more it became clear as to how greed is very conveniently being packaged as inflation. To understand, let’s first begin with Tyson Foods, one of the four livestock companies controlling 85 per cent of the US meat market, and whom US President Joe Biden had earlier accused of “pandemic profiteering”. Another explainer in Forbes pointed to how Tyson Foods is spending less to earn more. Even agreeing that the feed and shipping costs have risen, but the fact is that operating profit margins for Tyson Foods too has almost doubled since the pre-pandemic days.While the profits of the four livestock companies jumped 300 per cent, the retail meat prices too recorded a steep hike, touching almost 20 per cent for beef. This is happening at a time when prices being paid to livestock farmers are the lowest in the past 50 years.If you are a beer drinker, here is some bad news. The Guardian reports the sale of the popular Heineken beer brand in Europe to have increased by 4.3 per cent, recording 80 per cent jump in overall profits. With profits touching a record $2.26 billion in 2021, the company has announced that its beer prices will go up significantly in the months to come. This is despite already having raised the beer prices a couple of times during the two years of the pandemic. Meanwhile, another popular beer brand Cobra has also announced that consumers should be ready to shell out extra given the “vicious cycle” of increase in its production costs.Now, let’s take the case of Starbucks. Surely, it’s more than just coffee, it’s also about the price you pay. While its profits increased by 31 per cent in the last quarter of 2021, it has also announced plans to further hike coffee prices. This is despite Starbucks turnover exceeding $8.1 billion in 2021. Interestingly, the compensation package of its CEO grew by 39 per cent, reaching a total of $20.4 million. While coffee bean growers are among the lowest paid, the rise in salary packets and bonuses for the top executives remains limitless. It’s like privatising the profits, and socialising the costs.Senator Bernie Sanders cites another example. In a tweet, he says: “Corporate greed is Chipotle increasing its profits by 181 per cent last year to $764 million, giving its CEO a 137 per cent pay raise to $38 million in 2020 and blaming the rising cost of a burrito on a minimum wage worker who got a 50 cent pay raise. That’s not inflation. That’s price gouging.” Chipotle is a restaurant chain.In another tweet by Dan Price, the founder of the Seattle-based credit card processing company Gravity Payments, quoting a New York Times report, asks: “Why are groceries so expensive? Kroger (US-based retail company) profits are at record highs. Its stock is up 36 per cent in a year. Its CEO got a 45 per cent raise to $22 million and makes 909 times the median worker. 75 per cent of its workers are food insecure. 63 per cent can’t pay their bills. Many are on food stamps.”Simply put, corporates never had it so good. From groceries to pharmaceuticals, from coffee to consumer products to fuel, so much so that even Netflix and Amazon Prime have increased subscription despite logging a huge increase in net profits, and paying the lowest tax. When it comes to fuel, all major oil companies — Exxon Mobil, British Petroleum, Shell, and Chevron — have recorded highest profits in past seven years, and still have expressed helplessness when it comes to high petrol and diesel prices consumers are being made to pay.Surprisingly, despite increased production costs, reports say US corporate profits soared to a record $2.8 trillion in the second quarter of 2021. So did the corporate profits in India. But while the working class and the poor bear the brunt of increasing inflation, the top 1 per cent has gained. A whopping increase by77 per cent in the sale of super yachts this year and an increase in chartered flights bear testimony to the trend. While a section of market economists will not like to draw any link between inflation and corporate greed, it shouldn’t surprise us anymore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/corporate-margins-aiding-rising-inflation-curve-372791
25-02-2022||---||China’s bleak economy a problem for Xi||Having taken direct charge of China’s economic reforms and relegated Premier Li Keqiang to the margins, Chinese President Xi Jinping is worried that the bleak outlook for China’s economy will adversely impact his bid for another term at the 20th Party Congress later this year. Efforts to drawback from dependence on international trade and promote domestic consumption are yet to yield results.The flaring of tension between the United States and Russia over Ukraine and the prospect of the US and West expanding the scope of sanctions to include commercial and other entities doing business with Russia and Russian entities is a major concern. If that happens, China will be hit hard.Notwithstanding the official claims of the economy having picked up, Chinese economist David Li Daokui of the prestigious Tsinghua University warned at a conference on December 2 that the next five years could be the toughest in China’s 40 years of reform and opening up. He listed weakening external demand, industrial chain restructuring, pressures of carbon reduction, and insufficient domestic demand among the contributory factors.China’s official media further elaborated the problems, with reports that provinces had taken back the annual bonuses given to their government employees and that even the more prosperous provinces and cities like Jiangsu, Zhejiang, Guangdong, Fujian and Shanghai were slashing salaries of officials by 5 per cent and more. Hong Kong’s South China Morning Post (December 30) cited official Chinese data that nearly 4.37 million of China’s smallest businesses closed permanently in the first 11 months of 2021. Beijing has consistently described these more than 40 million micro and small firms, which together provide 80 per cent of the employment, as the “backbone” of China’s private sector, underpinning the national economy.Quoting the China Labour Statistics Yearbook, the official Economic Daily, on February 4, claimed that the number of people employed in the manufacturing industry decreased by over 10 million between 2013 and 2021. Some of this can partially be attributed to machines replacing people, but the major cause for joblessness is the closure of enterprises. This has also affected graduate employment.The Guangming Daily (January 25) said that with the increase in the number of students returning to China from study abroad, “the employment situation of returnee talents is extremely tense, and it needs to be further resolved in the process of macroeconomic reform.”China’s financial sector is also seriously affected. The China Banking and Insurance Regulatory Commission revealed that by end-December, a total of 2,459 bank outlets of commercial banking institutions had ceased operations. China’s four major state-owned commercial banks — the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, the Agricultural Bank of China, the Bank of China and the Construction Bank — reduced 187 branches, retrenching 22,355 personnel.The economic slowdown has impacted governments, with 28 of China’s 31 provincial-level governments announcing reduced growth targets and policy goals for 2022 as compared to the previous year. Even the more developed regions, such as Shanghai, Guangdong and Beijing, targeted GDP at between 5 per cent and 5.5 per cent.China’s financial magazine Caixin said this indicates that the national GDP growth target, to be announced at the annual session of the National People’s Congress (NPC), is likely to be lower than last year at 5 per cent or 5.5 per cent.China’s annual Central Economic Work Conference was held in Beijing from December 8-10, 2021. Important was Xi Jinping’s speech at the conference and its almost 5,000-word resolution. Alluding to its deteriorating ties with the US and China’s adverse international environment, Xi said: “The external environment is becoming increasingly complicated, grim and uncertain” and exhorted the people to remain “committed to China’s own cause.”Without minimising the difficulties, the conference acknowledged that China is “faced with the triple pressures of shrinking demand, supply shocks, and weakening expectations.”The People’s Daily (December 12) highlighted Xi’s call for self-sufficiency in energy, food and minerals to meet global challenges and warning that resource shortages could turn into a ‘grey rhino’ risk. He stressed that China must ensure self-sufficiency in key commodities and “[We] should fortify the national strategic materials reserve system to secure minimum needs at critical moments.”Revealing leadership concerns about potential global food shortages by 2035, Xi emphasised: “I have repeatedly said Chinese people’s rice bowls should be firmly held in our own hands, never let others take us by the throat on eating, which is a basic survival issue.” China has since early last year focussed on enhancing grain production, keeping in mind that “great shortages of primary commodities are likely to evolve into a grey rhino.”At the same time, Xi’s declared goal of ‘common prosperity’ has created new uncertainties in Chinese business circles. Though China’s Gini coefficient is 0.47, fears are that it is intended to rein in the multi-billionaire private entrepreneurs who could potentially challenge the Chinese Communist Party (CCP). Beijing has progressively tightened controls on ‘big business’ and imprisoned a number of billionaire businessmen, regardless of whether they are CCP members. Many others have made substantial donations to government institutions, liquidated their shares or stepped down as chairmen. This will undoubtedly hamper economic recovery.The CCP will find it difficult to keep its promise to the people that economic conditions will continually improve. Amid the widespread popular dissatisfaction, any palpable economic distress could spark discontent. The repeated emphasis by Xi and the Central Economic Work Conference on maintaining stability signals their serious concern. The Ukraine crisis has now added to the concerns, especially as it is an important source of grain, soybean and hi-tech imports. #China #xi jinping||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/chinas-bleak-economy-a-problem-for-xi-372788
25-02-2022||The police in Maharashtra||Forced to the wall||It is essential to analyse the reasons for the degeneration of the police and assign blame where it is due.Like Sanjay, Rajneesh is a man of integrity. I have known him since his birth, since his father was my ASP when I led Pune’s city police in 1964. Despite all good intentions of my dear friend, Prakash Singh, and his efforts to ensure that the police reforms mandated by the National Police Commission of 1977, chaired by retired ICS officer Dharma Vira, were implemented, the exact opposite has happened! The commission was hell-bent on depoliticising the police. The process of politicisation has been now completed.Recently, the Mumbai City Police faced the ignominy of its chief, the Police Commissioner, being first shunted out of his post in shame, then charged with some cases of extortion, declared an ‘absconder’ by the courts, and finally being suspended. Never in the history of the Mumbai Police has this happened earlier.Deepak Rao, who has delved into the history of the Mumbai Police through the years, was recently asked what he thought of the trauma the city police was experiencing after the appointment and removal of Param Bir Singh. He said such depths of degradation had not been reached earlier. My quarrel with Rao’s evaluation is that he has not attempted to analyse the reasons for the degeneration and assign blame where it was due.Why could some of the Police Commissioners who presided over the destiny of the force in the past decades not command the respect of its men and the public, both of which are needed to provide security of life and property to people? The answer is simple. In the early eighties, when I occupied the high chair, I was in charge of Mumbai’s police. If anything went wrong, I was solely responsible. There was none but me to be blamed.IPS officers who made up 75% of the posts of Deputy Commissioner and all positions above that level were chosen by the political establishment on the advice of the state’s IGP (later elevated to DGP). The advice of the IGP/DGP was invariably accepted. Alas, no longer! Wholesale changes are made by the Home Minister and the Chief Minister on the basis of patronage or even worse (and this has been the trend of late) of money changing hands. Such a shameful arrangement has deprived the head of the force of any moral or institutional influence that he used to wield over the rank and file.Even before the last century ended, the political establishment, assisted by bureaucrats of petty disposition, had amended the Police Act to define the term ‘Superintendence of the force’ to include the state’s Home Secretary (now upgraded to Additional Chief Secretary, Home). This enabled the Home Minister to dictate to the police establishment boards, which had replaced the sole authority of the DGP/CP to appoint his own choices in cutting-edge jobs. Even Inspectors in charge of police stations were now chosen by the politicians for extraneous considerations rather than competence, integrity and merit.It is not rocket science to grasp the truth that one’s own superiors in service can best evaluate an officer’s competence, integrity and overall suitability to occupy a cutting-edge position, especially one like the Commissioner of Police of a metropolitan city like Mumbai or even second-tier Commissionerates like Thane, Pune and Nagpur. When the DGP’s professional expertise is overruled by politicians, the head of the force is reduced to a figurehead. The rank and file does not respect him as they used to earlier. Individual officers, like Sachin Vaze, the Assistant Inspector who has achieved notoriety, become prominent for the wrong reasons.This is the real tragedy that has befallen the police in Mumbai, once heralded as a model to be emulated by other police units of comparable importance in the country. Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte, who as ACS (Home), had presided over meetings of the establishment boards and added his rubber stamp to his minister’s desires, was embarrassed when questioned by the Justice Chandiwal Judicial Commission inquiring into allegations of corruption hurled by the disgraced Police Commissioner against the disgraced Home Minister.Param Bir decided that if he had to go, he would drag Home Minister Anil Deshmukh with him. The Centre, keen on ousting the Shiv Sena-led MVA government, has shown signs of assisting Param Bir to exculpate himself, in return for the scalp of the minister who belongs to the NCP.Sanjay Pandey and Rajneesh Seth are secondary players in the games being played on the political chessboard. Both are men of integrity. The problem with Sanjay was his inability to get on with anyone senior to him, especially if he felt that the person was not honest. Consequently, his ACRs, which decide the fate of IPS officers, were not the best. He was excluded from the list of officers fit to hold the highest position. So, in a way, Sanjay was responsible for his own discomfiture. He heeded not the sage advice of many well-wishers not to bang his head on walls because the wall would not break but his poor head would! And it did!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/forced-to-the-wall-372786
25-02-2022||---||Democracy needs challenges to assert itself||IT is better to start on a depressing note than to end on it. So, let me begin with a dark prognosis. A very large ship is about to sink. I am aware that the sinking ship has become a very popular metaphor these days. In most minds, this phrase evokes an image of the Congress party. But all this is part of a design to divert attention from the fact that a far larger ship is sinking. The name of this far larger ship is Indian democracy.It’s often said that the threat to democracy comes from communal-majoritarian politics and authoritarian leaders. Undoubtedly, there is truth in this statement. It is often said that the threat is aggravated due to a weak and divided Opposition. That too is a reality. But all these are surface phenomena. The real threat arises out of deeper political realities. People start looking for a strong and supreme leader who can demolish an imagined enemy. Democracy is imperilled, then, by democratic processes themselves. Common sense is the first casualty when diabolical political designs succeed. One could simply ask: why should the BJP and its supreme leader be scared of a sinking ship? Why do those who lure the rats with political and other kinds of cheese shout the loudest that rats are jumping off the sinking ship? Perhaps it will help accelerate the sinking of the ship that is Indian democracy.It is often said that the threat to democracy comes from communal-majoritarian politics and authoritarian leaders. Undoubtedly, there is truth in this statement. It is often said that the threat is aggravated due to a weak and divided Opposition. That too is a reality. But all these are surface phenomena. The real threat arises out of deeper political realities. There have been instances in modern history — some very famous ones as in Germany of the 1930s — when democracies have committed suicide. People start looking for a strong and supreme leader who can demolish an imagined enemy. Democracy is imperilled, then, by democratic processes themselves.There are large parts of this country where the devil can win elections far more easily than the angels. There are times when the electorate showers affection on its tormentors and votes against its own interests. Consider the following. Those who presided over the disaster last year in which thousands lost their lives due to shortage of oxygen are declaring without batting an eyelid that not a single person died due to oxygen shortage. Dead bodies floated on the river and more were abandoned half-buried in the sands of the riverbed. What could be a more heart-wrenching example of callous rulers first tormenting and then mocking the very people who elect them than this? And yet, can one be sure that these rulers will be punished in the elections?If all this sounds like blaming the hapless people, then what about the not-so-hapless — the educated, the resourceful, the opinion-makers — who can read, calculate, articulate and assess? Can they not calculate how many lakhs of crores have been mopped up from the common people through petrol, diesel and gas prices; how many lakhs of crores have been transferred to the corporate capital and the filthy rich through bank frauds and through other dubious means? Did demonetisation end black money?I am saying all this because I should know. I should have known better in 2013-14. At that time, I was part of the movement that ended up paving the way for the unprecedented crisis the country is now faced with. I thought that “India against Corruption” was the harbinger of revolution against corruption. I still think that corruption existed under that regime. But where is any comparison with today’s wholesale and colossal corruption, one form of which is the massive transfer of public assets to the select corporate groups? Where do I find an Anna Hazare now and how do I ask a Vinod Rai for the actual size of 2-G losses to the State? Should I not ask Arvind Kejriwal to explain how did his political journey that started with the Lokpal movement end up with fooling the people with free pilgrimages and neighbourhood yog-shalas? How does one explain the Delhi government paying for the commercials that exhort young people to become job-givers rather than job-seekers? Modi was more realistic when he asked young people to make a living by selling pakodas.I am a Punjabi and I am an Indian. I am proud to be both. For half a century, Punjab has been my karmabhoomi. How am I supposed to feel when this glorious part of India appears prone to the same machinations from which more unfortunate parts of the country are suffering? Is Punjab going to see communal and sectarian conspiracies that will usher us into an era of lynchings and riots? My hope has been that Punjab is better than that. My hope is that Punjab will help avert rather than facilitate the sinking of Indian democracy. But the emerging political situation is a cause for great concern.Elsewhere, rats may be jumping off a supposedly sinking ship, but in Punjab, the Captain himself has jumped off. If for four-and-a-half years, the Congress government was hand-in-glove with the opponents of the ruling party and at the eleventh hour, the deposed head of that government joins them, are Punjabis going to clap because the Congress has been punished? Or are they going to reward the B-team of the BJP, which is what AAP has become?The Congress has never been a tightly knit and ideology-driven party. It has been replete with opportunists and hidden or not-so-hidden communalists. It has been natural for many Congress leaders to walk over to the BJP. The Congress is going through convulsions because it is trying to reinvent itself. A Congress that is ideologically committed to oppose the communal-majoritarian politics and resist a supremely authoritarian leader is trying to emerge from its own past. This difficult struggle is being led by a young brigade that is trying to occupy the left-of-centre space in the mainstream political spectrum. That is why the corporate sector too has turned into a sworn enemy of this kind of Congress.The fate of Indian democracy at this juncture hangs on the outcome of this struggle. The ship can be prevented from sinking only if all progressive and secular-modernist forces realise the epochal importance of this struggle and come to the aid of the new Congress that is trying to emerge under the leadership of the young brigade. #democracy #dharamvira gandhi #indian democracy||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/democracy-needs-challenges-to-assert-itself-372456
25-02-2022||---||Three is a crowd||WHEN US President Nixon landed in Beijing on February 21, 1972, to be received by Chinese Premier Zhou Enlai, the sense of being at the threshold of a geopolitical turning point was palpable across the world. I was then in Hong Kong studying Mandarin and recall being glued to the TV, watching the live coverage of the visit. Among my local Chinese friends, there was excitement and apprehension in equal measure — pride that the leader of the West was paying obeisance to the sage king of eternal China; fear of what this embrace of a ruthless polity would mean for their future. China was in the throes of the tumultuous Cultural Revolution which was still upending lives of both its leaders and masses. The world had just learnt of the death of Lin Biao, the designated successor of Chinese leader Mao Zedong, in a plane crash in the Mongolian desert after a failed coup attempt.The nightmare scenario for India would be if the US decides that it confronts a greater threat from Russia and that this justifies a strategic accommodation with China.The ideological campaigns and mass mobilisations in support of revolutionary rectitude were still in full swing. There was no hint at the time that this was an opening that would enable China to embark on a remarkable journey towards economic success and unprecedented military power within the space of just four decades. This is important to remember. The US was making a pure geopolitical play and not betting on China becoming ‘one of us’ by embracing capitalist policies. This was also true of China. Mao would have been horrified at the prospect of China straying from the socialist path and state-led economy. The opening up of China and the adoption of economic reforms and liberalisation would come in 1978, after Mao’s death and under the leadership of Deng Xiaoping.The geopolitical gains for the US and China were significant. In a triangular power game, where each player had to contend with two adversaries, there were now two aligned against one. The US did a China on the Soviet Union in 1972. Today, it may be China doing a Russia on the US. The Shanghai Communique issued in 1972 by the US and China at the end of Nixon’s visit heralded the shaping of a new geopolitical landscape. Does the joint statement of the Russian Federation and the People’s Republic of China issued during Russian President Putin’s visit to China on February 4, 2022, mark a similar shift?The world’s most powerful country, but conscious of the decline in its relative power, that is the US, was aligning with a weaker power, China, to put its peer competitor, the Soviet Union, on the defensive. Today, it is the world’s rising power, China, which is also aligning with a relatively weaker power, Russia, to put its peer competitor, the US, on the defensive. In both cases, the alignment between two adversaries was made possible by the lack of any significant perceived security threat from the new partner, even though there could be ideological differences. The spin-off from the alignment diminished when the Cold War ended and the US enjoyed its unipolar moment for the next 25 years, until the global economic crisis of 2007-8. The crisis dented its relative power and influence vis-à-vis China and other major powers. Could one witness the dawn of a Chinese unipolar moment if the US continues to weaken and cede strategic space, if not by default then by choice? This scenario should be the most worrying for a country like India. The negative factor at play is that in the triangular equation among the US, China and Russia, it is China which is pulling the strings. It is not inconceivable that the US may seek to manouevre itself out of its current constrained position by doing a deal with Russia on Europe and concentrating on the much more serious Chinese challenge. However, the US has allowed its strategic choices to be coloured by what seems to be a visceral antagonism towards Russia. In 1972, it did not matter to Nixon and Kissinger that they were toasting a ruthless totalitarian regime. Putin is nowhere in that league.At the time of Nixon’s visit, the US had relative political stability, while China was in the middle of a chaotic situation. The Russian leadership was stable but stagnant. Today, it is the US which has deeply polarised domestic politics. That makes any partnership with the US today problematic and of uncertain value. Putin and Xi Jinping may be authoritarian leaders but appear to be strongly entrenched, for the time being.US choices are also constrained by its deep economic and commercial entanglement with China which was not the case in competing with the Soviet Union during the Cold War. The US uses economic sanctions as a geopolitical instrument and has threatened Russia with dire economic consequences if it invades Ukraine. But this will only strengthen the China-Russian partnership. Several key partners of the US, such as France and Germany, are reluctant to join the US in imposing sanctions against Russia. They would be even more reluctant to do so against China where their economic stakes are much larger.The nightmare scenario for India would be if the US comes to the conclusion that it confronts a greater threat from Russia and that this justifies a strategic accommodation with China. In blunt terms, concede Chinese dominance in Asia while safeguarding its European flank. This may well secure China’s unipolar moment but US obsession with Russia may obscure this eventuality.Nixon’s visit had the flavour of ‘shock and awe’. What is unfolding is an incremental process which has been in play at least since the global economic crisis of 2007-8. Its implications may not be as dramatically apparent as the earlier event but its impacts are as serious and consequential. Strategic prudence demands that these different scenarios be examined clinically, their implications for India spelt out and possible options to safeguard the country’s interests considered in advance rather than be forced into ad-hoc reactions. #China #Russia #usa||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/three-is-a-crowd-372151
