26-02-2022||---||Russia rewrites history||The determined Russian invasion of Ukraine has unfolded in a manner akin to a global  slide show with two opposing narratives. First, the steady buildup of troops by Moscow along the border areas with Ukraine that caused increasing dismay in Kyiv, despite Russian President Putin assuring his interlocutors that there was no aggressive intent — it was all about ‘defensive’ military exercises.  And the second, US intelligence which cautioned the world that a Russian invasion was imminent,  though Moscow dismissed this alert as a red herring and a case of the US-led West creating a  war hysteria. The latter narrative has turned out to be correct and a war in central Europe, with considerable escalation potential, has begun.India’s choices over Ukraine will be long-lasting. An objective review of composite national security in the current geopolitical churn is imperative.The swift entry of Russian troops into parts of Ukraine on February 24,  even while consolidating a joint military presence in Belarus has altered the situation on the ground in a radical manner. Russia has used its military power to redraw the political map of central Europe by recognising two pro-Moscow separatist provinces of Ukraine and has described its use of military muscle as a case of ‘special operations’.The ultimate purpose identified by Putin is to demilitarise Ukraine, which has been projected as a security  threat to Russia and hence the current attack on Ukrainian military installations and related infrastructure. The term ‘de-nazification’ of Ukraine and its leadership has been used by Putin in a very perplexing manner and his interpretation of recent Russian history and Ukrainian national identity has been startling.The Ukraine crisis has been simmering since 2014, when Russia annexed the Crimean peninsula, and in subsequent years, Moscow, with Putin in the saddle, has sought to prevent former Soviet republics from moving closer to the US-led West — whether as part of the EU or NATO.The US and its allies are deliberating over the response to this brazen act by Moscow and severe economic sanctions on Russia are being imposed. Conflicting reports have emerged about the defensive measures adopted by the Ukraine military forces and reports of  Russian helicopters being shot down have been rejected by Moscow. An emergency meeting of the UNSC had an ironic twist, with Russia chairing the meeting of the global high table — to review its own actions of aggression — which it has  described as the defence of legitimate security interests.The global community has responded in a predictable manner — the US and its allies condemning what has been described as a Russian invasion and a challenge to the global order; while some major nations, including India and China, have been more circumspect and have refrained from criticising Russia. At the emergency UNSC meeting, India urged that ‘quiet and constructive diplomacy’ is the need of the hour and added that any steps that could escalate the tension should be avoided. China has been similarly reticent and this is reflective of the current geopolitical dilemmas and contradictions that characterise major power relations.Two issues merit comment, even as the turmoil over Ukraine unfolds and a sense of déjà vu is kindled – in recalling similar actions by Moscow in relation to Hungary and Czechoslovakia during the Cold War. The first issue is  the use of military force in this manner by a major power to redraw borders and threaten the territorial integrity of a weaker state; and two, the Indian predicament, given that it is dealing with a similar exigency in relation to China, as evidenced in the Galwan ‘scuffle’ of June 2020 — which is still festering.The received wisdom about  military  capability, after the end of the Cold War, is that conventional wars between major powers are a thing of the past and that new forms of hybrid warfare, including information-cum-influence shaping and the use of long-range precision ordnance (missiles) would reduce the possibility of boots on the ground operations. Moscow has just rewritten that chapter and the challenge for the US and its NATO allies is whether they are willing to shed blood in defence of a normative principle – the sanctity of territorial integrity – with Ukraine being the litmus test.Paradoxically, this is a question that Ukrainians are grappling with – the degree to which the citizens of Ukraine will resist Moscow, or see this action by Putin with weariness and resign themselves to a sullen Finland kind of status. The related geopolitical strand is the efficacy of the sanctions being imposed by the US and its allies against the emerging China-Russia entente that was spelt out in considerable detail during the just-concluded winter Olympics,  where Presidents Xi Jinping and Putin committed themselves to resisting what they described as US-led western hegemony.The Indian predicament in relation to Moscow’s military actions is not new. The Delhi dilemma in choosing high principle over political pragmatism, against the reality of  a complex dependency on Moscow was faced by Nehru (Hungary) and Indira Gandhi (Afghanistan), and now a similar   conundrum confronts PM Modi. The safety of Indian students stranded in Ukraine adds an immediacy that is palpable in social media and related platforms.But as a non-permanent member of the UNSC and one that aspires to being a leading power globally — India has to navigate overlapping dilemmas in relation to Russia. The primary one is the territorial dispute with China and the Indian position on Ukraine will have an impact on the manner in which the US shapes its own orientation. The more complex dilemma is one that pits the commitment to freedom and the liberal democratic order in the face of a creeping pattern of  authoritarianism and divisive nationalism. This is being advanced by a recourse to hard power to intimidate ideological and political opponents — both among and within states.The German invasion of the Soviet Union in 1941 sowed the seeds of insecurity in Moscow and the chimes of recent history are disturbing. The choices made by India over Ukraine will be long-lasting and an objective review of composite national security in the current geopolitical churn is imperative.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/russia-rewrites-history-373087
26-02-2022||---||Defence upgrade needs touch of realism||The defence budget is keenly watched every year on two counts. The first is fiscal parameters, which indicate broad trends in allocations. More importantly, it acts as a catalyst for defence planning and production. This year’s budget has to be read in the context of the constraining parameters of the Assembly elections and the economic downturn. Notwithstanding these challenges, national security threats and modernisation cannot be just wished away.While serving in the Perspective Planning Directorate, we prepared the 12th Defence Plan (2011-2016), based on threat-cum-capability planning, with Pakistan as the primary threat. The current 13th Plan, in the era of ambiguity and winding up of the Planning Commission, has been reduced to an academic exercise. In the absence of dissemination of information, it appears that the key drivers for defence planning are focus on hybrid war, especially surveillance and surgical capabilities. These were supplemented with boosting deterrence through the Rafale aircraft, S-400 air defence umbrella and upgrade of strategic missiles.Capability development was premised on one-and-half front template. Resolving insurgencies in Northeast and the Valley sequenced as first priority. There was reasonable assurance that the Chinese threat will be handled diplomatically. The Dragon sensed an opportunity in our slow-paced modernisation and embarked on wolf warrior missions in Doklam and Ladakh. We have belatedly woken up to the reality of two-and-half front threat and collusive threat. This year’s budget has addressed this altered reality with lots of optimism and some lofty projections, but sadly failed to provide adequate budgetary backing. It is essentially incremental and smart fiscal juggling.Fiscal numbers are best understood in comparative, year-on-year framework. The defence budget (2022-23) allocates Rs 5.25 trillion ($70.2 billion), an increase of almost 9.82% over the initial allocation in 2021-22. Projection is equal to 13.31%, compared to 13.73% of the total expenditure, last fiscal. Percentage GDP share has declined to 2.04 from 2.15. Last year, the capital budget was increased by 18.75%, with procurements through emergency and strategic government-to-government (G2G) route. Budget projections taper it down to 12.82%, indicating slowing down of the modernisation momentum.The budget has allocated Rs 3.64 trillion (69%) for operations, salaries and pensions. The latter will receive 33% of the allocation (Rs 1.19 trillion), an increase of 2.4%. Pensions alone account for approximately 23%. Capital outlay is projected as Rs 1.6 trillion, approximately 30%. While the burgeoning revenue expenditure is highlighted, yet the budget has not outlined any action plan, to redress these oft-repeated concerns.The budget takes into account the unusually slow pace of expenditure of capital allocations in the current year. The Indian Army reportedly had spent just about 40% of its capital budget, the Air Force managing around 70% and only the Navy achieved a respectable 90%. The Navy has been reaping the benefits of committed liabilities, to ongoing projects, in domestic shipyards. Leasing option like the Sea Guardian drones by the Navy, needs to be emulated by the other services. The stark reality is that we lack a defence ecosystem, indigenous production, and above all, a functional procurement system, to expand even meagre allocations.The Army’s capital outlay of Rs 320 billion, amounts to a decline of 12%. The Navy will receive Rs 475.9 billion, an increase of 43%, while the Air Force has been allocated Rs 555.8 billion, an increase of 4%. Despite a dismal outlook for the Army, there has been concerted endeavour to upgrade weapons, protection and surveillance for troops in combat zone, aided by emergency procurements. Increased outlay for the Navy and Coast Guard (39% increase) are indicative of an enhanced focus on maritime domain.The main highlight was the announcement that 68% (up from 58% last year) of modernisation budget will be reserved for the domestic industry. In the last two years, more than 200 items have been added to positive indigenisation list. Yet, a reality check reveals that inclusions are low-value items, giving the list only quantitative boost. Atmanirbharta is an emotive concept but beyond hype, it needs to be backed up with vibrant production and an R&D ecosystem.Pragmatism dictates that we adopt ‘Smart Atmanirbharta’, an economical and realistic objective. The prohibitive cost of indigenous platforms like Arjun tank and Tejas prove the point beyond doubt. The basic thrust has to be on minimising dependence in strategic sectors, characterised by technology-denial regime. Concurrently, we should aspire to become ‘smart integrators’, with expertise in selected niche areas, giving us the leverage for an envisaged integrator role. This in itself is tedious, given the current technology asymmetry.The FM, probably driven by this realisation, has allocated 25 per cent of the total R&D budget for private industry, start-ups and academia. It is welcome and seemingly significant in percentage terms, but it amounts to Rs 3,000 crore, out of the total R&D budget of Rs 11,981 crore, a meagre increase of Rs 500 crore, from last year. It will require concerted effort to spend allocation as in current year, Rs 1,500 crore is likely to be surrendered.The defence ecosystem needs to focus on laggards; DPSUs, ordnance factories and the Directorate General of Quality Assurance (DGQA). They all need to develop in-house R&D for product-and-process modernisation. In addition, they have to upskill for technology absorption for genuine Transfer-of-Technology (TOT). It is pertinent to recount the sad story of Bofors design languishing with the OFB for four decades till belated kick-starting of the Dhanush project. Enhanced allocations to border roads, development of border villages, Parvat Mala (connectivity-related) and Drone Shakti projects are welcome synergistic initiatives.The ultimate wish of the armed forces, a non-lapsable modernisation fund, remains pending. A paradigm-shaping bold move can enable long-term planning and obviate the urge for year-end booking of funds and sub-optimal parking of funds with the Defence Public Sector Undertakings.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/defence-upgrade-needs-touch-of-realism-373088
26-02-2022||---||Parties pitch law and order as poll issue in UP||Prevention and retaliation are the inevitable stages covered by the police in controlling any major agitation. However, some of the methods used by the Yogi Adityanath government in mafia-dominated UP have been judged to be way beyond legal limits. The Supreme Court ordered recently that the recoveries made on the basis of illegal show-cause notices in cases related to the anti-CAA protests would have to be refunded. Justice Chandrachud said, “All deterrence under the provisions of law has to be provided under the four corners of law. There cannot be any provision for deterrence outside the fold of law.” Earlier, the apex court had warned the UP government, acting like a “complainant, adjudicator and prosecutor” by itself, to withdraw those notices.Will it prove to be too much of a political tightrope walk for UP’s law enforcers or a straightforward legal doctrine of common sense to follow? A lot will depend on the outcome of the ongoing elections. On February 10, the day of the first phase of polling in UP, Yogi had urged people to re-elect the BJP government for the sake of law and order. Else, he warned, the gains achieved on this front during his five-year rule would be lost. Yogi cited Kashmir, Bengal and Kerala as examples of ‘disorderly’ societies. Obviously, in his estimation, what made the BJP’s anti-Muslim support base formidable, and not just in UP, was a blend of selectively oppressive order developed in UP. Clearly lacking legitimacy, Yogi’s argument still finds an echo in the BJP’s election meetings, even as its main rival Samajwadi Party’s own share of law and order negatives has not deterred Akhilesh Yadav from forging alliances and making conciliatory announcements. The disgruntled farmer, the Covid-hit migrant and the unemployed youth seem to have concluded that their voices were muffled during Yogi’s rule as they were pitted against the law and order machinery.In UP, for a long time, the crime mafia has kept pace with politics. It reflects a disturbing polarisation when transplanted to the maintenance of law and order at the grassroots level. The suppression of anti-CAA protests of December 2019-March 2020 was comparable to the Muzaffarnagar communal incidents of August-September 2013 in terms of the hate campaign that was unleashed. Understandably, the main contestants in the UP elections sound combative while showcasing their respective brand of law and order, projecting a crime-free utopia. But not to be missed, each is armed with an entirely subjective rhetoric. The crux is that a polarised political brand would need a particular social order to survive and accordingly, the law must submit to the respective regime. From the majoritarian order of Yogi to a preferential order of Akhilesh, they offer an exclusive legal ecosystem as a pre-requisite to fulfilling the promises of development, opportunities and self-respect for their community of voters.Such an enormous mainstreaming of law and order should have been indicative of inclusion and integration of constitutional values into day-to-day policing. However, the ruling party is continuously harping on the divisive aspects of law and order because such a ploy pays off electorally, even as the affected sections of the population are deeply apprehensive of the impact of adverse policing. On the one hand, the voter needs reassurance on issues such as mafia dominance, women’s security and minority rights, but on the other, the fault lines of the political response are so exposed that ‘Jai Shri Ram’, a religious expression crafted into a political slogan, has been successfully adopted by street bullies.A tragic ‘love jihad’ episode from Yogi’s constituency Gorakhpur, which goes to the polls on March 3, will illustrate the state of affairs. On January 21, a young Muslim cycle mechanic, Dilshad Hussain, facing a rape charge and in police custody, was shot dead at the district court, Gorakhpur, by the father of the Hindu ‘victim’. Hailed initially as an instance of quick justice in right-wing circles, this news of breakdown of law and order in the Chief Minister’s constituency died down fast amidst the din of electioneering revolving around the very issue of law and order. In a 2020 video clip, Dilshad, having embraced Hinduism by then, is seen solemnising marriage with the same girl, his neighbour in Gorakhpur, at an Arya Samaj temple in Hyderabad. It revealed that the girl was a major and the two were lovers since 2018 against the wishes of her family. The hounding of the inter-faith couple led to the brutal honour killing.The Gujarat model found a mention in the speeches of the Prime Minister recently when in the middle of electioneering, a sessions court sentenced 38 persons to death in the Ahmedabad bomb blast cases of 2008. PM Modi claimed that as Gujarat’s Chief Minister, he had vowed befitting punishment to the guilty, while assuring a similar outcome in UP. True, the visible crimes, which are reflected in statistics and discourses, navigate the electoral arena as well, but the current UP elections are significantly putting law and order narrative to the test.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/parties-pitch-law-and-order-as-poll-issue-in-up-373091
