27-02-2022||WAR for news turns some journalists into predators. This seems to have happened in the Wriddhiman Saha case||Scribe's threat to Saha, and the rot among us||Give me an interview and I’d help you, the journalist suggested. Saha, who is in his 38th year, had already been given an unpromising assessment of his future in Test cricket by India coach Rahul Dravid. He knew the ‘respected’ journalist could not do anything to help him. He did not respond to this request.The journalist turned menacing: ‘You did not call. Never again will I interview you. I don’t take insults kindly. And I will remember this. This wasn’t something ypu (sic) should have done.’In the times of smartphones and screenshots — and Twitter, on which Saha has over seven lakh followers — it was a very stupid mistake to make. Saha put up a screenshot of the threat on Twitter. He did not name the journalist, later explaining that he hid the name ‘on the grounds of humanity, looking at his/her family’.Saha’s using ‘his/her’ for the journalist — a cute attempt at keeping even the gender of the journalist secret — did not fool Twitter. Social media was abuzz with speculation, and the name of one ‘respected’ journalist — male — trended on Twitter. This journalist, whose Twitter feed is packed with his opinions on developments in Indian cricket, didn’t respond to the Saha threat controversy. Twitterati mined the journalist’s posts and came up with ‘evidence’ — he also typed ‘ypu’ instead of ‘you’ when he was worked up!‘Race to show off’‘Publicity-hungry people who were in a race to show off who knew more.’ This is what Yuvraj Singh wrote about one ‘senior’ journalist, who let him down when Yuvraj was at his most vulnerable — diagnosed with cancer and getting treatment for it.Yuvraj wrote in ‘The Test of My Life’: ‘Then one day I got to know that two guys who I thought were my friends had helped themselves to some publicity on the back of my cancer. One was an Indian journalist whose name I don’t wish to take because it’s just the kind of publicity he would like to feed on, who used my BlackBerry updates to deliver this bit of breaking news on television as an exclusive scoop. Among the many roles he performed, this man was also some kind of an extension of the Pune Warriors management, which was now the IPL team I played for. As we needed to stay in touch, I had shared my BBM pin with him. He used my BlackBerry Messenger status to update the entire country that I was so weak I couldn’t even type, and that I had cancer.’The journalist who let Yuvraj down and the one who threatened Saha is believed to be the same person — from Bengal, an academic before he became a journalist, now a shrill voice on TV. When the Saha controversy erupted, his was the first name that came to the mind of most sports writers.Journalists question even greats such as Sunil Gavaskar and Kapil Dev, so why not a fellow scribe accused of serious wrongdoing? I texted him on WhatsApp for a response, and though he read the messages, he didn’t respond; I called him, and he said he was busy and would call back — and never did.Years ago, working on an article on conflict of interest, I’d asked him if he was also working for the Pune IPL franchisee, as was widely believed — and as Yuvraj later confirmed in his book; he said such talk had reached even his boss at the TV channel he was working for, but it was untrue.Journalists may write the first draft of history, but let’s face it, they’re just messengers. It’s terrible when they turn into vultures feeding on the misery of individuals, just for the sake of an exclusive. Newshounds are useful when they bite someone during the course of an investigation conducted for the public good. This certainly wasn’t the case in the hounding of Saha. Beyond conjecture, only Saha is in a position to reveal the name of the journalist in question. Hope he would do that during the BCCI’s probe into the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/scribes-threat-to-saha-and-the-rot-among-us-373362
27-02-2022||WHEN times get ugly||An individual response to a world under siege||As news broke of Russia’s invasion in Ukraine and social media began to get flooded with images of a people under siege, I turned to one of my favourite books — ‘Man’s Search For Meaning’ by Viktor Frankl — with the hope that I would find something to hold on to within its pages. How do ordinary people caught in the web of violence hold on to their humanity? What can be learnt from those who have left behind lessons from the worst of times?“Everything can be taken from a man but one thing: the last of the human freedoms — to choose one’s attitude in any given set of circumstances, to choose one’s own way,” wrote Viktor Frankl, an Austrian psychiatrist and psychotherapist who survived three years in the concentration camps of Auschwitz and Dachau from 1942-45. In his celebrated psychological memoir, he reflects on extreme suffering and how the human spirit survives abject dehumanisation.“Every day, every hour, offered the opportunity to make a decision, a decision which determined whether you would or would not submit to those powers which threatened to rob you of your very self, your inner freedom; which determined whether or not you would become the plaything of circumstance, renouncing freedom and dignity to become moulded into the form of the typical inmate.”Frankl wrote about the power of love, imagination and meaning as the survival kit that gave him the emotional energy to stay alive.The more I find myself feeling crushed under the weight of a constant stream of news about hate crimes, brutality targeted at women, minorities and underprivileged castes and the abdication of responsibility of political leaders, the more urgent it becomes to hold on to my own emotional agency as a citizen.Another book that I keep near me at all times is ‘Emotional Literacy: Intelligence with a Heart’ by Claude Steiner. My brother and I bought this book together and I have saved it as a PDF on my desktop. I don’t read it as much as I glance at its thumbnail to remind myself to slow down, stay in touch with my feelings and prioritise love in my interactions with the rest of my world.“Emotional literacy is love-centred emotional intelligence,” writes Steiner. “Loving (oneself and others) and being loved (by oneself and others) are the essential conditions of emotional literacy. The capacities of loving and accepting love, lost to most people, can be recovered and taught.”Today, I brought out the orange coloured, well-leafed book from my bookshelf and dusted it again. I want to refresh my mind with the wisdom of others — those who have lived through and studied times like ours when peace is overshadowed by violence.“After spending our childhood at the mercy of other people’s whims, we accept as natural that we should be either Victimisers or Victims, one-up to some and one-down to others, leader or follower, dominator or dominated. The slapped child becomes the parent who slaps, the child who is dominated and controlled becomes the parent who dominates and controls. We accept abuse and control power as the way of the world,” writes Steiner, inspiring the reader to defy the scripts handed down to us.Collectively, we need to rediscover ways to resist the forces of war and civil strife. At an individual level, it becomes important for each one of us to understand the role we can play to restore the values of equity and sanity in our lives.We hardly notice how domination works, because we are immersed in it from birth. We are all raised in cultures in which a few communities, who claim to be superior, dominate others. In India, we are witnessing this at multiple levels as couples are being violated for being in inter-faith relationships and young women are being denied the right to education and to belong to their classrooms on the basis of their covered heads in the ever-spiralling hijab row.People who are trying to say our needs are in danger are being denied a language to express that and being forced off platforms where they have a constitutional right to express themselves. By training ourselves to be more mindful of our feelings and more aware of the nuances of the feelings of others, we gain empathy to create space for and acceptance of differences.How can you or I make a difference when we don’t lead deeply political lives? In his best-selling book written over eight days, Frankl answers from his experience.“It did not really matter what we expected from life, but rather what life expected from us. We needed to stop asking about the meaning of life, and instead to think of ourselves as those who were being questioned by life — daily and hourly. Our answer must consist, not in talk and meditation, but in right action and in right conduct. Life ultimately means taking the responsibility to find the right answer to its problems and to fulfil the tasks which it constantly sets for each individual.”— The writer is a filmmaker & author.natasha.badhwar@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/an-individual-response-to-a-world-under-siege-373361
27-02-2022||IT is not uncommon among the fraternity of India’s armed forces to come across the second or even the third generation from a family having also proudly made the profession of arms as their life’s calling. But a few days ago||When Army runs in the DNA||What followed next was truly a humbling experience. Their family lore had its origins dating back to the 1880s when Achhar Singh, a native of Daroli Khurd village (Jalandhar district), enlisted in the 69th Punjabis (formerly the Madras Native Infantry) of the British Indian Army. By the dint of his hard work and dedication, he rose to be a Havildar when WW-I broke out.Achhar Singh had four strapping sons, three of whom (young bucks Labh Singh, Gardhara Singh and Hazara Singh) gladly followed in their father’s footsteps. With the earthy wisdom of a Jat Sikh peasant, Achhar Singh had charged the fourth son to stay back, care for their mother and mind the family’s meagre agricultural holding. There is no record whether they fought on the battlefields of France-Flanders or Gallipoli-Palestine, but were downright lucky that Labh Singh alone was KIA (killed in action).In the Punjab countryside of the 1900s, a small village that Daroli Khurd was, its adult population would have been around 500, but unmindful of privations and the risk of loss of limb, even of life, the pull of service in the Army was obviously held in such high esteem that a tablet embedded in the entrance arch to the village gurdwara memorialises to this day their contribution thus: “From This Village, 91 Men Went to The Great War 1914-1919. Of These, 6 Gave Up Their Lives.”In the periodic post-war readjustments within the Army, several Infantry battalions were merged to create the Punjab Regiment in 1922. Havildar Achhar Singh had by then retired with his honourably earned war-time pension, but his sons Gardhara Singh and Hazara Singh soldiered on in WW-II, in Field Marshal Slim’s 14th Army, upon the battlefields of Burma.And as is well documented, the Punjab Regiment acquitted itself extremely well in the battles of Kohima (lately adjudged the best battle of all in WW-II), Imphal and right through to the VJ Day, 1945. Both brothers carried forward the legacy of their father with distinction, Gardhara Singh becoming the Subedar Major of 2 Punjab and even more so, he was invested with the OBI title “awarded by the Viceroy of India for long, faithful, distinguished and honourable service”.He capped his career in 1945 when the Viceroy, Field Marshal Wavell, made “…Subedar Major Gardhara Singh, Sardar Bahadur, OBI, 2nd Punjab Regiment…….an Honorary Captain”. What a grand roller-coaster career ending in 1949!Hazara Singh, in the meantime, had been shifted to another battalion from where he too went on pension as a Subedar Major.While Honorary Captain Gardhara Singh busied himself in creating a modest cenotaph in the memory of their KIA brother Labh Singh on their farm land, his two sons were commissioned from the Indian Military Academy, Dehradun; Manmohan into the Corps of Signals and Mahinder into 5 Guard, in 1971. Mahinder had the family claim to 1 Guard (being the erstwhile 2 Punjab), but unfortunately, they had no vacant slot. Both the brothers became veterans of the 1971 war, Manmohan from the Shakargarh offensive on the western front and Mahinder from the Jessore sector on the eastern front.Mahinder’s elder son is currently commanding a company in 12 Guard while the younger, a Wing Commander, is posted at the Air Headquarters. Only time will tell whether the DNA will carry forward the family legacy into a legend.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/when-army-runs-in-the-dna-373360
27-02-2022||I HAD just turned 16 on August 3||Our house in Daska||Till the fifth standard, I studied in a government school and it was in Class VI, when I joined Scotch Mission High School (established by Scottish missionaries), that I began learning English. The three years or so that I studied in the school is the only time I learnt the language and it has helped me thus far.A boy who was into poetry, whose parents dreamt of seeing him become a doctor or an engineer, who played hockey every evening after school, ended up as a draftsman and later became an architect because of Partition. Life was very simple on that side of Punjab. Until August of that fateful year, Hindus, Sikhs, Muslims and Christians lived in harmony. We were one community and our region was our identity, not our religion.Suddenly, when the conversation began of a different flag being hoisted because India had been divided into two indepenent nations, everything turned upside down. Sikhs were in danger in Pakistan, some said, but we didn’t believe it till it really became a matter of life and death.It was in the second week of August that the entire city of Daska began living in a camp on the outskirts, because that felt safe. In our minds, it was a temporary arrangement and once the flag-hoisting ceremony was over, we would go back to living in our homes. One day, because there was shortage of food in the camp, my father and I went home. He asked me to wait while he took a sack of wheat to a mill in the market nearby. When he was waiting to collect flour, there was noise of gunfire. Someone got shot because he was a Sikh; a while later, my father found out it was his cousin. The threat was real. He rushed home, we didn’t shut the rooms, just locked the main door. That was our last time in that house. My father broke down because he realised we would never meet my mother and siblings again. A week earlier, my mother with my four siblings and a cousin was sent to her village on a tonga. That move was a safety measure as she took with her gold jewellery, some documents and fine clothes in four trunks.After around two weeks in the camp, the entire city was restless, unaware of its fate. One day, an announcement was made that trains were going to Dera Baba Nanak and all Hindus and Sikhs were to vacate the land. There were thousands of us, and together we started walking towards the railway station, 16 km away. That day, four trains were loaded; there were people sitting on the roof just so they could leave Pakistan. My father, uncle and I had boarded the last train of the day when someone suggested that we should wait for my maternal uncle, his kids and my paternal aunt’s family, to travel in one large group. We got off the train. The next morning, we reached Dera Baba Nanak to see the station covered in blood, bodies strewn across it. All the people on the night train were massacred. Even today, it makes me shudder.The ordeal wasn’t over. The next step was to reach Amritsar on buses. When we got there, someone told us that villages had been evacuated and people were being sent to Dera Baba Nanak.In the hope of meeting my mother and siblings, my father and I went back to Dera Baba Nanak while my uncle arranged for a place to stay in Amritsar. It was monsoon then and it rained non-stop. Two days of incessant search later, on a roadside, we found my mother and my siblings, who were crying along with hundreds of other kids because they had not been fed for days. Things were so grim that my aunt, in sheer desperation, had decided to throw my infant sister into the Ravi as there was no food and she wouldn’t stop crying.We all returned to Amritsar and stayed in a janj ghar for more than four months. There, my father, uncle, cousin and I did odd jobs to earn a living. We had nothing left and it was a big family of 28 persons to be looked after. My father had contacts in Delhi because he had made houses for barrister Shivdev Singh. He went there looking for work. Days later, we all joined him. Some months of living in New Delhi and my father, with the help of my maternal uncle, found work in Dehradun. We moved there and built a house in the area allotted to refugees. We were all working together in the construction and supervision business, but that wasn’t enough.I got married in 1949 and had two sons and a daughter by 1953, so I decided to move to Chandigarh and look for work. Luckily for me, the Punjab and Haryana High Court building work had just started and with a senior supervisor’s recommendation, Agya Ram, a PWD engineer, who was also the first Executive Engineer of PU, appointed me in his team. I worked with him as a supervisor on the High Court project and later on Panjab University construction. Two years later, I joined PC Loomba as an assistant architect and in 1958, I set up my own office in Sector 18. I found a new lease of life in this city and life has been kind, but I still want to see my birthplace, the city where I spent my childhood, and meet all my friends who never cared about religion or caste, something so prevalent today. I am willing to exchange this life and all I have to go back and live in that house in Daska.— The writer is an architect(As told to Gurnaaz Kaur)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/our-house-in-daska-373359
