05-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police arrest 4 for running fake websites of major brands duping people of over ₹1 crore||The Delhi Police’s cyber crime unit has busted an inter-state gang of cyber frauds, who operated fake websites of iconic brands, offered people to become dealers and distributers and duped them of lakhs of money. While four members of the gang have been arrested, police said the gang is allegedly involved in at least 126 cases of cyber fraud across 16 states and Union Territories and have siphoned off over ₹1.1 crore from victims’ accounts. A 30-year-old woman came across a website claiming to belong to M/s Haldiram, and offered franchises and dealerships. Over the course of the next few days, she filled as many forms and paid ₹11.74 lakh in two months. Police said she was in touch with some ‘Haldiram officials’. A senior official from Halidaram told HT on the condition of anonymity. “There are no franchises of the brand. Every store has a separate owner.”When the woman was asked to pay another ₹1.6 lakh on some vague grounds, she realized she had been taken for a ride. She filed a police complaint, following which police busted the inter-state gang of cyber cheats. Anyesh Roy, deputy commissioner of police, Cyber Prevention and Detection unit’s (CyPAD) special cell, said during the course of the investigation, it was found that a large number of websites are running in the name of M/s Haldiram, and all these websites are offering franchisee of M/s Haldiram against consideration of huge amounts. It was also found that a large number of people across the country have fallen prey to such fake websites. “The fraudsters are using multiple bank accounts and operating a large number of bogus SIM cards in more than 36 smartphones to cheat people. We fetched all these details and found that the gang is spread out across the country. A team was immediately formed to nab the culprits. After several raids, four people, including the mastermind of the gang Vikas Mistry (24), were arrested,” said Roy. On examining the devices recovered from the accused and the data related to the fake websites of M/s Haldiram, police found that the suspects were also running fake websites of reputed brands, such as Amul and Patanjali. Police said the suspects developed the fake websites, got their similar sounding domains registered, and also promoted these sites through Google Ads for higher ranking and visibility so that every time a person searched about these brands on Google with relevant keywords, such as dealership, distributorship, franchisee, etc, he would be directed to the fake website. Explaining the modus operandi of the gang, Roy said that during interrogation, Vikas revealed that he, along with his associates, purchased the domain names of big brands such as Haldiram, Amul, Patanjali, etc., from various developers, including one Vinay Vikram Singh (37), who has been arrested. Singh developed the websites in such a manner that it seemed to be the genuine website of the big brands, said police. One phone number was also displayed on the website, said police adding that when someone called on the given number for distributorship of the brand, he was asked to pay fees on the pretext of various charges. “Vikas used to switch locations between Bihar and Ludhiana. In Ludhiana, he used to stay for months and do the same work with his relatives, who were given a commission from the cheated amounts,” said Roy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-arrest-4-for-running-fake-websites-of-major-brands-duping-people-of-over-1-crore-101630866577978.html
05-09-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow aims for 1 lakh Covid jabs today||The health authorities aim to administer over a lakh doses of the Covid-19 vaccine at 160 centres during a mega drive in Lucknow on Monday. “We aim to administer over one lakh doses during the day. In all, 250 doses of the vaccine will be available at each booth,” said Dr Manoj Agrawal, chief medical officer of Lucknow.“The 160 vaccination centres will have 461 booths,” said Dr Agrawal.As many as 104 of the 160 centres will be workplace Covid vaccination centres. They include Gurudwara Sadar in Cantt, primary school at Salauli in Gosaiganj, primary school Baghamau in Chinhat, a shopping complex opposite Gyan Dairy Kursi Road, Model School at Insaf Nagar in Indira Nagar, Swarna Jayanti Market in Sector 17 Indira Nagar, Panchayat Bhavan in Kakori, Panchayat Bhavan at Mohanlalganj and LDA in Gomti Nagar.Till now, Lucknow’s highest single-day vaccination was 92,274 doses on August 27.Beneficiaries may visit the workplace Covid vaccination centres with valid ID, including driving licence, passport, voter ID, Aadhaar, PAN card and get the vaccine dose, said district magistrate Abhishek Prakash.The target vaccination assigned to Lucknow is 86,400 but the health department aims to cross one lakh doses.“Mega vaccination drive is an opportunity for all, particularly those who face trouble in registering themselves on the portal or fail to get a slot. All such hassles would be solved by the staff at workplace vaccination centres,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors.Among the routine vaccination centres are hospitals, including Ram Sagar Mishra, Balrampur, Civil, BRD Mahanagar, Jhalkaribai, Avantibai, apart from 19 community health centres and 18 primary health centres. King George’s Medical University, SGPGIMS and Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences will also conduct vaccination via slot booking.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-aims-for-1-lakh-covid-jabs-today-101630866100357.html
05-09-2021||Jaipur||5 kids drown while bathing in pond in Rajasthan's Chittorgarh||Five children drowned while bathing in a pond in Rajasthan's Chittorgarh district on Sunday, police said.The incident occurred in the Mangalwar area. Six children, aged between 8 and 12 years, had gone to the pond to take a bath but they slipped into deep waters, they said.Five of them drowned while one managed to come out, SHO of Mangalwar police station, Harendra Souda said.The villagers jumped into the pond to rescue the children. They were then rushed to a hospital where five were declared dead at the hospital.The deceased were identified as Bhavesh (10), Chandrashekhar and Sumit both 12-year-old, and Prince and Harish, both 8-years-old. The bodies have been handed over to the family members, the police officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/5-kids-drown-while-bathing-in-pond-in-rajasthan-s-chittorgarh-101630865477117.html
05-09-2021||Noida||Noida may get rain for the next five days, says weather dept||The city is likely to get light to moderate rain till Friday, the weather office said on Sunday.“The rainfall is usually not uniform and depends on several factors, including the physiography of the region, monsoon flow pattern, and vegetation, among others. Some places in western Uttar Pradesh have recorded lesser rainfall. But the region may see rainfall for the next five days,” said Dr M Mohapatra, director general of meteorology, India Meteorological Department (IMD).“The region may continue to receive patchy rainfall till Monday, and then the rainfall intensity is likely to rise to light/moderate from Tuesday to Friday. There is a low-pressure area developing over the Bay of Bengal which will move towards central India. This may increase the moisture content and lead to an intense rainfall over the region. The maximum temperatures may also drop,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president, meteorology and climate change, Skymet.According to data from the weather office, Noida has received about 64% deficient rainfall since June 1, with 166mm of rain against the expected 466.2mm, On Sunday, the IMD recorded the maximum and minimum temperatures in Noida at 34.2 degrees Celsius (°C) and 25.5°C, against 32.9°C and 24.6°C a day earlier.At the Safdarjung monitoring station, which is considered the baseline for the National Capital Region (NCR), the maximum and minimum temperatures were recorded at 33.9°C and 25.8°C -- both the season’s average. The humidity levels oscillated between 92% and 66%, said the officials on Sunday.“The maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to hover between 35 and 27°C on Monday,” said an IMD official, requesting anonymity, on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-may-get-rain-for-the-next-five-days-says-weather-dept-101630865917152.html
05-09-2021||Lucknow||UP Deputy CM Dinesh Sharma fetes teachers for their excellent work||As many as 75 teachers from various colleges of the state capital and Lucknow University were felicitated on the occasion of Teachers’ Day here on Sunday. Deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma honoured these teachers at an event held at Malviya auditorium of the Lucknow University.Ranjana Krishna of Awadh Girls’ PG College, Dhruv Sen Singh, Poonam Tandon, Alka Pandey, Ram Milan, Madhurima Pradhan and NK Pandey of Lucknow University, Alka Singh of Law University, Neetu Sharma of IT College and Tanu Dang of Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti Language University were prominent among those feted for their contribution to the field of education. They were given an “Angavastra” (stole) and certificate of honour each on the occasion.The programme was presided over by vice chancellor of Lucknow University, prof Alok Kumar Rai, in the presence of Sharma who was the chief guest. Speaking on the occasion, deputy chief minister said, “Education and respect for teachers are the cornerstone of a healthy society as teachers are the true builders of a progressive society.” He also reiterated the commitment of the government to strive for the welfare of teachers. “I believe that the teachers who have been awarded will continue their excellent work,” said LU vice chancellor prof Alok Kumar Rai. Earlier in the day, deputy CM Sharma along with minister of state for education Gulab Devi honoured another 75 teachers chosen by the secondary education department and 17 teachers who have received state and national level awards for their work.This event was held at City Montessori School in Gomti Nagar. On the occasion, Sharma announced to set up an online portal where issues of teachers can be resolved in a timely manner. The portal will also be used to clear leave of teachers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-deputy-cm-dinesh-sharma-fetes-teachers-for-their-excellent-work-101630865678333.html
05-09-2021||Noida||Domestic help booked for stealing gold jewellery worth ₹4L in G Noida West||A domestic help, working at a flat in Saya Zion in Gaur City 1, Greater Noida West, was booked on Saturday for allegedly stealing gold jewellery worth ₹4 lakh from the owner’s house last month, said police.Shuban Bhat, a 62-year-old retired bank manager, said between 8am and 9am on August 12, 2021, his wife Shushma, 60, had kept the jewellery on a table in their house. The suspect, Pravesh, 38, was working in the house at that time. “Pravesh left the house without informing anyone, and when my wife came outside her room, the jewellery was missing,” Bhat said in a police complaint.The domestic help did not come to work the next day. “When we contacted her and asked to come for work, without giving a specific reason, she said that she won’t be coming for work that day. On August 14, when she came for work, we confronted her about the theft, but she did not accept it,” Bhat added.The family pursued her to admit to the theft for the next few days, but she did not. Hence, Bhat filed a complaint at the Bisrakh police station on August 17. After prior investigation, a case was registered against the suspect under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Section 380 (burglary) at the Bisrakh police station on Saturday (September 4).Anita Chauhan, station house officer (SHO), Bisrakh police station, said, “The domestic help has been interrogated but we have not gotten a concrete lead for her involvement in the case. An investigation is underway.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/domestic-help-booked-for-stealing-gold-jewellery-worth-4l-in-g-noida-west-101630865617822.html
05-09-2021||Noida||SIT to visit Noida in connection with Supertech twin tower case||The special investigation team (SIT) formed by the Uttar Pradesh government to probe the irregularities in the map approval of the Emerald Court project in Sector 93A will visit the Noida authority’s main administrative building in Sector 6 on Monday. The SIT is likely to question top officials of the Noida authority and collect relevant documents related to the controversial project, officials said on Sunday, adding that the team will stay in Noida for two days.The SIT has sought details pertaining to the first time map approval, its revision and under which rules the height of two towers in the project was allowed to be increased,” said a Noida authority official, requesting anonymity.The SIT was formed on September 2, two days after the Supreme Court ordered the demolition of Apex and Ceyane towers in Supertech’s Emerald Court project in Noida over grave violation of building norms. The court said the violation was a result of “nefarious complicity” between the Noida authority and the real estate developer.The four-member SIT, headed by UP industrial development commissioner (IDC) Sanjeev Mittal, will also probe the role of the officials to fix responsibility in the matter. The other members of the SIT include additional chief secretary (revenue) Manoj Singh, ADG (police) Rajeev Sabharwal, and UP’s chief town and rural planner Anup Kumar. The state government has given a week’s time to the team to submit the report.On September 2, the Noida authority, in a report, shared details of at least six officials involved in the process of sanctioning maps of the twin towers in the Emerald Court project. The names include the then chief architect and town planner and additional chief executive officer. On the same day, the state government suspended Mukesh Goyal, a manager in the planning department of the Noida authority, in connection with the twin tower case, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/sit-to-visit-noida-in-connection-with-supertech-twin-tower-case-101630865558327.html
05-09-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra aims to administer 20 million Covid vaccine doses in September||After administering a record-breaking 1,225,541 doses on Saturday, Maharashtra has set a target to inoculate over 20 million people in September, which comes to approximately 700,000 Covid vaccine doses per day from the average of 482,695 doses administered in a day in August. Currently, Maharashtra ranks first in terms of fully vaccinatedpopulation in the country with 17,261,027 citizens receiving both the doses. So far, the state has administered 62,940,932 doses. Dr Pradeep Vyas, additional chief secretary, state public health department, said there would be boost in the vaccination drive. “We expect to give more than 20 million doses in September. We have been assured of the supply from the Central government, and if there is more production, the numbers may go up further. Private hospitals have also contributed significantly to vaccination drive,” said Dr Vyas. In August, a total of 14,483,870 doses were administered in Maharashtra, while the number stood at 12,143,140 in July. The state’s private hospitals have played an important role in vaccination as they have administered 9,397,393 doses, of which 3,903,807 were in Mumbai followed 2,469,350 doses in Pune. Currently, 45% of the total population of the state has taken at least one dose of vaccine. Mumbai tops the chart with 80% of its population taking at least one dose of vaccine. Around 35.7% population in the 18-44 age group has been vaccinated while the percentage for the 45-plus age group is 54.16%. The state government is aiming to ramp up vaccination as it could prove an important tool to contain the third wave and tide over shortage of oxygen, if it turns as severe as projected. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray described vaccine as a shield against Covid-19 virus. “We need to stop the third wave or at least postpone it. Citizens should fully support the vaccination drive. Doctors need to educate citizens that they should take both the doses. There can be cases where people have taken both doses and can still get Covid-19. However, the severity of the virus will be less,” he added. Maharashtra on Sunday recorded 4,057 new Covid-19 cases and 67 deaths. Mumbai’s tally of new cases was 495. The city also reported two deaths, pushing toll to 15,993. The total number of Covid-19 patients across the state has now reached 6,486,174. On Sunday, 193,193 Covid tests were done and the number of recoveries clocked 5,916. The total number of active patients in Maharashtra stood at 50,095. There are currently 50,095 active patients across the state, of which Pune tops with 12,325 patients followed by Thane with 7,273 and Satara with 6,603 active patients. The death toll has reached 137,774 with Pune leading with 19,303 deaths, followed by Mumbai with 15,993 and Thane with 11,324 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-aims-to-administer-20-million-covid-vaccine-doses-in-september-101630865557766.html
05-09-2021||Noida||Supertech effect: Noida authority begins crackdown against illegal construction in housing complexes||Facing criticism from the Supreme Court in the Supertech twin tower case, the Noida authority has launched a crackdown against illegal constructions in group housing complexes.On Saturday, the authority demolished some illegal flats in Assotech Windsor Court, a housing society in Noida’s Sector 78, officials said.The authority had in 2012 allotted plot number 04A in Sector 78 for the group housing project, and approved maps of five towers in which stilt parking at ground floor was allowed. However, the developer, Assotech Private Limited, built offices and flats in two stilt floors in tower H and F, said the authority officials. The officials said that some residents of the society filed repeated complaints against the illegal flats and constructions.As the illegal flats and offices are located at the ground floor, the authority is using JCB machines to demolish the unauthorised structures, the officials said, adding that the demolition work is being done cautiously to avoid any damage to other buildings in the complex.“Despite several notices, the developer did not demolish the illegal structures. Therefore, we started removing them on Saturday. The demolition work will continue for a few days,” said Mukesh Vaish, senior manager of the Noida authority who is leading the demolition drive.The developer had built two offices and eight flats in these two towers in the stilt parking area against the approved map. “We have demolished the illegal office space and five flats. The other three flats are sold and locked by the flat owners. We have given a week’s time to these flat owners to vacate so that we can demolish the three flats too,” said Vaish.According to the officials, selling units more than approved in a building map is a cheating. “Since the developer has sold these flats without registry, the other legal issues pertaining to illegal sale will come at the stage of execution of registry. But selling illegal flats is also a grave offence as it affects innocent buyers,” said another authority official, not authorised to speak to media.Assotech Group promoter Sanjiv Srivastav said, “We are filing a reply to the Noida authority’s notice in this regard.”The officials further said that the authority is also identifying illegal construction in other housing societies, where the approved maps are being violated. “We cannot reveal the society names now, but the action will be taken against each one found violating the norms,” said the official.On August 31, the Supreme Court ordered the demolition of Apex and Ceyane towers in Supertech’s Emerald Court project in Noida over grave violation of building norms. The court said the violation was a result of “nefarious complicity” between the Noida authority and the real estate developer.The apex court directed that Supertech will have to demolish the towers at its own expense and complete it within three months under the supervision of the Noida authority and an expert body such as the Central Building Research Institute. The top court also ordered that Supertech will refund money to all the existing homebuyers in the two towers within two months, along with an interest of 12% per annum from the date of their deposits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/supertech-effect-noida-authority-begins-crackdown-against-illegal-construction-in-housing-complexes-101630865497848.html
05-09-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC asks ailing Gadchiroli Naxal attack accused to apply for bail||The Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday asked Naxalite leader Nirmala Uppuganti to amend her petition to include bail as a final relief and directions to transfer her from prison to a palliative care hospice as an interim relief in her petition. Uppuganti, who was arrested in 2019 along with her husband for allegedly being responsible for the death of 15 policemen and a civilian in the Gadchiroli Naxal attack, is terminally ill with breast cancer and is being taken to Tata Memorial Hospital for treatment every alternate day. However, as facilities in Byculla Women’s prison were not conducive, she sought to be shifted to a palliative hospice from where she could be taken for her treatment. The division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice NJ Jamadar, while hearing the petition, was informed by advocates Dr Yug Choudhry and Payoshi Roy that the alleged leader of CPI (Maoist), a banned organisation, was diagnosed with breast cancer in 2018 and has been undergoing chemotherapy for the same. However, after her arrest in 2019 she missed her therapy and the cancer spread in her body. The court was further informed that Uppuganti had reached stage four of cancer and was suffering from multiple skeletal and lung metastases, and hence sought to be shifted to a hospice for palliative care for proper care during her final days. It was further submitted that as the Byculla prison, where Uppuganti is lodged, did not have proper facilities and she had to sleep on the floor in packed cells and was not provided hot water, these were having an adverse effect on her health. Public prosecutor Sangeeta Shinde opposed the plea saying Uggupanti was being taken to Tata Memorial Hospital every alternate day as directed by her doctors there. Shinde said the prison medical doctor had stated that Uppuganti was able to move around the prison and was being taken to the hospital regularly. After hearing the submissions, the bench sought to know why Uppuganti had not applied for bail along with her plea. “There is no prayer for bail. Even though we come to a conclusion that she needs medical care, how can we release her because there is no bail? You could have applied for bail and then the alternate of palliative care,” observed the bench. In response, Roy said the accused did not have anyone except her husband who was being held at Arthur Road prison and all her assets and belongings had been seized, hence even if she got bail she had nowhere to go. Further there was no one to take care of the bail formalities, hence she only sought shifting to a hospice. The court then asked the lawyer to amend the petition to include a prayer for bail and if not bail, then at least include why bail was not sought mentioning the grounds that were orally submitted to the court. The court then directed the prison authorities to take Uppuganti to Tata Memorial Hospital as per her fixed schedule and inform the court about her condition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-asks-ailing-gadchiroli-naxal-attack-accused-to-apply-for-bail-101630865317963.html
05-09-2021||Chandigarh||Fleecing at parking lots: Visitors paying the price for Ludhiana MC’s apathy||Violating terms of the agreement with the municipal corporation, contractors at various parking lots in the city have been fleecing visitors and not issuing e-tickets. The contractors’ staff have been charging up to ₹50 for parking a car against the approved fee of ₹20, a practice that is also going on right under the nose of the civic body at the multi-storey parking lot near its Headquarters at Mata Rani Chowk. Complaints of fleecing are common at the parking lots in Bhadaur House, Sarabha Nagar main market and BRS Nagar as well, in absence of any check by MC.Apart from these four sites, paid parking was also introduced at Feroze Gandhi market, Sarabha Nagar Block-I market and Tuition Market in Model Town extension after parking contracts were awarded to two agencies over the past few months. As per the agreement, ₹20 was fixed for parking cars and ₹10 for two-wheelers. Besides, the contractors were told to issue e-tickets with the approved fee printed on it, but they have been blatantly using manual slips to overcharge visitors.A visit to the parking lot at Bhadaur House revealed that people parking cars were being charged ₹50 without any receipt. A similar fee was being levied at the multi-storey parking near MC office, where the parking staff was issuing manual receipts.“During a visit to the Sarabha Nagar main market, I was asked to pay ₹30 to park my car against a manual receipt. MC should conduct surprise inspections at all parking lots to stop fleecing of residents,” said Mohit, who lives in Civil Lines area.A shopkeeper in Chaura Bazaar, Gurmeet Singh said, “We have filed several complaints, but to no avail. Even people who are aware of the prescribed fee are forced to pay higher amounts to avoid altercations with the parking staff every time they visit a parking lot.” Despite several attempts, mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu was not available for a comment.MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said inspections will be conducted and contractors will face action if they overcharge visitors or fail to introduce e-ticketing which is mandatory under the agreement with MC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fleecing-at-parking-lots-visitors-paying-the-price-for-ludhiana-mc-s-apathy-101630865199334.html
05-09-2021||Mumbai||Missing man’s murdered, body found in pond after 6 days in Navi Mumbai||An 80-year-old man who had been missing for six days was found dead in a pond in Ulwe sector 19 on Saturday. The deceased was identified as Shamakant Tukaram Naik on Sunday with the help of the four rakhis tied to his wrist. NRI Coastal police registered a case of murder against an unidentified person after it was found that Naik died of strangulation by a nylon rope. Naik, a resident of Ulwe, had left his house on August 29, but did not return. As his mobile phone was also switched off, his family members searched for him and then lodged a missing report with NRI Coastal police station the next day. After the decomposed body was found on Saturday, the police identified it with the help of four rakhis on his wrist.“After the postmortem, it was clear that it was a murder, so we registered a murder case. Investigations are on and we would soon arrest the accused,” said senior inspector Ravindra Patil from NRI Coastal police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/missing-man-s-murdered-body-found-in-pond-after-6-days-in-navi-mumbai-101630865017645.html
05-09-2021||Other||Tokyo Paralympics:GB Nagar DM makesUP proud||LUCKNOW Success seems to be following Uttar Pradesh sportspersons these days. Just a fortnight ago, it was Varanasi’s Lalit Upadhyay, who as a member of the Indian hockey team won a historical bronze medal at the Tokyo Olympics, and now it’s Suhas Yathiraj, the district magistrate of Gautam Budh Nagar, bagging a silver medal in badminton at the Tokyo Paralympics on Sunday. The 38-year-old Yathiraj not only became the first civil servant of India to make a podium finish at the Paralympics, where badminton made its debut, but also the second individual from Uttar Pradesh after long jumper Praveen Kumar of Jewar, who finished with a silver medal a few days ago. Now, both are entitled to get ₹4 crore each as per the state government’s policy. All eyes were on Yathiraj on Sunday as soon as he stepped on to the court against World No 1 Lucas Mazur of France in the men’s singles SL4 category. From the very start, the 62-minute duel witnessed a ding-dong battle with Yathiraj winning the first game before Mazur levelling the match by winning the second game. The two produced their best and at times it was tough to pick out the winner, especially when the scoreboard read 1-all. But in the decider, Lucas continued his brilliant run to win the gold medal. Yathiraj should be incredibly proud of his effort as he became the fourth Indian para-shuttler to win a medal at the Paralympic Games in Tokyo. Yathiraj, who remained committed to his responsibilities, including the handling of tough situations during the pandemic-induced lockdown, has been an inspiration to many Indians, playing badminton in school to becoming an IAS officer and now a Paralympics medallist. Yathiraj, who hails from Karnataka and became an IAS officer in Uttar Pradesh in 2007, has impairment in one of his ankles. His parents always stood by him and made sure that the “disability” never became in an obstacle in his life and supported him to play in inter-school tournaments. But things changed dramatically when being the district magistrate of Azamgarh, he was inspired to take up the sport professionally by the para-badminton coach Gaurav Khanna in 2016. This completely changed his life. In the same year, Yathiraj made his mark on the international stage, becoming the first civil servant to win a gold medal at the Asian Para-Badminton Championship in Beijing, and owing to his success, he was given the award of ‘Best Para Sportsperson’ by the Uttar Pradesh government on World Disability Day. “Very emotional (moment). I have never been so happy and so disappointed in my life at the same time. Most happy because of the silver medal but most disappointed because I missed the gold medal by a whisker,” he said in a video message posted by the Paralympic Committee of India. “But destiny gives what I deserve and probably I deserved silver medal, so I am happy for that at least.” As expected, congratulatory messages started pouring in for him. “A fantastic confluence of service and sports! @dmgbnagar Suhas Yathiraj has captured the imagination of our entire nation, thanks to his exceptional sporting performance. Congratulations to him on winning the silver medal in badminton. Best wishes to him for his future endeavours,” PM Modi tweeted. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath too congratulated Yathirak on his success, whereas the IAS Association tweeted: “You won our heart!!! Entire nation is proud of you, Suhas L Y, #IAS DM NOIDA @dmgbnagar for winning #Silver in SL4 #Parabadminton #Cheer4Suhas #cheers4india #Praise4Para.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tokyo-paralympics-gb-nagar-dm-makesup-proud-101630864958983.html
05-09-2021||Mumbai||Include 210-ha vacant patch in SGNP to make up for encroachments: Mumbai NGO||A Mumbai-based environment group has written to the Maharashtra chief minister (CM) and the forest department recommending the inclusion of an estimated 210 hectares (ha) of vacant green land in Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP), in a bid to compensate for forest land which has been lost to encroachers. The 210ha are divided across eight land parcels that abut the periphery of SGNP in Thane, Vihar Lake, Goregaon, Kandivli, Malad, Mira Road and Dahisar.In its recent letter to CM (dated August 20, and shared with HT last week), non-governmental organisation (NGO) Vanashakti also drew attention to a final judgment of the Bombay high court (HC), passed in 2004, which ordered that about 200ha of encroachments inside the national park be removed and resettled. Despite efforts, however, encroachments within the park have continued to balloon, and an official forest department report in 2019 had estimated about a tenth of SGNP’s 10,300-ha land cover to be under encroachment, with over 25,000 illegal structures inside the park.According to Vanashakti, there are about 30,000 non-tribal families (approximately 75,000 people) living within SGNP’s boundary. “Resettling them is nearly impossible, given the lack of space in the city,” wrote Stalin D, director, Vanashakti, in his letter to CM, which was subsequently referred to the forest secretary for action by the chief minister’s office. Stalin also pointed out the presence of large slum clusters within the park in Damu Nagar, Akurli, Poisar, Yeoor, Thane and Mulund.“We propose the state government stop this seemingly never ending dilemma. It is best to excise these areas from the park’s boundaries and include open spaces abutting the park. The slums may be given basic amenities and monitored using physical ground truthing, video shooting, geo spatial and biometric verification methods. We have made a preliminary survey using Google Earth and also through ground visits. Our estimation is that around 210ha of open green spaces exist around the park which can be assimilated into it using the Maharashtra Private Forests (Acquisition) Act, 1975,” Stalin wrote in his letter.The majority of the land proposed for inclusion in the park fall under the ‘no development zone’ land use category, and are also within the notified eco-sensitive zone (ESZ) of SGNP.Another demand placed before the authorities is that of constructing a boundary wall, which was also one of the mandates given by HC 17 years ago. However, at many places, SGNP continues to have a porous boundary and the construction of the wall remains incomplete due to religious and political reasons. For example, the wall at the Mulund (West) border of the park has not been completed due to the presence of the Ayappa temple. Similar obstructions have prevented the boundary wall from coming up in Akurli and Kandivli areas, among others.It is argued that such a move – finishing the boundary wall after inclusion of new land parcels within SGNP – will be the most practical to execute as it will not require displacement or resettlement of affected persons. “Almost 17 years after a court order, non-tribal encroachments have not yet been removed from SGNP. Instead, thousands of new encroachments have come up and hundred plus acres of forest are lost. Hence, we have requested the government to seal off the slums and make a wall closing off the park’s boundaries from further anthropogenic intrusions,” said Stalin D.Despite attempts, SGNP officials were unavailable for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/include-210-ha-vacant-patch-in-sgnp-to-make-up-for-encroachments-mumbai-ngo-101630864957682.html
05-09-2021||Chandigarh||Another fake Aadhaar centre unearthed in Ludhiana, two held||The crime investigation agency (CIA) staff-3 of Ludhiana police busted a fake Aadhaar card enrolment centre in Kohara Chowk area on Saturday. According to police, the accused, Jora Singh of Belsar village, Samrala, and Gursewal Singh of Kamalpur village, Samrala, were running the centre from a cyber cafe. They have been arrested.As many as 74 Aadhaar cards, five voter cards, three fingerprint impressions made using adhesive, three laptops, a fingerprint scanner, an iris scanner, pen drives and two printers were recovered from their possession. A stamp of Fatehgarh Sahib MLA Kuljeet Singh Nagra, which was used by the accused to verify documents, was also seized.Sub-inspector Yashpal Sharma said the police raided the cyber cafe following a tip-off and arrested the two men. They used to charge ₹800 to ₹1,000 for making Aadhaar cards without document verification, which posed a threat to the law and order situation in the state.“They are not authorised to run an Aadhaar card centre, but had obtained the UIDAI user ID and password of an authorised centre in Telangana, and had been using it for the past six months,” said the sub-inspector.“We are investigating how they got access to these details and the MLA’s stamp,” he added.The accused have been booked under Sections 420 (cheating), 465 (forgery), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will, etc), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) and 471 (using as genuine a forged 1[document or electronic record]) of the Indian Penal Code at the Focal Point police station.They were produced in a court and sent to three-day police custody. More information is expected from the accused during questioning.This is the second such operation uncovered by the police in the last 35 days.On July 31, the police had arrested three men for running a similar Aadhaar card enrolment centre in Tibba area. There too, 16 Aadhaar cards, 36 enrolment certificates, five PAN cards, five voter cards, two printers, a laptop, a fingerprint scanner and an iris scanner were recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/another-fake-aadhaar-centre-unearthed-in-ludhiana-two-held-101630864837757.html
05-09-2021||Chandigarh||Gurdwara manager booked for abetting ‘pathi’s’ suicide||AMRITSARA manager of the SGPC-managed historic Gurdwara Patshahi Nauvin at Baba Bakala falling under the Beas police station, and a lawyer have been booked for allegedly abetting suicide of a “pathi” working in the gurdwara, police said on Sunday.The elderly “pathi” hanged himself to death in the wee hours of Friday. A suicide note was recovered from the pocket of his shirt when he was taken to the local civil hospital. In the note, the “pathi” held gurdwara manager Satinder Singh and lawyer Dalbir Singh responsible for his death.“According to the suicide note, both the accused used to harass my father, that forced him to end his life,” said Harpreet Kaur, the pathi’s daughter in her complaint to the police. A case Section 306 of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Beas police station.Investigating officer sub-inspector Parmjit Singh said the accused lawyer was the legal counsel of the “pathi” in a case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gurdwara-manager-booked-for-abetting-pathi-s-suicide-101630864779121.html
05-09-2021||Chandigarh||Cricket: Ludhiana lad selected for Vinoo Mankad Trophy||A budding cricketer from Ludhiana, Aradhya Shukla, has been selected in the Punjab U-19 team for the upcoming Vinoo Mankad Trophy.The 17-year-old is currently practising at Punjab Cricket Association, Mohali, in a bio-bubble as a protection amid the Covid-19 pandemic.Shukla will participate in the aforesaid trophy which will kickstart on September 20 in Gwalior, Madhya Pradesh.A Class 11 student of DAV Public School, BRS Nagar, Shukla according to his coach is the first professional cricketer from his school. “He has made us all proud. At this young age he consistently bowls at 130 km/hr speed. He never missed a practice session and had earlier performed brilliantly in PCA U-19 inter-district championships. He surely has a bright future ahead,” said coach Amandeep Singh.Aradhya was earlier selected for PCA U-19 Punjab camp by former international cricketers Ravneet Ricky, Vaneet Sharma and Arun Bedi.“He started playing cricket almost five years back and was soon selected in the school team as a fast bowler. He further participated in zonal, district and state level tournaments and won a silver medal,” added his coach.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cricket-ludhiana-lad-selected-for-vinoo-mankad-trophy-101630864777931.html
05-09-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Project to upgrade Sarabha Nagar leisure valley inaugurated||Punjab food, civil supplies and consumer affairs minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu inaugurated the project for retrofitting and upgrading the 18-year-old Sarabha Nagar leisure valley on Sunday.The ₹2.8 crore project will include upgrade of landscaping, irrigation system, electrical and lighting works and other civil infrastructure. As a part of the green belt has been dug up for construction of a railway under bridge (RUB), work will begin in the other portion of the green belt for now, officials said.Ashu said area residents had been demanding leisure valley’s upgrade for a long time and the project will be completed in three months. He said green belts and leisure valleys had been developed in other parts of the city as well, including BRS Nagar and Sarabha Nagar. Work on the second phase of Sidhwan Canal waterfront project is going on in full swing and will be completed by Diwali. In the second phase, the 1.6km stretch from Jawaddi Bridge till Dugri Road is being developed at a cost of ₹5.06 crore. Here, green belts, play zones, dedicated cycle track, footpath, etc., are coming up.The first phase from Ferozepur Road to Ferozepur railway line has been completed at a cost of around ₹4.74 crore, Ashu added. Member of Parliament (MP) Ravneet Singh Bittu, mayor Balkar Sandhu and councillor Amrit Varsha Rampal were also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-project-to-upgrade-sarabha-nagar-leisure-valley-inaugurated-101630864718158.html
05-09-2021||Gurugram||MCG projects to be reviewed over lack of on-ground progress||All projects of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), wherein contractors have not started work on the ground despite allotments, would be reviewed by civic body officials on a case-by-case basis, and accordingly, action initiated against the violators, officials said on Sunday.Some of the projects where work is pending on the ground were allotted as far back as 2019, said MCG officials.During a review meeting last week, the project works were discussed by MCG officials as well as the mayor.Taking cognisance of the delays in project works, mayor Madhu Azad directed engineering wing officials to check the status of allotted projects in the MCG and take legal action against contractors for the delay in work as well as officials found negligent in their work.“Executive engineers have been directed to check the progress of all projects under their respective divisions and submit a report in the matter to MCG chief engineer. There are many projects where work is yet to start despite allotment (having been done) or where projects have been left midway. Such matters were brought to notice during the review meeting,” said Azad.According to a senior MCG official privy to the matter, at least 193 projects of the engineering wing will be reviewed.“Most projects where work has not started on-ground despite allotment or has been left midway pertain to sewerage, drainage, and water supply projects. Focus will be given to such projects to check for discrepancies and accordingly, initiate action against the contractors concerned or officials, in case of laxity. Some of the projects date as far back as October 2019, and we will be reviewing projects on a case-by-case basis,” the official said, requesting anonymity.The official said that besides laxity in work, work on some of the projects could not be started as contractors either ran out of money, manpower or had disagreements with the MCG over the price of materials being used.Azad said that in the meeting, it was also realised that the MCG had not added clauses for levying penalties on delays with regard to a few projects.“We asked officials if they had taken action in a few cases. However, it was realised that the agreement with the contractors did not have any clause for levying penalties in case of delay(s). Directions have been issued to find projects with such clauses, and to sign a new contract with the requisite clauses if possible,” said Azad.During the meeting, MCG commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja also set a deadline of 15 days for the engineering wing officials for on-ground work to start, following project allotment to contractors.MCG chief engineer TL Sharma could not be reached for comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-projects-to-be-reviewed-over-lack-of-on-ground-progress-101630864666403.html
05-09-2021||Gurugram||Aravalli encroachments on 25 acres under lens, drone survey to be completed this week||The Gurugram forest department identified encroachments on 25 acres of the Aravalli forests — in addition to encroachments on 225 acres identified last month — during an ongoing drone survey, officials said on Sunday.The survey is likely to finish this week but more encroachments are likely to be identified, officials said.A senior official of the state forest department, who did not wish to be named, said, “From our survey, we are still finding encroachments in different pockets of Aravalli land with colonies set up in those areas. At present, encroachments in 25 acres of plantation area have been identified, but more such encroachments are likely to be found. Both plantation areas and forest areas are being surveyed and final reports will be ready this week.”The official cited above said that the apex court is scheduled to hear a case regarding encroachments in Aravallis on Tuesday, where a status report of the action taken will be submitted. After the hearing, the next course of action will be decided. Meanwhile, the forest department is likely to demolish a few farmhouses in Gwal Pahari region of Gurugram later this week. In the last week of August, the Gurugram forest department identified encroachments on 225 acres of the Aravallis in the district. The encroachments comprise illegal farmhouses and residential colonies, concentrated in Sohna, Gwal Pahari and Raisina areas. Officials had also predicted in a survey report that the total area of encroachments is likely to exceed 250 acres in the district.According to the records of the forest department, 16,803 acres of the Aravallis are protected under the Punjab Land Preservation Act (PLPA). According to directives of the Supreme Court, the PLPA attracts protection under the Forest Conservation Act of 1980, which states that “no state government or other authority shall make, except with the prior approval of the central government, any order directing that any forest land or any portion thereof may be used for any non-forest purpose.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/aravalli-encroachments-on-25-acres-under-lens-drone-survey-to-be-completed-this-week-101630864664903.html
05-09-2021||Gurugram||Raahgiri held after almost six months||Raahgiri Day, a car-free citizen initiative that advocates for the safety of pedestrians and cyclists through reclaiming streets and public spaces, was organised after almost six months on Sunday.The event took place between 6am and 9am at Malibu Towne in Sector 49, with around 3,000 people taking part in activities such as cycling, yoga, skating, exercising, dancing, live music, painting, flash mobs and quiz competitions.“While people come to have fun, this day serves the larger purpose of highlighting the importance of road improvement work and value of sustainable mobility. Around the area, MCG adopted and implemented several measures to highlight different effective methods for better street safety. Some of these include footpath repair work, speed limit signage, and providing safe zebra crossings for pedestrians and cyclists,” said Sarika Panda Bhatt, a co-founder of the Raahgiri Foundation.The last Raahgiri Day organised in the city was on March 20, outside a street leading to a school near Sadar Bazar.“Raahgiri Day also highlights the importance of tactical urbanism, the purpose of which is to underline improvement in road safety by making streets and junctions more compact and reclaiming unused or overused spaces and putting them to better use,” said Bhatt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/raahgiri-held-after-almost-six-months-101630864663800.html
05-09-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19 lockdown restrictions extended till Sep 20||The Haryana government on Sunday extended the ongoing lockdown restrictions in the state till September 20 but said the relaxations that were allowed in earlier orders will continue as permitted. An order issued by chief secretary Vijai Vardhan stated that the Mahamari Alert-Surakshit Haryana is extended from September 6 (5am) to September 20 and specified guidelines to be implemented during this period. In its latest order, the state government has directed the vice-chancellors of residential universities to continue online classes till October 15. The university authorities have been directed to focus on getting their students, faculty and staff members vaccinated on priority. They have also been asked to file the detail of vaccination status with the higher education department. A decision to allow students to attend classes physically shall be taken on October 15, taking into account the Covid-19 situation, the order stated. Earlier, the government had asked the universities to make preparations for resuming the physical classes. As per the earlier directions of the government, club houses, spas, restaurants and bars can continue to operate with 50% capacity, while all shops, malls and offices can open and operate, with Covid-19 safeguards in place. The norms for operating swimming pools, indoor spaces, open gatherings and gatherings at religious places continue to remain the same, the order stated. Currently, gatherings of up to 100 people are permitted in closed spaces, while the cap is at 200 at open spaces. Religious places are allowed to open with 50 people at a time.“There will be continuous focus on the five-fold strategy for effective management of Covid-19 i.e test, trace, track, vaccination and adherence of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour,” the order by Vijai Vardhan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid19-lockdown-restrictions-extended-till-sep-20-101630864662557.html
05-09-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19 vaccination at 48 session sites, Sputnik V second dose at Sec 31 polyclinic||Covid-19 vaccination will be conducted at 48 session sites on Monday, with six centres reserved for the second dose of Covaxin, officials of the health department said on Sunday. Also, 100 doses of the Sputnik V vaccine will be administered as the second dose at Sector 31 polyclinic.Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer said, “First and second doses of Covishield would be administered at all the health centres. Sixty slots are available for the first dose and 70 slots for second dose at all the centres. Along with this, additional 20 slots are also available at all centres for online booking.”He said that 160 doses of Covaxin, for the second dose, will be available at primary health centres of Tigra, Manesar, Chauma and Badshahpur, Huda City Metro station and Ullawas anganwadi. In addition, 40 slots at each centre are reserved for online booking.On Sunday, 5,166 people were vaccinated in Gurugram, with 1,292 taking their first jab and 3,874 completing their vaccination. So far, 2,488,421 doses of vaccines have been administered in Gurugram.Meanwhile, the district health department has started a mammography examination facility at the Sector 31 polyclinic to detect breast cancer.Dr Virendra Yadav, chief medical officer of the district said, “Most of such diseases that find home in the human body prove to be fatal, but if such diseases are detected at an early stage, then the treatment is possible. Along with this, the life of the patient suffering from that disease can also be saved. A state-of-the-art machine for early detection of breast cancer has been installed at the Polyclinic which will help in better treatment of breast cancer cases.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid19-vaccination-at-48-session-sites-sputnik-v-second-dose-at-sec-31-polyclinic-101630864661423.html
05-09-2021||Gurugram||EWS plots in DLF Phase 3 under scanner for violations||The Department of Town and Country Planning (DTCP) is surveying EWS plots in DLF Phase-3 to check violations of additional constructions and commercial activities.DTCP officials said that there are 2,600 plots allotted for the economically weaker sections (EWS) in the area and that they have surveyed around 1,300 such plots.Officials said that the violations will be compiled after the survey and notices issued for restoring plots to adhere to norms. They are also checking if occupancy certificates (OC) have been obtained and if additional constructions have been carried out after getting OCs.RS Bhath, district town planner, Gurugram, said, “There are 2,600 plots in the EWS category and the major issues are of additional constructions beyond permissible limit, commercial activities (which are not allowed on residential plots) and changes to plans after getting approvals. The survey data will reveal the extent of violations in each plot and on the basis of it, notices will be issued.”Bhath said that property owners will be asked to clear the violations, stop commercial activities and demolish additional constructions within a stipulated period. “If the owners don’t follow the directions, then FIRs would be registered as per the rules and sealing carried out,” he said.DTCP officials said that the survey will be completed within this week.Ashish Sharma, assistant town planner (enforcement), said that strict action would be taken against violators who are running commercial operations. “In March, we sealed around 150 EWS plots where commercial operations were being run. Commercial activities need to be stopped and all changes to structures have to be cleared. If these owners are continuing with the violations, FIRs would be registered against them as well,” he said.In March, the enforcement team sealed around 150 shops where commercial activities, including saloons, property dealer offices, restaurants, medical shops, grocery shops, and other businesses, were being run.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/ews-plots-in-dlf-phase-3-under-scanner-for-violations-101630864660258.html
05-09-2021||Chandigarh||Teachers’ Day: Four Ludhiana teachers honoured with state award by Punjab govt||Acknowledging the phenomenal work done by government teachers in the state, Punjab government on the occasion of Teachers’ Day on Sunday felicitated 80 teachers with state awards including four local teachers along with two local block primary education officers (BPEO).A few teachers were honoured by state education minister Vijay Inder Singla during a ceremony held at Thapar Institute, Patiala. The rest were given awards through video conferencing. These teachers were felicitated by local senior officials including district education officers.Lakhvir Singh Samra, district education officer (DEO, secondary) along with DEO, elementary, Jaswinder Kaur and deputy DEO Charanjit Singh honoured three upper-primary teachers including Amrit Pal Singh, a computer teacher at Government Senior Secondary School, Chappar; Navjot Sharma, a social studies teacher at GMS, Gosal; and Varindra Parveen, a science teacher at GSSS, Sekhewal; at a ceremony organised at Bachat Bhawan auditorium in Mini Secretariat for their contributions towards infrastructural development and qualitative improvement in education in their respective schools.Balwinder Singh Jodhan, a primary teacher at GMS, Narangwal, was honoured for excellence in his work amid Covid-19 pandemic; DEO Samra also awarded Bhupinder Kaur, BPEO, Mangat block, and Tripta Devi, BPEO, Ludhiana-1.First computer teacher to bag state awardDistrict nodal officer Davinder Singh Chhina said that Amritpal Singh Pali was the first computer faculty to bag the state award.According to the officials, Amritpal initiated a computer learning project “ICT Parwaaz”, under which he created 30 computer science mobile games, built a computer science park, popularly known as Pali Khadim, in his school and had even penned two books for the students.Varindra Parveen said that she dedicatedly worked towards improving the infrastructure in her school, which led to an increase in the enrolment of students. Parveen was appreciated for making a science park in her school along with doing BALA (building as a learning aid) work.100% results over 9 yearsNavjot Sharma, who is also the school in-charge and a poet, was awarded for motivating his students for sports and cultural activities.Officials said that his school results had been a 100% for the last nine years and he had been promoting online classes to save the future of students.Meanwhile, Balwinder Singh contributed towards raising the academic levels of primary education. “I had been quite active in doing BALA work in the school. I paint the school walls with informative content myself. Amid the pandemic, I took over 450 online classes for the students without taking a day’s leave so that they don’t suffer academically,” said Balwinder. Appreciating the awardees, Lakhvir Singh added that they deserved to be honoured for their contributions towards quality improvement of education in their schools.Award celebrations marred by teachers’ protestHigh drama was witnessed outside the venue as over 50 teachers from various teacher unions raised slogans against a deputy DEO, who was accused of reprimanding Sapandeep Kaur, deputed at Government Primary School in Sahnewal, in September first week following which she allegedly suffered a paralysis attack.The protesters expressed displeasure as the education department, according to them, had invited the deputy DEO to hand over the awards. He didn’t turn up for the award ceremony eventually.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/teachers-day-four-ludhiana-teachers-honoured-with-state-award-by-punjab-govt-101630864659108.html
05-09-2021||Mumbai||Electric Vehicles: Push for courses and research in India||Amid policy push for electric vehicles (EV) from both Central and state governments, educational institutes are now setting up research centres and offering courses to bridge the skill gap in the sector. In July, several Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) as well as the Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bengaluru launched new courses on EVs and renewable energy, design for Internet of things (IoT), business and sustainable development through the National Programme on Technology Enhanced Learning (NPTEL), a joint initiative of IITs and IISc. The courses, taught by faculty from IITs and IISc, are free to all and can be accessed through the Swayam (Study Webs of Active Learning for Young Aspiring Minds) platform of the Centre.The demand for EVs continues to grow in India and is driven by several major policy pushes and incentives from the Central and state governments. The Maharashtra government introduced an EV Policy in July, aiming at 10% of all newly registered vehicles in its major cities to be EVs. The state plans to incentivise to generate demand for EVs and also provide incentives for production of EVs. Meanwhile, central planning authority NITI Aayog intends that 80% of all two- and three-wheelers, 40% of buses and 30-70% of cars be EVs by 2030. Maharashtra environment and tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray said, “The state is readying itself with blistering pace to transition towards green mobility solutions and EV will play an important role in getting us to 100% green transit systems. The EV Policy looks not only at demand and supply side stimulus but also at contemporary practices such as the zero emission vehicles (ZEV) programme. We also hope to create an ecosystem of clean energy production along with EV.” This drive for EVs has created a demand for a talent pool adept in the latest technologies in the sector. “[There is a demand for] Courses which can help learners to understand the urgency of climate change and its mitigation potential via clean mobility,” said Sahil Bhandare, climate fellow, EV Policy, ministry of environment and climate change, Maharashtra.To address this demand, institutes are offering cutting-edge courses in subjects relevant to the EV sector such as energy storage and monitoring, automotive health monitoring and diagnostics among others.In 2019, IIT-Delhi set up a Centre for Automotive Research and Tribology (Cart) to promote interdisciplinary research in EVs, energy storage and other relevant areas, said the institute’s director V Ramgopal Rao. Cart offers postgraduate programmes and also facilitates networking and collaboration among various industries, research labs and universities in India and abroad to carry out research in the area of automotive research and tribology (wear and friction).An executive programme in EV is in the works at IIT-Bombay, said Sidhhartha Ghosh, professor-in-charge, continuing education programme of the institute. “Our EV course is a certificate programme in Power Electronics and Motors for EVs. This course contains selected topics in the areas of electromagnetics, thermal and power electronics, mechanical and material selections, algorithms for motor design, inverter design and motor control that help in a system-level modelling. The course is being offered to equip learners with state-of-the-art technologies in the applied and integrated field of electric vehicles,” said Ghosh, adding that the course can be taken by graduates and graduating students of electrical or electronics engineering and related fields.Many traditional automotive companies are looking forward to training their existing engineers in the EV field, added Ghosh. “EV is a rapidly growing field where the demand from environmental concerns and government thrust are much higher than the requisite integrated skill set currently available in electrical, mechanical and electronics engineering sector. IIT-B is known for offering courses that are contemporary, experiential and on the cutting edge of technology. We are well placed to offer capacity building in the integrated and interdisciplinary technological field of EV,” he said.According to Saurabh Jain, research and public policy secretary (private) to Thackeray, institutions are following the lead and adapting to the growing needs of the sector. “The government has already incentivised opening up of research and development centres. Charging stations is a big area of interest as well as fast charging, standardisation of charging units, solar-powered charging infrastructure for an end-to-end clean ecosystem. ZEV is the future and we’re cooperating with governments, who’re already running the ZEV programme. Software and hardware on EVs and its charging units will require a lot of innovation if we are to enable EVs without range anxiety,” said Jain. Bhandare added, “Industries and academia can work in synergy to develop a plan which can be implemented in order to promote clean mobility. Industries can help the academia to develop a potential talent pool.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/electric-vehicles-push-for-courses-and-research-in-india-101630864601529.html
05-09-2021||Chandigarh||Canine threat: Punjab reported 14 dog bite cases every hour till July this year||Punjab has witnessed 14 dog bite cases on an average each hour in the past seven month, a situation termed serious by the health authorities. According to the State Rabies Control Programme (SRCP) data, a total of 72,414 dog bite cases were reported from 22 districts of the state till July. The SRCP authorities say as the August data is being complied.According to the SRCP data, Jalandhar saw 14,390 dog bite cases, or 68 cases per day, the highest in the state, followed by Ludhiana (8,000), Hoshiarpur (5,486), Patiala (5,484) and Sangrur (4,345), from January till July. Veterinarians say stray dogs are the main contributors while in numerous cases, patients complain of bites by pets. SRCP programme officer Dr Preeti Thaware said the data suggests that stray dog menace has grown in the past years.The state reported 1.1 lakh dog bite cases last year as against 1 lakh in 2017. The number was 1.34 lakh in 2019 and 1.14 lakh in 2018. “Owing to Covid-19 outbreak, fewer people were venturing out thus a marginal decrease in dog bite incidents was seen since last year. But the ground reality is the stray dogs are posing a serious threat to the human population,” said Dr Thaware.There is no official data indicating the fatality caused by dog bites.“Most of the patients abide by strict schedule of the four-vaccine dose necessary programme that is provided free of cost. If vaccines are not taken on the prescribed dates, a patient will have to repeat the cycle and it may cause unwanted health conditions,” she added.Animal rights activist from Ludhiana and former member of the Animal Welfare Board of India Dr Sandeep Jain said dogs become aggressive during monsoon, which is the mating season, and attack people due to excess body heat. “But sterilisation can reduce their aggressiveness as it brings down the hormone level. Sterilising bitches also can prevent them from many contracting diseases and increase their life span. The community should be educated about the general behaviour of canines to minimise dog attacks,” he added.Officials said a state panel regularly monitors and execute an organised anti-rabies programme.In the latest communication issued on September 1, the director, local bodies, has asked the municipal commissioners and additional deputy commissioners to ensure that organisations engaged in the animal birth control and anti-rabies programmes are in accordance with the norms fixed by the Animal Welfare Board of India.“District administration and the local bodies conduct dog sterilisation, but Covid-19 outbreak hindered the exercise since last year. Various districts are working to initiate sterilisation programme,” said an official of animal husbandry department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/canine-threat-punjab-reported-14-dog-bite-cases-every-hour-till-july-this-year-101630864598849.html
05-09-2021||Chandigarh||58-year-old labourer held for sexually assaulting cow in Ludhiana||A 58-year-old labourer has been arrested for allegedly sexually assaulting a cow in an inebriated condition at a vacant plot on Tajpur Road on Saturday night. The accused, identified as Parkash Singh, of Guru Nanak Nagar, Tajpur Road, was caught red-handed by the cow owner and locals. “The cow belongs to a tea vendor, who had leashed it at a plot near his house. On Saturday night, he heard the cow mooing loudly. Suspecting, burglars were taking the cow away, he summoned some neighbours and they ran to the animal’s aid. At the plot, they were shocked to see the accused sexually assaulting the bovine,” said assistant commissioner of police (East) Davinder Chudhary.On seeing the crowd, the accused tried to escape, but was nabbed. The police were informed on Sunday morning and he was arrested.A case under Sections 377 (sodomy) and 295-A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) of the Indian Penal Code, and Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act has been registered against the accused at the Division Number 7 police station.On Sunday, various Hindu organisations reached the area and staged a protest, demanding stern action against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/58yearold-labourer-held-for-sexually-assaulting-cow-in-ludhiana-101630864597717.html
05-09-2021||Chandigarh||Six men assault, strip three friends in Ludhiana, booked||Police are on the lookout for six men who stripped and beat up their three friends following an altercation in August.The accused also filmed the assault on their phones and recently circulated the videos on social media, following which one of the victims approached the police.Four of the accused are Deepak of Choti Jawaddi, Lovepreet Singh of Passi Nagar, Pawan and Sooraj of Jawaddi Kalan, while their two accomplices remain unidentified.In his complaint, one of the victims, Amit of Jawaddi Kalan, said all accused were his friends, who had invited him and two more friends for a game of cricket in Dev Nagar on August 18.There, Lovepreet asked Amit to sever ties with a youth who was his rival. Amit alleged that when he turned down Lovepreet’s demand, he tried to attack him and his two friends with a sharp-edged weapon. To save themselves, the trio fled on foot, but the six accused nabbed them.Amit alleged that they forcibly stripped them and beat them up with a belt, while filming the attack on their phones. As people gathered on hearing their screams, the accused fled the spot. “The complainant did not file a complaint so far out of fear. But as the accused had circulated the video of the incident, he approached the police,” said ASI Ranjit Singh, in-charge, Basant Avenue police post.All accused have been booked under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restraint), 294 (obscene act, songs), 506 (criminal intimidation), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapons) and 149 (every members of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) of the Indian Penal Code, and the Information and Technology Act, the ASI added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/six-men-assault-strip-three-friends-in-ludhiana-booked-101630864537650.html
05-09-2021||Mumbai||Rashmi Shukla not named in FIR on leak of papers on cop postings: Mumbai Police||Mumbai Police, in an affidavit filed in the Bombay high court (HC), has informed that former commissioner of intelligence Rashmi Shukla has not been named in the first information report (FIR) related to data theft and leakage of confidential documents on the issue of transfers and postings of police officers in the state and hence, her petition seeking the quashing of FIR should be dismissed. The affidavit filed in response to Shukla’s petition stated: “The FIR is registered against unknown person and therefore, as the petitioner (Shukla) is not an accused in it, the petitioner has no locus to file the petition seeking its quashing.” During an earlier hearing of Shukla’s petition, senior advocate Darius Khambata – who represented Mumbai Police – made similar submissions, but had sought time to file a written reply to the petition. Khambata had argued that the data theft and the leaked documents were admittedly confidential and such documents coming into public domain was a serious offence, which had to be investigated. Referring to the FIR, the affidavit stated that the complaint was limited to sensitive and confidential information being leaked in an unauthorised manner to third parties from the state intelligence department (SID) and did not have any bearing on the content of the documents. In light of this, the affidavit stated that Shukla has sought quashing of the FIR on the basis that she has been purportedly falsely implicated in the case, while it is registered against unknown persons. The affidavit added that Shukla was issued notice merely to provide facts/ information in the investigation of the offences in the FIR and it did not mean that she was implicated in the case. The affidavit concluded that the allegation by Shukla that the FIR has been filed as an act of vendetta by the Maharashtra government is also erroneous and hence, her petition was not maintainable and should be dismissed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/rashmi-shukla-not-named-in-fir-on-leak-of-papers-on-cop-postings-mumbai-police-101630864118120.html
05-09-2021||Chandigarh||Mega drive in Ludhiana records 1.3 lakh inoculations in a single day||The district health department achieved 1.31 lakh inoculations, crossing its target of 1 lakh, during a mega vaccination drive on Sunday.Covid inoculation in-charge Dr Puneet Juneja said 283 vaccination sites were set up for the drive and over 1,00,000 doses and syringes were arranged in advance.Civil surgeon Dr Kiran Ahluwalia said the department received a phenomenal response to the initiative and 1,31,993 people turned up to get a jab. “This reflects that hesitancy towards the vaccine has reduced with residents understanding the importance to get immunised. We are eager to cross today’s numbers in the coming days,” she said. “On this momentous occasion, I must thank the residents of Ludhiana for coming forward for vaccination. By maintaining Covid-appropriate behaviour and completing the course of vaccination, we can win against the virus,” the official added.Ludhiana East topped the chart with 72,464 people getting inoculated in a single day.At some centres, people complained that coupons were distributed till only 10am and thereafter the gates were locked, forcing them to return without getting vaccinated.High drama was also witnessed at a centre in Jamalpur where the private security personnel denied entry to a health department official, who later lodged a complaint with the civil surgeon.District logs one Covid case, no deathOnly one Covid-19 case was reported in Ludhiana on Sunday, with no increase in fatalities.The district has registered 87,483 infections since the beginning of the pandemic, of which 2,097 people have succumbed to the virus.As many as 85,363 patients have been cured, a recovery rate of 97.58%. Currently, 23 patients are still under treatment. There are no patients admitted in any government or private hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mega-drive-in-ludhiana-records-1-3-lakh-inoculations-in-a-single-day-101630863938924.html
05-09-2021||Chandigarh||CBSE honours Chandigarh’s St Joseph’s School principal Monica Chawla||St Joseph’s Senior Secondary School principal Monica Chawla has been conferred the CBSE honour for excellence in teaching and school leadership. Serving as CBSE centre of excellence district training coordinator, Chawla has shared innovative teaching and classroom management techniques to educators through 170 trainings sessions within one-and-a-half year.She been conferred with 23 awards in the last four years, which include the prestigious ‘national achiever award’ as well as ‘most innovative principal award’. During the pandemic, St Joseph’s Senior Secondary School received nine prestigious awards from different government bodies . On receiving the award, Chawla said, “I am humbled by this recognition. This honours my institute, my staff members, my students and above all my management who have always trusted me and given me freedom to invest in innovation. This honour comes with an additional responsibility of contributing to the field of education with head, heart and hand, and innovate pedagogy for better learning outcomes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cbse-honours-chandigarh-s-st-joseph-s-school-principal-monica-chawla-101630863637567.html
05-09-2021||Other||{No religious symbols in exam hall} Akal Takht jathedar asks Haryana to revoke move||Amritsar Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh on Sunday criticised the Haryana government for asking candidates not to wear religious symbols during examinations of the Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) and asked it to revoke this move.“The HPSC is going to conduct an examination, and it has asked candidates to not wear any religious symbol, when they take the exam. This is unfortunate,” the jathedar says in a video, adding, “The Indian Constitution gives its citizens the right to exercise religious freedom. Why are the Sikhs being deprived of exercising this freedom? This is a big attack on the religious freedom of the Sikhs and an attempt to debar Amritdhari Sikh candidates from appearing in the exam and joining public service.” He appealed to the Haryana government to review its move. “There may be a conspiracy behind this move as the Sikhs wear five religious articles called the Five Kakars,” he said, adding, “The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) and other Sikh organisations will be asked to take notice of this decision and challenge it in court, if Haryana does not revoke it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-religious-symbols-in-exam-hall-akal-takht-jathedar-asks-haryana-to-revoke-move-101630863517637.html
05-09-2021||Mumbai||Chances of obesity among car users 1.14 times higher than walkers, reveals IIT-B study||A person, who prefers travelling by cab or car, is 1.14 times more likely to become obese than one who prefers to walk, finds a recent study by researchers at the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B). The study, published in the September volume of the Journal of Health and Transport, found that across all age groups, walking reduces the chances of becoming overweight or obese significantly over those who prefer to take cars, three-wheelers, motorised two-wheelers and public transport. Gopal Patil, professor and Gajanand Sharma, a PhD student, both from the department of civil engineering at IIT-B, calculated the odds ratio or the statistical association between modes of transport and obesity across four age groups— up to 30 years, 30 to 50 years, 50 to 65 years and 65 and above. They found that the odds ratio or chances of being obese were the lowest across all age groups for those who preferred walking as their primary means of transport. “Usage of a walk and public transport not only lead to sustainability in the transportation system but also helps promote the health wellbeing of the society. Thus the policymakers need to invest in these active modes of transportation and promote their usage. In India, leisure-time physical activities are relatively less, compared to the developed nations. Thus, commuters should use the active modes of transportation whenever feasible. This helps in increasing their physical activity level and enhances their health wellbeing,” said Patil.The researchers collected data from 5,447 households in Navi Mumbai, of which they analysed data for 4,253 respondents. Nearly 40% of the respondents fell in the category of overweight/obesity. The data set observed an equal proportion of low-income and middle-income groups. Almost 53% of the respondents did not own a car and about 32% used motorised two-wheelers as the primary mode of travel. Only 6% used three-wheelers as the primary mode of transport. For 14.1% of the respondents, walking was the primary travel mode. Overweight/obesity was determined using the body mass index (BMI) value of respondents. The World Health Organisation defines obesity as a BMI over 25. In July, a WHO study revealed that worldwide obesity had tripled since 1975. In 2019, an estimated 38.2 million children under the age of five years were overweight or obese, WHO said. “Once considered a high-income country problem, overweight and obesity are now on the rise in low and middle-income countries, particularly in urban settings,” WHO had said. Shankar Das, professor and dean, School of Health Systems Studies at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai, who was not a part of the study said, “Obesity is one of the rising public health issues as obesity and excess weight increases the risk of severe illness and compounds the existing health concerns. The trend analysis of recent data confirms that the prevalence of overweight and obesity in India is climbing rapidly than the world average. However, this significant issue does not find an adequate place in our health and nutrition policies.” Apart from travel patterns, researchers also analysed the socio-economic characteristics of the respondent. Monthly household income, education level, and age are used as variables in the analysis. They also measured the built environment within walking proximity and traffic analysis zone. “The study concludes that socio-economic characteristics such as income, education, and age influence BMI levels in society. Persons with high income and higher education levels have better access to higher economic, social, and environmental opportunities (e.g. gym, park, sports facilities, proper diet, awareness, and neighbourhood), making them less likely to become obese/overweight. In general, it is found that the chances of getting overweight/obese increase with age for all socio-economic groups. The built environment around an individual’s place of residence plays a crucial role in physical wellbeing parameters. The urban forms with appropriate population density coupled with a high walkable environment can reduce overweight/obesity chances. A neighbourhood with mixed land use can help reduce overweight/obesity,” Patil said.Interestingly, as the travel time by walk increases by 10 minutes, the change in the probability of being overweight/obese decreases for all age groups. “This shows an interesting pattern and can lead us to conclude that, as age increases, the odds of being overweight/obese are dominated by walking trips. This means that even though age has an increasing impact on overweight/obesity, this increasing effect can be controlled by investing more time on walking trips,” the study said. “I believe the prevalence and risk of obesity in India can be explained by socio-demographic factors such as gender, age, profession, geographical environment, socio-economic status, etc. The prevention and control of obesity-related diseases are critical public health and developmental challenges due to diminished economic productivity, rising healthcare expenditures and financial risks. Additionally, the coronavirus crisis has made the rift alarmingly evident in the country’s health system. The spread of adult and childhood obesity could increase the burden on our already burdened health care infrastructure,” said Das.“In recent times most Mumbaiites are familiar with healthy lifestyles, but changing behaviour is complicated and complex, not a simple and linear process because it requires somebody to disrupt a regular and habitual behaviour. However, we need a robust health action plan under effective leadership and evidence-based action on prevention, control, and interventions. Multiple surveillance approaches are necessary to collect comprehensive information for effective obesity-related diseases surveillance and cost-effective interventions. In addition, at the health systems and community level robust interventions may be launched with a special focus on systematic behaviour change communication, healthy lifestyle awareness, individual risk assessment/counselling and accessible NCD clinics may go a long way to prevent and control the burgeoning obesity-related health problems,” Das said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/chances-of-obesity-among-car-users-1-14-times-higher-than-walkers-reveals-iit-b-study-101630862017728.html
05-09-2021||Other||80 conferred state awards on Teachers’ Day||Patiala Punjab school education and public works minister, Vijay Inder Singla conferred state awards on 80 teachers and education department officials for their distinguished contribution towards the augmentation of infrastructure facilities and bringing qualitative improvement in school education at the state level function organised at Patiala to mark Teachers; Day. “Around 7 lakh students have left private schools and got themselves enrolled in government schools of the state over the recent past. Punjab has been getting its teachers trained from international reputed institutes like the Indian School of Business and Bharti Education,” the minister claimed. The minister physically conferred the state awards on 23 teachers of Patiala, Sangrur, Sahibzada Ajit Singh Nagar and Fatehgarh Sahib districts at the auditorium of Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology, Patiala. The rest were honoured at their district headquarters. Thirty-six Upper primary teachers and 22 primary teachers have been given state awards; six Upper primary and five primary teachers have got the Young Teacher award. Eleven education officers have been honoured with Administrative State Awards. In Shaheed Bhagat Singh (SBS) Nagar district, five teachers were conferred with these state awards. The teachers awarded here wer Minakshi Bhall, headmistress; Pooja Sharma, English lecturer; Ashok Kumar and Neeraj Kumar, both Hindi teachers, and Baljinder Singh Virk, a primary teacher. At the function in Patiala, the minister said, “Punjab has got the top rank in the Performance Grading Index that the Centre released just a few months ago. Innovative initiatives taken by Punjab for sprucing up infrastructure and bringing about a qualitative improvement in education have delivered results. We have also ensured transparency in recruitment as well as transfers of teachers.” Punjab school education secretary Krishan Kumar termed the selection system of state-level awards in Punjab, as the best in the country. “The mandate of awards extended to school principals and district education officials and young teachers is meant to boost their morale and reward their talent and enthusiasm,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/80-conferred-state-awards-on-teachers-day-101630860757731.html
05-09-2021||Other||Pune schools for specially abled want policy framework to resume offline education||PUNE: Schools for specially abled children are asking the government to frame an education policy for them so that their education which has been disrupted by the pandemic can resume. They have pointed out that online education is difficult for these children and a proper education is more like therapy for them. Since the onset of the pandemic, all academic calendars have collapsed and schools have not been able to function regularly.Sadhana Godbole, managing director of the Prasanna Autism Centre, said, “It has been almost 17 months since proper education of these specially abled children has come to a halt. We have autistic children at our centre and online education is not a viable option for them. These children are benefitted from in-person interaction. There has been a lot of talk about reopening regular schools but no attention has been given to the training and education of specially abled children. Their education is like therapy for them. Policymakers should give attention to this matter. We have been asking permission to conduct offline sessions with a limited number of students in class. A discussion in this matter at least should be started.”Radiya Gohil, founder-trustee of Prayatna Foundation, an organisation that provides multi-faceted education to students with Down’s Syndrome, cerebral palsy, autism, ADHD, De Lange Syndrome, Fragile X Syndrome and learning disabilities, too, said that in-person interaction is crucial for these children. “It is essential because online learning limits us in many ways. Also, parents are finding it really tough now to deal with behaviour issues and frustrations that have developed in students,” she said.According to experts however, while online education may not be an entirely suitable option, it helps to keep students and teachers in contact. Mridula Das, founder-trustee of Prayatna Foundation, said, “The response to online sessions has been good. Students were really happy to see their teachers and communicate with them. We have also facilitated online classes for some of our needy students by providing them with tabs, phones and data plans.”Meanwhile, state education department officials said that efforts are being taken to continue the education of students with special needs but the decision to reopen schools is yet to be taken. Dr Kamaladevi Awate, deputy director of the State Council of Educational Research & Training (SCERT), said, “We have created special online learning material for such students. Our officials have conducted meetings with the parents to inform them about special activities that are necessary for these students to carry out so that they can conduct such activities at home. We have provided this material to various schools and NGOs.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-schools-for-specially-abled-want-policy-framework-to-resume-offline-education-101630860336789.html
05-09-2021||Other||MSEDCL, manufacturers forms committee to boost solar power supply||PUNE The Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution (MSEDCL) and the Maharashtra Solar Manufacturing Association (Masma), recently held a meeting to facilitate solar energy operations in the interest of consumers, in view of a proliferation of supply, and increasing demand for solar energy. Officials said the meeting included discussions on various issues encountered during net metering, early approval for net metering application, meter testing and similar works, in collaboration, as soon as possible, for which a joint committee has been set up. This includes three MSEDCL officers and two members from Masma. Sameer Gandhi and Jayesh Akole will represent Masma on the joint committee, as per Masma president Rajesh Mutha.In Maharashtra, various schemes under solar energy are to be implemented through MSEDCL. MSEDCL has promised to take into account the views of Masma, a leading energy company.Mutha said that the use of solar energy in Maharashtra will continue to increase in the future. Therefore, to provide quality solar equipment and prompt service to the general public, Masma will cooperate with MSEDCL.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/msedcl-manufacturers-forms-committee-to-boost-solar-power-supply-101630860156780.html
05-09-2021||Other||94th Marathi Sahitya Sammelan in the lurch as organisers await govt nod||PUNE: The future of the 94th Akhil Bhartiya Marathi Sahitya Sammelan – which on March 7 was deferred indefinitely in light of the increasing Covid-19 cases – continues to hang in balance despite the second wave of the pandemic having waned. The reason is the threat of the third wave apart from the fact that cultural programmes, watching films in theatres, and mass gatherings are still not allowed although Covid norms have been relaxed across the state.The 94th edition of this prestigious annual Marathi literary meet was scheduled to be held in Nashik on March 26, 27 and 28 with renowned scientist and author Dr Jayant Naralikar slated to preside over it. Noted literary figures, publishers and book lovers were to converge at the three-day event which generated a lot of enthusiasm but as the number of Covid cases began to increase, it was deferred indefinitely on March 7.The organisers in Nashik said that they are fully prepared to hold the literary meet whenever the government gives its nod and that they are in constant contact with the Akhil Bharatiya Marathi Sahitya Mahamandal but due to the anticipated third wave, no decision has been taken yet.Jayprakash Jategaonkar, president of the Lokhitwadi mandal which is the main organising body of the Sahitya Sammelan in Nashik, said, “We have made preliminary preparations and whenever the government gives permission, we can finalise arrangements for the Sahitya Sammelan. We are in constant contact with the Sahitya Mahamandal. Chhagan Bhujbal is also among the organisers and he is in constant contact with the state government. As of now, the government hasn’t opened up everything completely.”Kautikrao Thale-Patil, president of the Akhil Bharatiya Marathi Sahitya Mahamandal, said, “We are in contact with the organisers. Thousands of people gather at the sammelan. So, organisers feel that restrictions should ease further. They have given us tentative dates namely, November 19, 20, and 21. If the situation remains under control, we will take a call in October whether the sammelan should be held or not.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/94th-marathi-sahitya-sammelan-in-the-lurch-as-organisers-await-govt-nod-101630859796738.html
05-09-2021||Other||Purandar idol maker is dung-ho about eco-friendly idols||PUNE Kiran Jagtap from Rajewadi village, Purandar, would have been just another Ganesha idol maker, but his unique initiative this year has set him apart. According to Jagtap, he makes Ganesha idols from cow dung and when these idols are put in a tub filled with water at the time of immersion, it dissolves and this mixture can be used for planting saplings. The cow dung powder is mixed with soil and tamarind powder to give shape and structure to the idols, and coconut oil for a final finishing. Jagtap said, “Each idol is 22.86 cm long and weighs about 700gm, and it takes two hours to shape and sculpt an idol, in which my colleagues helps me.” Jagtap added, “This is our first attempt, so our goal this year is to only produce 100 idols, of which 10 have already been produced. These eco-friendly idols are provided with the service of home delivery by post/courier and are priced at only Rs500 to Rs600.” Keeping Covid in mind, Jagtap and his group have taken all the orders through mobile phones and security precautions will also be taken for delivery. Jagtap (25) has a postgraduate degree in political science and has been trained to make products from cow at Swanand Govigyan, Nagpur. Idols are traditionally made from plaster of paris (white chalk, also used as cement) which is inherently non-biodegradable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/purandar-idol-maker-is-dung-ho-about-eco-friendly-idols-101630859376687.html
05-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s monsoon trend this year is ‘peculiar’: IMD scientist||As Delhi is likely to witness more rainfall in the coming days, a scientist of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has termed this year’s monsoon trend in the national capital as ‘peculiar’.Talking to news agency ANI, Dr RK Jenamani, senior scientist at IMD, said, “In June, there was a rainfall deficit. However, in July it was comparatively more. In August, it reduced. But in September, we witnessed record-breaking rainfall [so far].”Delhi has already (till September 4) received 79 per cent surplus rain as against the normal monsoon rain of 552.6mm, IMD data showed. Before 2021, Delhi had received severe rainfall in 2018 and 2013 with 770.6mm and 876mm, respectively. The highest rainfall activity witnessed by the national capital was in 2010 when it received 1031.5mm rain. However, the catch is these data were recorded between June 1 and September 30 and, this year, Delhi has already received 988.4mm rain.Jenamani, however, said that in 2010, the rainfall was much more than 2021’s record rainfall activity. “If we consider rainfall after 2011, 2021 had the highest rainfall. Perhaps, September is yet to end. We are not seeing monsoon withdrawal in the near future,” he told ANI.Watch | Short intense rain spells is the new Normal Monsoon: What it meansHe also pointed out that the effects of climate change are the reason behind instances of “intense and heavy rainfall in a short span of time” seeing a rise. “This year, this trend is clearly visible in Delhi. [The] maximum rainfall of this season has been contributed by intense rain spells,” Jenamani said.Meanwhile, he predicted that a light spell of rain will commence in the national capital on the morning of September 6 or 7. The IMD scientist, however, informed that the spell will not be a downpour that was seen on September 1 and 2, and will instead be “light showers.” “On September 7 and 8, moderate rainfall has been predicted. This trend will continue till September 9,” Jenamani added to ANI.The scientist said that a new rain spell will begin on September 10, which may have heavy rainfall. He added that there is no orange alert issued in the national capital till September 9 and that drizzling will continue with no increase in the temperatures.According to IMD data, Delhi had a rainfall deficit of 46 per cent till July 16. But, a series of heavy spells of rain in July caused the monthly rainfall activity to end at a surplus of 141 per cent. This continued in August where rainfall shifted between a monthly deficit of 60 per cent to a surplus of 11 per cent – only to end with a deficit of 13 per cent. Therefore, in August, Delhi received 214.5mm of rainfall as opposed to the 247.7mm it typically sees in a month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-monsoon-trend-this-year-is-peculiar-imd-scientist-101630858727115.html
05-09-2021||Other||Forged papers, uncooperative banks: Cyber police face hurdles galore||PRAYAGRAJ: Even as the high court has taken a strict stand towards increasing cases of cyber crimes, the cyber police station of Prayagraj Range and cyber cell are leaving no stone unturned in busting gangs and recovering money of fraud victims. The cyber team faces challenges in tracing fraudsters who are usually based in remote areas of other states and use bank accounts and SIM cards procured through fake documents. Moreover, the uncooperative attitude of bank authorities and network service providers makes their work more challenging and difficult, they say. It is worth mentioning that in the past few months, teams of cyber police station and cyber cell of Prayagraj police have succeeded in busting many gangs of fraudsters and also managed to recover the lost cash of complainants within 24 hours of the crime. They are also launching campaigns through social media and other means to create awareness among people to control cyber crimes. SHO, cyber police station inspector Rajeev Tiwari said 35 cases of cyber frauds had been lodged since the police station came into existence, including one case that was transferred from another police station. In four of the cases, charge sheet had been filed in the court while final report had been submitted in one case. Almost all of the lost cash in four charge -sheeted cases had been recovered from the fraudsters and it had also been returned to fraud victims in many other cases of cyber crimes. In total, cash around ₹45 lakh had been recovered from cyber fraudsters and ggiven back to the complainants, Tiwari added. A cyber police station official said although the cases of cyber crimes had been increasing, the team had to work with limited resources and often faced challenges due to non-cooperative attitude of banks and network service providers. “Cyber fraudsters use forged Aadhar cards, PAN cards and other documents for opening bank accounts and obtaining SIM cards. The banks and network service providers carry out OTP based verification instead of conducting physical or manual verification of the documents submitted. As the bank account used by fraudsters is opened on forged documents it becomes difficult to trace them. Moreover, the online fraudsters use fake documents for taking SIM cards which they use for a short period of time. Once the SIM card is thrown away, it becomes a difficult task to trace their location through electronic surveillance and arrest them,” the official shared. He said that bank officials took too much time in providing details of bank accounts used by cyber fraudsters. On an average, 10 days were taken to trace bank account of a fraudster opened on forged documents and freezing it. In case of cash withdrawn by fraudsters through ATM, banks also took time in providing CCTV footage which gave advantage to the culprits. In some cases footage was lost as banks deleted it after 60 days. The cyber police had also requested the court to issue guidelines to banks to provide required data to police within 24 to 48 hours of the request, the official added. Another cyber cell police official said that gangs involved in online frauds usually operated from other states, including Jharkhand, West Bengal, Delhi, Maharashtra and Gujarat and lured bank customers through SMS and social media platforms. While police in Mumbai, Gujarat and some other states were cooperative, cops in Jharkhand and West Bengal were often reluctant in providing necessary help, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/forged-papers-uncooperative-banks-cyber-police-face-hurdles-galore-101630859137284.html
05-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Minor fire reported on 17th floor of a Worli highrise||A small — level 1 — fire was reported on the 17th floor of the 35-storey Marathon building in Gandhi Nagar in Worli, at 1.53am on Saturday, which is a residential high-rise. The fire was extinguished within 25 minutes, at 2.14am. No injuries were reported in the fire.The fire was confined to furniture in house number 1701, according to information received by Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) disaster management department from the Mumbai Fire Brigade.Snehal Ambekar, Shiv Sena corporator from the area said, “The fire was minor, and was doused within 15-20 minutes. We took an update of the situation at the time of the incident in the middle of the night. No injuries were reported in the incident. Only the furniture within the room where the fire was reported, was charred.”The Mumbai Fire Brigade received a call regarding the fire, pressed fire engines and water tankers to the spot, and informed BMC’s disaster management department. The Mumbai Police was also informed, and an ambulance was deployed to the spot of the incident. BEST was informed about the fire, to cut off the electric supply.Meanwhile, within 24 hours, from Saturday 8am to Sunday morning, two other incidents of the short circuit were reported in the Western suburbs. No injuries were reported in both of these incidents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-minor-fire-reported-on-17th-floor-of-a-worli-highrise-101630858178593.html
05-09-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 841 new Covid cases, 7 deaths; 19,418 vaccinated on Sunday||PUNE According to the state health department Pune district reported 841 new Covid-19 cases and seven deaths on Sunday. This took the progressive count to 1.123 million out of which 1.091 million have recovered, 19,652 deaths have been reported and 12,325 are active cases or patients who are currently in hospital undergoing treatment or are in home isolation.The district also saw over 19,418 vaccinations on Sunday.As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 426 new cases which took the progressive count to 348,051 and with four more deaths reported the death toll went up to 6,687.Pune city reported 262 new cases which took the progressive count to 512,718 and with two more deaths reported the death toll went up to 9,126.Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 153 new cases and the progressive count went up to 263,022 and with one more death reported the toll stood at 3,490.Pune also saw 19,418 vaccinations on Sunday as per the CoWIN dashboard.Totally 8,497,601 vaccines have been administered including 6,128,761 first dose and 2,368,840 second dose.A total of 185 vaccination sites conducted vaccination on the day out of which 29 were government and 156 private centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-841-new-covid-cases-7-deaths-19-418-vaccinated-on-sunday-101630857216586.html
05-09-2021||Delhi||DGCA directs DDA to reduce heights of four residential buildings in Vasant Kunj||Director General of Civil Aviation's (DGCA) has directed Delhi Development Authority (DDA) to reduce the height of four buildings in D-6 society of Vasant Kunj after identifying the structures for creating obstruction around Indira Gandhi International Airport."DIAL forwarded the list of buildings and structure determined as forming Obstacles Limitations Surfaces (OLS) of IGI airport based on a survey conducted in the year of 2016 to this office including of buildings and structures at Ganga, Yamuna, Narmada and Saraswati apartments as obstacle penetrating the Inner Horizontal Surface (IHS) against their permissible top elevation," DGCA stated in its final order.The aviation watchdog has earmarked four buildings- Ganga, Yamuna, Narmada, and Saraswati from the survey conducted by the Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL), and asked DDA to reduce the height of the concerned structures to a permissible limit within 60 days. "Final order issued by DGCA to reduce the height of the said 15 numbers of towers to permissible limits within 60 days of issue of the notice or file appeal to DGCA within 60 days. This is for your kind information and further necessary action please," DDA's notice read.Residents of Delhi’s ‘affluent’ unauthorised colonies demand ownership rightsDDA’s notice has put residents of these buildings on edge and the Resident Welfare Association (RWA) is planning to appeal against the orders released by DGCA and DDA. Residents alleged that the buildings were constructed after DDA issued a No Objection Certificate. They are also apprehensive about the effects on the safety of the building for the top floors house water tanks, fire escapes and such."These towers were constructed after DDA got No Objection Certificate (NOC) and now another authority of the same government said that there is a need to reduce the height of the building. What is the fault of the people living here who have filled crores of rupees in a flat? Reducing the height is also compromising the safety of the building as there are water tanks, fire tanks and elevators attached to the top of the building," Ashok Pai, one of the residents, told news agency ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dgca-directs-dda-to-reduce-heights-of-four-residential-buildings-in-vasant-kunj-101630855003135.html
05-09-2021||Patna||Teachers’ day: Two from Bihar conferred national award||President Ram Nath Kovind conferred the National Teachers’ Awards upon two teachers from the state for their exemplary contribution in the field of education on the occasion of Teachers’ Day on Sunday.Haridas Sharma and Chandana Dutt received the national award virtually from Patna-based state education office. The award carries a medal, a certificate of recognition and a cash prize of ₹50,000.On the occasion, state education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary also felicitated 18 teachers selected for state-level awards along with the national awardees. Choudhary presented a certificate and souvenir along with a cash prize ₹15,000 to each teacher.Congratulating the awardees, Choudhary said, “Teachers are the spine of education and they represent the department. They are not only responsible for teaching, but also prepare students for challenges of life. Felicitation motivates other teachers to give their best and infuses positive energy among teachers.”“Our teachers do not lack in eligibility, merit and honesty. We can together create a positive environment for education in the state,” he said.Elated awardees promised to continue their efforts and encourage others to do extraordinary work for improving the quality of education in the state.PU felicitates 149 retired teachersPatna University (PU) honoured 149 teachers, who retired by May 2010, during an event held at Wheeler Senate House here Sunday.Former vice-chancellor of PU, Rash Bihari Prasad Singh, was the chief guest on the occasion. Singh appealed the retired professors to help the current teachers in carrying out research work so that the university can improve NAAC grading in the next assessment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/teachers-day-two-from-bihar-conferred-national-award-101630854457136.html
05-09-2021||Patna||Covid vaccination of 12-17 year olds with comorbidities to begin from Oct||Covid-19 vaccination of children with comorbidities in the 12-17 years age group will begin in October, Dr NK Arora, chairman of the Covid-19 working group of National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation, said on Sunday. “We are prioritising children with comorbidities initially between 12 and 17 years to administer the Covid-19 vaccines when we begin their inoculation in October,” said Dr Arora, who was in Patna to deliver the fourth Dr CP Thakur oration at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS), an autonomous medical college of the state government on pattern of AIIMS.He said vaccination of children below 12 years of age was expected to begin in the first quarter of next year. The results of vaccine trials for the younger children are expected by November. “India has 44 crore population below the age of 18 years of which 12crore are in the 12-17 years age group. This is a huge dimension. So, we will initially target children with co-morbidities even when we begin inoculating those below 12 years of age most likely in the first quarter of 2022. The country will begin vaccinating healthy children once the 94-crore adult population has been vaccinated,” he added. Dr Arora sounded a note of caution when he said the third wave of the pandemic was possible only if we lower our guards and do not follow Covid appropriate behaviour, especially during the coming festive season. “The third wave will be driven by a variant. At the moment, we don’t have a variant of concern. However, it is a community-driven issue. One has to be careful to avoid social and religious gatherings during the coming festive season. The possibility of the next wave will be driven by complacency and lowering of guard by the community on the one side and the administration on the other side. Though 70% of our population is exposed to the virus, 30% is still unexposed, and we still need to be careful,” he added. Dr Arora was averse to the idea of closing schools, as he felt it affected the development of children. He said four vaccines had already been granted emergency use authorisation and five more were in the trial phase. Among them were the messenger RNA vaccine of Gennova and the intranasal vaccine by Bharat Biotech that were in the first phase of the trial. Serum Institute of India (SII)’s Novavax, the Protein Subnit Vaccine by BioE and the BCG Vaccine (repurposing) of SII were in the third phase of the trial. “India will produce 1.8 billion doses of Covid-19 vaccines by the year-end. Its production will increase to 2.5 to 3 billion doses next year,” he added. With 68 crore doses of the vaccine already administered, Dr Arora said India hoped to give another 100-110 crore doses of vaccine in the next four months..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/covid-vaccination-of-12-17-year-olds-with-comorbidities-to-begin-from-oct-101630854338479.html
05-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai coastal road: BMC completes 1km of tunnelling work||India’s largest tunnel boring machine (TBM) — Mavla — that is being used for tunnelling work for Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) ambitious coastal road project, has completed one-kilometre work on Saturday, at 11.40pm. The tunnel boring work began in January 2021.Imported from China in May 2020 and assembled here, it is the country’s largest TBM, with a diameter of 12.9 metres.The 10.58km coastal road that will connect Nariman Point to Bandra Worli Sea Link has twin tunnels of 2.07km, connecting Girgaum Chowpatty to Malabar Hill. Each underground tunnel will have three lanes at a depth of 70 meters. Work is ongoing on the south-bound arm of the tunnel, where 1km of boring work was completed on Saturday. The remaining kilometre of this tunnel will be completed by January.As per BMC’s original plan, the tunnelling work on both tunnels is expected to be completed within 18 months. BMC lost three months of time after tunnelling work started, during city-wide restrictions since March 2021, amid the second wave of Covid-19.BMC has presently completed 40% of the work on the coastal road project, and 102 hectares of reclamation work is complete. According to BMC’s original timeline, by December 2021, 55% of the work should be complete; and by December 2022, 85% of the work should be complete.Vijay Nighot, chief engineer of the coastal road department said, “The civic body lost a total of 6 months due to restrictions imposed because of covid-19. The deadline for completion of the project is December 2023.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-coastal-road-bmc-completes-1km-of-tunnelling-work-101630854337033.html
05-09-2021||Other||Cop injured in firing at Moga check-point||Moga A head-constable of Moga police was injured after two bike-borne men fired at cops, who signalled them to stop at a check-point in Darapur village on the Faridkot link road on Sunday evening. Both the accused have been arrested. The cop, Paramjeet Singh, has been injured in the leg and is now admitted to the Moga civil hospital. Till the filing of this report, the two accused had not been identified. Moga senior superintendent of police Dhruman H Nimbale said, “The accused seemed suspicious. On being signalled to stop, one of two fired at the police team. Both have been booked under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of the IPC. Further investigation is on.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cop-injured-in-firing-at-moga-checkpoint-101630854217495.html
05-09-2021||Other||Lonavla tragedy: 18-year old drowns in Tungarli dam backwaters||PUNE Dhwani Manish Thakkar (18), a resident of Powai, Mumbai, drowned at the Tungarli dam in Lonavla at 2.30 pm on Friday. Dhwani Thakkar was visiting the picnic spot to celebrate her sister’s birthday. Two of her sisters and a friend, all women, had travelled with the victim. Dhwani’s sister Saloni Manish Thakkar (age 20), filed the report with the Lonavla city police.According to police, three sisters Saloni, Dhwani, and Kamya Thakkar, and their friend Vaishnavi Ambadan, came to Lonavala by car to celebrate Kamya’s birthday. At around 1 pm, after they cut the birthday cake in the Tungarli dam area, they all jumped into the backwaters. Suddenly, Dhwani started drowning. The other girls shouted for help and the locals pulled her out and took her to hospital. However, she died before treatment could be administered. An autopsy was performed and the body handed over to family members. Dilip Pawar, in-charge of Lonavla police station, said that an accident case, related to death due to drowning, has been lodged and investigations are on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lonavla-tragedy-18-year-old-drowns-in-tungarli-dam-backwaters-101630853856583.html
05-09-2021||Other||Five SBS Nagar teachers get state award on Teachers’ Day||Jalandhar Five teachers from Shaheed Bhagat Singh (SBS) Nagar district were conferred with state awards at the deputy commissioner office on Sunday. The Teachers’ Day honour was bestowed on Minakshi Bhall, headmistress; Pooja Sharma, English lecturer; Ashok Kumar and Neeraj Kumar, both Hindi teachers, and Baljinder Singh Virk, a primary teacher. The state-level Teachers’ Day award ceremony was held in Patiala, where Punjab school education minister, Vijay Inder Singla. was the chief guest. A virtual award ceremony was held at all district headquarters, where district education officers honoured the award-winning teachers. SBS Nagar DEO (secondary), Jagjit Singh presented the awards to teachers, who have made laudable contributions towards infrastructure development and brought about a qualitative improvement in education in their respective schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/five-sbs-nagar-teachers-get-state-award-on-teachers-day-101630852536864.html
05-09-2021||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad: Varavara Rao seeks 6-month extension of bail due to health issues||Elgar Parishad accused P Varavara Rao, in his application before the Bombay high court (HC) seeking extension of his medical bail, has informed that the neurological problem he faced while he was in Taloja jail, has further deteriorated. He said he has started suffering from memory loss due to lacunar infarcts in six major lobes of the brain. The application further states that the urinary tract infection which the 84-year-old suffered from, has also not improved and he requires a hernia operation, all of which would result in further aggravation of his condition if he were asked to surrender to Taloja jail. Rao was granted bail in February and was released in March for a period of six months.The application for an extension, which was scheduled for hearing on Friday, September 3 before the bench of justice SS Shinde and justice NJ Jamadar, could not be heard due to a paucity of time. Senior advocate Anand Grover for Rao had sought an urgent hearing as the bail period was expiring on September 5 and Rao had to surrender to Taloja prison. After the National Investigation Agency (NIA) gave an oral assurance that they would not take coercive action the court had posted the hearing to Monday.The application for extension states that Rao was living with his wife Pendyala Hemlatha at a rented house in Malad (East) since he was released on bail on March 6 and had been reporting to Kurar police station through WhatsApp calling as directed by the HC in its bail order.The application states that Rao had not spoken to the media and has not made contact with anyone in India or abroad in the said period and only his daughters and nephew have visited and stayed with them for a short duration during the past six months.Referring to Rao’s medical condition, the application states that he has been going for regular medical check-ups to Nanavati Hospital where he had been shifted for the purpose of treatment prior to getting bail based on the HC order. The application states that Rao has been having bouts of headaches since his release and the neurologists at Nanavati Hospital suspect it to be a neurological problem that needs further investigation and constant supervision.Medical reports that show that Rao has suffered dead brain tissue which affects his intelligence as well as sensory and motor functions of the body have also been placed on record to show that Rao’s brain has shrunk. The application also states that Rao faces vision problems and needs cataract operation in both eyes. A report shows that he has suffered from an umbilical hernia that requires surgery and has also be attached to the application.In light of all the above problems and coupled with the urinary tract infection which Rao suffered while he was in Taloja jail, the application states that he should be granted an extension of six months to undergo the said surgeries and treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/elgar-parishad-varavara-rao-seeks-6-month-extension-of-bail-due-to-health-issues-101630852296823.html
05-09-2021||Other||Aspiring teachers protest in Sangrur||Sangrur Hundreds of unemployed with Bachelor of Education (BEd) qualification marched from Sangrur Civil Hospital to the residence of Punjab school education minister Vijay Inder Singla on the occasion of Teachers’ Day on Sunday. The protesters, who arrived with a cup of blood, raised slogans against the Punjab government and alleged that the Capt Amarinder regime had been a failure. Members of the New Unemployed PTI Teachers union also demonstrated and entered the Public Works Department (PWD) Rest House to press for their demands. However, police removed them from the protest site.Unemployed leaders Aman Sekha, Gaggandip Kaur, Sandeep Singh said the Captain government which came to power by promising ‘Ghar-Ghar Rozgar’ was refusing to provide employment to qualified aspiring teachers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aspiring-teachers-protest-in-sangrur-101630850676656.html
05-09-2021||Pune||73-year-old Pune woman drugged by domestic help, robbed of valuables worth ₹8 lakh||PUNE The Yerawada Police have booked a domestic help for allegedly serving a glass of water with sedatives to her 73-year-old employer and later decamping with gold ornaments and cash worth ₹8.08 lakh from the house at Kalyaninagar recently.According to the police, the victim asked for a glass of water without knowing that it was spiked with a sedative. While drinking, the victim became unconscious and during that time, the accused stole cash and gold ornaments totally estimated to be worth ₹8.08 lakh and escaped.Vishal Patil, police sub-inspector, and the investigating officer in the case said, “The victim stays alone in the house. She was given a glass of water which had sedatives and due to that she fell unconscious.”“The woman was hired barely two days ago and her background verification has not been done,” he said.“Being a senior citizen, the victim could not recollect the incident. Her relatives who stay in the same building came to the house and found the door open and the victim sitting on the sofa. When they inquired with her, she did not respond. They took her to the hospital and after complete medical treatment, the woman recalled the incident and a first information report (FIR) was lodged in connection with the theft,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/73yearold-pune-woman-drugged-by-domestic-help-robbed-of-valuables-worth-rs-8-lakh-101630850316869.html
05-09-2021||Patna||Until you get justice, I'll sit on protest: Tej Pratap tells aspiring teachers||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tej Pratap Yadav on Sunday met a group of candidates who cleared the Bihar Teachers Eligibility Test (BTET) and the Central Teachers Eligibility Test (CTET) who were protesting in Patna against the non-receipt of appointment letters despite clearing the tests in 2019.Expressing solidarity with the protesters, the eldest son of fotmer Bihar chief minister Lalu Prasad said he, too, would “sit on protest” till the demands of the protesters are met."I support your demand. Until you get the justice I will also sit on protest," Tej Pratap Yadav was quoted as saying by news agency ANI on Monday, which coincided with the Teachers' Day.He told the gathering of protesters not to feel powerless as he called them the “future of Bihar.”Tej Pratap Yadav was recently at loggerheads with his own party after he accused RJD's state unit president Jagdanand Singh of not allowing him to meet his younger brother Tejashwi Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/until-you-get-justice-i-ll-sit-on-protest-tej-pratap-tells-aspiring-teachers-101630846593821.html
05-09-2021||Kolkata||I will hang myself publicly if…: TMC’s Abhishek Banerjee on ED summon||Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Abhishek Banerjee told reporters on Sunday that if central agencies can prove his involvement in the alleged illegal transactions he is being suspected of, he will “hang” himself “publicly”. "I reiterate what I had said in November at public meetings that if any central agency can prove my involvement in any illegal transaction of even 10 paise, there will be no need to hold any CBI or ED probe, I will walk up the podium and get myself hanged publicly," he said.Banerjee was on his way to Delhi where he is scheduled to appear before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Monday for questioning in an alleged multi-crore coal pilferage scam. "I am ready to face any and every kind of investigation," Banerjee told reporters.ED summons Mamata’s nephew, his wife over money laundering case"Having lost the elections and failing to tackle Trinamool Congress politically, they (BJP) are now seeking revenge. The BJP has no other job than to use the investigating agencies to fulfil their political interests,” he claimed.ED is investigating the money laundering angle of an alleged mass coal pilferage in Eastern Coalfields Ltd mines at Kunustoria and Kajora in West Bengal. The ED’s probe is based on a First Information Report (FIR) registered in November 2020 by the Central Bureau of Investigation. Banerjee, who is a sitting Member of Parliament, was asked to appear before the agency on September 6.Abhishek Banerjee’s wife, Rujira Banerjee, had also been summoned by the investigative agency to Delhi for questioning on September 1 but she asked them to reconsider the summon and let her appear for questioning in their office in Kolkata as she cited the pandemic as a reason for her inability to travel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/i-will-hang-myself-publicly-if-tmc-s-abhishek-banerjee-on-ed-summon-101630849321764.html
05-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police arrest conman’s wife for duping ex-Religare promoter's wife of ₹200 crore||The Economic Offences Wing of the Delhi Police on Sunday arrested Lena Paulose Maria, the wife of conman Sukesh Chandrashekar, along with four others for duping Aditi Singh, the wife of jailed former Religare Enterprises promoter Shivinder Singh. Apart from Lena Paulose Maria, the four others who were held include Joel Jose Matthews (27), Kamlesh Kothari (40), Arun Muthu (31) and B Mohan Raj.3 bank officials held for duping former Religare promoter’s wifeThe accused allegedly duped Aditi Singh of at least ₹200 crore by promising her that they would arrange for bail of Shivinder Singh, who is currently lodged in jail for committing financial irregularities.Shivinder Singh was arrested in a case related to alleged misappropriation of funds at Religare Finvest Ltd in 2019. Along with Shivinder, another Religare promoter, Malvinder Singh, was also arrested.A Delhi court on Saturday sent Sukesh Chandrashekhar to 16-day police remand in connection to the same case.The matter came into the light when Aditi Singh told the police on August 7 that she gave crores of rupees to Sukesh Chandrashekhar, who posed as an officer from the ministry of law. “I was assured that the central government would be interested to work with my husband after making him an 'industry advisor' on Covid-related committees; he asked me to contribute to the 'party fund' and assured to set up a meeting either with the former law minister or the home minister,” Aditi Singh mentioned in her FIR, according to news agency PTI.Earlier in August, police found that a manager of a RBL Bank in Connaught Place and his two associates were involved in duping Aditi Singh. The manager, Komal Poddar, and his associates, Avinash Kumar and Jitender Narula were arrested on August 20 for their connection with Sukesh Chandrashekar.The Enforcement Directorate earlier this week filed an Enforcement Case Information Report (ECIR) against Sukesh Chandrashekar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cops-arrest-conman-s-wife-for-duping-ex-religare-promoter-s-wife-of-rs-200-crore-101630848158385.html
05-09-2021||Pune||Pune woman arrested for extorting ₹15 lakh from mother, paramour||The anti-extortion cell of Pune Police have arrested a 21-year-old woman and her friend on charges of allegedly extorting ₹15 lakh from her mother and her paramour.The police have arrested the duo and are on the lookout for another person said to be allegedly involved in the extortion case.According to police, the accused threatened to upload their pictures and videos on social media and demanded ₹15 lakh from the victims.Initially, they managed to extort ₹2.60 lakh, but later when the demands went up, the victims reached the anti-extortion cell office and lodged a first information report (FIR) at Vishrambaug police station.According to the police, the accused has been identified as Mithun Mohan Gaikwad (21), along with the 21-year-old daughter.The FIR states that the woman had come to know about her mother’s love affair and accordingly secretly short their videos and pictures. She then shared the data with her friend Gaikwad with the motive of extorting money from them. Initially, the complainant gave in to their demands, but later when being constantly harassed, she lodged a complaint with the police seeking help and protection from the accused.Mithun Gaikwad called the victim with ₹one lakh at Budhwar peth. The victim went to him with cash but had informed the police about the development. The policemen laid a trap and nabbed Gaikwad red-handed while accepting the money, police said.Balaji Pandhare, chief, anti-extortion cell, said, “The daughter had known about the affair and she took the pictures and videos from her mothers mobile and sent it to Gaikwad. They then hatched a conspiracy to extort the duo. Gaikwad has confessed to the crime and told the police that he had done it at the behest of the daughter and another person. An investigation is on and more details will emerge in the next few days,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-woman-arrested-for-extorting-rs-15-lakh-from-mother-paramour-101630845696073.html
05-09-2021||Pune||Pune Police on lookout for man in 18-acre Hadapsar forest land grab case||The vigilance cell of the Pune forest department has foiled an attempt to grab 18 acres of prime forest land near Hadapsar. The land is estimated to cost ₹200 crore as per the prevailing market rate, said, officials.According to the forest department, the accused Popat Pandurang Shitkal had allegedly got his name registered on the 7/12 extract by forging the signature of state Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president and former minister Chandrakant Patil.The forest department in its petition pointed out that the accused had shown an 18-acre plot on survey No. 62 in Hadapsar as his private land which is, in fact, forest land. He unsuccessfully tried to register the said plot in his name and had appealed to the revenue officials. However, the officials had quashed the petition. Thereafter he went to High Court wherein the court directed the state government to take an appropriate decision.Meanwhile, his application before the revenue department of the government was rejected by the district collector and the divisional commissioner.He then approached revenue minister Patil in 2018 who also directed that his application be rejected. But he allegedly forged Patil’s signature and issued a fraudulent gazette notification of transferring the land parcel in his name. The officials at the land records department found it to be bonafide and correct, so they initiated the process of registering his name on the 7/12 extract.Later, the case was transferred to the forest department where deputy forest officer Rahul Patil gathered information regarding it and sought all the paper.Since it was forest land, it cannot be transferred to a private person as was the conclusion of the forest department report prepared under Patil’s supervision.Trupti Kolte, tehsildar, Haveli, who lodged the official complaint with the police, said “ The land documents furnished by the order was issued by the minister on January 31, 2018, and we, therefore, had transferred the forest land in his name. The man had produced 15 copies of the order, which he claimed was issued by the minister for deforestation or de-reserving of the forest land situated in Hadapsar.”“When I saw the order, I also believed that it was issued by the minister because it was per the government style with clarity and precision. The man had also submitted High Court citations, document proof and other papers. We issued a 7X12 extract, which gave ownership of the land to the individual last month,” she said.Range forest officer MJ Sanas who conducted the inquiry into the case, said, “The 18-acre forest land is in the possession of the forest department. In 2015, we put up fencing around the land and looked after its security.”“Before 1980, the government had transferred some land in the name of those who had been tilling it for years or those who had been evicted for construction of dams and other projects. However, after 1980, the rules have become stringent and transfer of forest land is not easy,” he said.“We informed the district collector that the said belonged to the forest department and has not been de-reserved by the government and accordingly legal action was initiated,” he said.Inspector Sheehari Bahirat, of Khadak police station, said, “We had lodged a case under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) which includes cheating and forgery. A team has been sent to track the accused and a probe is on in the case.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-police-on-lookout-for-man-in-18-acre-hadapsar-forest-land-grab-case-101630843655835.html
05-09-2021||Mumbai||Visually challenged in Thane badly hit during pandemic||Pinky Gavit, 29, a visually-challenged resident of Vangani, was in her seventh month of pregnancy when the lockdown set in last year. She sold small trinkets on local trains with her husband before the pandemic and the couple made enough for survival.However, three months into lockdown, when she delivered a baby, the couple could hardly manage one square meal a day. With the suspension of local trains, the couple had no job and her husband had to eat just once in two days to ensure she and the baby had enough.Like Gavit, hundreds of visually-challenged residents of Thane barely managed to make ends meet since the pandemic set in. According to the 2011 population census, Thane district rural and urban areas have 34,361 visually-challenged people. According to National Association For the Blind (NAB) India, in Thane district, 75% of the visually-challenged population are below the poverty line. Most of those in the cities have settled in Vangani and Ambernath areas due to low rentals. More than 200 families here are without a job in the pandemic.Gavit said, “People were wary of us as all our functioning is through physical contact, so many believe we are a potential source of the spread of Covid. When I was in labour, no one helped us to reach the hospital and I had to walk for two kilometres when finally the cops helped us. We do get help from NGOs but it is insufficient for survival.”Deputy director of the employment department of NAB, Arvind Narvekar, said, “More than 75% of the visually-challenged population are poor. They depend on hawking on trains and streets or are daily wagers. Not all of them could be educated, so when the trains were stopped in the lockdown, these people found it difficult to survive. They are still not allowed to take the train as not all of them are fully vaccinated.”Narvekar claimed that those who worked in factories or private establishments too lost jobs as most people believed the visually-challenged might not be able to maintain low contact at work places. Another social worker from NAB added, “The visually-challenged have to go about their work through physical contact. People do not trust them. Most call centre employees also lost their jobs in a similar way. A few who worked in orchestras or cultural programmes too had to shut shop in the pandemic.”NAB earlier used to take workshops where these people could earn some living. However, they were also stopped in the lockdown. NAB and other social workers were providing them groceries monthly, but now all of them are facing trouble after the second wave while the government has not announced anything for them, making it difficult for them to survive.Many residing in Thane have migrated from their villages in search of a job. However, they are barely managing the rent. A NAB volunteer working in Thane said, “People do not even help them cross roads with all the misconceptions in the early pandemic. They had to struggle through every day, they had no money to buy smart phones for the children or to pay electricity bills. The money from government schemes too got delayed as offices were shut.” Sandip Bilewar, 23, a physiotherapist from Ambernath, is partially blind and got a job as a physiotherapist before the lockdown in a Ghatkopar-based hospital. However, he lost it during the lockdown and is going from pillar to post in search of a job.“I am staying in a hostel in Ambernath and have approached many hospitals and the government for a job. However, no one is ready to give me an opportunity. I used to visit houses of people but now no one trusts us as they thought we cannot maintain hygiene and will spread Covid. I sent request letters to health ministers, MLAs, MPs to hire me at any Covid hospital but no one helped. Right now, I am practicing my physiotherapy on my friends and some blind families who need help.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/visually-challenged-in-thane-badly-hit-during-pandemic-101630842997497.html
05-09-2021||Business||Punjab signs MoU with Amcham India to promote investment, ease of business||The Punjab government and the American Chamber of Commerce in India (Amcham India) on Saturday signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) to promote investment in the state as well as further increase the ease of doing business for US member companies. The MoU was signed during the 29th annual general meeting of the Amcham India.The first-of-its-kind MoU that Amcham India signed with any state will see the formation of a joint working group (JWG), which will include members from Invest Punjab and the American trade body. They will work together to support and develop investment cooperation, as well as for enhancing the ease of doing business in Punjab, India and the US. The MoU was signed by the CEO of Invest Punjab, Rajat Agarwal and the programme director of Amcham India, Wing Commander Rajiv Anand, in the presence of Punjab’s principal secretary, investment promotion, Hussan Lal.The Invest Punjab CEO Agarwal during the signing said that Punjab served as a launchpad to renowned MNCs who looked to start their India operations. He pointed out that there were opportunities for investment and collaboration with Punjab-based companies in multiple sectors such as agriculture and food processing, technical engineering, textile and pharma. Agarwal was speaking on the investment opportunities in the state for US-based companies across multiple sectors which have complementarities with the US.He also lauded the Punjab government for bringing in reforms such as Right to Business Act, deemed approvals and the Central Inspection System, among others, which led to reduction in time and cost incurred by businesses. Rajat Agarwal said that the Punjab government designated the US as one of the focus countries for it to promote industrialisation, trade and commerce. Global companies such as Amazon, Walmart, Quark, Cargill, Tyson, John Deere, Gates, Schreiber, Pepsi, Coca Cola, Teleperformance, Compu-Vision Consulting and Netsmartz Infotech are among the 20 firms which chose Punjab as their preferred investment destination.Invest Punjab or Punjab Bureau of Investment Promotion was set up by the state government in 2013 as a single point of contact for facilitation of investors who are looking to set up a business in Punjab.The government in a press release said that top management of Pepsico, Google, John Deere, Bausch & Lomb amongst other renowned US companies ‘showed confidence in State’s unmatched growth and inclusive development of all.’ Pepsico president, Ahmed ElSheikh and John Deere’s director of corporate affairs, Mukul Varshney also spoke of their experience of doing business in Punjab during the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/business/punjab-signs-mou-with-amcham-india-to-promote-investment-ease-of-business-101630840158240.html
05-09-2021||Lucknow||Now, over 170 children hospitalised in Prayagraj from chronic diseases, fever||More than 170 children have been admitted to Motilal Nehru Hospital in Prayagraj in Uttar Pradesh with various chronic diseases and viral fever such as pneumonia and encephalitis for which they require oxygen support, Prayagraj chief medical officer Dr Nanak Saran told news agency ANI on Sunday.“A few days back, when I did the inspection of the children ward, there were 120 beds. We have received 171 patients. So, we have shifted two to three children in one bed,” he said, adding that cases of dengue are fewer among the admitted patients at the hospital.Dr Saran further told ANI that a children ward constituting a total of 200 beds is “under construction” and that authorities are providing “all possible treatment to children.”
05-09-2021||Mumbai||‘If we open them…’: Uddhav Thackeray on protests seeking reopening of religious places||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday warned against calls being made to reopen places of worship and other establishments across the state, saying that if these are reopened, then the state government may have to close them again in case the Covid-19 situation becomes worse.Also Read | Maharashtra: BJP targets Shiv Sena over temples reopening“I request people not to protest for the reopening of temples and other places. If you want to protest, protest against Covid-19,” news agency ANI quoted the Maharashtra chief minister as saying. “Some people are in hurry to reopen some establishments. I request them to wait for some time because we don’t want to open these places and then close again if the situation gets worse,” he further said. I request people not to protest for reopening of temples and other places. If you want to protest, protest against Corona: Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray https://t.co/ArMk8JOhx8Thackeray made these remarks during an interaction with doctors from across the state, in a meeting which was attended by members of the state’s task force on Covid-19 as well. His observations come in the backdrop of protests staged earlier this week by the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) seeking reopening of temples and other places of worship.Also Read | BJP stages protests today seeking reopening of places of worship in MaharashtraThe Maharashtra government has cited a letter by the Union government behind its decision to close religious places. The Union health ministry had asked it to restrict religious activities and public celebrations during the festive season amid fears of a potential third wave of Covid-19 infections.Also Read | 3rd wave at doorstep: Task force on Mumbai’s Covid-19 case surgeThus far, Maharashtra has recorded 6,482,117 cases of Covid-19, with its cumulative infection tally being the highest in the country. Over the last few days, daily cases here have been above 4000, but less than 5000. On Saturday, 4130 people tested positive while 64 patients lost their lives, according to a health department bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/if-we-open-them-uddhav-thackeray-on-protests-seeking-reopening-of-religious-places-101630830215982.html
05-09-2021||Patna||Central team to assess flood damages in Bihar, state seeks adequate assistance||A team of the Central ministry of home affairs is likely to visit Patna on Monday to assess the extent of damage caused by floods in large parts of north Bihar. Bihar deputy chief minister Renu Devi on Saturday said the state government had requested the Centre for a first-hand assessment of the flood situation, which has affected more than half the state by destroying buildings, crops, roads, canals and embankments and disrupting train movement. According to officials aware of the developments, the Bihar government may seek Central assistance of ₹5000 crore and more due to the magnitude of devastation as per preliminary estimates. “The real magnitude will unfold once the water recedes. This time rivers have been in spate for a much longer time. At present, the main focus of the state government is immediate relief and rehabilitation,” they said, adding that the Centre should be generous in helping a financially poor state like Bihar fight the twin scourge of Covid and floods for the second year in succession. According to preliminary estimates, 53 persons have died and 2 million people, spread across 1652 villages in 83 blocks of 16 districts, have been affected by this year’s floods while 219,000 residents have been evacuated. According to Bihar government’s disaster management department’s data, ₹6000 each has been distributed among 795,538 families so far, entailing an expenditure of ₹477.32 crore. A rough estimation suggested that standing crops on more than 400,000 hectares of land were inundated. Extensive damage to flood-protection infrastructure including embankments has also been reported due to heavy discharge of water, which accentuated the problem further, owing to heavy silting in the state rivers, including the Ganga. The same issue was raised with the Central team after the 2016 floods. Earlier, Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar had requested that a team of experts be sent to make an on-the-spot assessment of the cause of floods to help find a permanent remedy to Bihar’s chronic problem. The main purpose of the team’s visit was to look into heavy siltation in the stretch of Ganga river in the state, a problem the chief minister has consistently attributed to Farakka barrage. The team had gone up to Farakka to examine the situation in the Ganga basin to submit its report, but Bihar’s flood woes have continued. Kumar had then also met Prime Minister Narendra Modi with the demand for review of the need for Farakka barrage and a national silt management policy. He has been in favour of dismantling the Farakka barrage. Though floods are a chronic problem in Bihar, the situation aggravated in 2016 and again this year after the Ganga river water level reached unprecedented level, playing havoc in several areas. Even Patna was under a serious threat of floods at one point. Embankments have been damaged on a stretch of 753 kms, zamindari bandhs—centuries old embankments erected by big landlords and royal courts to protect against floods-- have been damaged on a stretch of 84 kms, while spurs, studs etc. have got damaged on a stretch 157 kms, requiring nearly ₹1500 crore for repairs and reconstruction, as per state disaster relief fund (SDRF) norms. “I also visited flood-hit Khagaria on Saturday and saw that the devastation caused by floods was massive, but the good thing is that people have got timely relief and support. The government’s preparations before the floods have come handy in ensuring quick relief and rescue of the needy population,” said Renu Devi. She said the Central team will also visit some places. “We have already sent a preliminary assessment of the damages to the Centre. As water recedes, more assessment will be done,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/central-team-to-assess-flood-damages-in-bihar-state-seeks-adequate-assistance-101630826495163.html
05-09-2021||Mumbai||‘Must apologise with folded hands or else…’: BJP leader warns Javed Akhtar over RSS-Taliban remarks||Javed Akhtar must apologise to the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) for comparing the organisation to the Taliban, Bharatiya Janata Party leader Ram Kadam has demanded and warned that the lyricist’s films will not be allowed to screen. Several social media users also protested against Javed Akhtar’s comments and a Mumbai-based lawyer said he has filed a police complaint against him.Kadam, who is a BJP spokesperson, said Javed Akhtar’s statement is not just shameful, but painful and humiliating for crores of functionaries of the RSS, which is his party’s ideological mentor, and the Vishva Hindu Parishad. The writer has also humiliated crores of people across the world who follow their ideology. "Before making these remarks, he should have thought that people with the same ideology are running the government now and are fulfilling raj dharma. If their ideology was Talibani, would he have been able to make these remarks? This shows how hollow his statements are," Kadam, who represents Kadam Ghatkopar West in the Maharashtra assembly, said in a video message. "We will not allow any of his films to run in this land of Ma Bharti till he apologises with folded hands to the functionaries of the Sangh who have dedicated their lives to the nation," he also warned.#संघ तथा #विश्वहिंदूपरिषद के करोडों कार्यकर्ताओ की, जब तक हाथ जोड़कर #जावेदअख्तर माफी नही मांगते. तब तक उनकी तथा उनके परिवार की कोई भी #फिल्म इस #माभारती के भूमि पर नहीं चलेगी. pic.twitter.com/ahWgVQWuvHKadam has said he will also protest against Javed Akhtar over his statement comparing Taliban and RSS and file a police complaint against him on Sunday.Ashutosh J Dubey, who said on Twitter that he is the legal advisor to the BJP’s Maharastra unit, has filed a complaint against Javed Akhtar with the Mumbai Police. “I have filed the complaint against #JavedAkhtar with the @MumbaiPolice for intentionally outranging to the RSS, VHP, and Bajrang Dal. Javed Akhtar called RSS, VHP, and Bajrang Dal supporters Talibani's! A complaint has been lodged with Javed Akhtar's residential police station,” Dubey tweeted on Saturday.Also read | Defamation case: HC reserves order on Ranaut’s plea against Javed Akhtar’s complaintAkhtar, also a former member of Parliament, made the comparison between the Taliban and the RSS during an interaction with news channel NDTV on Friday. "Just like the Taliban want an Islamic State, there are those who want a Hindu Rashtra. These people are of the same mindset -- be it Muslim, Christian, Jews or Hindus," he said. "Of course, the Taliban is barbaric, and their actions are reprehensible, but those supporting the RSS, VHP and Bajrang Dal are all the same," he added.He also said that he has “total faith in the basic sensibility of an average Indian.” “The majority of this nation is extremely decent and tolerant. That must be respected. India will never become a Talibani country."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/apologise-or-else-bjp-leader-warns-javed-akhtar-over-rss-taliban-remarks-101630813963062.html
05-09-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan Panchayat Elections 2021: Congress wins 670 Samiti seats; BJP victorious on 551||The ruling Congress in Rajasthan emerged victorious on 670 Panchayat Samiti seats, while the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) bagged 551 seats, according to information available on the State Election Commission’s website, as counting of votes took place on Saturday for Panchayat elections, the polling for which was held on August 26, August 29 and September 1.Of the 1564 seats for which votes were polled, results have been declared for 1562. Independent candidates registered victory on 290 seats, while Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) won 40 and 11 seats respectively.Meanwhile, of the total 200 seats in the Zila Parishad, 189 went to the Congress and the BJP, with the former winning 99 seats and the latter, 90. Independent candidates were next with a haul of eight, followed by the BSP with three. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and his former deputy Sachin Pilot both took to Twitter to congratulate the winning candidates and thank the voters. “I thank the voters for making the Congress victorious in Panchayat Samiti and Zila Parishad elections. Many congratulations to all the winning candidates and Congress workers,” Gehlot tweeted in Hindi. छह जिलों में हुए पंचायत समिति एवं जिला परिषद चुनावों के नतीजों में कांग्रेस को जीत दिलाने के लिए सभी मतदाताओं का आभार व्यक्त करता हूं। सभी विजयी प्रत्याशियों एवं कांग्रेस कार्यकर्ताओं को जीत की बहुत-बहुत बधाई।Pilot, on the other hand, shared the following message: “I congratulate all candidates from the Congress who stood victorious in the Panchayat polls, and wish them a bright future. I hope that you will always be ready for public service and development of your area, in line with the policies and the ideology of the Congress.”पंचायत समिति चुनावों में विजय हासिल करने वाले समस्त कांग्रेस प्रत्याशियों को हार्दिक बधाई एवं उज्ज्वल भविष्य की शुभकामनाएं। मैं आशा करता हूँ कि आप कांग्रेस पार्टी की रीति–नीतियों एवं विचारधारा का अनुसरण करते हुए सदैव अपने क्षेत्र के विकास एवं जनसेवा के प्रति तत्पर रहोगे।Both sets of elections were held for six districts in Rajasthan: Bharatpur, Dausa, Jaipur, Sawai Madhopur and Sirohi.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-panchayat-elections-2021-cong-wins-670-samiti-seats-bjp-551-101630809819022.html
05-09-2021||Chandigarh||AAP's ‘Kisan Mazdoor Khet Bachao Yatra’ in Haryana from today||The Haryana unit of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) will on Sunday begin its statewide “Kisan Mazdoor Khet Bachao Yatra” from Rohtak. The initiative, which will culminate on September 13 in Palwal, is being held to express solidarity with farmers protesting against the three contentious central farm laws.“All the preparations are done. From Sunday, the AAP’s roar will be heard all over Haryana,” Dr Sushil Gupta, the party’s Rajya Sabha MP, tweeted in Hindi on Saturday. The “yatra” was announced by Gupta at a press conference in Chandigarh on September 3. किसान मजदूर खेत बचाओ महायात्रा की सभी तैयारियां पूरी। रविवार से पूरे हरियाणा में हुंकार भरेगी @AamAadmiParty l pic.twitter.com/L2bZW1sfwjAs announced by the AAP leader, the “yatra,” after beginning from Rohtak, will pass through Bhiwani and Charkhi Dadri on Sunday itself. On September 6, it will cover Jhajjar, Sonipat and Panipat and, on September 7, it will be in Karnal, Yamunanagar and Panchkula. Ambala, Kurukshetra and Kaithal will host it on September 8, a day before Jind and Hisar. On September 10, the “yatra” will pass through Fatehabad and Sirsa and, two days later, Faridabad, Gurguram and Rewari. On the final day, it will go to Mahendragarh and Mewat before concluding in Palwal.All 90 assembly constituencies of Haryana will be covered by the Arvind Kejriwal-led party during this exercise, which comes at a time when it is looking to expand beyond Delhi, where it is in power, by contesting the upcoming assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab and Goa.The four states will go to polls in early 2022, along with Manipur. Of the five poll-bound states, the Bharatiya Janata Party is in power in UP, Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur, as well as Haryana. The Congress is the ruling party in Punjab, with the AAP being a major opposition player.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aaps-kisan-mazdoor-khet-bachao-yatra-in-haryana-to-begin-today-101630804094886.html
05-09-2021||Delhi||312 from around the country join Delhi Police||312 young men and women joined the Delhi police as constables on Saturday after completing their training at the Police Training College (PTC) in Jharoda Kalan.Among the new recruits are 11 post graduates, 116 graduates, three B. Tech graduates and one BBA & BCA degree holders each.Delhi police officers said there were 171 candidates who were appointed as constables on compassionate grounds (in place of their relatives who lost their lives on duty).Delhi police, in a statement, said the young constables were selected from different parts of the country in a bid to make it a cosmopolitan force.There were 93 constables from Delhi, 88 from Haryana, 60 from UP, 39 from Rajasthan, four from Maharashtra, two from Himachal Pradesh, 20 from the seven Northeast states and one each from Uttarakhand, Punjab, Telangana, Bihar, West Bengal and Jharkhand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/312-from-around-the-country-join-delhi-police-101630794175370.html
05-09-2021||Lucknow||Conversion case accused booked for ‘waging war against nation’||Eight people arrested over alleged illegal religious conversion in Uttar Pradesh have been charged with conspiring to wage war against the country.Special judge Ram Gupta on Thursday allowed a plea by the anti-terrorist squad, which had arrested the eight in June, seeking the addition of sections 121A (conspiring to wage war against the country) and 123 (concealing the existence of a design to wage war against the government) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) in the FIR, lodged on June 20.The court also extended the judicial custody of the accused till September 14.The accused in the case are: Mohd Umar Gautam, Mufti Kazi Jahangir Alam Kasmi, Irfan Sekh alias Irfan Khna, Salahudin alias Jainuddin Sekh, Prasad Rameshwar Kanware, Bhupriya Vindo alias Arslan, KausarAlam and Dr Faraj Babullah Shah.The ATS had filed the plea in the special court for addition of sections 121A and 123 of the IPC.The ATS claimed the gang was involved not only in illegal religious activities but also conspired to disturb the population ratio in the country to promote enmity, thereby posing a danger to the unity, integrity and sovereignty of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/conversion-case-accused-booked-for-waging-war-against-nation-101630791348046.html
05-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi completes inoculation of 10mn with at least one shot||The Indian capital on Saturday crossed a key milestone – that of inoculating 10 million people in the city with at least one dose of the coronavirus vaccine.This threshold means that around 66% of the city’s adult population is partially or fully vaccinated against the coronavirus disease. Vaccinating populations, experts say, is likely the only way out of the pandemic that is now well into its second year of ravaging the world.Till Saturday night, Delhi administered around 14,095,115 doses – of which 10,040,816 were first shots and 4,054,299 were second shots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-completes-inoculation-of-10mn-with-at-least-one-shot-101630789818102.html
05-09-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai to increase Covid-19 testing ahead of festive season||Ahead of Ganeshotsav, the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation has increased random testing in Navi Mumbai especially at the railway stations. Currently, around 500 random antigen tests are being conducted at railway stations. The corporation plans to conduct similar random tests at busy markets, pandals and immersion sites as well. Pramod Patil, medical health officer, NMMC, said, “A total of 7,000 Rapid Antigen Tests and around 2,000 RT-PCR tests are conducted daily. This year during the festival, we have to fight Malaria, Dengue as well as Covid-19. So along with making sure that the Covid-19 norms are followed, we also need to ensure preventive measures for dengue and malaria. Regular checking of stagnant water and fogging at the pandal areas also needs to be done.” Depending on the availability of vaccines, the corporation also plans to have vaccination drive at the pandals. “If there is enough supply, we will have vaccination drives at whichever pandals possible. We will also be putting up hoardings and signages regarding Covid-19 at the pandals. We had a joint meeting with the police wherein we have informed them as well about the actions they should take against people not following the Covid-19 norms,” Assistant Municipal Commissioner Sanjay Kakade said. The Corporation also plans to have an arrangement wherein the residents not willing to step out for immersion can handover the idol to the designated persons visiting their area and they would further immerse it. The artificial ponds which were 132 last year have been increased to 156 this year in order to make sure that there is not much crowding at one place. There have been 132 applications for the pandals this year of which 120 were granted permission while there were 90 applications last year of which 84 were granted permission. “Every pandal should use only the one fourth of the road and there should be area left for the people to travel. The pandals should not be blocking any footpath or roadway. Such applications which can create blockage to the movement of public, have been rejected and in some cases, people have made double applications thinking that if one is rejected, another might be considered,” an official from NMMC said. Meanwhile, the cases of not wearing masks and not maintaining social distancing have also increased, ahead of the festival. In the month of August, around 1272 people were fined for not wearing masks and a total of ₹6.36 lakh was collected, 2075 were fined for not maintaining social distancing and fined ₹4.15 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-to-increase-covid-19-testing-ahead-of-festive-season-101630789285245.html
05-09-2021||Patna||Bihar floods latest flashpoint in JD(U)-BJP ties||Flooding in various parts of Bihar threatens to emerge as the latest flashpoint between the Janata Dal (United) and the Bharatiya Janata Party, the coalition partners in the state, with the Bihar administration planning to knock on the Centre’s doors again to seek implementation of a slew of measures, including framing a national silting policy and re-visiting the design of the Farakka barrage, which the state blames for annual floods.According to people aware of the details, the Bihar administration will take up the flooding issue with the Union government over the coming week.“On several occasions in the past few years, the state government has brought to the notice of the Centre how the Farakka barrage has become a reason for floods in the state, especially during the monsoon. The barrage is not designed to cope with the quantum of water that is now being released from its gates and there is no real-time data available for the same,” said a functionary aware of the details.The barrage with 109 gates across the Ganga in Murshidabad district of West Bengal was constructed in 1961 and completed nearly a decade later.Bihar’s minister for water resources Sanjay Kumar Jha told HT that he is hopeful the Centre would act on suggestions made by the state government. “Since 2017 we have drawn attention to certain issues that need to be addressed and we are hopeful that the government will act fast on these including re-visiting the design of the barrage,” he said.Heavy silting for one has been red flagged as a major cause of concern. The state blames the Centre’s lack of policy for not carrying out routing de-silting exercises that could prevent the annual loss of lives and property attributed to the flooding. The functionary said it is estimated that the Ganga carries a silt load of 736MT annually, of which about 328MT gets deposited in the upstream of Farakka barrage. “We had petitioned the Centre to take action for the silt deposition caused by rivers flowing in north Bihar from Nepal as well as on account of Farakka barrage on several occasions in the past… Because of siltation, frequent submergence of Patna and Bhagalpur are witnessed year after year,” the functionary said.The state blames massive shifting of river over the years because of siltation, saying even minimal discharge makes the water touch the danger level posing a threat to cities settled on its banks.The functionary said, “The barrage was meant to release water from the Padma and the Brahmaputra into the Hooghly but has ended up increasing the silt in the river.” The functionary added the barrage was designed for a discharge of 2.7 maillion cusecs while the amount of water that is currently released is significantly higher than that. “In 2021, the quantum of water released was nearly 32 lakh (3.2 million) cusec. This design limitation results in Heavy siltation and flooding in the upstream,” the functionary explained.The state has also flagged that many of the 109 gates remain closed during the peak flood season, pointing out that the gate operation is still not fully automated. It has also conveyed to the Centre that the barrage structure does not provide for adequate passage of silt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-floods-latest-flashpoint-in-jd-u-bjp-ties-101630787612460.html
05-09-2021||Chandigarh||Blended learning: Now, PU depts to get feedback questionnaires||With Panjab University (PU) deliberating on the University Grants Commission (UGC)’s blended learning proposal, the varsity panel in its meeting decided that questionnaires will be framed for departments to receive a coherent feedback from them.The meeting of the varsity’s 17-member panel, headed by the dean university instructions (DUI), was held on Thursday. The panel was constituted after a majority of the PU teaching departments expressed reservations regarding the use of a blended mode of teaching and learning. The panel will prepare a consolidated reply, which will be sent to the UGC.The questionnaires will be framed because feedback given by the departments was not uniform. Now, the departments will be asked to give a road map for the implementation of the blended learning proposal by answering specific questions. The questions may touch upon the extent to which the proposal can be implemented, courses to be included and infrastructure needs.“The university should implement the blended learning concept to the possible extent, which can be reviewed after some time,” said a committee member on the condition of anonymity. It was also discussed during the meeting that the varsity should carry out groundwork on the proposal, which will prove beneficial during the next visit of the National Assessment and Accreditation Council.“It is likely that some members from colleges may attend the next meeting of the panel,” said another member.Sub-committee formedA sub-committee has also been formed to study the concept note given by the UGC in May. The sub-committee will then give a presentation to the panel in the next meeting.The UGC in May had said that institutes will be allowed to teach up to 40% of each course, other than Swayam courses, online and the remaining 60% syllabus could be taught offline.Of the 49 PU departments that submitted their suggestions to the varsity, nearly 30 had either not favoured the move or sought a partial implementation of the blended mode proposal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/blended-learning-now-pu-depts-to-get-feedback-questionnaires-101630785445097.html
05-09-2021||Chandigarh||Corruption case: Punjab vigilance moves HC seeking cancellation of bail to ex-DGP Saini||The Punjab vigilance bureau (VB) has moved the Punjab and Haryana high court seeking cancellation of bail granted to former Punjab director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini on August 12 in a corruption case. The plea will be taken up for hearing on Monday.On August 12, the high court had granted protection from arrest to Saini and directed him to join the probe within seven days.On August 2, the VB registered the case under the Prevention of Corruption Act and criminal conspiracy against the former DGP, along with six others, including public works department executive engineer Nimratdeep Singh and his father Surinderjit Singh Jaspal, who owned a house in Chandigarh’s Sector 20. The agency alleged Saini acquired the said house in a fraudulent deal with fake documents and questionable financial transactions.It says Saini went to the vigilance headquarters on the evening of seventh day when protection was to end and by when offices had closed. It was only to create evidence of him having being gone to join investigation although there was no intention. He tried to handover an application and then got himself photographed so that some evidence of him joining probe could be created, it has submitted, adding that he was to join probe in the Sector 69 office of investigating officer of the vigilance bureau, but chose to visit vigilance headquarters in Sector-68.Saini himself has headed the Punjab vigilance bureau and is well aware of the procedure of joining investigation and that office closes at 5pm. He went there without prior intimation to investigating officer, the plea says, adding that when he was summoned again on August 27 for September 1, he failed and conveyed that he was ill. “The excuse put forth is a blatant lie and an attempt to overreach the process of law and circumvent the orders of high court requiring him to join the probe,” it says, demanding that August 12 order be recalled and protection granted to him withdrawn.On August 18, Saini was arrested in a September 2020 cheating case when he had gone to vigilance office to join the probe in corruption case as directed by high court on August 12. A day later, high court had termed his arrest illegal and ordered his release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/corruption-case-punjab-vigilance-moves-hc-seeking-cancellation-of-bail-to-ex-dgp-saini-101630785324407.html
05-09-2021||Chandigarh||Tricity Buzz: Dharna Point on PU campus||The other day, Google Maps was showing the students’ protest site outside the office of Panjab University (PU) vice-chancellor Raj Kumar with the name: V-C office Dharna Point, Panjab University. PU students are demanding the immediate conduct of polls for their registered graduate constituency and the reopening of the campus for them. The protest entered its 22nd day on Saturday. Students also locked the main entrance of PU’s administrative block to press for their demands. On Wednesday, students heckled the vice-chancellor outside the law auditorium amid the Senate elections. UT reshuffle ruffles feathers A reshuffle of heads of departments was carried out in the Chandigarh administration last week. While most changes like that of the health secretary and the director, education, were on expected lines, the appointment of Debendra Dalai, a senior Indian Forest Service officer, as Citco chairman and secretary, tourism, came as a surprise. Some found the post generally held by an IAS officer go to an IFS official a welcome change, while many, particularly those from Punjab cadre on deputation to the UT, thought it was unfair. Petrol pump staff taken for a ride A smart youngster left petrol pump employees in Mohali stumped on September 3. He got the petrol tank of his SUV topped up and sped away without paying. Rakesh Koundal, an employee at the fuel station, told the police that the youngster asked him to fill the tank, which cost ₹4,878, but as he went near his window to collect the amount, the youngster sped away. A case was registered, and the car registration number was traced but it turned out to be fake. Cop without cap in trouble A Chandigarh Police constable posted at a judge’s residence in Sector 19 was placed under suspension after he was found without the cap on duty. All police personnel on security duty are required to be in full uniform and the cap is an integral part. The suspension came on the complaint of the judge. The constable claimed that he was not wearing the cap as he had a headache. SSP, security wing, Manisha Chaudhary suspended the constable for indiscipline and sent him to the police lines. Residents miss Badnore After former UT administrator and Punjab governor VP Singh Badnore completed his term, several resident welfare associations expressed their gratitude towards him and his service, particularly during the Covid-19 pandemic. The president of the Chandigarh Traders Association in Sector 17, Kamaljit Singh Panchhi, even wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging him to extend Badnore’s tenure. That was not to be and Banwari Lal Purohit took charge. Pooling in health resources As medical experts believe that the third wave of the pandemic can affect children, the UT health department has decided to link its paediatric centre at Government Multi-Speciality Hospital (GMSH) in Sector 16 with that of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER). Dr Amandeep Kang, director, health services, said, “An IT hub is being set up in Chandigarh for connecting hospitals in the third wave through tele-consultation. Since the government hospitals have limited beds for children, we are linking the paediatric ICUs so that people can easily find a vacant bed in case of an emergency. Also, referral cases can be sent to PGI from other government hospitals.” Inputs by Hillary Victor, Munieshwer A Sagar, Shailee Dogra, Mandeep Narula, Rajanbir Singh and Dar Ovais||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tricity-buzz-dharna-point-on-pu-campus-101630785267252.html
05-09-2021||Chandigarh||Capt terms Badals root cause of farmers’ problem||Chandigarh Ridiculing the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) decision to set up a panel to hold talks with the state’s farmers, chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday said no overtures could absolve the Badals of their responsibility in thrusting the draconian and undemocratic agri laws on the farming community. Considering that the Badals themselves were at the root of the problem, and the co-conspirators of the Centre’s anti-farmer agenda, the Akalis neither deserve nor can expect any understanding or forgiveness from the farmers, said the CM. The Akalis’ apathy towards the farmers was evident from the fact that even now, instead of understanding and relating with their pain, Sukhbir was refusing to recognise the protestors as farmers and was insulting them by alleging that they owed allegiance to other political parties, including the Congress, said Amarinder. Amarinder termed Sukhbir’s announcement of suspension of the party’s election outreach programme and formation of the panel to engage with the farmers as a desperate measure to woo Punjab’s voters ahead of the 2022 assembly polls. “But the farmers, and the people of Punjab are not fools, and your attempts to befool them with lies will backfire on you,” he warned the SAD president. He added that the state had completely and unequivocally rejected the Akalis, who had first looted them for 10 years in coalition with the BJP and then cruelly worked hand in glove with them to impose the farm Laws on the farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/capt-terms-badals-root-cause-of-farmers-problem-101630785266116.html
05-09-2021||Other||Himachal schools to remain shut till Sept 14 in view of rising Covid cases||With Covid-19 beginning to see an upward spiral again, the Himachal Pradesh government has decided to keep schools shut till September 14 . The decision was taken during a cabinet meeting, chaired by chief minister Jai Ram Thakur.The cabinet also gave its nod to amendment and insertion in Himachal Pradesh buildings and other construction workers (regulation of employment and condition of service) rules, 2008, to increase the ambit of the scheme and provide more benefits to eligible beneficiaries. Now, the workers’ children studying in Classes 1 to 8 will receive ₹8,400 per annum, instead of the earlier amount of ₹8,000 in case of girls and ₹5,000 in case of boys. For Classes 9 to 12, the government will provide ₹12,000 per annum instead of the earlier amount of ₹11,000 to girls and ₹8,000 to boys. For graduation-level, ₹36,000 per annum will be provided while the amount has been increased to ₹48,000 per annum for diploma courses, ₹60,000 for professional courses/degrees and ₹1.20 lakh per annum for PHD research courses.Scheme for female child The cabinet also decided to start a new scheme under which a fixed deposit receipt of ₹51,000 will be given on the birth of a female child, maximum up to two girls. In case of differently abled children, ₹20,000 per annum will be provided to a child with disability of 50% or above. It was also decided to start widow pension of ₹1,500 per month. It was also decided to start hostel facility scheme under which a registered construction worker will receive an amount of ₹20,000, maximum for bearing expenses incurred on account of lodging, boarding and food bill of his children living in any hostel. Under the Mukhyamantri Awas Yojna, a beneficiary who is already enrolled under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojna or Mukhya Mantri Awas Yojna will receive a financial assistance of ₹1,50,000 to build his/her own house.Cabinet constitutes subcommittee on four-lane The cabinet gave its nod to constitute a cabinet sub-committee, under the chairmanship of Jal Shakti minister Mahender Singh Thakur, and with education minister Govind Thakur and forest minister Rakesh Pathania as its members, to resolve the issue of compensation for land acquisition linked with four-lane construction projects. The sub-committee will examine the policy related to it in neighbouring states. The cabinet also gave its nod to create sub-division (civil) at Kotli in Mandi district to facilitate the people of the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/himachal-schools-to-remain-shut-till-sept-14-in-view-of-rising-covid-cases-101630785264961.html
05-09-2021||Chandigarh||Held for public drinking, 3 Mohali men to serve one-year probation||In order to deter the increasing trend of people drinking openly in markets and turning their vehicles into mini bars, a Mohali court has convicted three men. Identified as Gursewak Singh of Sector 66 and Inderjit Singh and Gurpreet Singh of Sector 70, the trio was arrested in December last year for public drinking.“There is no dearth of instances when people throw caution to the wind, virtually imperiling their lives and lives of other persons as well. It is an appropriate time to send a clear signal to the persons behaving in such a manner, that their conduct will not be condoned and that they will be severely punished,” observed judicial magistrate Mukesh Kumar Singla.However, taking into consideration the fact that the three are first-time offenders, court released them on probation for one year after they furnished bonds of ₹10,000 each. Court also imposed ₹2,000 as cost of litigation on them.On probation, a convict is released from confinement, but remains under court supervision with an undertaking to maintain good behaviour during the period. Any breach can land the convict behind bars for the remaining period. The trio was arrested on December 13, 2020, while they were consuming liquor standing next to Gursewak’s car near a wine shop at Sector 105. The car was also impounded, though the three were granted bail soon after. The report of the chemical examiner confirmed that the three were consuming whisky. A case under the Excise Act was registered against them at the Sohana police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/held-for-public-drinking-3-mohali-men-to-serve-one-year-probation-101630785086709.html
05-09-2021||Other||Himachal logs 215 Covid new infections, 1 casualty||Himachal Pradesh recorded 215 fresh Covid-19 infections on Saturday, taking the state’s tally to 2,14,408 while the death toll mounted to 3,593 after one patient succumbed to the contagion. Of the new cases, 62 were reported in Kangra, 55 in Mandi, 33in Shimla, 24 in Hamirpur, 13 in Bilaspur, eight in Solan, five in Chamba, four each in Kinnaur, Kullu and Una, two in Lahaul-Spiti and one in Sirmaur. Active cases came down to 1,758 while recoveries reached 2,09,039 after 223 people recuperated. Kangra is the worst-hit district since the virus outbreak last year as its total case tally stands at 47,843 followed by Mandi and Shimla districts with 3,00,26 and 26,721 cases, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/himachal-logs-215-covid-new-infections-1-casualty-101630785085509.html
05-09-2021||Chandigarh||Covid: Haryana records two more deaths, nine new cases||Haryana reported two more Covid-19-related fatalities on Saturday that took the death toll to 9,683, while nine new cases pushed the infection count to 7,70,543.According to the health department’s daily bulletin, the latest deaths were reported from Yamunanagar and Jhajjar districts.Of the new cases, three were reported from Gurgaon district, it said. The total active cases in the state stands at 295. The overall recoveries from the infection have reached 7,60,221, while the recovery rate was 98.66 per cent, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-haryana-records-two-more-deaths-nine-new-cases-101630784970732.html
05-09-2021||Other||Bypoll to Mandi Lok Sabha, 3 assemblies in HP deferred||The Election Commission of India on Saturday announced that bypolls to three Lok Sabha and 32 assembly segments, including three assembly and one parliamentary seat in Himachal, will held after the festive season. According to the Election Commission, in order to assess the feasibility of holding byelections in various states and UTs, a meeting with the chief secretaries, senior officers from the department of health and home affairs, DGPs and chief electoral officers of the states concerned was held through video-conferencing on September 1. The chief secretaries and chief electoral officers shared their inputs, constraints, issues and challenges in conducting the byelections in their states and UTs in view of Covid-19 pandemic, flood situation and festivals in near future and so on. The chief secretaries of states including Himachal Pradesh brought to the notice of the Election Commission the constraints related to flood situations, festivals and pandemic and suggested that it will be advisable to have the byelections after the end of the festival season. Besides these, some states had also brought to the notice of the Commission that the Government of India, various research institutions, technical expert committees and professionals have predicted the possibility of a third wave of Covid-19 October onwards. MHA has also issued detailed instructions on prevention of COVID-19 on August 28. The Mandi parliament seat had fallen vacant after two-time Lok Sabha member Ramswaroop Sharma’s body was found hanging from the ceiling fan at his flat in March 17. While the Jubbal and Kotkhai seats fell vacant after its sitting legislator and former horticulture minister Narendra Bragta died due to post-Covid complications on June 6. Arki assembly seat fell vacant after death of former chief minister Virbhadra Singh on July 8, while the Fatehpur seat fell vacant after Congress legislator Sujan Singh Pathania died. Himachal Congress president Kuldeep Singh Rathore alleged that the commission had deferred the elections under pressure from union government. “There is anger against inflation, price rise and the way government is handling the pandemic. The country is in crisis, BJP is running away from polls,” he said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bypoll-to-mandi-lok-sabha-3-assemblies-in-hp-deferred-101630784965091.html
05-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs one more death, 36 fresh cases||Punjab reported 36 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday that took the infection tally to 6,00,780, while one more Covid-related fatality took the death toll to 16,439, according to a medical bulletin.The only Covid-related death was reported from Bathinda. The death toll includes one fatality which was not reported earlier.The number of active cases in the state dropped to 344 from 351 on Friday, the bulletin said.Of the new cases, seven each were reported from Jalandhar and Patiala followed by four each in Amritsar, Rupnagar and Mohali, it said.Forty people recovered from the infection, taking the number of those who have been cured to 5,83,997, according to the bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-one-more-death-36-fresh-cases-101630784907823.html
05-09-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula: Man, two minor sons killed as bikes collide in Barwala||A 35-year-old man and his two sons, aged 3 and 6, were killed while his wife sustained injuries after two motorcycles collided in Barwala on Saturday evening. The man riding the other bike and his wife were also injured while their son escaped unhurt, said police. All those involved in the accident were rushed to the civil hospital in Panchkula, where Sunil and his sons Navneet and Rishu were declared brought dead. The condition of his wife, Neeraj, is stated to be stable.Police were yet to record the statements of all survivors. No FIR had been registered till the filing of this report around midnight. Biker killed in accident at Chhat villageA 21-year-old man was killed after his motorcycle rammed into a tractor-trailer parked in the middle of the road at the airport light point in Mohali’s Chhat village, police said on Saturday.Identified as Sunil Kumar, the victim belonged to Uttar Pardesh and was residing in Mohali’s Jagatpura village. He used to work at the Focal Point in Dera Bassi. Police have registered a case against the unidentified driver of the tractor-trailer on the complaint of Sunil’s brother Sonu Kumar. Sonu told police that he and his brother were returning home from Zirakpur on separate bikes when the mishap took place on Friday evening. Sunil was rushed to Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, where doctors declared him brought dead. A case has been registered under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 304A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code at the Zirakpur police station. Police are trying to trace the accused driver.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-man-two-minor-sons-killed-as-bikes-collide-in-barwala-101630784905100.html
05-09-2021||Chandigarh||Harish Rawat asks people to vote carefully in 2022||Former Uttarakhand chief minister Harish Rawat on Saturday said a minor slip in voting in 2022 could cost people their freedom of expression. Describing 2022 Assembly polls in the state as a prelude to the next general elections, he said the Congress’ victory in Uttarakhand in 2022 would pave the way for the formation of a Congress government in Delhi under the leadership of Rahul Gandhi in 2024. “Even if there is a minor slip in voting, you will lose your freedom of expression and the freedom to make your own choices. In these elections you have to choose between democracy and the forces against it,” he said while addressing a public meeting in Kichha in the course of the party’s Parivartan Yatra. Kiccha was one of the two seats that Rawat had contested and lost in 2017 polls. The other seat he had lost was Haridwar (rural). “Our government will belong to the poor, the farmers, small businessmen and the unemployed,” Rawat said. He spoke against the three farm laws and the Centre’s alleged intention to finish Mandis and the MSP regime. Accusing successive BJP chief ministers in Uttarakhand of making unrealistic promises about filling up 24,000 vacancies in the state, he said if Congress comes to power at the Centre, one crore youths will be given jobs. He said if voted to power, the Congress would give a subsidy of ₹200 on LPG cylinders. Accusing the state government of stopping all welfare programmes started during his chief ministership, he said if voted to power, the Congress would revive all of them||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/harish-rawat-asks-people-to-vote-carefully-in-2022-101630784725087.html
05-09-2021||Mumbai||Covid fails to dampen festive spirit in Mumbai colleges||The usually colourful classrooms, decorated and lit up hallways of Mumbai colleges as part of their annual cultural festivals have now been replaced with virtual events. While Covid-19 dampened the spirit of students last year when several colleges chose to drop their festivals due to the lockdown, no one was caving in for another year. Online workshops, conclaves, pre-recorded events and live impromptu shows — colleges have left no stone unturned in ensuring that the essence of a cultural festival stays intact.After missing their annual festival for the first time in 2020 since its inception over 40 years ago, students of St Xavier’s College ensured they keep it alive and recently concluded Malhar, on August 29. While the usual fanfare which included dance events in the college foyer, music and elocution events in the main hall as well as other events happening simultaneously across several classrooms on campus was missing, the energy and fun quotient remained intact in the virtual fest as well.“Malhar is known for its richness and variety of events. We arranged everything, ranging from Conclave — the intellectual discourse of the fest, to performing arts, fine arts and literary arts events and managed to attract participation from city colleges. While some of the events were pre-recorded where participants were asked to send in their recorded entries in advance for judges to go through, some others happened live and were judged on the day of the festival itself,” said Gauravi Pradhan, a student of the institute and press organiser, Malhar 2021Similarly, mass media students of Jai Hind College in Churchgate recently concluded their virtual conclave, held on August 30 and 31, which brought together experts in the field of Bollywood, entrepreneurs, stand-up comedians, as well as workshops on phone photography for media students. The students are also working on their annual festival, Detour, which they hope to conduct online by the end of this year.In 2020, while several colleges decided to drop their festivals due to the rising Covid-19 cases as well as lockdown, many went ahead with online fests and managed to attract students from around the city and state. The country’s largest cultural festival, Mood Indigo by the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B), hosted online dance, music, art and design competitions in 2020 and also managed to organise fund-raising virtual live concerts in order to help non-governmental organisations (NGOs) with Covid-19 relief. Similarly, Techfest, IIT-B’s technology festival, also went virtual with its events, and this year too, they are following the same pattern for the event.Vile Parle’s Mithibai College was one of the few city colleges that managed to conduct their annual cultural festival Kshitij last year as well. Carried out in two phases between November and December 2020, a host of events brought together celebrities and college students on a virtual platform.“Last year, the event was conducted completely in the virtual mode, but this year, we are hoping to partly conduct the event in physical mode as well. While the planning is on, we will wait for updates from the government before announcing our decision on the festival,” said second-year BA student Yashvi Gotecha, who is the chairperson, Kshitij 2021.Once again, many colleges are keeping their social cause events pegged at Covid-19 relief. Organisers of Malhar put up a hip-hop dance workshop — A Hook Step for Hope — and all funds raised through it were donated to Hemkunt Foundation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-fails-to-dampen-festive-spirit-in-mumbai-colleges-101630784666554.html
05-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: SSP to keep an eye on working of beat cops||After listening to complaints about laxity being shown by beat constables in Chandigarh, senior superintendent of police (SSP) Kuldeep Singh Chahal on Saturday said that he will personally monitor their movement and ensure they do their job properly, especially enquiring about the well-being of senior citizens.Chahal along with SP (city) Ketan Bansal and other officials of the south and east subdivisions was speaking at a meeting of the Federation of Sector Welfare Associations Chandigarh (FOSWAC). After FOSWAC chairman Baljinder Singh Bittu raised the issue, many senior citizens complained to the SSP that the beat cops cannot be seen on the field and have stopped visiting their houses.When the e-beat system was launched, and especially during the initial days of the pandemic, the police department had said that beat cops will visit all senior citizens, especially those living alone, once a month to ensure their well-being. The beat cops are also supposed to patrol the area under their jurisdiction regularly, but FOSWAC members claimed that they are seldom seen on the field. Some members said that they don’t even know who are their beat cops, while earlier they used to be on first-name basis with them.SSP Chahal said: “We have an e-beat system and I will personally monitor the movement of beat staff through this. I will ask the station house officers and even the subdivision in-charges to send me regular weekly reports.” The SSP also said that he will ask the station house officers to hold regular meetings with resident welfare associations.The e-beat system was launched in 2019. There are around 111 beats in total, with each of the 16 police stations having four to nine beats under them as per the area of jurisdiction. The movement of the beat staff can be tracked through their GPS-enabled motorcycles and smartphones.Often known as the best city to retire in, Chandigarh saw the second highest rate of thefts against senior citizens, with 29.8 incidents per one lakh, in 2019, according to a report of the National Crime Records Bureau released in October last year. Overall, Chandigarh had the third highest rate of crimes committed against seniors (74.5 incidents per lakh population).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhssp-to-keep-an-eye-on-working-of-beat-cops-101630784665064.html
05-09-2021||Lucknow||Dengue cases in Firozabad: Officials review situation, one more death takes toll to 51||Central and state government officials on Saturday reviewed the situation in Firozabad where the death toll due to fever, mostly cases of dengue, has reached 51 since August. An 11-year-old girl was the latest to succumb to the disease on Saturday. She died during treatment late in the evening, acting chief medical superintendent of the Firozabad medical college Alok Kumar Sharma said.Uttar Pradesh’s principal secretary (medical education) Alok Kumar inspected a 100-bed dedicated hospital for dengue patients at the medical college and interacted with the patients admitted there. A six-member team of the Union health ministry, which was sent to Firozabad, held a series of meetings to review the situation and suggest remedial measures.As many as 179 new patients were admitted to different wards as well as the new ward which became operational on Saturday, while 54 were discharged following recovery.Till now, a total of 433 patients have been admitted to the medical college hospital, acting CMS Sharma said.For his part, Kumar, along with health officials, visited Firozabad, about 50 kilometres from Agra, on the instructions of chief minister Yogi Adityanath. The chief minister had been in Firozabad on August 30 and, two days later, Dr Neeta Kulshrestha was transferred from the post of chief medical officer on Wednesday (September 1). Kumar, who visited the children’s wards, ultrasound and x-ray centre and PICU (paediatric intensive care unit) of the 100-bed hospital, instructed officials and doctors to ensure effective control of dengue and viral fever. During his inspection, Kumar also visited the upcoming hospital on the same premises constructed by Uttar Pradesh Nirman Nigam at cost of ₹193 crore. He directed the project manager and the principal of the Firozabad medical college to make at least two floors ready at the earliest and begin with a 200-bed health facility to assist in the fight against dengue. Kumar also went to the primary health centre at Himaupur and went to the houses of fever patients in Abbas Nagar where ordered ambulances to get an 11-year-old girl and an eight-year-old boy admitted in the Firozabad city hospital. Nodal officer Sudhir Kumar Bobde also visited the Firozabad medical college and the affected areas.(WITH PTI INPUTS)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/dengue-cases-in-firozabad-officials-review-situation-one-more-death-takes-toll-to-51-101630784546755.html
05-09-2021||Other||Mobile, broadband services restored in Kashmir||Mobile calling and broadband internet services were restored on Friday night while restrictions were partially eased, unannounced, in parts of Kashmir on Saturday, three days after the death of separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani. Mobile internet services, however, are yet to be restored.Even though barricades blocking different roads in Srinagar city were in place and security forces were deployed in large numbers, they were allowing people to move about. There was a good presence of people and private vehicles on the roads. Most shops and businesses, however, remained closed and public transport was off road. “Shops are closed but restrictions have been eased in the city centre Lal Chowk. Police and CRPF are not stopping people or private vehicles,” said a resident of Srinagar. The authorities had imposed a clampdown across Kashmir after the death of Geelani on Wednesday evening. Streets were barricaded and key roads sealed to restrict the movement of people in the clampdown similar to the one imposed after the nullification of the region’s semi-autonomous status in 2019. In Old City, people said restrictions were not as stringent on Saturday. However, some shopowners in Khanyar, who had tried to open for business, said they were asked to close. “Some roads were open while some remained closed. However, things were a bit easier than the past two days,” said Muneer Ahmad, a resident of Old City.Same was the case in different towns of the Valley. “Some traffic, mostly the light motor vehicles, resumed and banks have opened. The security forces are less in number on roads,” said Mohammad Abbas, a resident of south Kashmir’s Anantnag.In Kulgam , however, the restrictions were strict today owing to incidents of stone pelting on Friday. In Baramulla and Sopore towns in north Kashmir, private vehicles were plying while shops were closed and public transport was off the roads. Geelani, the face of separatism in Kashmir for over three decades, died on Wednesday after a prolonged illness at 91. The police action was presumably to avoid a mass gathering, which may have turned the region restive. Police said that the situation across Kashmir valley remained peaceful and no untoward incident was reported from anywhere on Friday. On Friday evening, IGP Vijay Kumar said that the voice calls on mobile service and broadband of all TSPs shall open in view of the peaceful situation. “However internet on mobile services shall remain shutdown till Sunday afternoon,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mobile-broadband-services-restored-in-kashmir-101630784545185.html
05-09-2021||Mumbai||One fireman injured in Mumbai building blaze||One fireman was injured in a level-one fire reported at a ground-plus-seven building in Borivli (West) on Saturday. Nathu Badhak, 43, suffered 8-12% burn injuries and was discharged from the civic-run Shatabdi Hospital in Kandivli, following treatment.The fire was reported at 7.11am and was extinguished by 9.30am, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) disaster management cell.According to Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB) officials, the fire is likely to have broken out owing to a short circuit on the seventh floor of the residential building. “The fire was on the top floor and kept spreading towards the terrace. It was brought under control quickly and we did not have to vacate the building. We assume a short circuit to be the reason behind the fire, but we will have to investigate the cause,” an MFB official said. The building also houses several commercial offices. No citizen was injured during the incident.Meanwhile, Archie Vora, a resident from the nearby building, said, “The fire started early in the morning when many residents in and around the building were asleep. Following the fire, there was a lot of smoke coming from the building. Thankfully, there were no injuries due to the incident.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/one-fireman-injured-in-mumbai-building-blaze-101630784366227.html
05-09-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: Cop linked to ex-DGP Saini’s case alleges assault||A head constable posted with the vigilance bureau in Mohali was assaulted by two unidentified men near Chappar Chiri in Mohali, police said on Saturday. According to the FIR, the victim, Varun Kapoor, is assisting the VB’s financial intelligence unit in-charge in investigations into the land fraud and disproportionate assets cases against former Punjab director general of police Sumedh Singh Saini. A writ petition and bail plea regarding these cases are listed in court, and he was on his way to Kharar with some important data on his laptop when the assailants struck on Thursday night, Kapoor told police. Kapoor was in his SUV when two men on a bike pointed at his car’s tyre and signalled him to stop near Acme Heights around 8pm on Thursday. Thinking that he has a flat tyre, the cop stopped the vehicle and peeped out after lowering the windowpane.Finding an opportunity, one of the men allegedly tried to pull him out, but the seat belt saved him. As the men rained blows on his face and arm, Kapoor somehow managed to speed away though the assailants gave him a chase for some distance.Kapoor alleged that while attacking him, one of the men had said: “Tujhe CCTV ki video viral karne ka bada shauk hai, aaj tera shauk poora karte hai (You are very fond of making CCTV footage viral; let’s teach you a lesson today).” CCTV control and technical work of the vigilance police station in Mohali is under Kapoor. Notably, after former DGP Saini was arrested a couple of weeks ago, a CCTV video was circulated on social media that showed him falling unconscious in the lockup. “A case has been registered on the complaint of the head constable. The matter is being investigated,” said Satinder Singh, senior superintendent of police (SSP), Mohali. Sections 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 323 (Punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint) and 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) of the Indian Penal Code have been added to the FIR registered against the two unidentified men at the Balongi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-cop-linked-to-ex-dgp-saini-s-case-alleges-assault-101630784365027.html
05-09-2021||Other||Claims of J&K enjoying equal rights, a barefaced lie: Mehbooba||After the clampdown in Kashmir following the death of separatist leader Syed Ali Geelani, People’s Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti on Saturday lashed out at the government of India (GoI) saying that the claims of J&K now enjoying equal rights was a “barefaced lie”.The former J&K chief minister took on the government for imposing a ‘siege’ in Kashmir, insisting that such measures create a sense of subjugation. “GOI’s dubious claims that people of J&K now enjoy equal rights is a barefaced lie as the truth is that even their basic human rights dead or alive are suspended with pervasive impunity,” Mufti said in a tweet.Mufti’s reaction came after a Kashmiri netizen, whose uncle had passed away on Thursday night, expressed how miserable and helpless one can feel in Kashmir with no phone connection and no idea where their rest of the family members were.“The ease with which GOI imposes a complete siege including a communications blackout in Kashmir every time it anticipates a reaction from people is distressing & deeply insensitive,” Mufti said.“Their misadventure of creating fear & suppression to eliminate a sentiment is counterproductive since feelings & emotions don’t dissipate or vanish into thin air. These feelings of betrayal, subjugation & anger are absorbed & passed on from one generation to the next,” she said.Mufti alleged that every policy is meant to humiliate people here.“Instead of reaching out, every successive policy is undertaken to humiliate & collectively punish J&K. These punitive actions compound this sense of betrayal and rage,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/claims-of-j-k-enjoying-equal-rights-a-barefaced-lie-mehbooba-101630784185491.html
05-09-2021||Mumbai||3rd wave at doorstep: Task force on Mumbai’s Covid-19 case surge||As Mumbai is reporting above 400 cases since the past three days, state health department data has revealed that there has been a 20% spike in Covid-19 infections in the past seven days as compared to the previous week.According to the data, between August 21 and 27, 1,893 Covid-19 cases and 22 deaths were reported in the city that took the tally to 742,763 from 740,870. Between August 28 and September 3, 2,279 cases and 15 deaths were reported in the city, owing to which the tally surged from 743,154 to 745,433 and toll increased to 15,987. However, though the cases surged, the number of deaths has gone down in the city.The daily positivity rate that was below 1% for the past few weeks has also now crossed the 1%-mark.However, experts said that this surge cannot be called the start of the third wave yet.With the rise in the number of cases in the past seven days, number of tests also increased. According to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) data, between August 21 and 27, 210,140 tests were conducted in the city, wherein 1,893 results came positive (positivity rate of around 0.90%). Between August 28 to September 3, 256,214 tests were conducted, of which 2,279 results came positive, which means the positivity rate was 0.88%. Overall, 9.3 million tests have been conducted in the city between February 3, 2020, and September 3, 2021. The overall positivity rate is 7.94%.Dr Rahul Pandit of Fortis Hospital, Mulund, who is also a member of the state’s Covid-19 task force, said, “We have opened up since August 15, and with this opening up there was some spike expected in the number of cases. But we still have a chance to control this figure to around 400. If we do not adhere to Covid-19 protocols, there will be further increase. Also, this is not the start of the third wave. But I will say that the third wave is at the door, knocking. It is for us to remain cautious now.”Meanwhile on Saturday, the city reported 413 cases and four deaths. The city’s case tally is 745,846 and toll 15,991. Mumbai’s recovery rate is 96% with 723,386 recoveries. There are 4,031 active cases in the city and the fatality rate is 2.14%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/3rd-wave-at-doorstep-task-force-on-mumbai-s-covid-19-case-surge-101630783945472.html
05-09-2021||Chandigarh||Lal dora: UT admn to form policy on Punjab, Haryana pattern||Pursuing a comprehensive policy on the regularisation of construction outside the lal dora in Chandigarh villages, the UT administration will be formulating a policy on the pattern of models applicable in neighbouring states like Punjab and Haryana.After a Bangalore-based consultant, appointed to study and offer solutions to the problem, made a presentation on the issue, the administration directed it to examine how the neighbouring states had addressed the problem. A lal dora (red line) separates village habitation from adjacent agricultural land.A comprehensive policy is being examined in consultation with the Indian Institute of Human Settlements (IIHS), Bengaluru. A meeting of UT officials and IIHS representatives met here on Friday. The IIHS are expected to submit a draft policy on village development, regularisation of illegal structures and extension of lal dora.“The consultants in our next meeting will be submitting a report incorporating the lessons learned from neighbouring states. We have asked them to study areas like Delhi, Panchkula and Mohali and make recommendations based on it,” said UT adviser Dharam Pal.Notably, the administration is mulling extending the lal dora and regularising the constructions that have been undertaken outside the existing lal dora.Policy in worksIn January this year, the then UT administrator VP Singh Badnore had directed senior officials to work on regularisation of illegal constructions outside the lal dora. He had stated that since there was a lot of construction outside the lal dora area, the administration should formulate a scheme to regularise these.Political parties and village residents had also been consistently asking for extension of lal dora and regularisation of constructions outside it.The regularisation of illegal constructions in villages and lal dora extension has gained added importance this year as MC elections are slated in December. Recently, 13 villages were added to the MC. Now, votes from 26 villages will be a major component of total city votes. The issue is important in villages and will play a major role in elections.Constructions galore outside lal doraArchitects and heritage conservationists are demanding that these illegal constructions should be removed to protect the city’s character.The UT urban planning department, too, has consistently flagged the large-scale illegal construction and colonisation in villages of Chandigarh. It has repeatedly written to the MC commissioner, deputy commissioner-cum-estate officer and land acquisition officer (LAO) to take immediate action to stop illegal construction.“Most city villages and semi-urban areas, including Kishangarh-Manimajra, Hallomajra, Maloya, areas around Bapu Dham near Sukhna Choe, Khuda Ali Sher, Kaimbwala, etc, have unauthorised constructions that have taken the form of colonies in recent months with the land mafia becoming active. Earlier most of these constructions involved renting out spaces, but sale of smaller plots has also come to light now,” said a senior UT official.Unauthorised construction picked up pace after the city’s villages were transferred to the municipal corporation, said the official. “One way of regularising these constructions is by extending the lal dora. But such constructions are in violation of the Punjab New Capital (Periphery) Control Act, 1952, which is applicable to areas outside a village’s inhabited area. Also, in some areas constructions have been done in violation of high court orders on protection of Sukhna catchment area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/extension-of-lal-dora-ut-admn-to-form-policy-on-punjab-haryana-pattern-101630783886438.html
05-09-2021||Other||J&K’s X-band Doppler weather radar to be inaugurated today||Union minister Dr Jitendra Singh will inaugurate X-band Doppler weather radar and GPS-based indigenous pilot Sonde here on Sunday, said officials. A spokesperson said that India Meteorological Department has installed an X-Band Doppler weather radar at Jammu to provide improved weather services to the people of Jammu and Kashmir. “The technology will help in providing nowcast (very short range forecast up to 3 hours) for all types of severe weather events affecting the region, especially thunderstorms, lightning, squall, heavy rain, etc,” he said. It will also provide weather forecasts for different sectors including tourism forecasts for pilgrims of Mata Vaishno Devi, Katra, which has an average footfall of 8.5 million every year besides providing input to numerical weather prediction models for generating better weather forecasts, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jks-x-band-doppler-weather-radar-to-be-inaugurated-today-101630783885129.html
05-09-2021||Mumbai||Is Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi set to lose Raju Shetti as alliance partner?||The ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) may lose the Raju Shetti-led Swabhimani Paksha as an alliance partner as the ties between both the sides have strained. Shetti on Saturday said that it is up to the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) – one of MVA’s major partners along with Shiv Sena and Congress – to fulfil the promise of giving one seat to his party in the legislative Council or “stabbing him in the back”. He said at an appropriate time, he will do a “correct programme”, a term used by Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis in an election rally for dislodging the Uddhav Thackeray-led MVA government. “The decision to fulfil the promise or stab [him] in the back has to be taken by the NCP. I don’t care. I didn’t go to them [MVA] begging for the position [of Council member]. I have not held a post for over two years but the respect among people for me has not reduced. I will do a correct programme at an appropriate time,” Shetti told reporters on Saturday. His reaction came after speculations over MVA submitting a fresh list to Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari with one change in the list of 12 names – recommended by the state cabinet last November – to be appointed as governor-nominated members to the state legislative Council. A delegation of MVA leaders headed by chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray, along with deputy CM Ajit Pawar and state revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat, had met the governor on Wednesday evening.Meanwhile, NCP chief Sharad Pawar has expressed his surprise on Shetti’s statements. He also rejected the speculations that MVA has requested Koshyari to remove Shetti’s name from the 12 nominees’ list.“Based on his contribution in the fields of agriculture and cooperation, Shetti’s name was a part of the list submitted to the governor by CM and deputy CM. The decision [to appoint him as a member of legislative Council] was taken by us, but the final decision has to be made by the governor. I am surprised how he can make such a statement. We have honestly done our work. I have fulfilled the promise made [to him] and am waiting for the governor’s decision. What Shetti says is his choice,” Pawar said, responding to the Swabhimani Paksha leader’s remarks.Shetti, a farmers’ leader, is currently holding a five-day-long march against MVA government, demanding more relief to the people affected by floods that had taken place in western Maharashtra in July. He said the relief package declared by MVA government is inadequate. NCP, which had recommended his name to the Council from the party, is reportedly upset with Shetti over his stand taken against MVA government. NCP leader Ajit Pawar had on Thursday said that according to new information, a person who was defeated in a recently-held election cannot be nominated for the Upper House and that they are verifying the same. This triggered talks of MVA replacing Shetti’s name.Shetti is a former parliamentarian from Hathkanangale constituency in western Maharashtra. His party was also part of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in 2014 but chose to walk out of it for not fulfilling the promise to double the income input cost as minimum support price (MSP) of farm produce.Political analyst Hemant Desai said Shetti will not continue with MVA if he is not appointed as an MLC.“It is almost certain that Shetti will not continue his alliance with MVA if not appointed as an MLC. But even if he’s appointed, he will continue his fight in farmers’ interest and future clashes with MVA government are expected. One can’t deny the fact that Shetti was defeated by Shiv Sena parliamentarian Dhairyasheel Mane from Hathkanangale, which means if MVA decides to contest the general polls in 2024 as a coalition, then Mane will be the MVA candidate from that seat,” Desai said. (With inputs from Yogesh M Joshi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/is-maharashtra-vikas-aghadi-set-to-lose-raju-shetti-as-alliance-partner-101630783706421.html
05-09-2021||Lucknow||Smriti Irani launches veiled attack on Congress in Amethi||Union women and child development minister Smriti Irani launched a veiled attack on the Congress during her two-day visit to Amethi on Saturday, claiming that for the past 70 years the district did not witness any development until 2019 when she was elected as the local MP. Soon after arriving in Amethi, she inspected the oxygen plant at the trauma centre at Jagdishpur. A district that didn’t have a single oxygen generation unit had now become self-reliant in medical oxygen, she said. “The district now has seven medical oxygen generation plants,” she said in an apparent swipe at the Congress which represented the Amethi Lok Sabha constituency for decades. The Congress has only lost Amethi thrice, including in 2019 Lok Sabha election when Smriti Irani won on the BJP ticket. “In the past seven decades, there was no good hospital. Now, various schemes and initiatives meant for the poor are reaching the masses,” she said.The Union minister also launched the ₹ 276.14 crore drinking water scheme for Dhanapur and Baraulia villages of Amethi. She described Amethi as her home and said she had looked to fulfill all that she has promised for the district.“Due to Yogi Adityanath government, Amethi now has its own Covid-19 testing centre. That means Covid samples would no longer be sent outside for testing and hence save time and deliver quick results,” she said.She said Amethi now had a sports ground to promote sports activities in the rural areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/smriti-irani-launches-veiled-attack-on-congress-in-amethi-101630783406195.html
05-09-2021||Chandigarh||Three Mohali men wanted for cheating held after seven years||The economic offence wing of the Chandigarh Police arrested three people for cheating on Saturday, almost seven years after they were booked. The accused, Rajesh Kumar of Zirakpur , Jatin Kumar of Mohali and Amit Kumar of Mohali, had been declared proclaimed offenders in January. On November 5, 2014, Amrinder Singh of Sector-34, had alleged that the accused – Ashok Kumar, Rajesh Kumar, Jatin Kumar, Amit Kumar, Sachin and Amar – had duped him of ₹2.05 crore. He said the accused were running a committee business, in which investors were assured interest on a day-to-day basis. The interest was to be paid by way of draw. However, the accused did not pay the interest and ran off with the money after shutting down the business and vacating their house. Ashok was arrested in 2018, while the rest of the accused were declared proclaimed offenders by the Chandigarh district court on January 25 this year. A case had been registered under Sections 420 (cheating) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) at the Sector 26 Police Station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-mohali-men-wanted-for-cheating-held-after-7-years-101630783405034.html
05-09-2021||Chandigarh||RFC India : Kabir Waraich, Dushyant Khosla bag champions trophy||Chandigarh’s Kabir Waraich and co-driver Dushyant Khosla of Gerrari Offroaders Chandigarh clinched the Overall Champions Trophy at the Rainforest Challenge (RFC) India. The duo emerged champions after a week of gruelling off-roading action in the interiors of Goa. They have won the seventh season of India’s toughest international off-road motorsport competition with a score of 2,155 of 2,600. They also won entry to the RFC Global Series Finale that will be held in Malaysia.The seventh edition of RFC India was held in Goa from August 28 to September 4 after a hiatus of a year. As many as 21 teams from across the country and Goa, each comprising a driver and a co-driver, were selected for the event.The overall second position was secured by Anand V Manjooran (co-driver Vishnu Raj) of KTM Jeepers of Kerala with 2,144 points. Dr Mohammad Fahed VP (co-driver Rajeev Lal) of Team Gulf First from Kerala clinched the third spot with 2,014 points.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rfc-india-kabir-waraich-dushyant-khosla-bag-champions-trophy-101630783167727.html
05-09-2021||Other||J&K sees 116 cases, 1 death in last 24 hours||Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday recorded 116 fresh Covid-19 infections while a fresh death related to the disease was reported in Kashmir valley. Of the total, Kashmir valley contributed 85 cases while the Jammu division saw 31 infections. The summer capital Srinagar in Kashmir saw the highest count of 47 cases. The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 168 with active positive cases reaching 1,327. Srinagar district has the highest number of active cases at 548 followed by Budgam district with 163 active cases. Srinagar deputy commissioner (DC) Mohammad Aijaz Asad, while chairing a Covid review meeting, directed the chief medical officer and all zonal medical officers to scale up the percentage of the vaccination in the district. Centre asks J-K, U’khand to focus on second vax dose of 60-plus populationThe Centre on Saturday asked eight northeastern states, Uttarakhand and Jammu and Kashmir to focus on the second dose vaccination of the 60-plus population, saying the coverage in some of these states was ‘unsatisfactory’. The vulnerability of people aged above 60 to Covid-19 makes this exercise of prime importance, the Centre told these states.Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan chaired a review meeting with representatives from Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Uttarakhand and the northeastern states, Arunachal Pradesh; Assam; Manipur; Meghalaya; Mizoram; Nagaland; Sikkim and Tripura.According to the health ministry, the inoculation of both doses among the 60-plus population in Assam, Manipur, Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland and Meghalaya is unsatisfactory. In the meeting, the states and UTs were also asked to quickly saturate the first dose coverage among the 18-plus population.The health ministry added that the attention of the states was brought to the fact that the administration of the first dose has progressively outpaced the administration of second dose.“It was suggested that states earmark doses, earmark days and target the completion of the exercise for these beneficiaries,” the ministry said. The details of balance stock of 0.5 ml syringes, vaccination coverage among special groups such as transgender persons, persons with disabilities and prisoners and among women, were also discussed.The ministry said the states and UTs were advised to closely monitor the stock from state-level stores to cold chain points, check rational distribution and restrict vaccine wastage to below 2%, and update data on eVIN (electronic vaccine intelligence network) daily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jk-sees-116-cases-1-death-in-last-24-hours-101630783166128.html
05-09-2021||Chandigarh||No new Covid case in Panchkula for third day||The tricity on Saturday reported nine fresh cases of Covid-19, with five surfacing in Chandigarh and four in Mohali. Panchkula reported no new case for the third consecutive day.On Friday, the tricity’s tally stood at eight. Meanwhile, no fatality was reported in the tricity for the third day in a row.In Mohali district, two cases surfaced in Kharar and one each in Dera Bassi and Mohali city. In Chandigarh, the cases were scattered across Sectors 19, 24, 38, 39 and the PGI campus.The active caseload in the tricity stands at 98, down from 99 on Friday. There are 47 patients in Mohali, 43 in Chandigarh and eight in Panchkula.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-new-covid-case-in-panchkula-for-third-day-101630782924988.html
05-09-2021||Chandigarh||Expect rain deficit in Chandigarh in September too: IMD||After recording a rainfall deficit in July and August, the city is likely to receive below normal rainfall in September as well, as per a long-range forecast of the India Meteorological Department.Significantly, the country as a whole is expected to receive above normal rainfall, there remains a 35-45% probability that rain may be below normal in September.Due to the prevailing El Niño-Southern Oscillation (an irregular periodic variation in winds and sea surface temperatures over the tropical eastern Pacific Ocean), neutral conditions are likely to continue while sea surface temperature shows a cooling tendency. So far, the city has received 427.9mm of rainfall, against a normal of 721.7mm – a 41% shortfall.Chandigarh IMD director Manmohan Singh says, “Rain is likely to stay below normal in the region, which includes Punjab and Haryana, due to the prevailing weather conditions. It is unlikely that we will receive any more heavy showers in the city.”The low-pressure areas over the Bay of Bengal which head towards the north-west are essential for rainfall in the city. However, this year the low-pressure systems stopped in central India. More showers in the offingThe city is likely to receive up to 20mm rainfall in the coming days. On Saturday, only 1mm rainfall was recorded at the Sector-39 India Meteorological Observatory, while 13mm rain was received at the airport.The maximum temperature also increased from 31°C on Friday to 33.1°C on Saturday. The minimum temperature dropped from 26.6°C on Friday, to 25.9°C on Saturday. Over the next three days, the maximum temperature will remain between 30°C and 33°C, while the minimum temperature will remain between 26°C and 27°C.Monsoon withdrawal likely to be delayedSingh says monsoon withdrawal is likely to be delayed by a few days. “Monsoon withdrawal starts in Rajasthan around September 15, but the humidity suggests that monsoon withdrawal will be delayed by a few days,” he said.Usually, monsoon starts withdrawing from Chandigarh on September 23. Last year, monsoon withdrawal started on September 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/expect-rain-deficit-in-chandigarh-in-september-too-experts-101630782866053.html
05-09-2021||Other||Woman attacked, lootedin moving train||Agra A woman health worker posted at Achhnera community health centre in this district was beaten, injured and looted in a moving passenger train on Saturday. A case was registered by GRP Mathura and one of the accused was arrested with the help of the victim who caught hold of him despite being injured. GRP circle officer Harish Chand informed that 45-year-old Anita Kaushik from Mathura got into the women’s compartment of Kasganj Achhnera passenger train at Mathura junction at about 8 am on Saturday morning. “The woman was attacked by four to five accused, who got into the compartment at Parkham railway station in Mathura district. They looted a gold chain, a silver anklet and Rs. 5000. The woman was injured in the attack. On information, police reached Sajhan railway station in Mathura district and with the help of the victim caught one of the accused,” he said. Anita Kaushik informed that three of the accused were already seated in the train and two others joined later. “They all attacked me with stones picked up from the train track and snatched a gold chain, anklet and Rs. 5000.” The arrested accused was identified as Jeetu from Dholi Pyau area of Mathura city who worked as tailor in Nagla Chandrabhan. He too got into the train at Mathura junction to reach Agra. He said he was in dire need of money and attacked the woman when she resisted the loot attempt. “ A search has been launched for the other accused while the woman, under treatment at CHC Achhnera, is recovering,” said police sources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/woman-attacked-lootedin-moving-train-101630782864873.html
05-09-2021||Chandigarh||Burglars strike at cop’s house in Chandigarh||Burglars broke into the house of a police sub-inspector, while he was on duty on Friday. The victim, Tejinder Singh, is posted at the Sector-34 police station. He lives in Sector 42 with his family. There was no one at home when the burglars struck. The theft was discovered when a neighbour noticed the picked lock. Four gold bangles, one gold kada, two gold chains, five gold rings, two pairs of gold ear rings, one pair of a gold ear pin, one silver kada, two pairs of anklets, and one silver bracelet were stolen from the house. A case has been registered under Section 380 (theft in dwelling house), and 454 (breaking into a house) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered at the Sector-36 police station.Postman’s cycle, letters stolen in Sec 7In a separate case, the cycle of a postman was stolen near SBI Bank, Sector 7, Chandigarh, on Friday. The victim, Kanchan Dhiman of Sector 27, was posted at the Sector 19 post office. Along with the cycle, 25 speed posts, and eight registered letters were also stolen. A case was registered under Section 379 (theft) of the IPC at the Sector 26 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/burglars-strike-at-cop-s-house-in-chandigarh-101630782564829.html
05-09-2021||Other||Viral fever raging in Rohilkhand region, health dept on the alert||Lucknow : Cases of viral fever have gone up in Bareilly, Badaun, Moradabad and Pilibhit districts of Rohilkhand region in the past week. According to health department officials, the district hospitals and government health centres are receiving close to 1,000 new cases every day in each of the districts. In Badaun district, most of the out patients are reporting with symptoms of viral fever. Vijay Bahadur Raj, the chief medical superintendent (CMS) of the district hospital said, “We receive 1,100 to 1,400 out patients every day and most of them show symptoms of viral fever. The patients are being treated symptomatically.” According to experts, the symptoms of viral fever include high temperature, weakness that could be combined with dry nose and sore throat. On Saturday, close to 700 new patients showing symptoms of viral fever were reported in Moradabad district. The number of such patients in Bareilly and Pilibhit district was 800 and 600 respectively. The district administration has collected blood samples from some of these patients and sent them for dengue and malaria tests, which commonly spread during this season. “The samples are being taken from the most susceptible patients. So far we have a few confirmed cases of malaria in Badaun but no case of dengue so far,” said the CMS. Close to 20 positive cases of malaria were reported from Hasanganj village of Salarpur area of Badaun this week. The district administration has sent a health team to prevent the spread of malaria in the area. The health administration in Bareilly and Pilibhit is also facing similar challenges. Dr Balveer Singh, chief medical officer (CMO) of Badaun said, “There has been a sharp increase in cases of viral fever in the district. We are keeping an eye on the situation. Separate malaria and dengue wards have also been established in the district hospital and tests are being done to confirm infection. The district has not reported any case of dengue yet.” Officials of the government health department have also claimed that the spike in case of viral fever is a norm post monsoon, asserting that the situation is under control. Meanwhile, district magistrate of Pilibhit Pulkit Khare held a review meeting on Saturday with health department officials on the issue. “The health department has been directed to keep a close watch on cases of dengue and malaria, if any, in the district and ensure proper treatment. The officials of the health department have informed me that there is no shortage of medicines to treat patients in the district,” said the DM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/viral-fever-raging-in-rohilkhand-region-health-dept-on-the-alert-101630782385023.html
05-09-2021||Pune||Water discharge on halt from Pune’s four dams||Water discharge from all the four dams that supply water to the city will be put on halt from Sunday as the city is predicted to receive very light rains till September 10. After the catchment area received heavy spell of rain last week, the water was released from Panshet and Warasgaon. As of September 4, total stock of four dams – Temghar, Warasgaon, Panshet, Khadakwasla has 93.26% of water storage (27.19 TMC) while last year it was 99.43% (28.99 TMC). The water storage is 1.8 TMC less than last year. On Saturday, 600 cusecs of water was released from Warasgaon and Panshet respectively. “As the rainfall activity is less as compared to last week there is no need to release water now. Due less rainfall activity in the month of August, water storage is less compared to last year, it is expected to go up in the last week of September,” said an official for the state irrigation department. The water stock in Khadakwasla is 40.35%, it was purposely brought down by the irrigation department to accommodate water from Panshet and Warasgaon dams. “Warasgaon is filled to its capacity while Panshet has 95.78% of water storage. If the catchment area receives heavy rain then water releasing activity will start again,” official said. On Saturday, Temghar received 7mm rainfall while Warasgaon and Panshet received 1mm rainfall and no rainfall activity was noticed in Khadakwasla dam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/water-discharge-on-halt-from-pune-s-four-dams-101630781964308.html
05-09-2021||Other||Microalgae, tech to treat water waste: IIT BHU research||Researchers from the department of biochemical engineering, Indian Institute of Technology of Banaras Hindu University (IIT-BHU) have successfully applied microalgae and machine learning to treat wastewater. Under this application, microalgae in photo bioreactor can clean up to 90% of wastewater by setting appropriate temperature, light intensity, carbon dioxide content, pH level, which is better than the current bacterial based water treatment process. Dr Vishal Mishra, assistant professor of biochemical engineering, said that according to the United Nations World Water Development’s report titled ‘Valuing Water’, freshwater use has increased six-fold globally in the last century. “Despite this, more than 80 percent of the wastewater is discharged into water streams without treatment. The conventional water treatment process currently in place is extremely costly. These include high electricity costs, sludge disposal and huge amounts of carbon dioxide emissions,” he said. “Biological wastewater treatment mediated by microalgae would clean the wastewater up to 90% and also high-quality compost in the form of microalgae biomass will prove to be very useful,” he added. Vishal Singh, a PhD student in the research team, said that machine learning tools have been successfully implemented to optimise microalgae-based wastewater treatment process and the research has been published in Netherland based Biochemical Engineering Journal (IF3.97). The information gained from this research can aid in experimental design, lead to large-scale wastewater treatment and can be used for designing microalgae based tertiary wastewater treatment plant. “Besides, it could be easily integrated with current secondary wastewater treatment plants, where treatment is carried out by bacteria. Microalgae wastewater treatment plants can even entirely replace the current conventional wastewater treatment plants,” he said. “The treated water generated from the microalgae-based treatment plant meets the criteria set by WHO and can be easily discharged in the rivers. Moreover, the treated water can be used for irrigation and cleaning purposes and thus would help decrease the load on available natural freshwater resources,’ Singh said. “This will benefit society by solving the problem of the shortage of drinking water,” he said. “The protein supplement and microbial biomass produced after water treatment can be used for the production of animal feed, fertiliser and biofuel. Microalgae also consume a large amount of carbon dioxide from atmosphere during the process of photosynthesis and generates oxygen,” he said. “Decreasing the load of carbon dioxide in atmosphere by microalgae will resolve the issue of global warming to a great extent,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/microalgae-tech-to-treat-water-waste-iit-bhu-research-101630781785596.html
05-09-2021||Pune||Pawar hails APJ Kalam’s name for e-learning school in Pune||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Sharad Pawar welcomed naming an e- learning school in the name of former president APJ Kalam instead of any politician’s name. NCP corporator Laxmi Dudhane built the school in Kothrud and it was inaugurated by Pawar. Pawar said, “Usually whenever we attend a municipal corporation programme, we find projects named after elected members’ relatives. I don’t want to make any comment about it but I liked dedicating this school after Kalam.” Pawar said that e-learning is very important and it is important to introduce IT to kids from school days.” Pawar said, “Kalam and I worked together for two years and he was my advisor when I was defence minister. He was very humble and simple. During this era he wrote one letter to me which is now at exhibit hall in Baramati. The letter highlights the relationship between scientific community and politicians.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pawar-hails-apj-kalam-s-name-for-e-learning-school-in-pune-101630781784234.html
05-09-2021||Chandigarh||Guest Column | Stay at home but don’t become a couch potato||With stay at home, work from home and quarantine becoming an integral part of our lives, many of us are using the coronavirus pandemic as an excuse to binge on unhealthy food and skip workout. This is dangerous as eating healthy and staying fit are all the more important during a pandemic. A well-balanced nutritious diet helps keep the immune system up and running and ward off disease. Diet, physical activity and health are all interlinked and influence our physical, mental, and social well-being.Cut out junk Our lifestyle will determine whether we will remain healthy or fall sick and how effectively we will be able to fight an infection. During a pandemic, it is especially important to eat plenty of fruits and vegetables, which are rich in vitamins and minerals and fibre. Junk food does not provide us with the right amount of calories, and nutrients. Besides, processed food increases our proclivity to develop disease and may also lead to weight gain. Simple change in our daily diet can go a long way in our quest for longevity and improving quality of life. It will also help manage symptoms of diseases one has already developed. Healthy eating involves replacing foods that contain trans fats, excess salt, and sugar with more nutritious options.Stocking up on healthy snacks to keep the hunger pangs at bay is always a good idea. Instead of having sweets or salty snacks, one should opt for healthier options such as nuts, cheese, yoghurt (preferably unsweetened), chopped or dried fruit, boiled eggs, or other locally sourced healthy options. We must ensure that our diet has adequate: Carbohydrates : They help maximise the body’s ability to use glycogen to fuel short and high-intensity exercises. They are an ideal source of energy as they are readily converted into glucose. Fat: Provides us with extra energy to fuel our body for longer exercise sessions. It insulates our bodies and also protects our vital organs. Protein: It helps improve muscle-protein synthesis, prevent muscle damage, promote recovery and boost the immune system. Vitamins and minerals: Vitamins and minerals are only needed in small quantities, but their role is essential for overall health and proper functioning of all body systems. Stay active Maintaining an active and disciplined lifestyle will help reduce our medical expenditures.A sedentary lifestyle is usually associated with an increased risk for chronic disease, loss of movement, and decreased immune health. Even while confined to our homes, a person should devote 150 minutes to moderate-intensity exercise and 75 minutes to high-intensity physical activity per week, or a combination of both. One should focus on: 1.Strength and core strength: This is the amount of force a muscle can produce against some form of resistance. Improving core strength can help improve balance and motion.2. Aerobic capacity and endurance: This is the ability of our heart and lungs to get oxygen to our muscles. During aerobic activity, we repeatedly move large muscles in our arms, legs and hips. It leads to deep breathing and helps maximise the amount of oxygen in our blood. Our heart beats faster, which increases blood flow to our muscles. 3.Flexibility, mobility, and stability: Flexibility is the capacity to move through the our active and passive range of motion. 4. Balance and coordination: Balance is the ability to stay in control of your body’s movement and coordination is being able to move two or more body parts with measureStay hydrated Good hydration means getting the right amount of water before, during, and after exercise. Water regulates our body temperature and lubricates our joints. It helps transport nutrients to give us the energy to keep healthy. If we are not hydrated, our body cannot perform at an optimal level. Plain water is any day better than sugar-sweetened beverages, which provide empty calories.(The writer is a freelance contributor)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-stay-at-home-but-don-t-become-a-couch-potato-101630781605520.html
05-09-2021||Pune||Caterer’s cook kidnapped, found in Kharadi; 3 in custody||A cook working for a caterer in Kharadi area of Pune was kidnapped by three men who tried to extort ₹10,000 from his employer but were caught in police net on Friday evening. The kidnapped was identified as Vishwajeet Pal and was picked up in a six-seated auto rickshaw around 5:34 pm on Friday from a Durga Mata Temple near Kharadi bypass, according to his complaint. He was found, along with four men who were arrested later, around 6:40pm. The arrested men were identified as Mukesh Manoj Jadhav (21), Manohar Kashi Ram Jadhav (23) and Vinod Shankar Chavhan (24), according to the police. The men called the complainant using Pal‘s phone. “We’ve taken their police custody till Monday. The place where they had picked him up from was close to where the complainant‘s catering business is located. When the first call was made they made all speak with the complainant however, when the complainant asked why he needed the money, the kidnapper snatched the phone and cut it. The complainant thought something was suspicious so he went near the place where Paul had parked the two wheeler, and asked around when people told him that a few men had come in a succeeder auto and taken him away,” said assistant police inspector Annasaheb Tapare of Chandan nagar police station. “The man called again and asked him to come to Forest Park with the money. And they were found at the place where they had proposed the exchange,” said API Tapre. Forest Park is a secluded spot along the Pune airport peripheral area. The men were found huddled there. A case was registered under sections 364 (a) (kidnapping), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (insult with an intention of provoking breach of peace), and 34 (common intention) of the Indian penal code at Chandan Nagar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/caterers-cook-kidnapped-found-in-kharadi-3-in-custody-101630781544255.html
05-09-2021||Chandigarh||Witerati | Principal Bhupinder: The rainbow on litscape||“Can you imagine ji, I spent the whole morning scouting all over Sector 17 for this red shirt for our Lit event today!The man in the Red Shirt.This is not about the red shirt. It is about the joie de vivre that coloured the twine and threadwork of the man.Principal Bhupinder.The teacher who gave not lectures but lessons in living life. The Principal who taught how to live a principled and spirited life. How to be a rainbow on the greyest and gloomiest of days. The life and soul of tricity’s litscape, first and foremost. A former Principal of Government College, man of letters, self-trained shutterbug and all that, later.This is not an attempt to sum up the man, who was more than the sum of many parts. That’s best done by those who knew him longer or better.This is about those who knew him briefly, as brief as his numbered bursts of breaths when corona knocked on the door.He burst upon our literary circle and the tricity’s litscape in signature style.When yours truly had to field Q&A from a veteran with swag, peering from behind a tripod parked in the wings of the Press Club Hall staging my book launch, little did one know then that a bright ‘n’ bold breed had arrived on the tricity’s literary scene.A pair of black goggles, a vibrant wardrobe, a vocabulary that could give the likes of Shashi Tharoor a run for their money, and a photography paraphernalia with its piece de resistance – a mic that was a thundering match for the mouth pieces of any Aaj Tak or Republic – is what announced him.Vlogger Principal Bhupinder had arrived.The teacher who was more a student. Self taught. Self motivated.The Man in the Red Shirt.It was not about bold and bright sartorial styles. It was about a lone ranger trying to colour his life.It was about a littérateur looking for a Lit family outside of family, in a universe where blood bonds apparently loved his bank balance or bungalow rather than him.It was about a bachelor’s lonely heart looking for the colours of love ‘n’ life in the lyrics of Dev Anand’s “Abhi naa jao chhod ke” when he tagged us in his version of Binaca Geetmala -- ‘Bhupinder Geetmala’.“I’ll try not to tag you all so much on Facebook. Your Timeline has more my posts than yours,” he once gregariously remarked. I reassured him that I didn’t mind him tagging me. (Incidentally, he was the first to bestow upon me the ‘Humour Express’ tag). I truly didn’t mind, for the tags were throbbing signals he was up and about. The tags. The blips, on the social media’s pulse that told us that ‘chief cheer-leading officer’ (CCO) Principal Bhupinder was in action. The Facebook ‘blips’ that bespoke of his pulse rate.Then these blips began petering out at the peak of the pandemic. A sense of unease gripped.An unease that spurred one to frantically call him and fellow authors for organising any help that was needed.An unease born of life’s lessons from many summers ago.An unease born of knowing that sometimes when life is about to give with one hand, it takes away with the other.Seasons ago, just before life was about to gift me my baby, it was my father whom it had snatched. That same sense of unease now returned. My every particle, every pore became a prayer. A prayer that all those who are a part and parcel of my writerly journey should be there.This time, a literary ‘baby’, my new book, on the way to being born. This time, the tricity lit circle’s father figure snatched.Those ‘blips’ of his tags on the litscape’s pulse metre never to return.chetnakeer@yahoo.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/witerati-principal-bhupinder-the-rainbow-on-litscape-101630781424934.html
05-09-2021||Pune||4 customers of finance firm duped by man claiming to be manager||Pune: A senior employee of a finance company has lodged a complaint against a person who is cheating people using the name of his employer company. The suspect uses the logo of the company and identifies himself as a manager at the company and offers pre-approved loans to customers of the finance company, according to the complainant. A complaint was filed by a 35-year-old resident of Hadapsar who works as risk manager at the company. “The complainant is a manager at the company. The caller used his company’s name to bait customers,” said sub-inspector S Salvi of Khadki police station who registered the case. According to his complaint, the calls to four of the witnesses were made between February 21 and March 10. In one month, the accused managed to steal ₹.48,187 from four customers, according to the complaint. The witnesses fell for the rules and transferred the money to the various bank accounts that the caller provided to each one of them, allegedly on multiple occasions. However, when the loan money was not deposited in their account, they called up the real helpline of the company only to find that they were duped. A case was registered under section 420 (cheating) of Indian penal code along with section 66 (C) and 66(D) of the information technology act at Khadki police station. Police Inspector (crime) Sangeeta Jadhav of Khadki police station is investigating the case further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/4-customers-of-finance-firm-duped-by-man-claiming-to-be-manager-101630781364239.html
05-09-2021||Pune||Motorist causes death of 65-yr-old pedestrian woman in Pune||A 25-year-old man from Pimpri-Chinchwad was booked by the local police after he hit a 65-year-old pedestrian woman with the motorbike that he was riding on Friday around 11 along the Pune-Nashik road. The deceased was identified as Anita Anant Kashid, a resident of Landewadi area of Bhosari. “She was walking along the road when the man hit her with his two-wheeler and caused her death. Earlier, we registered it as a death of an unidentified senior citizen. However, her family members had circulated a picture stating she had failed to return home that morning. Hence, we could identify her and inform her family. The accused has not yet been arrested,” said Hawaldar Kiran Kare of Bhosari police station who is investigating the case. A case under Sections 279, 337, 304 (A) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 184 and 119/177 of the Motor Vehicle Act was registered at Bhosari police station against the motorist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/motorist-causes-death-of-65-yr-old-pedestrian-woman-in-pune-101630781185451.html
05-09-2021||Pune||Take online darshan of Pune’s Dagdusheth Ganpati this year||For the second consecutive year, the Dagdusheth Ganpati mandal, one of the prominent Ganpati mandals in Pune, has decided to cancel celebrations and keep it simple by holding the ten days’ festival within the main temple itself. However, the mandal is introducing an “augmented reality” darshan of Bappa for devotees seeking online darshan as this is the 129th year of Ganpati celebrations for the mandal and the decision has been taken keeping the safety of Punekars’ in mind in the time of Covid-19.At a press conference held on Thursday, Ashok Godse, president of the Dagdusheth Ganpati mandal, said, “Just like last year, there won’t be any big pandal, decorations or rush of people taking darshan. Even the volunteers and trustees of the mandal will not step inside the temple for 10 days and our priests will perform daily pooja and aarti. On the second day of Ganpati, five women as representatives will perform the traditional Atharvashirsh Pathan pooja inside the temple. Most importantly for devotees across the world, we will provide a live online link for darshan through augmented reality technology so that they can watch, experience and even perform aarti of Shrimant Dagdusheth Ganpati Bappa from the comfort and safety of their homes. Our appeal to all Punekars is not to visit the temple but take darshan from home in the live online mode.”Pune city mayor Murlidhar Mohol, Pune joint police commissioner Dr Ravindra Shisve, and trustees of the mandal were also present at the press conference.Mohol said, “Considering social responsibility and safety of our loved ones, this decision of the Dagdusheth Ganpati mandal is appreciated and I appeal to all other mandals to follow suit. This will give a positive message to all Ganpati mandals across the state and we should help our Covid warriors, the police department and concerned government bodies to stop the spread of the virus.”While Shisve on the occasion said, “The Pune pattern of the Ganpati festival has been much appreciated all over the state since the last year and we are glad that the Dagdusheth Ganpati mandal is the torch-bearer for other mandals. This will ease the pressure on the police department with regard to crowd management and other safety issues during the festival. Still our police bandobast will be there for traffic monitoring and safety but our appeal to Punekars is to take darshan online this year.”Permission denied to Dhol Tasha steady playingAbout granting permission to Dhol Tasha pathaks for steady on-the-spot playing, Shivse said, “We are getting many requests and demands from the Dhol tasha pathaks, Ganpati mandals and even from mayor Murlidhar Mohol to give permission for steady on-the-spot playing of dhol tasha. But it is not possible as it will lead to crowding and spread of the virus. So we are not going to give permission to any of the processions and even steady dhol tasha playing during the Ganpati festival.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/take-online-darshan-of-dagdusheth-ganpati-this-year-101630781005633.html
05-09-2021||Chandigarh||Guest Column | Curriculum for a gender equal world||In India, women and girls are brought up in a socio-cultural context steeped in discrimination and inequity. Such social conditions often manifest in the form of social norms that perpetuate violence and discrimination against girls and women. Statistics paint a grim picture. In 2018, the National Family Health Survey, 2018, noted that 33% married women in India have experienced physical, sexual, and emotional spousal violence, and around 90% women have experienced some form of sexual harassment in their lives. Adolescent girls are particularly vulnerable, they find themselves undervalued, neglected and unloved in their own homes and communities. Restricted mobility, low priority for schooling, early marriage, confine them to domestic roles.Therefore, it is critical to look at the barriers that hold us back from becoming a gender equal world. Social development will be equally important to sustain India’s economic growth prospects. It is heartening to see the growing awareness among government and private sector stakeholders about the need for building a gender equal world. Over the years, government initiatives such as Beti Bachao Beti Padhao (BBBP), Mahila Shakti Kendra (MSK), the Adolescent Girls Scheme and Female Entrepreneurship Programme have helped improve the gender equality index but there is still a long way to go. Private sector participation will be critical in further enabling and ensuring this.Emulating the Punjab model Early this year, the government of Punjab partnered with Breakthrough and J-PAL South Asia to integrate a gender sensitisation curriculum for adolescents into the syllabus for all government middle schools in Punjab. The department of school education in Punjab will work with Breakthrough to train teachers to integrate the curriculum for Classes 6 to 8. The syllabus will be introduced in 4,500 schools across the state. With 23,000 trained teachers, the curriculum is expected to reach an estimated six lakh students. The education department will take responsibility to train the teachers and familiarise them with the curriculum.Gender-sensitive programmes In 2012, we created the ‘Taaron Ki Toli’ programme (TKT) or gang of stars to promote gender-sensitive behaviours among young adults. Taaron Ki Toli is a school-based, gender equity programme for adolescent boys and girls. The programme offered 28 fortnightly, 45-minute classroom sessions and 12 assembly sessions. It was piloted in Haryana, a state with the most skewed sex ratio in the country, to cover children in government schools in Classes 6 to 8. The programme was evaluated in a randomised control trial by JPal, South Asia, over 2.5 years, covering 14,000 children across 300 schools. The results were heartening: the gender attitudes and behaviours of both boys and girls had shifted.Significantly, a more significant change was seen in boys’ behaviours, which might be because they have comparatively few social constraints. The most significant shifts were seen in perceptions around norms related to girls’ higher education and paid employment.We ran a similar initiative called the adolescent empowerment programme in eastern Uttar Pradesh from 2016-2021. The programme sought to engage with adolescent girls and boys aged between 11-19 years to understand how they demand and access gender equity in health and education in their homes and community for themselves and others. The evaluation of the programme was done in February this by NRMC. The findings showed a significant decrease in earlya nd underage marriages.Today, it is more than important to create similar programs to drive social and behavioural changes to build a gender equal world. These programmes, after due evaluation and testing, should be incorporated in the school curriculum. Schools provide the unique opportunity of directly dealing with the future change makers and through them, those closely associated with them. Partnerships with governments States like Kerala, Maharashtra have taken proactive steps to re-look at their school curriculum to make it more gender inclusive. Similarly, the programme adopted by the government of Punjab will increase student awareness on constitutional values and promote gender sensitive attitudes among students from an early age. Similar collaborations between the government and the development sector experts and organisations will yield significant positive results. The government of Punjab has taken a crucial step towards addressing it. Such initiatives by the governments both at state and central levels can encourage inter-gender and intergenerational constructive dialogues and build awareness about human rights to help adolescents identify their right for education, health and a violence-free life. Similar steps by other state governments can definitely help in building a gender-equal world.(The writer heads the leadership building ,research and development programme at Breakthrough India, a women’s rights organisation in New Delhi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-curriculum-for-a-gender-equal-world-101630780885172.html
05-09-2021||Pune||Shetti’s nomination: Pawar says party done its job honestly||Following reports about Maha Vikas Aghadi government planning to replace Swabhimaan Shetkari sanghatana chief Raju Shetti’s name recommended for appointment as members of the legislative council (MLC), NCP’s Sharad Pawar said his party has done its job with sincerity.Earlier there were reports that ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA), led by Uddhav Thackeray, has requested Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari to replace one of the names from among the list of 12 people who were recommended for appointment as members of the legislative council (MLC).Pawar said, “We have done our job honestly. What Shetti says is his choice. We are now awaiting Governor to take a call on the list.”Earlier, reacting to report, Shetti had said the NCP had promised a seat in MLC to his party. His reaction came after talks of MVA submitting a fresh list to the governor with one change. A delegation of MVA leaders headed by the chief minister (CM), along with deputy CM Ajit Pawar (Nationalist Congress Party) and state revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat (Congress), met the governor on Wednesday evening.Speculations are doing rounds that they have requested him to remove farmer leader Raju Shetti’s name from the list. Shetti is a former parliamentarian and heads political outfit Swabhimani Paksha. His name was recommended from NCP’s quota but the party is reportedly upset with him over his stand taken against MVA government.NCP leader Ajit Pawar On Thursday said according to new information, a person, who was defeated in a recently held election, cannot be nominated for the Upper House, so they are verifying the same. This triggered talks about MVA replacing the name of Shetti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/shettis-nomination-pawar-says-party-done-its-job-honestly-101630780764170.html
05-09-2021||Pune||Pune dist reports 915 new Covid cases, 7 deaths||Pune district reported 915 new Covid-19 cases and seven deaths in 24 hours on Saturday. This took the progressive count to 1.122 million of which 1.087 million have recovered, 19,645 deaths and 15,469 are active cases who are currently in hospital undergoing treatment or are in home isolation. Pune also saw over 0.1 million vaccinations on the day. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 506 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 347,625 and with seven more deaths reported the death toll went up to 6,683. Pune city reported 218 new cases which took the progressive count to 512,456 and with no more deaths reported the death toll went up to 9,124. Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) reported 191 new Covidcases and the progressive count went up to 262,869 and with no more deaths reported the toll stood at 3,489. Pune also saw 101,194 vaccinations on the day as per Co-WIN dashboard on Saturday and totally 8,475,122 vaccines have been administered total including 6,117,748 first dose and 2,357,374 are second dose. A total of 536 vaccination sites conducted vaccination on the day out of which 225 are government and 311 private.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-dist-reports-915-new-covid-cases-7-deaths-101630780644181.html
05-09-2021||Chandigarh||Faulty LED streetlights: Ludhiana MC warns firm of contract termination||Amid the row over missing and non-functional streetlights in Ludhiana, Tata company has been given a month’s time to improve its functioning otherwise the civic body will move forward with terminating the contract. After councillors and mayor Balkar Sandhu slammed the company for its alleged poor performance, principal secretary of local bodies department, AK Sinha, convened a meeting with both the parties in Chandigarh on Saturday. Mayor Sandhu, senior deputy mayor Sham Sundar Malhotra, leader of opposition in MC House Harbhajan Singh Dang, leader of Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) councillors Swarandeep Chahal, and BJP local bodies cell in-charge Inder Aggarwal were among those present in the meeting. The councillors criticised the company officials over poor maintenance of streetlights and lack of maintenance staff and machinery, while the company raised the issue of pending bills amounting to ₹9 crore, due to which the working of the firm had been hit badly. Leader of opposition in the MC General House Dang said, “Poor maintenance of streetlights is a major issue and residents have been raising hue and cry over the defunct streetlights, due to which many areas of the city are left in the dark during the night hours. The company has failed to depute the required number of maintenance staff and teams visit wards on a weekly basis. They do not even have hydraulic ladders to repair the streetlights. There should be one team in every ward and maintenance should be done on a regular basis.”Senior deputy mayor Malhotra said that the company has failed to improve the working in the last two years and residents have been bearing the brunt. The councillors stated that the online system to keep a check on the functioning of lights was also not working properly, but the company has assured to improve the working in the coming time. Mayor Sandhu said, “One last chance has been given to the company despite the repeated complaints from the councillors. If the company still fails to improve in a month, then a House meeting will be organised to terminate the contract.” Survey finds 4,000 lights missingThe MC has found at least 4,000 streetlights missing in about 50 wards of the city during the survey ordered by the mayor in July. The company had earlier claimed in its survey that 900 lights were missing and over 1.2 lakh lights have been installed in the city.The councillors stated that the company had agreed to install 1.5 lakh lights under the contract, but now they are claiming that there are just 1.3 lakh points. After the meeting, the company has now assured that the lights will be installed at the missing points.Senior deputy mayor said the company has also been directed to install additional 15% streetlights as per a clause in the agreement as streetlights were still missing from a number of areas in the city. He added that the pending payment will be released once the firm’s functioning improves.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/led-streetlights-ludhiana-mc-warns-firm-of-contract-termination-101630780584793.html
05-09-2021||Pune||Pune’s vet polyclinic to become centre for specialised animal care||Pune district plans to develop its veterinary polyclinic at Aundh into a multi-speciality veterinary hospital which will cost the administration about ₹5.72 crore. The current hospital lacks basic screening technology for animals and with the new building, it would be a self-sustained centre but would be completely run by the government, the administration will also change the fee structure once the new complex comes up which will also have a crematorium for animals, vaccination center and grooming center. As per the plan submitted by the Zilla Parishad for approval of expansion of the existing polyclinic into a super speciality hospital, it would cost ₹5,72,88,558 of which ₹4.83 crore would be spent for construction. The existing fee structure of nominal ₹1-5 for services availed would be revised to ₹10-50 to break even the operation cost. Along with fee revision, a technical advisory committee would be put in place, veterinary experts would be appointed and it would provide services like vaccination, IPD services, OPD services, diagnosis, treatment, medicines, ambulance, grooming center and vet crematorium. Ayush Prasad, CEO, Zilla Parishad said, “As of now, the services are limited and so to expand the polyclinic into a super speciality hospital our team visited and studied the hospital in Hyderabad. “This hospital will have the potential to become a regional centre and act as a speciality veterinary hospital not just for Pune but for nearby districts. Although we do have referral hospitals in rural areas, this will become a referral hospital to major surgeries and specialised care. The rate revision would only be to ensure that the centre is self sustained,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punes-vet-polyclinic-to-become-centre-for-specialised-animal-care-101630780524226.html
05-09-2021||Pune||August vax drive in Pune:Highest count since Jan; first vax doses rise by 17%, second 20%||August saw Pune’s highest vaccination drive ever since it started in January. Although the central government opened up vaccination eligibility for all persons above 18 years in May, the shortage of vaccines slowed down the process but in August, with the support of private companies donating large amounts of vaccines, the administration was able to inoculate over 1.8 million people in the month of August alone. First dose vaccinations rose by 17% and second dose vaccinations rose by 20% in just a month. So, 70% of eligible beneficiaries got the first dose while 38% have been fully vaccinated in the district.Out of the 8.142 million vaccine doses administered in the district, 1.880 million or 23% were administered in the month of August alone. Out of these 1.880 million vaccine doses, 695,158 were administered in Pune city (Pune municipal corporation); 426,138 were administered in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC); and 758,766 were administered in Pune rural. Out of the expected 8.53 million beneficiaries in the district, 5.94 million got the first dose while 2.20 million were fully vaccinated. This is 70% of the eligible beneficiaries who got at least one shot of the vaccine and 38% who got both shots of the vaccine, which, by the end of July, was only 53% of the eligible beneficiaries who had got the first shot of the vaccine and 18% were fully vaccinated.Sachin Edake, district immunisation officer said, “This massive jump in the number of vaccines is because of the consistent supply of vaccines from the state and Centre. However, the reason why Pune could cross the ‘two lakh vaccines a day’ milestone and has been the only district in the state to do so can be attributed to a major contribution by the Bajaj group which contributed over two lakh doses along with syringes helping us expedite the vaccination process and break a new record.”On Saturday, Maharashtra broke a new vaccination record as the previous best single day record for vaccination was bettered and 1,161,141 Covid-19 vaccines were administered till 6 pm which would further increase later, informed Dr Pradip Vyas, principal secretary of the state public health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/august-vax-drive-in-pune-highest-count-since-jan-first-vax-doses-rise-by-17-second-20-101630780404139.html
05-09-2021||Delhi||Mismanagement worsens chaos at Ashram Chowk||There seems to be no end to the traffic nightmare at the busy Ashram intersection as poor site management at the ongoing construction on a 750-metre underpass has ensured that the commuters are at the receiving end since the beginning of work in 2019. The project has already missed four deadlines.HT on Saturday visited the intersection, which is used by at least 350,000 vehicles every day, and found that the junction is in complete mess owing to poor management of construction site, reckless dumping of debris, and sheer absence of traffic monitoring checks on prohibited vehicles. Construction of an underpass at the junction by Delhi government’s public works department (PWD) was going on in full swing, but the peripheral work such as laying of new pipelines and walkways has added to the choke points for the traffic.Poor site managementThe absence or poor placement of barricades around peripheral works on the stretch from New Friends Colony towards Lajpat Nagar has left commuters at the mercy of contractors. Pipelines are being laid for which parts of the road are dug up with zero barricading. Cars, buses, two-wheelers, and even pedestrians, are all forced to use the same narrow road. Mounds of soil and other debris has settled on the road. On the same stretch, there is another portion dug up right in the middle of the road where men were seen working in the middle of traffic with zero barricades or signage cautioning motorists.A Delhi government spokesperson said the situation has worsened because of the incessant rains. “Work on the Ashram Chowk project is going on with rapid progress and is expected to be completed within a couple of months. The government has made ample provisions at and around the project site for the safety of commuters. The present situation has risen as a result of heavy rainfall in the city and measures are being taken to overcome it,” the spokesperson said.No traffic police deploymentDespite being one of the most busy traffic intersections in the city, HT found no traffic police personnel on the spot on Saturday. At the main junction beneath the flyover, traffic from three sides merge on to a narrow strip leading to long traffic jams on all sides. Despite traffic signals, the barricades at the spot confuse the commuters who often come in each other’s way leading to snarls.Special commissioner (traffic) Muktesh Chander, however, said the traffic police does monitor the situation on the ground closely. “I went with my whole team and those from the PWD department. A complete survey has been done on the stretch. We have asked the PWD to expedite work at the Ashram underpass. Permission for the construction work related to the loop that joins the Outer Ring Road will be done only once the construction at the underpass is complete. We have increased the number of traffic police personnel on the ground because pedestrians use the crossing,” he said.Dumping of debrisHT found that the concessionaires have dumped mounds of soil and debris along the roads at several spots, further narrowing down the way for vehicles and leaving no option for pedestrians but to walk amid moving traffic. New bus stops have been built and the old ones are also operational, but all of them have become informal dumping grounds of construction waste.Prohibited vehicles still plyingThe traffic police has put up boards prohibiting movement of inter-state buses and commercial vehicles towards Nizamuddin but HT found on Saturday several state roadways buses plying on the stretch. A number of medium-sized goods vehicles were also seen on the road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mismanagement-worsens-chaos-at-ashram-chowk-101630778904928.html
05-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi transport minister Kailash Gehlot challenges order in BJP MLA Gupta’s suit||Delhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot has moved the division bench of the Delhi high court against an order by a single judge who refused to grant an ex-parte injunction in a suit that the minister has filed against Delhi BJP MLA Vijender Gupta for allegedly making defamatory remarks against him over the procurement of 1,000 low-floor buses by the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC).The matter is listed for hearing on Monday before a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh.On August 28, the Delhi high court declined to grant ex parte interim relief to Gahlot in his civil defamation plea seeking the removal of alleged defamatory statements and posts shared by Gupta on social media. The court, while issuing summons to Gupta, also gave him 30 days to respond to the suit saying that prima facie no personal allegations were made against Gahlot.Challenging the order, Gahlot has said the single judge was not correct in her view in refusing him interim relief as it “overlooked” specific tweets which made alleged scandalous remarks against him.In his plea, Gahlot said that Gupta, in his tweets, made direct imputations on him which were defamatory, scandalous, vengeful and made without any basis or after any due diligence.Reacting to the development, Gupta on Saturday said he will defend his stand in the court. “I will apprise the court of the facts of the case, and defend my stand,” the legislator said.Gahlot has also filed a criminal defamation case against Gupta, in which the judge has taken cognizance of his allegations and asked him to appear on September 18 to record his statements.On July 12, Gupta had written to LG Anil Baijal demanding a CBI inquiry into the alleged scam involving procurement of 1,000 low-floor buses by the Delhi Transport Corporation.A three-member committee that probed the matter has recommended scrapping the tender of the AMC (annual maintenance contract) of buses finding various “lapses”, he said. There has been “irrefutable evidence of irregularities and violations in the AMC bid”, he had stated, alleging “criminal conspiracy and connivance”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-transport-minister-kailash-gehlot-challenges-order-in-bjp-mla-gupta-s-suit-101630778724783.html
05-09-2021||Delhi||IMD forecasts more intense rains, Delhi headed for wettest monsoon in a decade||With India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecasting another intense rain spell over Delhi and adjoining areas between September 6 and 10, this could be one of the wettest monsoons for the city in at least over the past decade, IMD scientists and weather experts said.Compared to the normal monsoon rain 552.6mm, Delhi has already had a 79% surplus -- 988.4mm rain so far, shows IMD data. Monsoon in Delhi is officially considered between June 1 and September 30. It has also exceeded the monsoon season’s average rainfall of 648.9mm.“This is already the highest rainfall received so far during the season since 2010 when 1031.5mm rainfall was received. Now, with another week of rain forecast, it may even surpass the 2010 mark. From September 6-10, another moderate to heavy spell of rainfall is likely over the northern plains including Delhi-NCR,” said a senior IMD official who asked not to be named.As per IMD rainfall data, till Saturday, the city gauged 232mm rain whereas the normal September rainfall count is 125.1mm. Between August 31 and September 2, Delhi received 230 mm rain. With 112.1mm 24-hour rainfall on September 1, Delhi received the highest single-day rainfall for the month in the past 19 years, IMD said. On August 21, Delhi received 138.8mm rainfall in 24 hours, the highest for that month in over 14 years.“These intense rain spells over the past week, and during the past month, have led to surplus rain. The most recent heavy spell was a result of a deep convergence line forming from Gujarat to Delhi along with the monsoon trough being in the normal position. Another low pressure system is forming over the Bay of Bengal, which will gradually travel to the northwest region from September 6-10, and may result in heavy rain during this time,” said R K Jenamani, senior IMD scientist.This monsoon has been a season of extremes for Delhi. First, the monsoon was delayed by 16 days and finally hit the city on July 13. IMD data shows that till July 16, Delhi had a rainfall deficit of 46%. However, this was soon over with several heavy spells of rain in July as it ended in a monthly rainfall surplus of 141%. In July, Delhi received 507.1 mm rainfall, compared to the normal 210.6 mm. Then August had two dry spells, one of which lasted for 10 days. Rainfall in August oscillated from a monthly rain deficit of 60% to a surplus of 11%, and then ending with a deficit of 13%. August received 214.5mm rainfall against the normal monthly rainfall of 247.7 mm.Independent weather experts said monsoon has behaved odd this season. From dry spells to intense rain, it has been oscillating from one extreme to another, and may result in the city having one of the wettest monsoons in many years. “The dry spells were mainly because both the frequency and intensity of low-pressure systems that form over the Bay of Bengal, which bring rainfall to different parts of the country, were too low. The systems that formed in between brought the heavy spells. September, however, is going to be good in terms of more spells of rain not just in Delhi, but the whole of northern plains and central India,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president, Skymet, a private forecaster.Explaining the reasons behind this, he said, the frequency of formation of low-pressure systems has increased over the past fortnight. “With more systems forming and travelling over the northern plains, more rain is expected. Rain activity is likely to get intense from September 7-10. Then mid-September, another system is likely to form bringing in more showers. Last year, September was largely dry receiving only 20.9mm monthly rainfall,” said Palawat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/imd-forecasts-more-intense-rain-spells-delhi-headed-for-wettest-monsoon-in-a-decade-101630777584819.html
05-09-2021||Delhi||JNU to open for PhD students from Monday||Jawaharlal Nehru University on Saturday announced the phase-wise reopening of the campus from Monday. Under the first phase, final-year PhD students who are required to submit their thesis by December 31 this year will be allowed to enter the campus along with Persons with Disabilities students of PhD programme.University officials also said that students will have to produce a negative RT-PCR report from the last 72 hours. “Upon arrival on campus, every student will produce a Covid-19 negative test report done within 72 hours. JNU Security will ensure compliance,” the deputy registrar said in a circular.The teaching-learning will continue in online mode. While the university has announced opening the Dr. BR Ambedkar Central Library with 50% seating arrangements of reading halls, School and Centre libraries will remain closed.Students and teachers living in containment zones will not be allowed to come to the campus. The university will also follow all sanitization protocols and regular cleaning of common areas and high-touch surfaces will be ensured by the administration. Student and staff will not be allowed without masks and those with critical illness have been advised to take online classes.JNU students’ union members have been demanding reopening of campuses and had scheduled a protest outside Dean of Students office on Monday.Last week, Delhi Disaster Management Authority on Monday issued the standard operating procedures (SOPs) for reopening of schools, colleges, and other educational institutes with 50% seating arrangement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/jnu-to-open-for-phd-students-from-monday-101630777164930.html
05-09-2021||Chandigarh||Row over prime land’s sale in Ludhiana: DC refutes fixing reserve price||Four days after Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) chairman Raman Balasubramaniam refuted allegations of undervaluing a prime commercial property in Model Town Extension and said its reserve price was fixed by a deputy commissioner’s panel, the latter rebutted the claim on Saturday. LIT had auctioned the 16,344 square yards (3.79 acres) land, among around two dozen properties, on August 16. Having a reserve price of ₹91.86 crore, the land was sold to Ritesh Properties and Industries limited for ₹98.38 crore, including 6% cess.Claiming that LIT grossly undervalued the prime land, whose market price is around ₹300 crore, the Bharatiya Janata Party had demanded cancellation of the auction.According LIT chairman Raman Balasubramaniam, the reserve price was fixed by a committee headed by deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Kumar Sharma. However, the DC denied the claim and said rates for selling residential plots and commercial booths were finalised on LIT’s request. As per information, LIT had asked the Price and Rent fixation committee, headed by the DC, to fix the reserve price for around a dozen LIT properties situated in different scheme areas in December last year. The list included commercial plots and built-up booths in Model Town Extension (400 acre) scheme. A meeting of the committee was held in February, and attended by cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, MLA Surinder Dawar and mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu, among others. DC Sharma told HT during that meeting, only rates for residential plots and built-up booths in Model Town Extension were fixed, at ₹28,103 per square yard and ₹56,207 per square yard, respectively. “There is no mention of a 16,344 square yards commercial plot in that list, so no reserve price was decided for it. The LIT chairman or officials can answer how they interpreted the rates fixed by the committee to determine the reserve price of this chunk of land,” he added. On his part, Subramaniam said there seemed to be some miscommunication, as the reserve price was finalised by the DC committee only and proceedings of the meeting were available with LIT. “Reserve prices for residential and commercial land were fixed by the committee. We would have sought the price (for the 16,344 square yards plot) separately if it would have any built up area,” the chairman claimed. BJP seeks FIR against LIT chairmanMeanwhile, alleging scam in the matter, the BJP through a complaint to the DC, on Saturday, demanded an FIR against the LIT chairman.BJP leader Bikram Sidhu alleged that the chairman committed fraud at the behest of a cabinet minister and some close aides of the minister were also involved in it. “The LIT had once proposed to earn around ₹400 crore by establishing a Food Street at the site and now put the land on sale against a reserve price of ₹91.86 crore only. An FIR should be lodged against the chairman and others involved in the case. The government should cancel all auctions organised by the chairman and an inquiry should be marked in all cases,” Sidhu said. Balasubramaniam refuted the allegations, stating that Sidhu’s claims were baseless and without any proof. “All protocols were followed and LIT auctioned the properties as per norms after getting permission from the state government,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/row-over-prime-land-s-sale-in-ludhiana-dc-refuses-fixing-reserve-price-101630776445163.html
05-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police not conducting proper investigation into northeast riots cases: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Saturday alleged that the Delhi Police is not conducting a proper investigation into cases related to the northeast Delhi riots which took place in February last year.Pointing out that charge sheets have been filed in only 35 out of over 700 riots cases, senior AAP leader and Kalkaji MLA Atishi, addressing a press conference, said, “Delhi saw a horrific series of riots in February 2020. We all saw how northeast Delhi saw deadly rioting with extreme violence and arson. Today, even after 1.5 years, the Delhi police has taken no action or conducted any proper investigation and it is evident from the fact that the courts have repeatedly questioned the investigation of Delhi police. All we want to understand is why is the Delhi Police not carrying out a proper investigation for these riots. Is the Delhi police protecting someone in the investigation?”“One might say that we are raising this issue as a political party as the Delhi Police comes under the BJP. But in reality, not just the AAP, even the courts -- be it the sessions court, High Court or the Supreme Court -- have raised questions on the investigation procedures of the police,” Atishi said.On the issue of the appointment of special prosecutors, which has led to a tussle between the Delhi government and the Centre-appointment Lieutenant Governor (LG), Atishi said, “When the special prosecutors were asked in the courts why they were not informed of the matters or did not present the facts of the investigation properly, then they said that they called the Delhi Police repeatedly to get information about the cases, but were not even briefed about the investigations.”A subsequent statement by the AAP added, “This makes it clear that the Delhi police and the LG working under the BJP do not want the Delhi riots to be investigated.”Despite multiple attempts, the Delhi Police did not comment on the matter.The Delhi government and the LG were involved in a tussle over appointment of special prosecutors, after the former refused to appoint special prosecutors suggested by the Delhi Police, saying that there is a high chance of collusion. The LG has also rejected a list of special prosecutors suggested by the Delhi government.The matter is currently being heard in the high court.The L-G office did not comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-not-conducting-proper-investigation-into-northeast-riots-casesaap-101630775304798.html
05-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Wife of alleged Pak spy found murdered in her house in Chandni Mahal||A woman in her mid-50’s, who was previously convicted on charges of circulating fake currency for her husband, an alleged ISI agent from Pakistan, was found murdered inside her house in Central Delhi’s Chandni Mahal area, with police suspecting that she was stabbed to death by someone she knew.Police said the body, which was in a semi-decomposed state, was found on Friday night after locals, after finding the key on the lock outside the house, went in to investigate a foul smell coming from inside.“The body has been sent for post-mortem. It looks like the work of someone she knew. A man who lived with her in this house had died some years ago. She lived alone so it could also be a case related to property dispute,” said an investigating officer, who asked not be named.Deputy commissioner of police (central) Jasmeet Singh said, “We have registered a case of murder. Investigation is on.”According to police, Mumtaz Parveen married Kamran Gauhar, a Pakistan national, some time between 1998-2000. Gauhar was later convicted on terror charges and spying and deported to Pakistan. Parveen had also got a Pakistan citizenship on the basis of her marriage with Gauhar, but police said she had recently applied for an Indian citizenship.Preliminary investigation in the case has revealed that Mumtaz had shifted to Chandni Mahal around 2000 from Karol BaghThe Delhi Police special cell had arrested her husband Gauhar for supplying explosives to another person and circulating fake currency at the behest of ISI in 2000. Parveen, who was also arrested for helping in her husband’s activities, was convicted and sentenced to 10 years imprisonment in 2004.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwife-of-alleged-pak-spy-found-murdered-in-her-house-in-chandni-mahal-101630775004474.html
05-09-2021||Delhi||BJP selling MCDs’ assets ahead of elections next year, alleges AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Saturday alleged that the Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled municipal corporations in Delhi are planning to give away prime plots of land and infrastructure to private entities to rake in money before the MCD elections next year. The Delhi BJP, however, denied the allegation calling it “baseless”.Addressing a press conference, AAP chief spokesperson and Greater Kailash MLA Saurabh Bhardwaj said the North MCD passed a resolution on September 1 to give all the land and buildings they have to “their loved ones” for free.“BJP is preparing to run away from MCD, and is preparing to distribute all the assets and income sources to its own people for free. The BJP-ruled MCD is selling every expensive plot of land it has for very cheap prices. Preparations are underway to auction the hospitals. All the parks of MCD are about to have shops inside them. BJP is preparing to earn money by handing over the roads to the food vendors. BJP-ruled MCD sold Novelty Cinema land worth ₹150 crore for just ₹34 crores; Dangal Maidan will be sold for one-fourth the price,” said Bhardwaj.The Delhi BJP said the AAP lacks basic understanding about the functioning of the MCDs. “For decades, dozens of charitable organisations have been working out of premises owned and provided by the MCDs and running dispensaries, schools for the differently abled and orphans. Most cremation grounds in Delhi are owned by MCDs, but they are maintained and run by charitable NGOs. In fact MCDs extend financial aid to some NGOs,” said Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor.“This week’s North MCD’s standing committee proposal to handover few vacant health department premises to charitable NGOs for running health dispensaries is in line with the decades old tradition, and it is sad that the AAP is trying to malign this good scheme with political vendetta,” the BJP spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/bjp-selling-mcds-assets-ahead-of-elections-next-year-alleges-aap-101630774224753.html
05-09-2021||Other||OP Chautala scores 88 marks in Class 10 English compartment exam||Former Haryana chief minister and Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) chief OP Chautala on Saturday reportedly became the oldest student in the history of the Board of School Education Haryana (BSEH) to pass the Class 10 examination after the board announced his English compartment exam result in which he scored 88 marks.The 86-year-old had appeared for his English compartment exam on August 18 at Arya Girls’ Senior Secondary School in Sirsa. The board had provided him a Class 9 girl student as a writer as he had suffered injury in hand after meeting with an accident near Gurugram.Earlier, Chautala was among the 39,000 students who had passed the Class 12 exam with 33% through open schooling. The board had passed all the students enrolled through distance mode with 33% as they could not conduct the exams due to the Covid-19 crisis.Chautala’s Class 12 result could not be declared as he remained absent in the Class 10 English exam under the National Institute of Open Schooling in 2017. He had passed Class 10 when he was lodged in Tihar jail while serving sentence in the teachers’ recruitment scam.BSEH chairman Jagbir Singh said he had congratulated Chautala’s personal assistant for the leader passing Class 10 English exam as the former CM was busy addressing a meeting.“He became the oldest student under our board to pass Class 10 exam. After he scored 88 marks in English, he passed Class 10 with first division. We will release Chautala’s Class 12 results after he writes an application that he has passed his compartment exam,” the board chairman said.Reacting to the INLD chief’s result, his son Abhay Singh Chautala said his father had quit studies due to family compulsions.“My grandfather Devi Lal was in politics. Chautala had left the school to take care in farming, and to educate his younger siblings. My father used to visit the Tihar jail library during his jail term where he read newspapers and books,” he said.‘Not easy for Chautala to get admission in UG course in govt college’As per educational experts, it is difficult for Chautala to get admission in an undergraduate course in any government college in Haryana as he had scored just 33% in Class 12.Thousands of students who had passed in the Class 12 exam through distance mode are protesting the board giving them 33% score and are accusing the BSEH for the poor result.“There is no chance that these 39,000 students along with Chautala can get admission in any government college in Haryana due to low percentage,” experts said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/op-chautala-scores-88-marks-in-class-10-english-compartment-exam-101630768043694.html
05-09-2021||Pune||Your Space: Reopen educational institutes in Pune for fully vaccinated||The administration is taking steps to resume offline classes at schools and colleges in Pune. Though the civic body claims to be prepared to tackle the anticipated third wave and reported cases of the virus variants, what steps should be taken to ensure students, staff and those related to running the institution are not exposed to a possible virus risk? Readers share views. Post second wave cases, avoid reopening of schools It is true that online education cannot replace the in-person teaching experience. Children are now glued to screens from morning till night and because of the current situation, there seems to be no way out of it. But as a parent, the idea of sending children to school still appears to be a risky one. We have seen that adults are not following the Covid preventive rules. It is a difficult task to control children’s behaviour when they get together with their friends. Even if all the teaching, non-teaching and supporting staff iare vaccinated, the vaccination of the children has not begun yet. So, how will we ensure that the virus won’t spread among them? I think parents would feel a lot safer if the Covid vaccine for the children is made available and after a major portion of the section is vaccinated, schools are reopened. Even in the case of adults the cases have been recorded even after full vaccination. So, even if the administration is saying that the Covid health infrastructure for the children is ready, learning from the second wave we should not take risks. Kavita Joshi Reopen schools under Covid safety cover Some parents are sceptical of reopening of schools, but there is also a huge section of them who are willing to send pupils to educational institutes. Though it is accepted that operations of educational institutions would not be as it was before the pandemic struck, we still need to find a way to reopen them. This is a matter of the entire generation. Recently, I read in newspapers that a task force has recommended guidelines to reopen schools. All the stakeholders should reflect on them. With some adjustments and precautions, educational establishments could be reopened. Teachers and non-teaching staff have been going to school for the day-to-day work. With few classes and batches of students, offline lessons could be restarted. Santosh Arkade Onus on college students to follow safety norms I have been missing my campus life. Most of my friends have taken at least the first dose of the vaccine. With proper precautions and fully vaccinated attendance, I think offline classes can be restarted. It is everyone’s personal responsibility to follow the Covid-appropriate behaviour. College students are adults and they should be responsible to follow these norms. Also, colleges should maintain sanitisation and hygiene at the campus and classrooms. College canteens could be a major hotspot for the transmission of the virus. So, it should be made sure that rules are followed there too. Also, most of the outstation students have given up their hostel and PG rooms. Proper guidelines will have to be issued for these establishments if students will have to return for offline classes. Dhanashree Bhagat Reopening of schools will help working parents Working parents are facing issues taking care of kids when schools are closed. Parents who work from home can manage, but those who need to step out for their respective jobs are facing many challenges. Also, the screen time of kids has increased exponentially. A solution has to be found to address this issue. There is still a risk of Covid infection, but offline classes for higher standards could be arranged. With vaccination, Covid-appropriate behaviour and alertness, classes can be resumed in campuses. Students are missing out on the experience of offline schooling and it is important for their personality development. Chitra Ingole Restart schools with 25% student count Schools have restarted in villages where there are no reported Covid cases. In the city, it is difficult to implement it because students come from across all localities. Instead of having offline classes for all of them at once, student count of one batch should be kept at 25% and parents can drop them at school instead of taking a school bus. Though it will cause inconvenience to many, it is worth taking keeping the safety of students and school staff in mind. Children have become irritated and frustrated sitting at home. School or colleges are socialising spaces for them. Once the vaccination of teaching and non-teaching staff is completed, schools could be reopened with only 1 or 2 classes. Then gradually it could be resumed fully. There is still a risk of the third wave, but we cannot be sure how many such waves would come. So, instead of stopping our lives, we have to find a way around it. Now when Covid cases are low, we can try to store as much experience of normal life with Covid-appropriate behaviour before another possible wave comes our way. Pradip Khengare Reopen offline classes for undergraduate, postgraduate programmes Reopening of educational institutes especially for the undergraduate and postgraduate programmes need to be considered by the government. Though education is being imparted through online format, there are many aspects of the on-campus education system which not only improves the efficiency of learning and teaching, but also contributes to the overall development of the students. It can be reopened in stages with priority to final year students. However, I feel that the reopening needs to be considered only when vaccination of the entire staff of the educational institution and the students is complete with two jabs of the vaccine. While, reopening of campuses of primary and secondary schools can be kept on hold for this academic year considering the fact that the vaccines for the age group below 18 years are yet to be available. Preeti Joshi Conduct offline classes for students with no access to online tools While the administration might be taking steps to reopen schools and colleges, it is important for us to remember the fact that the pandemic is not over yet. Resuming offline classes in areas where positivity rates are high and online learning is feasible, is a recipe for disaster. However, some students living in rural areas do not have access to the tools necessary for online education. Hence, schools and colleges should be reopened while online education is continued. Students who can continue with online education should be encouraged to do so; while other students should have an option of offline education available to them. When schools and colleges are reopened, social distancing norms must be followed and proper sanitisation should be maintained. Vaccines must be distributed quickly to all those who are in immediate need. Hoping to see a positive change in the future! Sara Kasture Staff should be fully vaccinated To ensure a Covid-safe environment for the students all necessary precautions such as wearing masks, social distancing, sanitising of hands and temperature checks should be followed before entering the campus. Schools and colleges should regularly disinfect classrooms and washrooms to maintain hygiene. The civic body should prioritise getting staff members vaccinated. If classes are conducted in multiple batches, it will provide adequate safety and reduce the risk of infection. Avani Khare||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/your-space-reopening-of-educational-institutes-101630763483431.html
05-09-2021||Pune||Curtain Call: Reopening of theatres in Maharashtra state... after a long wait||I was writing about something else when there were multiple messages informing that theatres are set to open in Maharashtra on November 5. And there were suddenly multiple feelings and questions. There is no doubt in my mind that I am happy about this. Let me state this at the outset. There is a sense of relief too. After nearly eight months, theatres are set to open again and it is after six months that the government has made a concrete statement about theatres. The future of cinema halls is still uncertain, but we will get to that later. But when I read the WhatsApp message, I did not understand why they have chosen a date that is more than two months away. Of course, they have tried to explain it by saying that the workforce will need time to get the theatres in working condition and that the fifth of November is Global Marathi Theatre Day. I, somehow, am not too convinced with the logic. Theatres will not need two months to get back into working condition. As far as getting the entire machinery rolling is concerned, with the rehearsals, opening and booking theatre slots, time required for publicity, I still don’t think a wait time of two months is necessary. I wish they understood that it is going to take time to get the audience back in theatres. The culture of going out for a play or a movie has taken a hit. I have no doubt in my mind that it will resume, but it will take time! And the only way to deal with it is by restarting the theatres sooner. Any delay we cause in reopening theatres is going to delay this process further. Also, while theatre artists – both onstage and backstage – have definitely suffered during the past two years, there is very little conversation happening about theatre producers. When the term “producer” is heard, it is assumed that the person is wealthy and might not need any assistance from the state. That is far from the truth, especially in such extraordinary times. And producers will only benefit when performances restart! I don’t know how a fifty per cent capacity will help them, but it’s a start nonetheless! Also, coming back to the point of two months, malls were reopened on a much shorter notice. Only fully vaccinated people are allowed inside. The capacity of malls is much larger. Then why can’t this model be used? I am sure there are some explanations, then why aren’t those communicated to the public? Why is there such a blatant lack of communication between the artists and the government? It might also be a wait and watch policy with respect to the third wave. I mean, who can predict it anymore. Just typing “Third Wave in India” on Google will offer so many differing reports from reliable publications that it is best not to get in this debate! Whenever I go out of the house, I can see that life has resumed to normal, or at least it appears to be. Restaurants are crowded. People are roaming about on the street. In-person meetings are now being preferred over online ones. And this is just in a two hundred metre radius of my house. I have never understood the government apathy towards art forms, and since I work in theatre, I will say theatre. New theatres are built and are closed for renovation. Architecture of the venues isn’t planned well. Is it so hard to employ people with a good aesthetic sense? If we can do it for much smaller projects, why can’t the government? People from the theatre fraternity are seldom consulted about it. And this is just about the venue. I haven’t even started about policies and laws for artists. This is not a rant against any particular government, but about the attitude in general. This is not the first time I have written about it, and the way things are going, I am pretty sure it won’t be the last. Nipun Dharmadhikari is a storyteller and looks forward to telling them on stage, in front of the camera or in person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/curtain-call-a-long-wait-101630759043236.html
05-09-2021||Pune||Accused made ‘extra-judicial confession’ in Dabholkar murder case, says lawyer||Sachin Andure, one of the two alleged shooters of Narendra Dabholkar, allegedly made an extra-judicial confession about having killed him to a restaurant owner in Aurangabad days after the rationalist was found dead in Pune in 2013, special public prosecutor Prakash Suryavanshi submitted in the case on Friday. The defence questioned the veracity and admissibility of the evidence.A new set of draft charges submitted by Suryavanshi include Sections 120(b) (criminal conspiracy) read with 302 (murder), 302 with 34 (common intention), and 302 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) along with Section 16 of Unlawful Activities Prevention Act and Sections of Arms Act against the four accused in the murder. IPC Section 201 (destruction of evidence) has been invoked against a fifth accused.The defence urged SR Navander, the special judge appointed under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) to hear the case, to consider a trial involving all charge sheets submitted by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), including the one which has contradicting claims about the pair of shooters who killed Dabholkar.Two bike-borne assailants shot dead Dabholkar in August 2013 and the investigation into the murder was handed over to the CBI a year later. In the first charge sheet filed in the case in September 2016, the CBI named Virendra Tawade as the main conspirator and Sarang Akolkar and Vinay Pawar as the shooters. A supplementary charge sheet was filed in February 2019, naming Andure and Sharad Kalaskar as the two shooters. Another charge sheet was filed in November 2019, against advocate Sanjiv Punalekar and his aide Vikram Bhave, naming them as co-conspirators.The CBI included the extrajudicial confession in the supplementary charge sheet. Along with this, the prosecution said there are four eyewitnesses to the confession.Advocate Virendra Ichalkaranjikar, who represents the accused, said two of the eyewitnesses identified the two men who were earlier named as shooters--Akolkar and Pawar. “The prosecution will not tell you this. When the first charge sheet was filed, one pair of men was incriminated, and my client was called the mastermind (Tawade). Three years later, another charge sheet is filed in which two different men are shooters, but my client is still the alleged mastermind.”Suryavanshi also cited the statement of businessman Sanjay Sadvilkar, who allegedly provided weapons to Tawade. Sadvilkar’s statement was recorded in the first charge sheet the CBI filed in 2016.Ichalkaranjikar said in the first charges sheet, Sadvilkar was quoted as saying the two men, who had come with Tawade were Akolkar and Pawar. “The CBI changed its course of direction later on. What they filed was a supplementary charge sheet. Once the first charge sheet is filed, the direction of the investigation is final.”Suryavanshi also referred to a forensic expert Nilesh Wagh’s psychological assessment of Andure, Kalaskar, and Punalekar, and added he said the statements made by the two shooters during the recreation of the crime scene were truthful.Ichalkaranjikar questioned the admissibility of the expert opinion.“Even after a polygraph/narco test, what is the evidential value of Wagh’s inputs? None. Just like there is no evidential value to a statement of a co-accused against an accused,” said Ichalkaranjikar.On August 20, eight years after Dabholkar was killed, the CBI submitted “draft charges” in the special UAPA court that will hear the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/accused-made-extra-judicial-confession-in-dabholkar-murder-case-says-prosecution-as-defence-questions-veracity-101630740624376.html
05-09-2021||World||66% of Americans think ISIS, other Islamist terror groups pose threat to country||In the US, 66 per cent of registered voters have said that ISIS and other Islamist terrorist groups in foreign countries pose a “critical threat” to the country, according to a survey conducted by Morning Consult/Politico polling. Meanwhile, a total of 61 per cent of Americans said that Islamist extremism overall poses a threat to vital US interests over the next decade. These figures witnessed a double-digit rise in roughly a week after the Islamic State (IS) attack at Afghanistan’s Kabul airport that killed 13 US troops and over 90 Afghans during the evacuation.While 54 per cent Americans considered ISIS and other Islamist terrorist groups a threat before the attack, the numbers were 49 per cent for those who saw Islamist extremism as an overall threat to the US. Meanwhile, roughly 67 per cent of Americans – post the Kabul airport attack, now see terrorism in the US as a threat, up from 59 per cent between August 21 and 24.
05-09-2021||World||Will Moderna miss Sept 20 target of US Covid booster jabs? Dr Fauci answers||Amid reports that complications could make the US government miss the September 20 date to start delivering Covid-19 vaccine booster shots, White House chief medical advisor Dr Anthony Fauci said that he believes the delivery can start for American citizens who were inoculated with Pfizer jabs, while those who were administered Moderna doses may need to wait for a couple more weeks.Speaking at CBS’ “Face the Nation” on Sunday, the US government’s top infectious disease expert said that it is still the President Joe Biden administration’s plan “in some respects” to commence the third doses the week of September 20, pending approval from the Food and Drug Administration (FDA).The administration hoped to start rolling out both the Pfizer and Moderna booster shots from the stipulated date, but Dr Fauci stated that it’s “conceivable” that for Moderna’s jabs, there might be “at most a couple of weeks, a few weeks delay, if any” – while the firm gives additional data to the FDA on the booster’s efficacy.Also Read | 3 Covid-19 vaccine doses may now become routine, enhance immunity: FauciIn a recent report by the Associated Press, one official said that Moderna produced inadequate data for the FDA and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to give a go-ahead to the third dose of its coronavirus vaccine. Meanwhile, the FDA’s request for additional data from Moderna can delay the delivery of its booster jabs to October.Pfizer, however, is further along in the review process, with an FDA panel review on its booster jabs scheduled on September 17.Notably, Biden announced last month that his administration was preparing to inoculate boosters to provide better protection against coronavirus, pending approval from the CDC and the FDA. He added that Americans should consider getting themselves jabbed eight months after their second shot.On the matter of the delay in meeting the September 20 deadline, Biden’s chief of staff, Ron Kalin said on Sunday that no US citizen will get boosters “until the FDA says they’re approved,” adding that the administration will be ready to go once the “science says go.”(With inputs from AP)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/will-moderna-miss-sept-20-target-of-us-covid-booster-jabs-dr-fauci-answers-101630863974439.html
05-09-2021||World||Religious scholars urge Taliban, Panjshir front to announce ceasefire, end 'illegitimate war'||Amid heavy fighting between the Taliban and Panjshir resistance forces, a number of religious scholars at a gathering in Kabul on Sunday asked both sides for the ceasefire.Calling it an illegitimate war in the country, the clerics asked both sides to announce a ceasefire and to negotiate a peaceful solution, reported Tolo News."You are fighting based on what justification to kill your Muslim brothers? Dear scholars, if this situation continues, the country will turn into an ethnicity-based and region-based conflict," said Abdul Qader Qanet, a religious scholar."You negotiated with the US behind closed doors for two years. You travelled to different countries. Shook hands with infidels and their women. But you are not ready to talk with your Muslim brothers," said Mawlawi Mohammad Amin, a religious scholar, reported Tolo News.University Lecturer Rahimullah Kashaf spoke at the gathering, "Thousands of children are hungry in Panjshir province and they need food which is not found there."Panjshir is the stronghold of the National Resistance Front, led by Ahmad Massoud, the son of late ex-Afghan guerrilla commander Ahmad Shah Massoud, and ex-Vice President Amrullah Saleh, who had declared himself caretaker president.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/religious-scholars-urge-taliban-panjshir-front-to-announce-ceasefire-end-illegitimate-war-101630863075167.html
05-09-2021||World||Florida gunman killed 4, including mom still holding baby||Four people are dead including a mother who was still cradling her now-deceased baby in what Florida sheriff's deputies are calling a massive gunbattle early Sunday with a suspect they said was “ready for battle.”Polk County Sheriff Grady Judd said the unidentified suspect was dressed in full body armour — including a bulletproof vest — when he was found outside a Lakeland home that had been booby-trapped.After two rounds of gunfire with police and deputies — where dozens “if not hundreds of rounds” were exchanged, Judd said, the suspect was shot once and left the home to surrender.Inside the home, authorities found an 11-year-old girl who had been shot multiple times.She told deputies there were three dead people inside, Judd said during a news conference Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/florida-gunman-killed-4-including-mom-still-holding-baby-101630862799021.html
05-09-2021||World||Soldiers stage uprising in Guinea, claim they've taken over government||Soldiers who staged an uprising in Guinea's capital on Sunday said on state television that they had dissolved the West African nation's government and constitution and closed all land and air borders.However, the defence ministry said an attack on the presidential palace in Conakry had been repelled.Fighting broke out near the palace on Sunday morning, with several sources saying an elite national army unit led by a former French legionnaire, Mamady Doumbouya, was behind the unrest.Videos shared on social media on Sunday afternoon, which Reuters could not immediately authenticate, showed President Alpha Conde in a room surrounded by army special forces.Conde, whose whereabouts were not immediately clear, won a third term in October after changing the constitution to allow him to stand again, despite violent protests from the opposition, raising concerns of further political upheavals in a region that has seen coups in Mali and Chad in recent months.Doumbouya appeared on state television draped in Guinea's national flag and surrounded by eight other armed soldiers, saying his supporters planned to form a transitional government and would give further details later."We have dissolved government and institutions," Doumbouya said. "We call our brothers in arms to join the people."As the defence ministry said security forces loyal to Conde had repulsed the attack and were restoring order, people emerged onto the streets during the afternoon to celebrate the uprising's apparent success.A Reuters witness saw pick-up trucks and military vehicles accompanied by motorcyclists and cheering onlookers. "Guinea is free! Bravo," a woman shouted from her balcony.The Guinean government has drastically increased and multiplied taxes in recent weeks to replenish state coffers. The price of fuel has increased by 20%, causing frustration among many Guineans.Videos shared on social media had earlier shown military vehicles patrolling Conakry's streets and one military source said the only bridge connecting the mainland to the Kaloum neighbourhood, where the palace and most government ministries are located, had been sealed off.Guinea has seen sustained economic growth during Conde's decade in power thanks to its bauxite, iron ore, gold and diamond wealth, but few of its citizens have seen the benefits.Critics say the government has used restrictive criminal laws to discourage dissent, while ethnic divisions and endemic graft have sharpened political rivalries."While the president was proclaiming everywhere that he wanted to govern differently by annihilating corruption, the embezzlement of public funds increased. The new rich were taunting us," Alassane Diallo, a resident of Conakry, told Reuters."It is all this that made it easier for the military." (Reporting by Saliou Samb and Bate Felix; Writing by Hereward Holland and John Stonestreet; Editing by Frances Kerry and John Stonestreet)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/soldiers-stage-uprising-in-guinea-claim-they-ve-taken-over-government-101630860442090.html
05-09-2021||World||'Ready for talks,' says Massoud as Taliban claim to have entered capital of Panjshir holdout||Panjshir leader Ahmad Massoud on Sunday said his Resistance Front is ready to stop fighting if the Taliban stop their attacks and the military movement on Panjshir and Andrab as the struggle between the Taliban and the anti-Taliban forces have been going on for days. "The NRF in principle agree to solve the current problems and put an immediate end to the fighting and continue negotiations. To reach a lasting peace, the NRF is ready to stop fighting on condition that Taliban also stop their attacks and military movements on Panjshir and Andarab," Massoud said in a Facebook post.Taliban spokesman Bilal Karimi said on Twitter the police headquarters and district centre of Rukhah, adjacent to the provincial capital Bazarak, had fallen, and opposition forces had suffered numerous casualties, with large numbers of prisoners and captured vehicles, weapons and ammunition.Amrullah Saleh asks UN to step in, prevent Taliban onslaught in PanjshirA number of religious scholars at a gathering in Kabul on Sunday asked the Taliban and the Resistance Front to halt the current conflict, calling it an illegitimate war in the country, Tolo News reported. The struggle over Panjshir has escalated in the last few days as the Taliban are all set to announce their government in teh country. Former Afghanistan vice president Amrullah Saleh on Sunday wrote a letter to the United Nations highlighting the large-scale humanitarian crisis in Panjshir province. The Taliban, he alleged, blocked all humanitarian services in the valley, snapped telecommunication. "if no attention is paid to this situation, a full-scale human rights and humanitarian catastrophe including starvation and mass killing, even genocide of these people are in the making," Saleh wrote.Taliban infighting over Panjshir?Amid reports of Mullah Baradar and the Haqqani network not agreeing on several issues, some reports claimed that one of the issues of disagreement is the Panjshir situation. An ANI report said the celebratory gun firing recently reported from Kabul was actually a power struggle between Mullah Baradar and Anas Haqqani.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ready-for-talks-says-massoud-as-taliban-claim-to-have-entered-capital-of-panjshir-holdout-101630860165515.html
05-09-2021||World||Mullah Baradar, Haqqani fought over disagreement on Panjshir situation: Report||Gunfire heard in Kabul on Friday night was actually a power struggle between two senior Taliban leaders - group co-founder Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar and Afghan Taliban leader, Anas Haqqani, according to some accounts.The incident took place over an alleged disagreement among the Taliban leaders on how to resolve the Panjshir situation. The National Resistance Front (NRF) of Afghanistan has been putting up a stiff fight against the Taliban who wants to take control over the last bastion in the country, which is now under its rule.The information about Friday's reported gunfight was shared through the unverified Twitter handle of Panjshir Observer, which describes itself as an independent news outlet covering Afghanistan and Panjshir."Gunfire last night in Kabul was a power struggle between two senior Taliban leaders. Forces loyal to Anas Haqqani and Mullah Baradar fought over a disagreement on how to resolve the #Panjshir situation. Mullah Baradar was reportedly injured and is receiving treatment in Pakistan," tweeted Panjshir Observer on Saturday.As per another unverified Twitter handle of Northern Alliance, Mullah Baradar urged his Taliban forces not to fight the Panjshir resistance forces."Baradar urged his Taliban not to fight the Panjshirs and recalled them to Kabul, Mullah Baradar himself was badly wounded he was taken to Pakistan for treatment. The media that covered that Panjshir fell, shame on you and you have no honour!" tweeted Northern Alliance.The account also lambasted other media platforms for promoting Taliban propaganda related to Panjshir."I wish you a good night! We have successfully defended more than 1200 Taliban casualties. Due to the fact, there was a conflict between Anas Haqqani and Mullah Baradar and there was a shootout between Taliban leaders in Kabul, the Taliban propaganda deceived everyone so that the media attention was on the Panjshir and did not cover the shootout of Taliban leaders. Now the spirit of the Taliban is suppressed in the Panjshir, their leaders are fighting among themselves for power," tweeted Northern Alliance.Panjshir is the stronghold of the National Resistance Front, led by Ahmad Massoud, the son of late ex-Afghan guerrilla commander Ahmad Shah Massoud, and ex-Vice President Amrullah Saleh, who had declared himself caretaker president.The Taliban, which captured Kabul on August 15, has been delaying the announcement of the government formation in Afghanistan over the past few days.While the group has not issued a statement over it yet, reports have emerged claiming that the government formation has been delayed due to differences between the Taliban and the Haqqani network over power-sharing.Baradar, the top Taliban leader who is set to head the new Afghan regime was injured during the clash and is currently getting treated in Pakistan, according to reports.The gunfight on Friday signals a rift in the Taliban. Earlier, Haibatullah Akhundzada was signalled to be the Islamic Emirate's supreme leader based in Kandahar, but the Haqqani and many other Taliban factions simply do not accept him as their leader.Moreover, Pakistan intelligence chief Lt Gen Faiz Hameed arrived in Kabul on Saturday leading a delegation of Pakistani officials. Hameed's emergency visit affirms that the Taliban are merely an ISI puppet.Pakistan and its notorious intelligence agency have been accused of supporting the Taliban in taking over Afghanistan.Experts believe that Pakistan has been a key player in removing the elected Afghan government from power and establishing the Taliban as a decisive power in Afghanistan. Recently, a UN Monitoring report has said that a significant part of the leadership of Al-Qaida resides in Afghanistan and Pakistan border region.Former Afghan Vice-President Amrullah Saleh has asserted that the Taliban are being micromanaged by Pakistan's notorious intelligence agency--the ISI, adding that Islamabad is in charge of the war-ravaged country effectively as a colonial power. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mullah-baradar-haqqani-fought-over-disagreement-on-panjshir-situation-report-101630859612734.html
05-09-2021||World||Sri Lankan Navy seizes 336 Kg heroin from trawler, arrests 7 Pakistanis||The Sri Lankan Navy has seized 336 Kilogram of heroin from a trawler in the high seas off the coast of Male on September 1. The navy had apprehended the trawler in the high seas and brought the same to capital Colombo on September 4. Seven Pakistani nationals who were aboard this trawler have also been taken into custody.The vessel reportedly operated as a multi-day fishing trawler transporting drug consignments to other boats. The navy has also opened an investigation into this and no weapons have been recovered from the vessel so far.The Sri Lankan navy was recently involved in an incident with Indian fishing boats. The fisheries department alleged that Sri Lankan navy personnel pelted stones on Indian boats causing damage to about 60 of them and also damaged fishing nets in around 25 boats, news agency PTI had reported. The boats involved in the incident were fishing near Katchatheevu on August 21.In a similar incident, the Lankan navy had chased away fishermen from the Palk Strait on July 4 and damaged their fishing equipment. Lankan navy personnel allegedly chased away the Indian fishermen at gunpoint on t and "cut the nets up each costing about one lakh rupees," fishermen association chief Sesu Raj told news agency PTI, adding that such instances have been on the rise and that Central government should intervene.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sri-lankan-navy-seizes-336-kg-heroin-from-trawler-arrests-7-pakistanis-101630859354527.html
05-09-2021||World||Merkel says Germany to discuss evacuation of local workers with Taliban: Report||German chancellor Angela Merkel on Sunday said that Germany will talk to the Taliban about how to evacuate remaining local contract workers from Afghanistan, news agency Reuters reported. She further added that the Kabul airport being used for flights once more is a good sign.Merkel, who is also the foreign policy chief of the European Union (EU), said that the EU is ready to engage with the Taliban if they respect human rights, including those of women. It also highlighted that Afghanistan should not become a terror base.“We need to talk to the Taliban about how we can continue to get people who worked for Germany out of the country and to safety,” Merkel was quoted as saying by news agency Reuters. She added that the international aid organisations should also be allowed to improve the humanitarian situation in the war-torn country.The Taliban have not yet named a government after it stormed back to power on August 15. Afghans, human rights advocates and world leaders fear that Taliban may soon bring back regressive practices it introduced during their 1996-2001 rule, like ban on schooling for women and violent public punishments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/merkel-says-germany-to-discuss-evacuation-of-local-workers-with-taliban-report-101630858949283.html
05-09-2021||World||UAE launches ‘green visas’ in a bid to target investors, highly skilled workers||The United Arab Emirates on Sunday announced a new class of visas called ‘Green Visas’ which will allow expats to apply for work without being sponsored by an employer, according to a report by news agency Bloomberg.The move comes in a bid to target investors and highly skilled workers as well as students and graduates. The Green Visa holders can sponsor their parents and children up to the age of 25 on their permits. The steps are being taken to attract talent and boost growth.The UAE government will allow people who lost their jobs to remain in the UAE for up to 6 months which is an incentive as most visas are tied to employment contacts. It has allowed hiring of temporary workers above the age of 15 in a bid to loosen the job market.Foreign residents form 80% of the population of the UAE and are intrinsic to the economy of the country for the past few decades. Foreign nationals work in the private sector and contribute to the economy by buying property or by shopping in some of the largest malls in the world.These oil-rich countries have resisted offering permanent residency to foreigners. These governments also did not offer citizenship to millions of foreign workers in order to safeguard generous privileges enjoyed by the citizens of this country.The gulf-economies started preparing for a post-fossil fuel world following the 2014 oil-price slump by enticing wealthy people to stay. This trend was reinforced during the Covid-19 pandemic as the government took steps to ensure people who lost their jobs could remain. Along with the UAE government, the governments in Saudi Arabia and Qatar took steps to allow some expatriates permanent residency.(with inputs from Bloomberg)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uae-launches-green-visas-in-a-bid-to-target-investors-highly-skilled-workers-101630858182030.html
05-09-2021||World||Warming relations between China, Taliban cause fear among Uyghurs: Report||Refugees from the Uyghur community continue to live under fear as China and the Taliban continue engagement at a diplomatic level. Before the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan, a Taliban delegation led by Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar met Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi, which created distress among the Uyghurs in Afghanistan, news agency ANI reported citing a report by CNN. In that meeting, Wang Yi had urged the Taliban to crack down on the East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM), a group that is believed to be fuelling unrest in China’s Xinjiang province while operating from Afghanistan.The Uyghur community feels that the Taliban could send members of the community to China in a bid to curry favour with Beijing. The news agency in its report cited that Uyghurs who escaped persecution in China and entered Afghanistan 45 years ago are now worried about getting deported to China.Many Uyghurs hold Afghan citizenship but despite that their identification cards still identify them as Chinese refugees including those who are second-generation Uyghurs living in Afghanistan, according to the report by news agency CNN.The US and several other nations continue to raise a concern about the persecution of Uyghurs in China in Xinjiang province. Human rights experts believe that 2 million Uyghurs and other Muslim minorities were passed through a network of detention centres across the region. The detainees who went to the centres claim that they were subjected to political indoctrination, forced labour, torture and sexual abuse.Uyghur refugees say that no countries are ready to take them as issuing of passports have also been halted. “They don't give passports for free, and we can't afford it. But now they have stopped issuing the passports anyway,” a member of the community told CNN.Uyghurs are also considered outsiders in Afghanistan and have not found any takers to help them out of this situation.China denies allegations of human rights violation and genocide against Uyghurs. It says that members of the Uyghur community are sent to ‘vocational training centres’ in an attempt to stop them from being radicalised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/warming-relations-between-china-taliban-sparks-fear-among-uyghurs-report-101630857728675.html
05-09-2021||World||Does Taliban leader Mullah Baradar hold a Pakistani passport? This image is viral||A purported photo of Taliban leader Mullah Baradar's Pakistani passport has resurfaced on social media at a time the Taliban were about to announce their new government under the possible leadership of Taliban co-founder Mullah Baradar. Hindustan Times did not authenticate the image going viral on social media. However, there are old reports claiming that Mullah Baradar indeed is the owner of the Pakistani passport.An old report of Afghanistan's Khama Press claimed that not only a passport, but Mullah Baradar also holds Pakistan's National identity card. A former official of Afghanistan's National Directorate of Security reportedly confirmed that Pakistan had issued these documents to Mullah Baradar under the fake name of Muhammad Arif Agha. The documents were reportedly issued to Mullah Baradar in Karachi city of Pakistan on 7th of July 2014, the report said. No comments. This screen shot of Mulla Baradar’s Pakistani passport is circulating on social media. pic.twitter.com/l8xQyAF0a1At that time, Mullah Baradar was in Pakistan after he was arrested by the ISI in 2010.
05-09-2021||World||Old men of ‘good character’ can teach women in Afghan universities: Report||As some private universities in Afghanistan are planning to resume classes on Monday, the Taliban have issued a detailed diktat specifying how women attending universities should dress, news agency AFP reported. Earlier, the Taliban ordered that women will be allowed access to higher education, but there will be no provision of co-education and male teachers will not be allowed to teach female students. In the recent order, it has been mentioned that old men of good character can teach female students if there are not enough female teachers in universities.The new order does not have any mention of burqa which covers the entire body, but the niqab effectively covers most of the face, AFP reported adding that burqas and niqabs are making a comeback in Afghanistan after the Taliban takeover."Universities are required to recruit female teachers for female students based on their facilities," the decree said, adding that men and women should use separate entrances and exits.The new diktat has also said that women will have to end their lesson five minutes earlier than men so that there is no scope of mingling after the class.The Taliban takeover of Afghanistan put Afghanistan women in uncertainty as women saw dark days in the former regime of the Taliban between 1996 and 2000. The Taliban have promised an accommodative stance for women and said that women will have their rights under the Taliban rule as permitted by Sharia law.However, there is likely to be no participation of women in the government that the Taliban are yet to announce. For the past few days, women are protesting in Herat and Kabul demanding inclusion in the government. In such a protest in Kabul on Saturday, the Taliban sprayed tear gas to stop the protesters from marching towards the President's Palace. Many women, including artistes, journalists have left the country fearing persecution by the Taliban.  Earlier, the Taliban leadership appealed to the women to stay at home as the Taliban fighters in control of the security of Afghanistan were not trained to respect women, Taliban spokesperson had said. Later, women associated with health care services were urged to join work.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/old-men-of-good-character-can-teach-women-in-afghan-universities-report-101630851831566.html
05-09-2021||World||Pakistan activates satellite air bases near Afghanistan, India borders: Report||At a time when Pakistani intelligence agencies can be seen openly meddling in Afghan affairs, the Pakistan Air Force has activated an air base on its eastern front in Balochistan area close to Afghanistan.Two other satellite bases named Kotli and Rawalkot have also been activated along the border with India, intelligence sources said.The sources said the Pakistan Air Force has 12 active and an equal number of satellite bases for operations."The Pakistan Air Force keeps activating these bases from time to time for operational readiness and the frequency has increased after the Balakot air strike by India in February 2019 where the Indian Mirage 2000 fighters could manage to get in and out of Pakistan territory undetected and unchallenged," the sources said.Sources said the Indian agencies are continuously monitoring Pakistani activities as all its bases are effectively covered by Indian radars and other systems round the clock.Agencies are also keeping a track of the Pakistan Air Force activities on their eastern front where the Shamsi air field in Pakistan has been reactivated to support Taliban operations in the war-torn country, the sources said.Pakistan has been supporting the Taliban in its fight against both America and the Afghanistan national army for a long time trying to control the happenings and developments there, the sources said.The Shamsi air field has been used in the past by the American forces deployed in Afghanistan to launch attacks against the Taliban and Al Qaeda terrorists but they were forced to vacate it by Islamabad after Pakistan Army troops got killed in an American air raid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-activates-satellite-air-bases-near-afghanistan-india-borders-report-101630852484834.html
05-09-2021||World||‘No jeans, sleeveless tops’: New dress code for MPs ahead of UK House of Commons||Before the British members of Parliament return to the House of Commons on Monday, Sir Lindsay Hoyle, the Commons Speaker, has directed them to dress appropriately in “business attire.”Hoyle has updated the “Rules of behaviour and courtesies in the House of Commons” and has asked MPs to “demonstrate respect for your constituents.” This update addresses the casual and more relaxed clothing style that had set in during the coronavirus-induced lockdown after rules were eased to allow the MPs attend sessions virtually.“Members are expected to wear business attire in and around the Chamber,” the news rules stated.The rules prohibit wearing “jeans, chinos, sportswear or any other casual trousers.” “T-shirts and sleeveless tops are not business attire. Smart/business shoes are expected to be worn. Casual shoes and trainers are not appropriate,” it said, adding that men are “encouraged to wear a tie” and jackets “must be worn.”The updated norms further stated that it is “privilege” to serve as an MP and the “dress, language and conduct should reflect this.”Apart from tightening the dress code, Hoyle has also clamped down on rowdiness in the House of Commons. According to the new rules, MPs cannot sing and chant – which are both banned in the chamber. The parliamentarians cannot clap as well as the rules state that it “eats into the time available for debate.”Furthermore, the MPs have also been told to pay attention during a debate and not read books or newspapers or “obviously devote…to…phone or other electronic device.”In December last year, former foreign secretary Jeremy Hunt was called out during a virtual Brexit discussion of the House of Commons by Hoyle for not adhering to the dress code. Hunt was reportedly not wearing a tie and his top shirt button was also undone.Hoyle’s views on the strict dress code are in contrast with his predecessor John Bercow’s last set of norms wherein business clothing was merely a recommendation. Bercow had also said that there was “no exact dress code.”(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/no-jeans-sleeveless-tops-new-dress-code-for-mps-ahead-of-uk-house-of-commons-101630850521567.html
05-09-2021||World||Taliban says it has entered capital of resistance holdout Panjshir: Report||The Taliban said on Sunday their forces had fought their way into the provincial capital of Panjshir, the valley where opposition forces have been holding out since the fall of Kabul three weeks ago.The police headquarters and district centre of Rukhah, adjacent to the provincial capital Bazarak, had fallen, and opposition forces had suffered numerous casualties, with large numbers of prisoners and captured vehicles, weapons and ammunition, Taliban spokesman Bilal Karimi said on Twitter.Fighting was underway in Bazarak, he said. It was not possible to confirm the report, which was echoed on other Taliban Twitter accounts.Earlier on Sunday Fahim Dashti, spokesman for the National Resistance Front of Afghanistan (NRFA), which groups opposition forces, said the Taliban "propaganda machine" was trying to spread distracting messages."The resistance forces are ready to continue their defence against any form of aggression," he said.On Saturday, Italian aid group Emergency said Taliban fighters had reached the trauma hospital it operates in Anabah district, within the Panjshir valley.Taliban officials have said previously their forces had secured full control of Panjshir but fighting has been continuing for days, with each side saying it had inflicted large numbers of casualties.Ahmad Massoud, leader of the NRFA, has pledged to continue resisting the offensive and has called for international support.Panjshir, a rugged mountainous valley north of Kabul still littered with the wreckage of destroyed Soviet tanks, has proved very difficult to overcome in the past. Under Massoud's late father, Ahmad Shah Massoud, it resisted both the invading Soviet army and the previous Taliban government.On Sunday, Massoud said hundreds of Taliban fighters had surrendered to NRFA forces, which included remnants of regular Afghan army and special forces units as well as local militia fighters. It was not possible to confirm that independently.The Panjshir fighting has been the most prominent example of resistance to the Taliban, whose forces swept into Kabul on Aug. 15 as the Western-backed government collapsed and President Ashraf Ghani fled the country.But small individual protests for women's rights or in defence of the green, red and black tricolour flag of Afghanistan have also been held in different cities.Massoud originally called for a negotiated settlement with the Taliban and several attempts at talks were held but they eventually broke down, with each side blaming the other for their failure. (Writing by James Mackenzie; editing by Philippa Fletcher)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-say-entered-capital-of-resistance-holdout-panjshir-report-101630850000022.html
05-09-2021||World||Who is ISI chief Faiz Hameed whose visit to Kabul has sparked controversy?||Pakistan's ISI chief Faiz Hameed's visit to Kabul at a time when Pakistan is internationally accused of aiding the Taliban in Afghanistan has sparked off controversies. Ex-Pentagon official Michael Rubin has said that the visit, which was an 'emergency' trip to discuss the evolving situation in Afghanistan proves that the Taliban are merely an ISI puppet. Coinciding the visit, the Taliban delayed the announcement of their government. It is believed that ISI chief Faiz Hameed rushed to Kabul to broker peace between Mullah Baradar and the Haqqani network. The photo of Faiz Hameed after reaching Kabul and his interaction with media have been shared on social media indicating that it was no secret visit."According to Afghan sources, Hameed rushed to Kabul after a clash between Baradar and Haqqani-supported groups in which Baradar sustained injuries. The Haqqani and many other Taliban factions simply do not accept Haibatullah as their leader," Michael Rubin said."The visits of the director-general of Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) are usually kept under wraps but it wasn’t the case with his trip to Kabul," Pakistan's Tribune reported.Who is ISI chief Faiz Hameed?Lieutenant General Faiz Hameed is a three-star ranking general in the Pakistan Army. In 2019, he was appointed as the director-general of Inter-Services Intelligence. Before Faiz Hameed, Lieutenant General Asim Muneer was the ISI chief. His appointment grabbed attention as Muneer was replaced within eight months.Faiz Hameed is from the Baloch Regiment and before becoming the ISI chief was in charge of the internal security wing at the ISI.Faiz Hameed was reportedly accused by former Pakistan PM Nawaz Sharif of forcing politicians to join Imran Khan's PTI before Pakistan's general elections in 2018.Reports said the ISI chief met top Afghan leaders and also some foreign envoys in Kabul. He is meeting and working with Pakistan's ambassador Mansoor Ahmed Khan and his team on issues of repatriation and transit through Pakistan and the border situation, Geo News reported.ISI chief to mediate?Reports claimed that the visit is to mediate among various factions of the Taliban as they are not being able to come to a consensus. "We understand from Taliban sources that he is here to mediate the Taliban. They have not yet managed to form a government. We understand that's because of all the different factions from different parts of the country. They can't agree. And he is here to try and sort it out between them. In the end, they are politicians like anywhere in the world. Each of the factions wants their own ministry," Channel 4's Lindsey Hilsum, who interviewed Faiz Hameed in Kabul, said.Afghanistan's TOLO News reports that Faiz Hameed met Hezb-e-Islami leader, former Afghanistan PM Gulbuddin Hekmatyar. The meeting focused on how to form a coalition government in Afghanistan, it said. What did Faiz Hameed say?“We are working for peace and stability in Afghanistan. Don’t worry, everything will be okay," the ISI chief said to Channel 4.Pakistani media said that he was invited by the Taliban for discussion on the formation of the government and Faiz Hameed was not the first intelligence agency chief to visit Kabul. The Tribune claimed that the CIA chief also visited Kabul but his visit was kept secret.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-is-isi-chief-faiz-hameed-whose-visit-to-kabul-has-sparked-controversy-101630843177941.html
05-09-2021||World||Italy to relocate its Afghanistan embassy to Qatar, says foreign minister Maio||Italy plans to move its Afghan embassy to Doha, in Qatar, Italian foreign minister Luigi Di Maio said on Sunday, the latest indication of Western diplomats setting up permanently outside Afghanistan in the wake of the Taliban takeover.The announcement follows earlier signals that Western countries and the European Union (EU), which have closed their missions in Kabul, may use the Gulf state as an offshore hub for their diplomatic relations with Afghanistan.Many diplomats flew to the Gulf state, which has hosted the Taliban's political office since 2013, after evacuating the Afghan capital late last month.China, Iran, Pakistan, Russia and Turkey have kept their embassies in the Afghan capital open, increasing their opportunities to directly influence a new government, which is in the process of being formed."I will meet today with the Emir of Qatar and then with the foreign minister because it is our intention to relocate the embassy we had in Kabul to Doha," said Di Maio, who was speaking in a video call from Doha to businessmen and politicians attending a business conference in Cernobbio on Lake Como."Qatar has become the centre of diplomatic relations with respect to this Afghan government that is being formed," Di Maio said.Sources within the Taliban have said its co-founder Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar will lead a new Afghan government set to be announced soon.The United States suspended operations at its Kabul embassy on August 31, a day after Washington completed the withdrawal of its forces from Afghanistan, ending 20 years of war that culminated in the militant Taliban's return to power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/italy-to-relocate-its-afghanistan-embassy-to-qatar-says-foreign-minister-maio-101630841599286.html
05-09-2021||World||Two Indian-origin people die in flash floods in US: Report||At least two people of Indian-origin died during flash floods triggered by Hurricane Ida in New Jersey, news agency PTI reported quoting local news agencies. Hurricane Ida, according to weather experts, was the second-most destructive hurricane to hit New Jersey after Hurricane Katrina in 2005.Hurricane Ida transformed into a post-tropical cyclone on September 1. It caused the deaths of 65 people in the US with most deaths reported from New Jersey, New York and Louisiana, after making a landfall in Port Fourchon, Louisiana, on August 29.Malathi Kanche, 46, a software designer and Danush Reddy, 31, were swept away by flash floods caused by Hurricane Ida. Kanche was with her 15-year-old daughter on Wednesday when her vehicle halted in waist-deep flood water near Bridgewater in New Jersey, news agency PTI reported citing a report by the New York Times. She and her daughter held onto a tree as floodwaters pulled them but the tree fell, pulling Kanche in the torrent, their family friend Mansi Mago told the news agency. Kanche was earlier put on the list of ‘missing persons’ and the police confirmed her death on Friday.Reddy was stranded in the flood in South Plainfield, New Jersey and fell near a 36-inch-wide sewer pipe after losing his balance. Officials said Reddy’s body was pulled into the drain pipe and was later found miles away.Hurricane Ida caused damage to civic infrastructure as it caused flash floods in New York, New Jersey, Philadelphia and Louisiana. Official figures say that Ida caused damages worth $50 billion dollars. Experts say that such severe floods, like the one caused after Hurricane Ida, which are caused once in a century, could become an annual occurrence if steps are not taken to address global warming and other effects of climate change.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/two-indian-origin-people-die-in-flash-floods-in-us-report-101630839852433.html
05-09-2021||World||Afghanistan likely to see civil war, predicts top US General; explains why||As the Taliban are still fighting it out with the Resistance Front for Panjshir and their government formation announcement is also getting delayed, US General Mark Milley thinks that there is a very good probability of a broader civil war, which will lead to a reconstitution of al Qaeda or a growth of ISIS, Milley told Fox News.The pace at which the Taliban defeated the Afghan army and captured one province after another has, for the first time, been stunted in Panjshir valley, where the anti-Taliban forces are being led by Ahmad Massoud and Afghanistan's former vice president Amrullah Saleh. With the battle for Panjshir going on, reports of Taliban-Haqqani power tussle has also surfaced, indicating that the Taliban's rise to power will not be as smooth as it was thought seeing its lightning advances in Afghanistan. Also Read | 'Destroyed photos of my wife, daughters': Amrullah Saleh recounts how he left KabulReports said about 600 Taliban have been killed in Panjshir while more than 1,000 Taliban have been captured. This comes after the Taliban claimed victory over Panjshir amid reports of massive bloodbath in the valley. A Taliban source said fighting was continuing in Panjshir but the advance had been slowed by landmines placed on the road to the capital Bazarak and the provincial governor's compound, reported Al Jazeera."I think there's at least a very good probability of a broader civil war," said Milley, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, in his assessment.The Panjshir leaders have been reaching out to the international bodies highlighting the humanitarian crisis created by the Taliban.Mark Milley also commented on theUS's exit and the unexpected fall of the Afghan army and he said that the collapse of the Afghan army happened at a much faster rate than was expected by anybody."The collapse of the Afghan army happened at a much faster rate and [was] very unexpected by pretty much everybody," General Mark Milley told Fox in an interview. "And then with that is the collapse of the Afghan government."(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghanistan-likely-to-see-civil-war-predicts-top-us-general-explain-why-101630833364535.html
05-09-2021||World||Islamic State attack kills 13 Iraqi cops: Report||Thirteen Iraqi policemen were killed in an Islamic State group attack against a checkpoint in the country's north early Sunday, security and medical sources said.The attack, in the region of Al-Rashad around 65 kilometres (40 miles) south of Kirkuk city, took place just after midnight, a senior Iraqi police officer told AFP."Members of the Islamic State organisation targeted a federal police checkpoint," said the officer, who did not want to be named."Thirteen were killed and three wounded" among the security forces, the officer added.A medical source based in Kirkuk confirmed the toll.There was no immediate claim of responsibility.IS seized swathes of Iraq in a lightning offensive in 2014, before being beaten back by a counter-insurgency campaign supported by a US-led military coalition.The Iraqi government declared the Sunni extremists defeated in late 2017, but they retain sleeper cells which continue to hit security forces with asymmetric attacks.Jihadist cells regularly target the Iraqi army and police in northern Iraq, but this attack was one of the most deadly this year.A July 19 bombing claimed by IS officially killed 30 people in the Al-Woheilat market in Sadr City, a Shiite suburb of Baghdad.International coalition troops in Iraq currently number around 3,500, of which 2,500 are US troops.But Washington has been drawing down its military presence amid attacks on facilities it uses by Iran-aligned armed groups and has said that from next year the role of US troops will be limited to training and advising their Iraqi counterparts.Last Sunday, French President Emmanuel Macron visited Iraqi Kurdistan and expressed concern about an IS "resurgence" in both Iraq and Syria.He also said that French soldiers deployed in Iraq as part of the international coalition will remain in the country "no matter what choices the Americans make".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/islamic-state-attack-kills-13-iraqi-cops-report-101630831960045.html
05-09-2021||World||Amrullah Saleh asks UN to step in, prevent Taliban onslaught in Panjshir||Amrullah Saleh, who has declared himself Afghanistan’s caretaker president and is leading resistance forces against the Taliban in Panjshir, has called on the United Nations and other international agencies to “rapidly and generously respond” to the “overwhelming humanitarian crisis” in the area. “We call on the United Nations and the international community to do its utmost to prevent the Taliban's onslaught into Panjshir province and encourage negotiate a political solution to ensure thousands of displaced and hosting civilians are saved,” Amrullah Saleh said in a letter to the UN.The Taliban and opposition forces are battling to control the Panjshir Valley north of Kabul, the last Afghan province holding out against the hardline Islamist group. Saleh and Ahmad Massoud—the son of famous Afghan commander Ahmad Shah Massoud—are in Panjshir valley and trying to mount a challenge to the Taliban. Both sides have claimed they have control over Panjshir. According to Sputnik News, the National Resistance Front of Afghanistan spokesperson Fahim Dashti tweeted that about 600 Taliban have been killed in Panjshir and more than 1,000 have been captured or surrendered themselves. The Taliban, on their part, have said they are advancing.Also watch | ‘Still in Panjshir’: Amrullah Saleh amid Taliban’s claim of taking controlThe resistance forces in the country's northeastern province have said that they would continue fighting the Taliban as their negotiations did not yield any results. The Taliban captured Kabul after mounting a swift offensive in a matter of weeks and control all regions in Afghanistan except the Panjshir province.Saleh, who recently denied reported he had left Panjshir, said that the Taliban and other foreign groups have unleashed a vicious attack against the valley and other free areas of northern Afghanistan. "Around 250,000 two hundred and fifty thousand people including local women, children, elderly and 10,000 ten thousands of internally displaced persons (IDPs) who arrived in Panjshir after the fall Kabul and other large cities are also stuck inside these valleys and suffering from the consequences this inhuman blocked," Amrullah Saleh wrote in the letter posted on Twitter by the handle @NorthernAliance. Also read | 'Destroyed pics of my wife, daughters': Amrullah Saleh on how he left KabulPeople displaced by the Taliban are living in mosques, schools, health centres and in “open spaces under the naked sky”. “A humanitarian catastrophe is unfortunately in the making as these IDPs have no means of survival and are at risk of hunger and increasing spike of malnutrition. They are in dire need of basic relief for their immediate survival,” he added.HT could not verify the authenticity of the letter. Appeal by @AmrullahSaleh2#Panjshir #AhmadMassoud https://t.co/7aDlFSRzTe pic.twitter.com/W3Z4CcSHSOOn Sunday, the United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC) said the Afghanistan situation is a "humanitarian emergency of internal displacement". "More than half a million Afghan civilians have already been displaced. The full impact of the evolving political situation isn't clear. What is clear is that we are witnessing large scale displacement amid what is now a humanitarian emergency of internal displacement," the UNHRC tweeted.Also read | Haqqani and Baradar fight it out for power in KabulMeanwhile, United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said that he will convene a high-level humanitarian conference for Afghanistan on September 13. "Now more than ever, Afghan children, women & men need support & solidarity from the international community. I will convene a high-level humanitarian conference for Afghanistan on 13 September to advocate for a swift scale-up in funding & full, unimpeded access to those in need," Guterres tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/amrullah-saleh-asks-un-to-step-in-prevent-taliban-onslaught-in-panjshir-101630827645509.html
05-09-2021||World||3 killed in suicide bombing near Pakistan's Quetta: Police||A suicide bomber detonated his explosives Sunday near a security checkpoint in restive southwestern Pakistan, killing at least three paramilitary troops and wounding 15 others, police said.Senior police officer Azhar Akram said the attacker had walked toward the checkpoint manned by the paramilitary Frontier Corps on Quetta-Mastung Road, some 25 kilometers (15 miles) south of Quetta, the capital of Baluchistan province. He said body parts were found at a distance from the security post after the bombing.Akram said some of the wounded were in critical condition and the death toll could rise.No group immediately claimed responsibility for the morning attack but Baluch separatist groups have claimed similar assaults on security forces. The banned Baluch Liberation Army and Baluch Liberation Front have been engaged in a low-level insurgency for nearly two decades calling for independence for the gas and mineral rich province. Islamic militants also have a presence in the region.Baluchistan, bordering Iran and Afghanistan, is a key province in southwest Pakistan, where China has been working on projects related to the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor. The projects, including road construction, power plants and agricultural development, have cost billions of dollars.China has in recent years also played a key role in developing the deep-water port of Gwadar on the Arabian Sea. But there have been attacks on Pakistanis and Chinese working on the economic corridor projects.A suicide bomber last month detonated his explosives near a vehicle carrying Chinese workers, killing two Pakistani children playing by the roadside and wounding a Chinese national and two other Pakistanis in the port city of Gwadar.Suspected separatists also last month hurled a hand grenade at a store selling national flags in Quetta, killing one man and wounding four others who were buying flags to celebrate Pakistan's Independence Day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/3-killed-in-suicide-bombing-near-pakistan-s-quetta-police-101630825914322.html
05-09-2021||World||Canada: Facing sexual harassment charges, Liberal Party candidate withdraws||After facing allegations of inappropriate behaviour towards staffers, an Indo-Canadian MP from the ruling Liberal Party has withdrawn from the Federal elections scheduled for September 20.Raj Saini, the incumbent member of the House of Commons from Kitchener Centre, made the announcement in a statement released on Saturday just a day after he was defended by Liberal Party leader and Prime Minister Justin Trudeau. Since nominations for the elections closed last Monday, Saini’s exit will leave the party without a candidate in the riding, as constituencies are called in Canada. The ruling party is already trailing the principal opposition Conservatives in voter preference across a range of fresh surveys. That agency, along with others, places the Conservatives at least 2% ahead in national vote share.In fact, according to the poll tracker 338 Canada, the Conservatives led by Erin O’Toole are now in a position to garner the highest number of seats, at 143, with the Liberals at 132 in the 338-seat House of Commons. Referring to the stories of alleged harassment and inappropriate acts, first broken by the outlet CBC News, Saini said, “The statements are unequivocally false. I have never acted inappropriately towards staff, volunteers or constituents.”He said he was “very proud” of his work for the riding, but “continuing my campaign no longer serves the best interests of my family, staff members, campaign team, and constituents”.Trudeau had earlier said a rigorous process had been followed with regard to the allegations against Saini, before he was cleared to contest the 2021 elections. Saini represented the riding since 2015.Saini, who has roots in Himachal Pradesh, added, “For everyone’s health and safety, I have taken the painful decision to end my campaign for the 44th Parliament.”However, he also said he is contemplating further action in this regard, saying, “I will be focusing all my attention and efforts to challenge these defamatory false accusations and am in the process of consulting legal counsel to review all options.”On Saturday, the ruling party also said it was removing Saini as a candidate as a review process was initiated on Friday “after new information was directly provided to the Liberal Party of Canada. Mr Saini will no longer be a Liberal candidate”.According to a report from the outlet CBC News, multiple sources “described four different cases where Saini allegedly made unwanted sexual advances or inappropriate comments.” Saini denied the accusations to CBC.It also reported that a former staffer filed a complaint related to alleged “unwelcome advances and harassing behaviour” with the Canadian Human Rights Commission last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canada-facing-sexual-harassment-charges-liberal-party-candidate-withdraws-101630818635514.html
05-09-2021||World||Haqqani and Baradar fight it out for power in Kabul||There is confusion over government formation in Kabul with Haqqani Network leadership at odds with Mullah Baradar over the formation of an inclusive transitional government as committed to the international community during the Doha peace talks.While Baradar wants elements from the minority communities to be included in the government, the Haqqani’s lead by Taliban deputy leader Sirajuddin and his terrorist brood do not want to share power with anyone. With the tacit backing of mentor and promoter Pakistan, the Haqqanis are in favour of a pure Taliban government based on medieval theocracy. “The HQN has told Baradar to back off as they won Kabul and have dominant control of the Afghan capital. Mullah Yaqoob is still in Kandahar and there is utter confusion over government formation with ultra-conservative traditional Taliban elements who do not want to give up filial ties with Al Qaeda coming to the fore,” said a Kabul watcher.Also read | The inside story of the ISI-Taliban nexusThe chief promoter of Taliban, Lt Gen Faiz Hameed, Director General of Pakistani Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), is still in Kabul trying to broker a settlement between the warring factions in favour of the Haqqani Network. The ISI has used Haqqani Network to target Indian Embassy in Kabul in the past and for steering the Sunni Pashtun force in a direction aligned to Pakistan. Another reason for Gen Hameed to be in Kabul is to monitor the Taliban operations against the Resistance Force led by Commander Amrullah Saleh in Panjshir Valley. Unconfirmed reports indicate the induction of Pakistani Army regulars in mufti for the anti-resistance operations in the Panjshir Valley. With China and Russia with the Taliban, the Panjshir resistance is fighting an uphill battle without international support as all the bordering Central Asian Republics are suing for peace with the Sunni Islamist as directed by Moscow. While the European Union is most unhappy with the turn of events and in Pakistan, the 27 member union has no stomach for a fight, while the UK is riding on Islamabad for engaging the Taliban. And the US has no play in the stabilisation of Afghanistan except that it wants the Doha process to be honoured as brokered by their much-discredited envoy Zalmay Khalilzad.Also read | Why is ISI chief in Kabul? Afghan politician says 'to stop Mullah Baradar'Clearly, the tussle for power in Kabul will yield towards the gun as the HQN leadership has told the Doha interlocutors that they won Kabul through force and are not really interested in any legitimacy from the international community with China on its side. An HQN controlled Taliban government in Kabul also suits the Pakistan Army as it will not only give Rawalpindi strategic depth against India but also strong leverage with the tired international community. The clock has again gone back to medieval times in the Af-Pak region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/haqqani-and-baradar-fight-it-out-for-power-in-kabul-101630811556619.html
05-09-2021||World||New Zealand tried to deport attacker for years after he arrived as refugee||New Zealand had tried for years to deport the knife-wielding militant who wounded seven people at a mall in Auckland last week, the government said after it released more details on the attacker following the lifting of a court suppression order.Court documents made public on Sunday identified the attacker as Ahamed Aathil Mohamed Samsudeen, 32, an ethnic Tamil Muslim from Sri Lanka. He had arrived in New Zealand 10 years ago on a student visa seeking refugee status, which was granted in 2013.Police were following Samsudeen and shot him dead about a minute after he launched his attack on Friday after picking up a knife from a supermarket display. He had been convicted and imprisoned for about three years before being released in July.Samsudeen's family issued a statement to the New Zealand media describing their shock at the "terrible event".Samsudeen was inspired by the Islamic State militant group and was being monitored constantly but he could not be kept in prison by law any longer, the government has said.He came to the attention of the police and security services in 2016 after he expressed sympathy on Facebook for militant attacks, violent war-related videos and comments advocating violent extremism.It was subsequently discovered that his refugee status was fraudulently obtained and the government moved to cancel his visa and issued deportation notices.But Samsudeen appealed against the deportation, and since he was in prison, his appeal could not proceed until his criminal trial ended in May this year.The attack has led to questions about a loophole in counter-terrorism laws that allowed Samsudeen to remain free despite authorities being aware of the threat he posed.The government has promised to tighten the law, in particular to criminalise planning a militant attack."We will continue to review our immigration laws alongside the terrorist suppression law and I'm sure if there are ways we can improve it, we will," Deputy Prime Minister Grant Robertson told a news conference.Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said in a statement on Saturday that unsuccessful attempts to deport Samsudeen was a "frustrating process" for the government.Of the seven people wounded in the attack three are in critical condition. One person has been released from hospital.Samsudeen's family said in the statement they were heartbroken."We hope to find out with you all, what happened in Aathil's case and what we all could have done to prevent this," the family said in the statement, released by his brother Aroos.The family said Samsudeen was suffering from some mental health problems and his condition got worse over the past 10 years as he spent more time in prison and dealing with court cases."He wanted to share the sufferings and injustices. He saw himself as someone fighting those injustices," the family said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-zealand-tried-to-deport-attacker-for-years-after-he-arrived-as-refugee-101630810469324.html
05-09-2021||World||'Don’t worry, everything will be OK’: ISI chief during Afghanistan visit||Pakistan ISI chief Lieutenant General Faiz Hameed flew to Kabul on an unannounced visit for what reports said was to discuss government formation in Afghanistan even as the Taliban deferred the announcement for a second time since taking over. Taliban spokesperson Zabiullah Mujahid said on Saturday that the announcement about the new government and cabinet members will be made next week.As Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) director general Hameed arrived in Kabul to meet the Taliban along with a delegation of senior Pakistani officials, Britain’s Channel 4 News correspondent Lindsey Hilsum posed several questions to him. In a short video tweeted by Channel 4 News, Hameed is seen trying to respond to Hilsum's questions.“Will you be meeting senior people in the Taliban?” she asked him. “No, I’m not clear…” the ISI chief said as he looked towards Pakistan ambassador to Kabul, Mansour Ahmad Khan, standing by his side, to respond to the question.Hilsum then posed another question. “What do you hope is going to happen now in Afghanistan?" he was asked. “I have just landed…,” Hameed said and once again looked towards Khan who said: “We are working for peace and stability in Afghanistan.” “Don’t worry, everything will be okay,” Hameed said as others accompanying him laughed."Will you be meeting senior people in the Taliban?"@lindseyhilsum asks Pakistan’s intelligence chief Lt Gen Faiz Hameed, about their hopes for Afghanistan as he arrives in Kabul. pic.twitter.com/rp72c8Si9EPakistan Observer newspaper reported that the ISI chief was expected to meet the Taliban leaders and commanders. “Issues relating to Pak-Afghan security, economy, and other matters will be taken up with the Taliban leadership,” the report said citing people familiar with the matter.Also read | The inside story of the ISI-Taliban nexusPakistan journalist Hamza Azhar Salam said that Hameed visited Afghanistan at the invitation of the Taliban to discuss the future of the two countries. "DG ISI, Lt Gen Faiz Hameed has arrived in #Kabul leading a delegation of Pakistani officials on the invitation of the Taliban to discuss the future of #Pakistan and #Afghanistan ties under the new Taliban government," Salam tweeted.A senior official in Pakistan said earlier in the week that Hameed, who heads the powerful Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) agency, could help the Taliban reorganise the Afghan military.One of Afghanistan’s politicians Mariam Solaimankhil tweeted on Saturday that the ISI chief was to ensure that Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar does not lead the new Afghanistan government. "From what I am hearing DG of ISI has come into Kabul to make sure Baradar doesn't lead this government and Haqqani does," Solaimankhil, a member of Afghanistan's parliament representing the Kuchis, wrote on Twitter.Also read | ‘ISIS common enemy’: US 'secretly' wants Pak help, Islamabad demands recognitionShe also said the Taliban factions and co-founder Mullah Baradar do not agree on several issues. "There are a lot of disagreements amongst the Taliban factions and Baradar has called all his men off of attacking Panjshir,” tweeted Solaimankhil.Pakistan and ISI have been accused of supporting the Taliban in taking over Afghanistan. The US has said Pakistan and the ISI backed the Taliban in the group's two-decade fight against the government in Kabul, although Islamabad has denied the charges.According to the Express Tribune, Hameed will also meet Pakistan's envoy in Kabul to discuss the matter of repatriation and transit through Pakistan of foreign nationals and Afghans fleeing Taliban rule.Also read | Taliban ‘reasonable’ to our concerns: India"The issue of pending requests from countries and international organisations for the repatriation/transit through Pakistan and the need to determine the mechanism through which Pakistan could allow these, in coordination with the ground authorities in Afghanistan will be discussed during the meeting with the Taliban officials,” it reported.Hameed's visit to Kabul came as army chief General Qamar Javed Bajwa met with British foreign secretary Dominic Raab on Saturday and said that Pakistan will assist in the formation of an inclusive administration in Afghanistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/dont-worry-everything-will-be-ok-isi-chief-during-afghanistan-visit-101630807721139.html
05-09-2021||World||Bangladesh MP proposes ban on marriages for working couples; draws criticism||Bangladesh Parliament on Saturday declined to consider a weird proposal by an independent lawmaker who suggested a ban on marriages among the working people to address the unemployment issue in the country, drawing criticism from fellow parliamentarians.Lawmaker Rezaul Karim also argued that the children of working couples were often exposed to abuse by housemaids."Men holding jobs want to marry working women, likewise, women in service want to marry service holders . . . if the trend continues you can't resolve the unemployment problem in the country," Karim said.The proposal created laughter in the House and several of his colleagues ridiculed him.Law minister Anisul Huq called the proposal a manifestation of "freedom of speech"."I cannot move two steps off the House if I accept the proposal . . . this is unconstitutional," the minister said.Huq said being a public representative himself, he could not endanger his own career by accepting such a weird proposal."Since we have the freedom of speech, he (Karim) can say whatever he likes and he is taking the advantage of that freedom," the minister said.Karim, who became a lawmaker from a constituency in northwestern Bogra district for the first time in 2018, last year drew massive criticism by blaming the feminist campaigns for growing incidents of rape.He also grabbed media attention the same year by posting a profile picture on his Facebook account holding a pistol in his hand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bangladesh-mp-proposes-ban-on-marriages-for-working-couples-draws-criticism-101630806990426.html
05-09-2021||World||About 600 Taliban killed in Afghanistan's Panjshir, claim resistance forces||Nearly 600 Taliban fighters were killed in Afghanistan's northeastern province of Panjshir, the last Afghan province holding out against the hardline Islamist group, the Afghan resistance forces have claimed. "About 600 Taliban terrorists have been liquidated in various districts of Panjshir since morning. More than 1,000 Taliban militants have been captured or surrendered themselves," the resistance forces' spokesperson Fahim Dashti tweeted, according to Sputnik News, adding that the Taliban had problems with getting supplies from other Afghan provinces.Panjshir is the stronghold of the National Resistance Front of Afghanistan, led by Ahmad Massoud, the son of late ex-Afghan guerrilla commander Ahmad Shah Massoud, and acting President Amrullah Saleh. The Taliban, which swept through the country ahead of the final withdrawal of US-led troops on August 31, could not control the valley when they ruled Afghanistan last from 1996 to 2001.Also read | India, US keeping close watch on Pakistan’s actions in Afghanistan: Harsh ShringlaEven though both sides claimed to have the upper hand in Panjshir but neither has given any conclusive evidence to prove it. Al Jazeera reported that a Taliban official said fighting was on in Panjshir but the advance had been slowed by landmines placed on the road to the capital Bazarak and the provincial governor's compound. Taliban spokesperson Bilal Karimi said the Khinj and Unabah districts had been taken, giving Taliban forces control of four of the province's seven districts. "The Mujahideen (Taliban fighters) are advancing toward the centre (of the province)," he said on Twitter.Also watch | Taliban violently stop women protesters from marching to Presidential PalaceOn their part, the National Resistance Front of Afghanistan said it surrounded "thousands of terrorists" in Khawak pass and the Taliban had abandoned vehicles and equipment in the Dashte Rewak area. Dashti said "heavy clashes" were going on. Massoud in a Facebook post has said that Panjshir "continues to stand strong."Also read | Why is ISI chief in Kabul? Afghan politician says 'to stop Mullah Baradar'Saleh, who is holed out alongside Massoud in Panjshir, did say it was a difficult situation for the resistance forces. "The situation is difficult, we have been under invasion. The resistance is continuing and will continue,” Saleh said earlier in a video message.Meanwhile, a top US general warned of a "civil war" if the Taliban failed to consolidate power. "My military estimate is, is that the conditions are likely to develop off a civil war. I don't know if the Taliban is going to be able to consolidate power and establish governance," US General Mark Milley, chairperson of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said.Milley said while speaking to Fox News from Germany’s Ramstein Air Base if the Taliban cannot that will "in turn lead to a reconstitution of al Qaeda or a growth of ISIS or other myriads of terrorist groups" over the next three years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/about-600-taliban-killed-in-afghanistan-s-panjshir-claim-resistance-forces-101630800164017.html
05-09-2021||World||NZ will tighten anti-terrorism law, PM vows day after attack||Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern vowed on Saturday to tighten counter-terrorism laws this month after a knife-wielding militant known to the authorities stabbed and wounded seven people in a supermarket.Officials on Saturday confirmed that 32-year-old Ahamed Aathil Mohamed Samsudeen is the extremist who was shot and killed by police after he attacked people in an Auckland supermarket with a knife, injuring seven on Friday.Ardern said earlier the man was inspired by the Islamic State militant group and was being monitored constantly but could not be kept in prison by law any longer. The Counter Terror Legislation Bill criminalises planning and preparation that might lead to terror attack, closing what critics have said has been a loophole allowing plotters to stay free.But Ardern said it would not be fair to assume that the tighter law would have made a difference in this case. On Saturday, three of the victims remained hospitalised in critical condition and three more were in stable or moderate conditions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nz-will-tighten-anti-terrorism-law-pm-vows-day-after-attack-101630787366702.html
05-09-2021||World||28% of 138,000 assessed species now face extinction: Conservation body||About 28% of the 138,000 species assessed by the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN) for its survival watchlist are now at risk of vanishing in the wild forever, as the destructive impact of human activity on the natural world deepens, the global conservation body said on Saturday at a global conference aimed at protecting dwindling species.Habitat loss, overexploitation and illegal trade have hammered global wildlife populations for decades, and climate change is now kicking in as a direct threat as well, the IUCN Congress, taking place in the French city of Marseille, reported.In the latest update of the Red List for Threatened Species, the Komodo dragon is now listed as endangered, notably because of rising sea levels and rising temperatures in its Indonesian habitat. Ebonies and rosewoods threatened by logging were among trees put on the list for the first time this year.The IUCN also expressed concern for sharks and rays, which are faring less well than tuna as 37% of sharks and rays now face extinction compared with 33% of amphibians, 26% of mammals and 12% of birds.But the Red List also highlights the potential for restoration, with four commercially-fished tuna species pulling back from a slide towards extinction after a decade of efforts to curb overexploitation. The Atlantic bluefin tuna leapt from “endangered” across three categories to the safe zone of “least concern” from 2011.The IUCN Red List Unit reassesses hundreds of species each year. Of the 138,374 species the group tracks, more than 38,000 are threatened with extinction. Efforts to halt extensive declines in numbers and diversity of animals and plants have largely failed.In 2019 the UN’s biodiversity experts warned that a million species are on the brink of extinction - raising the spectre that the planet is on the verge of its sixth mass extinction event in 500 million years.“The red list status shows that we’re on the cusp of the sixth extinction event,” the IUCN’s Head of Red List Unit Craig Hilton-Taylor told AFP.“If the trends carry on going upward at that rate, we’ll be facing a major crisis soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/28-of-138-000-assessed-species-now-face-extinction-conservation-body-101630787097827.html
05-09-2021||World||New Zealand reports first Covid death in over 6 months||New Zealand reported its first coronavirus death in more than six months on Saturday, while the number of new cases continued to trend downward. Health authorities said the woman who died was in her 90s and had underlying health problems.Authorities reported 20 new community cases, all in the largest city of Auckland.New Zealand remains in lockdown as it tries to eliminate an outbreak of the Delta variant that began last month. The country has reported just 27 coronavirus deaths since the pandemic began. In Australia, the most populous state of New South Wales reported a record 1,533 new daily coronavirus cases.S Korea reports Mu casesThree cases of the Mu variant were identified in South Korea from those who visited Mexico, the US and Colombia, according to a statement from Korea Disease Control & Prevention Agency. Authorities will strengthen monitoring of the variant, it said.Children were much more likely to be hospitalised as the Delta variant became widespread, two studies from the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention released on Friday found. But children did not appear to contract more serious illness. The share of hospitalised young people who had indications of more serious illness remained similar to earlier in the year and in 2020, the studies found.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-zealand-reports-first-covid-death-in-over-6-months-101630786814344.html
05-09-2021||World||Taliban forces use tear gas, gunfire to end women’s rally||Taliban special forces in camouflage fired their weapons into the air on Saturday, bringing an abrupt and frightening end to the latest protest march in the capital by Afghan women demanding equal rights.The women’s march - the second in as many days in Kabul - began peacefully. Demonstrators laid a wreath outside Afghanistan’s defence ministry to honour Afghan soldiers who died fighting the Taliban. “We are here to gain human rights in Afghanistan,” said 20-year-old protester Maryam Naiby.As the protesters’ shouts grew louder, several Taliban officials waded into the crowd to ask what they wanted to say.Flanked by fellow demonstrators, Sudaba Kabiri, a 24-year-old university student, told the Taliban interlocutor that Islam’s Prophet gave women rights and they wanted theirs. The Taliban official promised women would be given their rights. But as the demonstrators reached the presidential palace, a dozen Taliban special forces ran into the crowd, firing in the air and sending demonstrators fleeing.Footage showed women confronted by armed militants covering their mouths and coughing, and one demonstrator said the fighters had used tear gas and tasers against the participants. “They also hit women on the head with a gun magazine, and the women became bloody,” said a demonstrator.Google locks Afghan govt’s email accountsGoogle has temporarily locked down an unspecified number of Afghan government email accounts, according to a person familiar with the matter, as fears grow over the digital paper trail left by former officials and their international partners.One former government employee said the Taliban are seeking to acquire former officials’ emails. The employee said that the Taliban has asked him to preserve the data held on the servers of the ministry he used to work for.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-forces-use-tear-gas-gunfire-to-end-women-s-rally-101630786035414.html
05-09-2021||World||Battle for last Afghan stronghold still on||Taliban and opposition forces were fighting on Saturday for control of the Panjshir Valley north of Kabul, the last province in Afghanistan holding out against the hardline Islamist group, according to reports.Taliban sources said on Friday the group’s fighters had taken the valley, although the opposition denied it had fallen.The National Resistance Front of Afghanistan, which groups opposition forces loyal to local leader Ahmad Massoud, said Taliban forces reached the Darband heights on the border between Kapisa province and Panjshir but were pushed back.“The defence of the stronghold of Afghanistan is unbreakable,” Front spokesman Fahim Dashty said in a tweet.In a Facebook post, Massoud insisted his forces would resist and said Panjshir “continues to stand strongly in the fight”.A Taliban source said fighting was continuing in Panjshir but the advance was slowed by landmines placed on the road to the capital Bazarak and the provincial governor’s compound.Unconfirmed reports in the local media said that at least 17 people were killed and 41 injured in the celebratory gunfire all over Kabul on Friday as news spread of the Taliban’s takeover of Panjshir. The Emergency Hospital in Kabul said two people were killed and 20 wounded by the salvos.Pak spy chief in KabulPakistan’s spy chief Lieutenant General Faiz Hameed flew into Kabul on Saturday, sources in both capitals said.It was not clear what his agenda was, but a senior official in Pakistan had said earlier in the week that Hameed, who heads the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) agency, could help the Taliban reorganise the Afghan military.Washington has accused Pakistan and the ISI of backing the Taliban in the group’s two-decade fight against the US-backed government in Kabul. Islamabad has denied the charges.New government to be announced next weekThe Taliban source also said the announcement of a new government would be pushed back to the next week.Taliban co-founder Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, reported by some Taliban sources to be in line to lead the new government, said in remarks on Qatar’s Al Jazeera channel that the new administration “will include all factions of the Afghan people”.Meanwhile, Qatar’s ambassador to Afghanistan said a technical team was able to reopen Kabul airport to receive aid, according to Al Jazeera news.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/battle-for-last-afghan-stronghold-still-on-101630785706517.html
05-09-2021||World||Surplus Covid-19 vaccines with rich nations to hit 1.2 billion doses||Western countries and Japan together have roughly 500 million doses of coronavirus vaccines that can be immediately redistributed to poorer nations and, by the end of 2021, this surplus stock will balloon to 1.2 billion, according to a new analysis of global vaccine utilisation and supply set to be released next week.The assessment, by science analytics company Airfinity, quantifies for the first time the stocks – available today and expected supply – that can be shared by high income countries without jeopardising their own vaccination campaigns.These doses can greatly address a huge inequity in supply: University of Oxford’s Our World in Data estimates that as on September 2, a mere 1.8% of the population in low-income countries received at least one dose. In high-income countries, this proportion is 64%.The new findings on surpluses are based on the analysis of supplies to the US, the UK, the European Union, Canada and Japan and their vaccination rates, and assume that these countries will keep giving doses to eligible populations (in most cases, everyone above the age of 12) with booster shots six months later.“The world has reached a tipping point when it comes to vaccine availability and production. For large Western countries, the challenge is no longer supply, but demand. The global supply chain is successfully increasing production and our detailed forecast shows that high income countries can have confidence that there is plenty of vaccine coming and this should reduce the need for stockpiling,” said Airfinity’s co-founder and CEO Rasmus Bech Hansen in an email to HT.“How these stocks are distributed, where they go and whether they are resold or donated is ultimately a political decision. With these numbers, I believe the world has a better basis for making these critical allocation decisions and avoid wasted doses,” Hansen added.In addition to worsening socioeconomic inequality between the Global North and South, this disparity threatens to drag on the pandemic. Experts see continued risk of the Sars-CoV-2 mutating if it keeps spreading in vulnerable populations.In terms of supplies, the report notes that production has scaled up rapidly. “Manufactures are currently producing 1.5 billion doses per month, and this is expected to continue growing,” the company said in its assessment.If the doses of World Health Organization-approved vaccines produced in China are considered, the number available for donation rises to 1.6 billion by the end of this year. To put this into perspective, these many doses are enough to fully vaccinate over 70% of the population in Sub-Saharan Africa, where, at present, less than 3% of the people have been immunised. This region has till now received only 60 million doses, according to Unicef’s Covid-19 Vaccine Market Dashboard’s latest update on August 20.To be sure, the surpluses in the Airfinity report include some doses already pledged.For instance, G7 countries and EU have pledged 1 billion doses for donation by June 2022. Of this, Airfinity’s assessment found 13% has been delivered.The report estimates that 11.3 billion doses are required to vaccinate the world’s population and forecasts output to reach that by the end of this year itself. Last month, the total number of Covid-19 vaccines produced in the world surpassed 6 billion.Airfinity added that the report has been endorsed by the International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers and Associations (IFPMA), a Geneva-headquartered trade association that represents pharmaceutical firms around the world.The forecast adds that redistribution plans need to take into account logistical challenges since most of the surplus doses — 69% — will be mRNA vaccines made by Moderna and Pfizer-BioNTech. Both need to be kept frozen.“Forecasted supply is calculated from purchased doses only and excludes any call option (i.e. the option to expand the deal),” the report says, and adds that it assumes no vaccine facility pauses production.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/surplus-covid-19-vaccines-with-rich-nations-to-hit-1-2-billion-doses-101630784951884.html
05-09-2021||India||Sachin Pilot loyalists plan drive to show ‘support’ he enjoys in Rajasthan||Jaipur, Sep 5 (PTI) Former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot’s supporters plan to plant 10 lakh saplings on Monday ahead of his birthday, in a drive which is also meant to convey that the Congress leader enjoys the support of people throughout Rajasthan. The Congress leader turns 44 on Tuesday. His supporters claimed that it will be a record-breaking exercise, surpassing the single-day record of 6.11 lakh saplings, which were planted in 2009 in Dungarpur by a team of volunteers led by the then district collector. Last year, a massive blood donation drive was conducted and around 45,000 units were collected in 400 camps. The drive is being seen by many as an attempt to convey the message that Pilot enjoys the support of people throughout the state. Pilot and the MLAs supporting him had revolted against Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot last year, after which the Congress leader was removed from the posts of the state party chief and the Rajasthan deputy chief minister. “We planned this massive state-level drive, arranged saplings and water tankers in just a few days and this shows the level of support Pilot gets across Rajasthan. The drive will be carried out successfully tomorrow,” said a leader who looked after the preparations. He said at least 5,000 saplings will be planted in each of the 200 Assembly constituencies. “The plantation drive will be conducted across the state. However, in Jaipur, Bharatpur, Kota and Ajmer divisions, the plantation is expected to be more than the target,” the leader said. “Preparations for the massive plantation drive have been going for the past several days and saplings have been purchased from across the state. A few trucks of plants have been called from Maharashtra and Karnataka,” said Mahesh Sharma, former PCC general secretary. “The campaign is inspired by Pilot’s concerns for the environment, therefore, we planned to materialise it. The entire exercise will be conducted scientifically and records of all plants will be collected,” he said. Several party MLAs and senior leaders will participate in the plantation drive. PCC vice-president and former minister Rajendra Chaudhary said all preparations have been completed in all seven divisions of the state. Congress MLA from Ladnun (Nagaur) Mukesh Bhakar said the plantation drive will be carried out at public places, on land of local bodies, schools and parks. “Party workers and youngsters will break the single-day record of Dungarpur. From senior leaders to youngsters, all are excited for the drive tomorrow,” he said. “We expect that the number of plants would cross the 10 lakh mark,” Bhakar said. PTI SDA RDK RDK||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sachin-pilot-loyalists-plan-drive-to-show-support-he-enjoys-in-rajasthan-101630866278070.html
05-09-2021||India||Massive show of strength at farmers’ UP mahapanchayat||Hundreds of thousands of farmers from Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Haryana, Rajasthan and Maharashtra gathered for a kisan mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar on Sunday, months ahead of assembly polls in the first three states, demanding that the central government roll back three contentious farm laws passed by Parliament a year ago.Addressing the event organised by protesting farmers’ umbrella body Samyukt Kisan Morcha, Bhartiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait said the Morcha would take the movement against the three farm laws to the entire country and seek a legal guarantee on minimum support prices for crops.Speaking in Bengaluru, Union minister Anurag Thakur said the central government not only increased the MSP and procurement but also built more mandis and is working towards increasing the income of the farmers. He said the Centre held discussions with farm union leaders on the new laws but no consensus could be reached because of their hard stance.Also read | Will discuss strategies to continue stir: Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait in UP“Senior ministers of the government of India held not one but 11 rounds of meetings with farmers. Detailed discussions were held on the issue,” he said.Tikait called upon farmers to “keep their tractors ready as they could be needed any time”.“These meetings will be held across the country. We have to stop the country from getting sold. Farmers should be saved, the country should be saved; businesses, employees and youth should be saved — that is the aim.”“The struggle for independence continued for 90 years, so I have no idea for how long this movement will go on,” he said. On the issue of further discussions with the government, Tikait said: “We will go when the central government invites us for talks.”Invoking communal amity, he raised the slogan “Allahu Akbar” from the stage and the participants responded with “Har Har Mahadev”. He said his father Mahendra Singh Tikait often used these two slogans from the stage to infuse a joint sense of purpose. “They will divide but we will unite people,” he said, hitting out at the ruling BJP.Underlining the political significance of the event, Tikait said “Mission UP” had begun with the mahapanchayat.The state BJP termed the mahapanchayat an “election meeting”. The BJP’s Kisan Morcha head and MP Rajkumar Chahar said in a statement that it was politics and not concern for farmers that drove those behind the mahapanchayat.“This was very much a political and election meeting. The opposition and these farmer union leaders have been using the shoulders of farmers to engage in politics,” he said.Tikait criticised the recently announced monetisation scheme and accused the BJP government of selling the country’s assets. “This will lead to an acute crisis of employment for the youth,” he said, adding that it was getting difficult for farmers to protect their land and crops.Only khap chaudharis (clan leaders) and farmer leaders were allowed to share the stage at the mahapanchayat from which leaders of political parties were kept away. Morcha leaders Yogendra Yadav, Darshan Pal, Gurnam Singh Chadhuni, Balbeer Singh Rajewal, Satnam Singh, and social activist Medha Patkar were among those who addressed the gathering.BJP MP Varun Gandhi described farmers as “our own flesh and blood” and suggested that the government should re-engage with them in reaching common ground. His remarks drew support from RLD leader Jayant Chaudhary.The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) demanded the Centre to accept the demands of farmers who have been protesting for nearly nine months against the three farm laws. BSP spokesperson Sudhindra Bhadoria supported the kisan mahapanchayat and said it is a democratic right of every citizen to have a peaceful protest.Large langars (free food stalls) were organised to feed the crowds that started forming by 9am, transforming the area into a sea of white Gandhi caps with strips of green, Muslim skullcaps and Sikh turbans. Muslim volunteers could be seen distributing food and water to people arriving from outside. The show of religious unity put up by the protesters was a political statement in the western UP belt that bore the brunt of bloody communal riots in 2013 between Hindu Jats and Muslims, the scars of which have not healed but were willingly put aside for a common purpose.“Things really went bad after the riots. Even though there was no violence reported as such, one could still feel differences in the way people of the two communities behaved with each other. However, it looks like the protest has brought people together,” said Salim Baliyan, a farmer from Hasoli village in Muzaffarnagar.Raghunath Singh, a farmer from Mimlana village, said: “At the end of the day we are all farmers and we have shared economic interests. The protest has made people realise that.”Farmers in attendance said the problem of stray cattle damaging crops, pending sugarcane payment dues, and heavy electricity bills were their other big worries.“Stray cattle has become a major menace and the government must do something about it. The protest should take up the issue especially in the light of the election ahead. It will definitely make an impact,” said Ankur Panwar, a Jat farmer who had come to the congregation from Fikheda village, around 10km from Muzaffarnagar town.Punitive action over stubble burning was another sore point. On August 25, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath announced that the government would withdraw cases against farmers and revoke fines imposed on them for burning crop residue in the fields.“The Haryana government had done that too ahead of the assembly elections in the state but now they have started fining farmers again,” said Rajan Singh, a farmer from Uttar Pradesh’s Meerut.Several groups of farmers from faraway states such as Tamil Nadu and West Bengal were also part of the event.“This event has the potential to revive the ongoing protest. Western Uttar Pradesh is a highly polarised region and the choice of Muzaffarnagar for a congregation like this is clearly symbolic. There is a possibility that some farmer leaders are testing the waters ahead of the assembly polls,” said Rahul Verma, a fellow with the Centre for Policy Research.Praveen Rai, a political analyst with the Centre for Study of Developing Societies, said: “The event could signify the revival of the social coalition for political purpose, but religious divide in the region is too deep to be bridged in such a short time. Religious solidarity is a fragile thing in this region and may witness A rupture as political campaigns get charged up ahead of the assembly polls. So it is a bit early to draw concrete conclusions on that at this point.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/massive-show-of-strength-at-farmers-up-mahapanchayat-101630865442038.html
05-09-2021||India||Chhattisgarh pastor beaten up at police station on conversion allegation||A pastor and two others, including an officer-bearer of a Christian outfit, were allegedly manhandled and abused inside a police station at Raipur on Sunday by members of a right-wing organisation, a senior official said.The group of right-wing activists accused pastor Harish Sahu of indulging in religious conversion and manhandled him as well as Ankush Bariyekar, general secretary of Chhattisgarh Christian Forum, and one Prakash Masih, inside Purani Basti police station, he said. “Sahu had been called to the police station after a right-wing organisation submitted a complaint against him that he is indulging in religious conversions. Accordingly, he came to the police station today along with Bariyekar and Masih. But a group of right-wing activists present there manhandled and abused the trio inside the chamber of the station house officer (SHO),” he said.A video of the incident went viral on social media. After the incident, Purani Basti station house officer (SHO) Yadumani Sidar was attached to the police lines by Senior Superintendent of Police Ajay Yadav, the official added.Bariyekar lodged a complaint in this regard, after which several people were booked under IPC sections 147 (rioting), 294 (obscene acts and songs), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 506 (criminal intimidation), he said.The incident occurred exactly a week after a 25-year-old pastor, Kawalsingh Paraste, was allegedly beaten up in his house in Polmi village in the state’s Kabirdham district by a mob of over 100 people, accusing him of indulging in religious conversions||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-pastor-beaten-up-at-police-station-on-conversion-allegation-101630865198269.html
05-09-2021||India||The Week Ahead: Mumbai battles Covid surge; Delhi to decide on reopening more classes||India’s two primary cities have important questions to answer this week. Mumbai is staring at a minor surge in cases over the last 10 days, with Sunday ending at 495 positives, its highest since July 15 (528 cases), and with the city’s test positivity rate consistently topping 1% over nearly two weeks, concerns are being raised in both the state government and BMC war rooms. Is there a lockdown coming? Is this the beginning of a third wave? The answer to both, officials said on Sunday, is no. “However, we cannot be complacent,” a state government health official said. “If we get through this week without any major surge, we should be able to hold off the anticipated third wave. This is a crucial week.”In Delhi, which has been able to keep both its cases and positivity rate low over the last two months after a horrific second wave, the disaster management authority shall meet this week to decide if more classes in schools can be allowed to reopen from September 15.The government has begun drafting a plan concerning vaccination of children which it will propose to the Central government soon after the Centre announces the date of opening the vaccine drive for minors.The government allowed schools to resume physical classes for grades 9 to 12 from September 1. It also allowed colleges and universities to resume physical classes and coaching centres to function for classes 9 and above from September 1.Not that Delhi is not wary of the third wave. The Delhi government’s preparation committee that was set up to focus on a potential third wave, will start working on a new plan regarding number of hospital beds that have to be kept ready, based on suggestions from the central government committee on Covid-19 preparations led by Dr VK Paul. The Central committee had told the state government that its current plan could prove inadequate in case another wave strikes.Both Mumbai and Delhi are key to India’s resilience against a possible third wave. Experts have often pointed out that brisk immunisation is key to keep another surge at bay. Mumbai crossed 10 million inoculations last week and so did Delhi. But it is the consistent supply of doses that is the key.While the third wave is top of mind for many, the country’s para athletes made us forget it for a while on Sunday when India returned with 19 medals at the Tokyo Paralympics, the country’s highest ever haul, including five golds. With most of them returning home this week, expect a massive reception for them, perhaps even bigger than the one for the medal winners at the summer Games.In England, though, today’s Day 5 action at the Kia Oval Test won’t be good for people with hypertension issues. India has been making a habit of Day 5 finishes in recent Tests, and today is no different, a day when, literally, any result is possible.A good day, therefore to look at more mundane things such as political developments through the country. The Jharkhand government could bring in a bill this week to provide jobs in private sector up to a certain salary bracket. The state’s parties could also bring in a resolution in favour of caste census. In West Bengal, candidates including chief minister Mamata Banerjee will file their nominations for Bhabanipur assembly seat next week even as CBI will continue its probe into post poll violence. And the Enforcement Directorate has summoned Abhishek Banerjee on Monday in connection with a coal smuggling case. Interesting week ahead for the eastern state.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi is likely to reach Chhattisgarh for a two-day visit to Bastar and northern Chhattisgarh.As infighting in Kerala Congress intensifies, party general secretary Tariq Anwar is reaching the state on on Wednesday. He will meet sulking senior leaders Oommen Chandy and Ramesh Chennithala. President Ram Nath Kovind will visit Indian Navy base INS Hansa today to confer the President’s Colours to Indian Naval Aviation. The President’s Colour is the highest honour bestowed on a military unit in recognition of its exceptional service to the nation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-week-ahead-mumbai-battles-covid-surge-delhi-to-decide-on-reopening-more-classes-101630865155659.html
05-09-2021||India||TMC officially fields Mamata from Bhabanipur home turf||The Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Sunday evening named chief minister Mamata Banerjee as its candidate for the assembly by-poll in south Kolkata’s Bhabanipur from where she had won in the past. For the Murshidabad district’s Samsergunj and Jangipur seats – where elections could not be held in March-April because the ruling party’s candidates died of Covid-19 – the TMC fielded Amirul Islam and former minister Jakir Hossain respectively. The latter was injured in a bomb blast in February this year. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on August 24 filed a charge sheet in the Nimtita railway station bomb blast case, saying the target of the February 17 IED (improvised explosive device) attack was Hossain, who was then the state’s deputy labour minister. The NIA said the blast was carried out to derail the local poll. “People of Jangipur are facing problems as they have no legislator to represent them. The election is necessary,” said Hossain. Although polls and by-polls are to be held in seven seats in Bengal, the Election Commission of India (ECI) on Saturday announced elections in only three seats. Though the TMC demanded early polls in all seven, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the state’s principal opposition force, claimed that the situation is not conducive as the pandemic situation is not under control in any part of Bengal. Since the Congress and the Left parties could not win a single seat for the first time since Independence, the contest in the coming elections is likely to be bi-polar. The BJP did not name its candidates for the three seats till Sunday evening. Its leaders said the decision will be taken after consultation with national leaders. “Of course, we will contest these seats,” said Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh. Banerjee is contesting again as she lost to her aide-turned adversary Suvendu Adhikari at Nandigram in East Midnapore district where polls were held in the second phase on April 1. To continue as chief minister, she needs to get elected before November 21. While addressing a rally in Nandigram before the polls, Banerjee surprised everyone when she announced that she would not contest from Bhawanipore and face Adhikari instead. She was injured in the left leg during the campaign and addressed all rallies from a wheelchair. Adhikari won the Nandigram seat in 2016 and was made a cabinet minister by Banerjee. He joined the BJP in December last year. State power minister Sovandeb Chattopadhyay contested the Bhawanipore seat and defeated the BJP candidate, actor Rudranil Ghosh. However, Chattopadhyay stepped down so that Banerjee could contest again. In the March-April polls, the BJP bagged 77 seats while the TMC won 213. The polls were held in 292 of the state’s 294 seats as the two TMC candidates died in Murshidabad. Two TMC candidates from North 24 Parganas and South 24 Parganas died of Covid-19 after the polls, and it was found that they had won. These seats are lying vacant. Though the BJP wrested 77 seats, its score came down to 75 as two legislators resigned from the assembly to retain their Lok Sabha seats. One of them is Nisith Pramanik who took oath as Union minister of state for home affairs during the cabinet reshuffle on July 7. Also, four BJP legislators have returned to the TMC although none have officially resigned from the party. Among them is Krishnanagar North MLA Mukul Roy, a founder-member of the TMC who switched sides in 2017 and was made a BJP national vice-president last year. The BJP has sought Roy’s disqualification under anti-defection law and has sought an explanation from the other three who left last week. Roy is still a BJP legislator on paper and has been appointed as chairman of the assembly’s public accounts committee. Top TMC leaders started a campaign on Sunday itself. Minister Firhad Hakim held a party workers’ meeting. “People of Bhawanipore are ready to welcome the festive season. They will welcome Mamata Banerjee before Goddess Durga arrives. Nothing can be more auspicious.” TMC legislator from Kamarhati, Madan Mitra, who lives in Bhawanipore, also campaigned on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmcofficially-fields-mamata-from-bhabanipur-home-turf-101630864238031.html
05-09-2021||India||Former Union health secretary Keshav Desiraju dead||Keshav Desiraju, former Union Health Secretary and grandson of former President S Radhakrishnan passed away here on Sunday.He was about 66 and died at a private hospital. Tamil Nadu chief minister M K Stalin expressed grief over Desiraju’s death due to heart attack.In his message, the chief minister extended his condolences to the bereaved family and friends and said Desiraju passed away on the very same day that marked his grandfather Radhakrishnan’s birth anniversary. The retired bureaucrat excelled in his work and played a key role in the nation’s growth, Stalin said and recalled his biography of renowned Carnatic singer M S Subbulakshmi (of gifted voice). Desiraju, a great humanist who showed special concern for differently-abled children and the mentally challenged people and he was keenly interested in their welfare, Stalin said. Congress leader Jairam Ramesh was among others who have condoled the death of Desiraju. He tweeted:”My dear, dear friend for 57 years, Keshav Desiraju, a most outstanding civil servant has just passed away. What a tragic irony that he left us on the day the country marks the birthday of his grandfather. Keshav has written the definitive biography of M S Subbalaksmi.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-union-health-secretary-keshav-desiraju-dead-101630864058000.html
05-09-2021||India||Daylight robbery’: Chidambaram criticises National Monetisation Pipeline scheme||Former finance minister P Chidambaram on Sunday criticised the National Monetisation Pipeline scheme and called the project an act of ‘daylight robbery’. Chidambaram’s comments came at the two-day national executive meeting of the Indian Youth Congress in Panaji. The former finance minister was appointed the Congress election observer for Goa assembly elections which are scheduled to be held next year.“The National Monetisation Pipeline scheme of the Central Government is daylight robbery. Whatever has been created by the governments of the country in the last 70 years is being given in the hands of a select few. People should be aware of this menace and oppose it,” Chidambaram was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Chidambaram also said that no consultation was held with other parties before introducing this policy. He said that there was no debate in the Parliament and said that the government would have never allowed a discussion on the issue.Congress leaders along with leaders from other opposition parties like the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) and the Trinamool Congress (TMC) opposed the National Monetisation Pipeline scheme. They accused the government of selling India’s ‘prized assets’ in the public sector. They also claim that the scheme will not benefit common people and affect reservations in jobs and create unemployment. Congress’ Ajay Maken on Friday called the National Monetisation Pipeline scheme and the demonetisation exercise of 2016, Centre’s ‘twin babies’ to ‘loot’ Indians.“In the name of development, the Modi government gave birth to twin babies, one was demonetisation and the other one is the (National) Monetisation (Scheme). Both are of the same nature,” Maken was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/daylight-robbery-chidambaram-criticises-national-monetisation-pipeline-scheme-101630863088576.html
05-09-2021||India||In slight relief for Kerala, Covid-19 cases register marginal dip||There is some relief for Kerala as the state reported 26,701 new Covid-19 cases with a test positivity rate (TPR) of 17.17 per cent after 1,55,543 tests were held, the state health ministry indicated in a statement. Kerala has consistently been reporting more than 30,000 cases daily over the last few days. When compared with the last seven days, new cases, TPR, deaths and active cases have all registered a slight dip. The state reported 74 deaths taking total fatalities to 21,496. The state’s active case load is 2,47, 79. Kozhikode district topped the table on Sunday with 3,336 fresh Covid-19 cases, followed by Thrissur with 3,214 and Ernakulam with 2,915 cases. A look at the last seven days’ average TPR shows four districts reported more than 20 per cent -- Thrissur 23.37%, Palakkad 22.10%, Kozhikode 21.48% and Wayanad 20.65%. In some of the worst-affected districts earlier like Malappuram and Ernakulam, cases subsided a bit and TPR came down to the 15-20 per cent bracket. The lowest TPR is in Kasaragod in north Kerala, 12.91%. The worst affected Thrissur reported less than 20 per cent only on a single day, 19.57% on August 31 and least affected Kasaragod is consistent with its low volume and once it even dipped to 6.28% on August 30, statistics shows. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research guidelines, TPR should be below 5 per cent if an area has to be declared out of the critical zone. A majority of the districts in the state claim three to four times higher than that rate explaining the intensity of the infection. In the last 24 hours, the country reported 42,766 new cases, 308 deaths with a TPR below 3%. Statistics show Kerala’s high caseload is the prime reason for the national surge. With Covid-19 cases showing no signs of relenting, the government has decided to adopt tough steps against home quarantine violators. Those who violate norms will be booked, fined and they will be shifted to institutional quarantine centres by the police. The violators will have to bear the expenses of shifting also. Many experts have blamed lax home quarantine for the persistent surge in cases though there is set norms for home quarantine like separate washroom and no contact with others at home. Many people, however, interact with others as usual giving them the infection. In north Kerala, many houses still have the joint family system which results in all members getting infected. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday said the situation was under control and that there was no big spike in infections after the Onam festival as was feared adding that the health situation will subside by the second week of September. The second wave has been continuing in the state for more than three months-- June to September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-slight-relief-for-kerala-covid-19-cases-register-marginal-dip-101630862497760.html
05-09-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: Sept 6, 1997— Mother Teresa passes away after cardiac arrest||Calcutta Mother Teresa, apostle of love and peace, who lived each moment of her life to wipe away the tears of the deprived and the destitute, is no more. The Mother breathed her last at 9.30 p.m. today at her home at the headquarters of the Missionaries of Charity. The 87-vear-old Nobel laureate died of a cardiac arrest. As soon as her death was announced, the entire nation plunged into mourning. People came out in large numbers and gathered at the Missionaries of Charity in central Calcutta to mourn the “living saints” death. The Mother complained of chest pain, and several doctors were called but she breathed her last a few minutes later, the announcement said. Baptised in 1929, the Albanian born nun chose to make Calcutta her home where she set up the Missionaries of Charity in 1949 to serve the ailing members of the humanity. The Mother, who was twice hospitalised last year, had a bypass surgery and was also on a permanent pace maker. She was due to attend an all faith prayer meeting in the city to pay respects to Princess Diana. The Missionary Order which plunged into grief was praying for the peace of Mother’s soul at a mass. The Mother, who stepped down as the head of the Order on March 13 this year after repeated health problems, paved the way for election of Sister Nirmala as the new head of the organisation. Her Order founded in 1947 has 4,000 nuns running orphanages, homes of the poor and other charity centres worldwide. The Mother stepped out of the confines of a convent 50 years ago to “serve God among the poorest of the poor” and had been a guardian angel for the sick and dying the world over since then. Though bent with age and a host of ailments, her spirit and faith remained unbroken as she brought succour to the sick and dying of Kalighat’ , the gas victim of Bhopal, the flood striken in Bangladesh, the starving in Ethiopia and the earthquake victims of Armenia. After being named for the Nobel Peace Prize in 1979, the “living saint” had said “I accept in the name of the poor because I believe that by giving me this prize, they are recognising the presence of the poor in the world.” In 1990, when Mother Teresa was hospitalised, the world had prayed for her. Fitted with a pace maker, she resumed her work. Mother Teresa had rarely talked about herself. Her visitors to the Missionaires of Charity headquarters in Calcutta which included Presidents and Prime Ministers, millionaires, kings and kingmakers were baffled by her reticence. Her humility was illustrated in a published interview, asked if she had taken her name after St Teresa of Avila who also left her convent and founded an order she laughed, “Oh no, I have not called myself after the big Teresa but the little one - teresa of Lisieux.” On the very first day of the home which opened in 1952, Mother Teresa literally picked up a woman half eaten by and ants and carried her to the dharamshala. As she began to cleanse her, the woman’s skin came off her flesh to the gentlest of touches. The warmth of human care and affection could not save her. Slightly built and diminutive, Mother Teresa eschewed public notice, working in the obscurity of the slums. But her humble approach could not hide the greatness of her work. She herself had no personal property or savings. But her real wealth was Himalayan in size the millions of destitutes orphaned and abandoned sufferers around the world. In all her work both in India and abroad, she adopted the Indian tradition in service. She seemed to have assiduously cultivated the Indian outlook and through her it was for the first time that the Catholic order adopted an Indian dress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthisday-sept-6-1997-mother-teresa-passes-away-after-cardiac-arrest-101630860998192.html
05-09-2021||India||ISRO truck blocked in Kerala; trade union members seek ‘gawking charge’||A truck laden with heavy equipment and headed towards the Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre (VSSC), a key wing of the Indian Space Research Organisation was blocked on Sunday by a group of workers and local people in Thiruvananthapuram demanding “gawking charge”. Interestingly, this happened three days after the Kerala High Court pulled up the state government for not effectively implementing the law to get rid of the strange practice called ‘nokku kooli,’ in local parlance which means gawking wages. In 2018 the Kerala government had abolished the practice of charging people by licenced members of the head load workers by not doing any work. Affiliated to militant trade unions, the practice is still continuing in many parts of the state. Fearing violence and intimidation many end up paying charges sought by them. It is better known as extortion by registered trade unions. The VSSC officials said their truck was stranded for more than four hours after workers sought ₹10 lakh. Later they informed the CM’s office about this and labour minister V Sivankutty intervened and the truck was allowed to go inside the high security premises after several rounds of talks and protest. A labour ministry official said action will be taken against labour leaders who provoked workers and local people. The issue has invited enough embarrassment for the Left Front government. Among trade unions the CPI(M)-controlled CITU (Centre of Indian Trade Unions) is prominent. The Kerala High Court while hearing a plea of a businessman from Kollam last week over the issue said rights of head load workers should be protected but petitions against ‘nokku kooli’ were on the rise and asked the government why it was not effectively intervening in such issues. “The practice is damaging the image of Kerala. It should be eradicated. It gives a wrong perception about the state. It should be corrected,” observed Justice Devan Ramachandran.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/isro-truck-blocked-in-kerala-trade-union-members-seek-gawking-charge-101630858177288.html
05-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Taliban say old men of good character can teach women students and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Old men of ‘good character’ can teach women in Afghan universities: ReportAs some private universities in Afghanistan are planning to resume classes on Monday, the Taliban have issued a detailed diktat specifying how women attending universities should dress, news agency AFP reported. Earlier, the Taliban ordered that women will be allowed access to higher education, but there will be no provision of co-education and male teachers will not be allowed to teach female students. In the recent order, it has been mentioned that old men of good character can teach female students if there are not enough female teachers in universities. Read more.Can both Nipah and Covid infect patients? Doctors explainKerala is at the receiving end of a double whammy after the state confirmed the death of a 12-year-old from the Nipah virus. The state is already amid a spiralling Covid situation with over 25,000 cases being recorded every day. Can both Nipah and Covid infect the same person? Read more.Coal scam case: TMC’s Abhishek Banerjee to appear in front of ED on MondayTrinamool Congress national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee is scheduled to appear before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in Delhi on Monday, news agency ANI reported. The lawmaker was summoned along with his wife, Rujira Banerjee, for questioning in connection to a money laundering case linked to an alleged coal scam. Read more.‘No jeans, sleeveless tops’: New dress code for MPs ahead of UK House of CommonsBefore the British members of Parliament return to the House of Commons on Monday, Sir Lindsay Hoyle, the Commons Speaker, has directed them to dress appropriately in “business attire.” Read more.CJI pitches new corporation for judicial infra, cites women lawyers' problemsChief Justice of India NV Ramana listed the problems faced by the judiciary in India. Apart from shortage of administrative staff and vacancies in judicial posts, CJI Ramana said that infrastructure is a huge hurdle. Watch here.Four Team India support staff members in isolation after head coach Ravi Shastri's positive lateral flow testFour of Team India's support staff members including head coach Ravi Shastri were sent in isolation as Covid-19 fears gripped the Indian cricket team in England on Sunday. Read more.Shah Rukh Khan poses with Pune Metro staff amid reports of him shooting for Atlee’s next, see picAlthough Shah Rukh Khan is yet to confirm, photos from Pune have hinted that the actor is in the city and filming for his upcoming film with Tamil director Atlee. Earlier this week, reports began doing the rounds that Shah Rukh is headed for Pune to shoot for the movie. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-taliban-say-old-men-of-good-character-can-teach-women-101630852896342.html
05-09-2021||India||Deadly Nipah virus returns to hound Kerala, 12-year-old boy dies||A 12-year-old boy died after contracting the Nipah virus in north Kerala’s Kozhikode on Sunday, triggering fear of a possible outbreak of another deadly virus while the state is still struggling to contain the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. State health minister Veena George said all three samples of the boy were found to be positive for Nipah virus by the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune. At least 18 close contacts, mainly relatives and health workers, of the boy and 150 secondary contacts were identified and quarantined. Among the first group two health workers later showed symptoms of Nipah, the minister said. “There is no need to panic. But strict vigil is the need of the hour. We have a strict Nipah protocol and we will go by that,” said the minister in Kozhikode after attending a high-powered meeting also attended by two other ministers, A K Saseendran and Mohamad Riyaz. The minister said the boy was initially admitted to a government hospital but later shifted to a private hospital with high fever a week ago. In the beginning he was suspected to be suffering from brain fever but later samples were rushed to the NIV for further testing. The boy died in the early hours of Sunday. She said all relatives of the boy and all those involved in his treatment were put under quarantine. Some of the relatives of the boy later complained that though the victim showed symptoms for many days, medical college authorities failed to test his samples. When the fever did not subside they shifted him to a private hospital which sent samples for testing immediately. The minister said the government will inquire into the possible lapse. The Union Health Ministry has also rushed a team from the National Centre for Diseases Control, Delhi and NIV Pune has decided to set up a virology laboratory at the Kozhikode medical college hospital to speed up tests. A control room has also been set up in the city. The minister said she will camp in the city and the route map of the boy will be published soon. Later the deceased was buried under strict Nipah protocol in a public burial ground in the city. State health authorities said they have no idea about the source of infection but like earlier cases fruit bats are suspected. Like Coivd-19, isolation and quarantine are the best options to contain Nipah virus but its fatality rate is very high, said experts. A zoonotic disease triggered by a pathogen (an infectious agent of virus) it can be transmitted from animals to humans through body fluid and human to humans through fluids, said experts. “The situation is not like 2018 when we were totally in the dark. Since a majority of people are observing physical distance and masking it can be contained effectively,” said critical care expert Dr A S Anoop Kumar, who played a key role during the 2018 outbreak which claimed 17 lives in Kozhikode but later it was localised and contained effectively. Following the fresh detection of another virus, a high alert has been sounded in two neighbouring districts, Kannur and Malappuram. Former health minister K K Shailaja also said contact tracing is the key in containing the virus. An unknown virus with no medicine or history of treatment and very little information about the carrier, made health experts hit a blind alley in the initial stages of the outbreak in 2018. But they fought back and contained its secondary infection and nursed back two Nipah-positive persons (Ajanya, a nursing student and Ubeesh, a male nurse) back to life, though the deadly virus claimed 17 lives in a span of ten days. Lini, a young nurse who treated the initial patient, was among the dead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deadly-nipah-virus-returns-to-hound-kerala-12-year-old-boy-dies-101630850016686.html
05-09-2021||India||Can both Nipah and Covid infect patients? Doctors explain||Kerala is at the receiving end of a double whammy after the state confirmed the death of a 12-year-old from the Nipah virus. The state is already amid a spiralling Covid situation with over 25,000 cases being recorded every day. Can both Nipah and Covid infect the same person? Kerala doctors said the likelihood of both Nipah and Covid-19 infecting patients is less, news agency PTI reported. This is because Nipah does not spread far and wide and it remains confined to smaller areas or clusters, Dr T S Anish told PTI. The number of Nipah cases hardly ever crosses even 50, the doctor said.This is not the first time that the state is dealing with Nipah. The state health ministry has already handled Nipah cases in 2018 and 2019. Kerala also reported some Zika cases amid the ongoing pandemic. In July, Kerala saw a localised outbreak of the Zika virus.After the death of the 12-year-old, two healthcare workers developed Nipah symptoms. The government confirmed that these two were among the 20 high-risk contacts of the deceased boy.Also Read | Nipah death in Kerala: Symptoms, prevention, treatment. All you need to knowWill Nipah be a challenge for Kerala?Doctors said there is less cause for concern at present for many reasons. First, the state has enough experience in handling Nipah in 2018 and 2019. Second, because of Covid, there are already some protective measures like wearing of maks and PPE kits, So the transmission will be less this time, experts opine.Risk of transmission is higher when patients' condition is severeNipah is such a virus that can transmit from animals to humans and from human to human. Dr Amar Fettle, the nodal officer for H1N1, said that the infection is more likely to spread once the patient's condition becomes severe-- when he/she is hospitalised. So the risk of transmission is more in hospitals than in community levels.Kannur and Malappuram have been put on the alert for any cases of Nipah. Tamil Nadu has also stepped up monitoring people arriving from Kerala in nine bordering districts. In 2018, there were 17 deaths and 18 confirmed cases and in 2019 only one case of Nipah was reported from Kochi.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-both-nipah-and-covid-infect-patients-doctors-explain-101630848328225.html
05-09-2021||India||Coal scam case: TMC’s Abhishek Banerjee to appear in front of ED on Monday||Trinamool Congress national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee is scheduled to appear before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in Delhi on Monday, news agency ANI reported. The lawmaker was summoned along with his wife, Rujira Banerjee, for questioning in connection to a money laundering case linked to an alleged coal scam.The probe led by the ED is based on an FIR registered by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) over alleged mass coal pilferage in Eastern Coalfields Ltd mines in West Bengal’s Kunustoria and Kajora collieries.ED summons Mamata’s nephew, his wife over money laundering caseEarlier this year, the ED told a Delhi court that the Lok Sabha MP from Diamond Harbour, who is also chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew, allegedly received funds obtained from the illegal mining. The agency also said that ahead of the Bengal elections, earlier this year, illegal coal mining was 'flourishing in the state under the “patronage” of the political party in power’, according to a report by HT.The ED officials say that proceeds of the scam, which allegedly amounted to ₹1,352 crore, was generated and collected by Majhi in two years in connivance with police officers and also were sent to political leaders in West Bengal. It claims the money was then laundered in India and abroad.Coal smuggling case: Abhishek Banerjee’s wife asks ED to question her in KolkataRujira Banerjee, Abhishek Banerjee’s wife, did not appear before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in New Delhi on Wednesday citing the Covid-19 pandemic as a reason for her absence. She, however, asked the ED officials to visit her residence in Kolkata and assured of ‘every cooperation.’The Trinamool Congress claims that investigating agencies are ‘harassing’ its leaders at the behest of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which is at the helm in the Centre. West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee reacted sharply to the summons and said that the Centre was ‘letting loose central agencies’ on the MPs of her party. She called the move an ‘attempt to bulldoze the federal structure’ and snatch away the rights of the states while speaking to reporters last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coal-scam-case-tmc-s-abhishek-banerjee-to-appear-in-front-of-ed-on-monday-101630844180385.html
05-09-2021||India||BJP’s Varun Gandhi lends support to agitating farmers, calls for ‘re-engagement’||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Varun Gandhi voiced his support for the ongoing farmers’ protests. The parliamentarian representing Pilibhit Lok Sabha constituency called for “re-engagement” with the protesting farmers, urging for the inclusion of their point of view in working out a common ground. Calling farmers “our own flesh and blood”, Gandhi insisted their hardships should be taken into consideration.“Lakhs of farmers have gathered in protest today, in Muzaffarnagar. They are our own flesh and blood. We need to start re-engaging with them in a respectful manner: understand their pain, their point of view and work with them in reaching common ground,” Gandhi tweeted on Sunday.The BJP leader also shared a video recording of hundreds and thousands of farmers gathered at Muzaffarnagar for the Kisan Mahapanchayat on Sunday. Gandhi had earlier criticised Karnal Karnal sub-divisional magistrate Ayush Sinha for instructing on-duty police personnel last week to “break heads” of protesting farmers if they breach the barricade. “I hope this video is edited and the DM did not say this… Otherwise, this is unacceptable in democratic India to do to our own citizens,” Gandhi said in a tweet on August 28.The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) had called for a Kisan Mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar on Sunday to protest against the three controversial farm laws. Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait declared at Sunday’s Mahapanchayat that the agitations would continue till their demands are met.Varun Gandhi did not directly mention the NDA government in his tweets but he is the first leader from the ruling dispensation to voice his support for the ongoing farmers’ agitation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjps-varun-gandhi-lends-support-to-agitating-farmers-calls-for-reengagement-101630841888725.html
05-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Two Indian-origin individuals die in flash floods in US and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Two Indian-origin people die in flash floods in US: ReportAt least two people of Indian-origin died during flash floods triggered by Hurricane Ida in New Jersey, news agency PTI reported quoting local news agencies. Read MoreAgitations to continue till demands are met: Rakesh Tikait at Kisan MahapanchayatBharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait told reporters on Sunday that the farmers' agitation would continue for the foreseeable future until their demands are fulfilled by the government. Read MoreCancer patient ‘Maoist’ Uppuganti asked to seek bail, shifting to hospiceThe Bombay high court on Thursday asked Maoist leader Nirmala Uppuganti, who is suffering from stage 4 of breast cancer, to amend her petition to include bail as final relief and transfer from prison to a palliative care hospice to spend her final days as an interim relief. Read MoreFour Team India support staff members in isolation after head coach Ravi Shastri's positive lateral flow testFour of Team India's support staff members including head coach Ravi Shastri were sent in isolation as Covid-19 fears gripped the Indian cricket team in England on Sunday. Read MoreDrashti Dhami catches Karan Johar off guard with her reply featuring Kangana Ranaut on Koffee Shots with Karan. WatchFilmmaker Karan Johar will soon be seen in conversation with the lead cast of the web series The Empire Kunal Kapoor, Dino Morea and Drashti Dhami. Read MorePilot flies through two road tunnels, incredible viral video stuns peopleAn incredible video showcasing a pilot flying through two road tunnels has left people in awe. Energy drink company Red Bull took to Twitter to share the video which has now gone viral. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-two-indian-origin-individuals-die-in-flash-floods-in-us-and-all-the-latest-news-101630839716707.html
05-09-2021||India||Suvendu Adhikari summoned for questioning in bodyguard death case||The Crime Investigation Department (CID) of the West Bengal government on Sunday summoned BJP MLA Suvendu Adhikari for questioning in connection with a case related to the probe into the unnatural death of his personal security guard three years ago.The CID asked the BJP's Nandigram MLA to appear before its investigating officers in Kolkata on Monday. Adhikari's personal security guard Subhabrata Chakraborty had alleged shot him using his service revolver in 2018 at a police barrack in East Medinipur. A state armed police personnel, Chakraborty was part of the minister's security detail from the time became a parliamentarian.The CID set up a team to investigate Chakraborty's death after his wife filed a complaint seeking a probe. Earlier in June, a four-member team of CID sleuths visited Adhikari's home in East Medinipur as part of the ongoing investigation, in which at least 15 people, including some police personnel, have been questioned.The CID also summoned Adhikari's driver Sambhu Maity and his close associate Sanjeev Shukla for questioning in the case on Tuesday.The summoning of Adhikari comes days after the Enforcement Directorate summoned Trinamool Congress general secretary and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee's nephew, Abhishek Banerjee, and his wife Rujira Banerjee, in an alleged money laundering case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suvendu-adhikari-cid-probe-bodyguard-death-case-west-bengal-101630837725962.html
05-09-2021||India||Cancer patient ‘Maoist’ Uppuganti asked to seek bail, shifting to hospice||The Bombay high court on Thursday asked Maoist leader Nirmala Uppuganti, who is suffering from stage 4 of breast cancer, to amend her petition to include bail as final relief and transfer from prison to a palliative care hospice to spend her final days as an interim relief.Uppuganti, who was arrested in 2019 along with her husband for alleged role in the death of 15 policemen and a civilian in the Gadchiroli Maoist attack, is terminally ill with breast cancer and is taken to Tata Memorial hospital for treatment every alternate day from Byculla prison. However, she has sought shifting to a palliative hospice claiming the facilities at Byculla Women’s prison were not conducive for her care. The division bench of justice S S Shinde and justice N J Jamadar, while hearing Uppuganti’s petition, was informed by advocates Dr Yug Choudhry and Payoshi Roy that the alleged leader of the banned CPI (Maoist) organisation was diagnosed with breast cancer in 2018 and underwent chemotherapy for the same. However, after her arrest in 2019, she had to miss her therapy and the cancer spread in her body. The court was further informed that Uppuganti had reached stage four of the cancer and was suffering from multiple skeletal and lung metastases (secondary malignant growths) and hence sought shifting to a hospice for palliative care during her final days. The petition further submitted that the Byculla prison, where Uppuganti was presently housed, did not have proper facilities for a patient like her, as she had to sleep on the floor in packed cells and was not even provided hot water, which was having an adverse effect on her health. Public prosecutor Sangeeta Shinde opposed the petition saying that Uppuganti was being taken to the TATA Memorial Care Centre every alternate day as per her doctors’ advice and was able to move around the prison. After hearing the submissions, the bench sought to know why Uppuganti had not applied for bail along with her plea for being shifted to a hospice. “There is no prayer for bail, even though we come to a conclusion that she needs medical care, how can we release her since there is no bail application. You could have applied for bail with the alternative of palliative care,” observed the bench. In response, Roy submitted that the accused did not have anyone except her husband, who was being held at Arthur Road prison, and since all her assets and belongings had been seized, she had nowhere to go even if she was given bail. Further, there was no one to take care of bail formalities and hence she only sought shifting to a hospice. The court then asked the lawyer to amend the petition to include a prayer for bail or at least include a submission on why bail was not sought for with the grounds that were orally presented before the court. In the meantime, the court directed the prison authorities to take Uppuganti to TATA memorial as per her fixed schedule and then inform the court about her condition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cancer-patient-maoist-uppuganti-asked-to-seek-bail-shifting-to-hospice-101630839095433.html
05-09-2021||India||Agitations to continue till demands are met: Rakesh Tikait at Kisan Mahapanchayat||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait told reporters on Sunday that the farmers' agitation would continue for the foreseeable future until their demands are fulfilled by the government. Drawing a parallel between the farmers' agitation and the struggle for Independence, Tikait said “the struggle for Independence continued for 90 years so I have no idea for how long this agitation will run.”“When the government of India will invite us for talks, we will go. The farmers' agitation will continue until the government fulfils our demands,” the BKU leader added.The farmers unions announced during Sunday's Mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar that the upcoming Bharat Bandh will be observed on September 27 instead of September 25, reported Live Hindustan. Tikait reiterated his pledged to continue the protests at Delhi border till their demands are met. “We take a pledge that we will not leave the protest site there (at Delhi borders) even if our graveyard is made there. We will lay down our lives if needed, but will not leave the protest site until we emerge victorious,” he told the gathering at Kisan Mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar.Also Read: Will discuss strategies to continue stir: Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait in UPBKU and Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), the umbrella body of farmers’ unions protesting against the Centre's farm laws, had called for a Mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar on Sunday. Thousands of farmers from all over the country had gathered at government inter-college ground responding to SKM’s call for ‘Mission Uttar Pradesh’ to continue discussions around the three farm laws as the state gears up for assembly elections next year."The Kisan Mahapanchayat of September 5 in Muzaffarnagar will be historic. Let us go to Muzaffarnagar on September 5. All of you are invited to the Kisan Mahapanchayat," Tikait tweeted on Saturday.Around 32 farmers unions from Punjab have set September 8 as the deadline for the government to withdraw the three contentious laws; failure to do so will invite bigger protests across the country, SKM told news agency PTI. A total of 10 rounds of talks have been held between farmers union and the government since the agitation started last year.Meanwhile, the authorities in Muzaffarnagar had ordered the closure of all wine shops from 6pm on Saturday till the Mahapanchayat was over, district magistrate Chandra Bhushan Singh told reporters that it was done to maintain law and order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/agitations-to-continue-till-demands-are-met-rakesh-tikait-at-kisan-mahapanchayat-101630837146816.html
05-09-2021||India||Nipah death in Kerala: Symptoms, prevention, treatment. All you need to know||After a 12-year-old boy died of Nipah near Kozhikode in Kerala and two health workers exhibited symptoms of the infection, Kerala, already battered by theCovid pandemic, is on alert. Rigorous contact tracing has been ordered to check the spread of the virus. Kerala has a history of Nipah and 17 were killed in the last outbreak of the virus in the state in 2018. But how does Nipah spread? Is it fatal? What precautions are to take? Here is everything you need to know.What is the Nipah virus?Nipah virus is one such virus that can spread between animals and people. Such a virus is officially known as a zoonotic virus. So, the virus can cause illness among animals and humans alike.How does the Nipah virus spread?The virus spread from contact with an infected animal and person. The contact can be anything like eating a fruit contaminated by infected animals -- either their bodily fluid has been mixed with it or they have eaten the fruit.Direct contact with Nipah-infected animals is also a source of transmission.Also Read: Nipah virus kills 12-year-old in Kerala. Here’s how Centre, state govt are handling situationClose contact with a person infected with the virus through exposure to their body fluids can also spread the infection.Infected pigs and bats are the primary sources of Nipah infection.SymptomsFever, headache, cough, sore throat, difficulty on breathing and vomiting are the mild symptoms of the infection, while severe symptoms may include encephalitis (brain swelling), coma, seizures, disorientation.How to prevent NipahAvoiding direct contact with infected animals is the first step to prevent Nipah. Frequent handwashing with soap and water can also prevent the spread of the infection. Since it is a highly contagious disease, contact tracing and isolation are essential.Treatment of NipahThere is no licensed treatment for the Nipah virus but there are treatments for the symptoms that a patient may exhibit. Proper rest, hydration is vital for the well-being of Nipah patients.Nipah not new in Keralain both 2018 and 2019, Kerala handled Nipah cases and health experts think that this time around the threat will be lesser as the state already has medical infrastructure like PPE kits, isolation practices, because of its ongoing fight with Covid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nipah-death-in-kerala-symptoms-prevention-treatment-all-you-need-to-know-101630836947242.html
05-09-2021||India||Soren govt allots namaz hall in Jharkhand Assembly, BJP wants Hanuman temple||A controversy has erupted in Jharkhand after the Hemant Soren-led Jharkhand government ordered the allotment of a “namaz hall” on the Assembly premises. The order was issued by speaker Rabindra Nath Mahto on September 2 and became public two days later.A notification, signed by the Jharkhand legislative assembly deputy secretary Naveen Kumar by order of the speaker, read, "Allotment of room number TW 348 as Namaz Hall for offering Namaz in the new Assembly Building."Soon after the BJP demanded a Hanuman temple on the Assembly premises be built and worship halls be earmarked for people of other religions, while the ruling Jharkhand Mukti Morcha and Congress welcomed the move.BJP leader Raghubar Das said the BJP will launch an agitation if the speaker's decision of allotment of a separate namaz hall was not withdrawn. Stating that MLAs in the ruling camp openly support the Taliban, Das said the latest move was a result of this ideology. “Otherwise any person who believes in democracy would not commit such an act. The Soren government is also tarnishing the dignity of constitutional institutions for appeasement and vote bank politics. This is not a good sign for Jharkhand," he added.The former chief minister threatened to sit on a hunger strike if the speaker's order was not withdrawn.BJP chief whip Viranchi Narayan has written to the speaker demanding he withdraws the order as he is "expected to protect constitutional values".BJP leader Babulal Marandi said this was an unconstitutional step. “If the speaker of the Assembly had to take it then he should build a grand Hanuman temple in the Assembly premises for Hindus. Worship halls must be earmarked for people of other religions. The temple of democracy should remain so," the former chief minister said.BJP leader CP Singh said, "The speaker should immediately get a grand Hanuman temple constructed on the assembly premises so that Hindu devotees can recite Hanuman Chalisa there."In his letter, Narayan wrote, "You cancel your order of September 2 and take the trouble of withdrawing this unconstitutional, unparliamentary and irreligious order of Muslim appeasement while protecting the constitutional values, standards. If you are unable to set aside this order due to any pressure or appeasement, then I will be compelled to approach the court in this matter."Marandi said, "The temple of democracy should remain the temple of democracy. We are against any such order."Earlier, the ruling Congress and JMM issued a statement welcoming the Speaker's move. Congress MLA Irfan Ansari, who had recently courted controversy by welcoming the Taliban occupation of Afghanistan in the Assembly, said, "The BJP has a habit of doing politics of religion. It just keeps on talking nonsense."JMM general secretary Divya Kumar welcoming the speaker's decision said earlier too such an arrangement was made in Bihar assembly. ''There is nothing new in alloting a namaz hall in the Jharkhand House Assembly," he added.Meanwhile, the speaker said there was nothing new about the latest and there was a practice of adjourning the House half an hour before the usual time so that Muslim legislators can offer Friday prayers.Mahato said, "We respect everyone. This is a matter of faith. Why should we put a hindrance in it? And this is not a new thing. There is a practice in the Assembly that the House is adjourned half an hour before to offer Friday prayers."Responding to a question on the BJP's accusations that the speaker is acting on political instructions, he said, "What can I do if someone speaks like this. Everyone has the right and freedom to express their views. There's no constitutional provision that one has to ask me before saying anything. It's their view."(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/soren-govt-allots-namaz-hall-in-jharkhand-assembly-bjp-wants-hanuman-temple-101630835836721.html
05-09-2021||India||2 Kerala health workers develop Nipah virus symptoms; one 12-year-old dead||Kerala health minister Veena George on Sunday said that two more people were identified with symptoms of Nipah virus, news agency PTI reported. George said that the two are healthcare workers who were among the high-risk contacts of the 12-year-old boy who died from the disease on Sunday.“We have identified 188 contacts till now. The surveillance team have marked 20 of them as high risk contacts. Two of these high risk contacts have symptoms. Both are health workers,” George was quoted as saying by news agency PTI. She further added that one of the health workers is employed at a private hospital while the other is a staff of Kozhikode Medical College hospital.George added that the 20 high-risk contacts of the 12-year-old deceased will be shifted to the Kozhikode Medical College by Sunday evening. The other contacts of the deceased were told to remain in isolation in an attempt to curb the spread of the virus. “The pay ward at the Medical College Hospital has been completely converted into a dedicated Nipah ward,” the Kerala health minister said.The last rites of the 12-year-old boy was done following complete health protocol by the health department officials. The National Institute of Virology, Pune, which tested the boy’s samples confirmed the presence of the virus earlier in the day.Meanwhile, the Centre rushed a team of experts to provide technical support to Kerala. A team of the National Centre for Disease Control will assist Kerala healthcare workers to stop the spread of the virus.Nipah virusThe saliva of fruit bats spreads the Nipah virus. Bat-bitten fruits are considered to be a major spreader of the disease in humans. Humans can spread the disease to other humans through body fluids. Once infected the person will show symptoms like fever, headache and vomiting. Some patients may also have signs similar to people suffering from epilepsy. If the disease aggravates, unchecked the patient could become unconscious and brain fever could also trigger death. The case fatality rate of Nipah virus is 40-80%. The incubation period of Nipah is two weeks.Nipah was detected first among farmers in Malaysia in 1999 when 60 people died in the outbreak. It was detected for the first time in India in Siliguri in 2001, when 45 people died due to the outbreak.(with inputs from Ramesh Babu)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-kerala-health-workers-develop-nipah-virus-symptoms-one-12-year-old-dead-101630834648322.html
05-09-2021||India||Views on Infosys cannot be attributed to the RSS: Ambekar||The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh or the RSS on Sunday chose to distance itself from a piece criticising Infosys that appeared in a magazine associated with the organisation. In a tweet, Sunil Ambekar, the all India Prachar Pramukh of the RSS said the views about the company in the Panchjanya article cannot be attributed to the organisation, nor was the weekly magazine a Sangh mouthpiece. He said, as an Indian company, Infosys has made a significant contribution in the progress of India.”There may be some issues regarding the portal operated by Infosys, but the article published in this context in Panchjanya are the personal views of the author... and Panchjanya was not a Sangh mouthpiece,” he tweeted. A piece accusing Infosys of trying to destabilise the Indian economy and helping those with anti-national sentiments had appeared in the magazine in a story titled Saakh Aur Aghaat meaning “reputation and affront”. It blamed the company for the problems faced by users of the Central government’s Goods and Service Tax (GST) and the income tax portals, developed by the internationally-acclaimed IT firm.The article invited criticism from Opposition leaders with Congress leader Jayaram Ramesh calling it “scurrilous” and “anti-national”.Last month, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had expressed “deep disappointment and concerns” to Infosys chief executive officer and managing director Salil Parekh over the “continuing glitches” in the e-filing portal of the income-tax (I-T) department even after two-and-a-half months of its launch.A finance ministry statement had then said that Sitharaman sought an explanation from Infosys for the “repeated issues” faced by taxpayers months after the site’s launch on June 7. The ministry quoted Parekh as saying that Infosys was working expeditiously to ensure a glitch-free experience to the taxpayers on the portal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/views-on-infosys-cannot-be-attributed-to-the-rss-ambekar-101630833035020.html
05-09-2021||India||How to identify fake Covid-19 vaccines? Centre issues guidelines||The Centre has issued guidelines to help people identify whether they are being given authentic vaccines against Covid-19, days after the World Health Organization (WHO) said it has identified counterfeit versions of Covishield in South-East Asia and Africa, reports said on Sunday. India is administering the Serum Institute of India's (SII) Covishield, Bharat Biotech's Covaxin and the Russian vaccine Sputnik V to those eligible during the ongoing vaccination drive in the country. According to reports, the Centre has shared a list of parameters based on their label, colour and other details to identify the authenticity of the Covid vaccines being used in the country.According to the Union ministry of health and family welfare, 684.6 million vaccine doses against Covid-19 have been administered so far in the country. "With the administration of 71,61,760 vaccine doses in the last 24 hours, India's COVID-19 vaccination coverage has surpassed the cumulative figure of 68.46 Crore (68,46,69,521) on Sunday," the health ministry said.Here are the various parameters to identify if a Covid-19 vaccine is original:How to check whether the Covishield vaccine is original?* The SII product’s label shade is dark green and the colour of the aluminium flip-off seal is dark green.* The brand name with the trademark is mentioned on the original vaccineAlso read | 180 mn vaccine doses administered in India in Aug, more than all G7 states: Govt* The lettering is printed in special white ink to be more clear and readable.* The text font of the Generic name is in un-bold* Overprinted with “CGS NOT FOR SALE”.* The SII logo is printed at a unique angle and position which can be identified by only a select few who are aware of the exact details.* The lettering is printed in special white ink to be more clear and readable.* The entire label has been given a special honeycomb effect, which is visible only at a specific angleAlso read | Surplus Covid-19 vaccines with rich nations to hit 1.2 billion doses* The honeycomb design has been altered slightly at strategic locations and certain additional special elements added to the texture design. They are not visible to people in general but those who know about the subtle changes can easily check and verify the authenticity of the label and vial.How to check Covaxin’s authenticity?* There is an invisible UV helix or a DNA-like structure on the Covaxin label. It is only visible under UV light* The micro text hidden in the label claims Dots, which is written as Covaxin* There is a green foil effect in X of CovaxinAlso read | Mumbai becomes first district to administer 1 crore Covid vaccine doses * There is a holographic effect on CovaxinHow to find out if Sputnik V vaccine is not fake?* There are different labels for the two bulk manufacturing sites where the Russian Covid-19 vaccine is produced. All other information and design are the same except the manufacturer’s name.* The English label is available only on the front and back of the carton of 5 ampoule pack for all the imported products so far. All other sides, including the primary label on the vaccine ampoule, is in Russian script.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-to-identify-fake-covid-19-vaccines-centre-issues-guidelines-101630831462696.html
05-09-2021||India||Cong will join hands only with smaller parties for UP polls: Ajay Kumar Lallu||Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee president Ajay Kumar Lallu said on Sunday that his party would tie up with only smaller regional parties for the assembly elections in the state next year. “We will not even think about joining hands with big parties for the assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh,” Ajay Kumar Lallu was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.The Congress leader expressed confidence that his party is set for a “comeback” in the state, as he said that the earlier governments headed by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) “failed to live up to people's trust.”Lallu, however, did not go into any details of the plan the Congress has in mind.Calling the Congress the “main challenger” to the BJP when Uttar Pradesh goes to the polls early next year, Lallu said his party is confident of forming the government in the state after contesting the elections under the leadership of Priyanka Gandhi Vadra.  "We are moving forward as a strong opposition force and under the leadership of Priyanka Gandhi, we will win the polls, and form the government in 2022,” Lallu told PTI.ALSO READ | Cong gears up for UP polls with camps, public contact driveEven the BSP and the SP have so far ruled out any alliance with the Congress. While Akhilesh Singh of the SP said the party would tie up with smaller parties, BSP supremo Mayawati hinted that her party would fight the elections solo.However, in July, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had said that her party would have an open mind on forging alliance for the assemnly elections, with the objective of stopping the BJP from returning to power.  Earlier in the day, Lallu extended his support for the farmers protesting against the Centre's contentious agricultural laws as they gathered at Muzaffarnagar in the state for the Kisan Mahapanchayat called by the Bharatiya Kisan Union.Taking to Twitter, Lallu said the clarion call by the farmers would script the future of the arrogant government. अहंकारी सत्ता के खिलाफकिसान की यह हुंकारबदलाव कीमुस्तकबिल लिखेगा #मुजफ्फरनगर_किसान_महापंचायतThe Congress leader stressed that the issues plaguing the farmers would be part of their agenda in the assembly polls.  He added that the people are “angry” at BJP over its failure to control price rise, unemployment, poverty and address the issues of farmers' plight and reservation. Lallu exuded confidence that this anger would manifest itself in the assembly polls and the people would support the Congress. “There is a strong undercurrent in favour of the Congress which will be visible in the elections,” he said.ALSO READ | In UP, Opposition flays BJP for Jan Ashirwad Yatras by ministersIn the 2017 Uttar Pradesh assembly elections, the Congress managed to bag only seven seats while its ally SP secured 47 seats; the BSP won 19 constituencies. The BJP, meanwhile, won the elections with a thumping majority as it clinched 312 seats in the 403-member legislative assembly to form the government for the second consecutive term.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ajay-kumar-lallu-congress-uttar-pradesh-assembly-elections-poll-coalition-101630827865204.html
05-09-2021||India||Shiv Sena says Modi needs to thank Nehru for creating national assets||Shiv Sena parliamentarian Sanjay Raut, in his weekly column Rokthok in party mouthpiece Saamana, has said that the Narendra Modi government at the Centre should be thankful to India’s first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru for creating the assets which were being “monetised” by the current government. The column has also criticised the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) ideological fount, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and Jan Sangh, saying they did not play any role in the Quit India movement whereas Nehru was at its forefront and spent years in prison for India’s freedom.Raut questioned whether the history of the freedom struggle was being tweaked by the current government. “India is celebrating the 75th year of freedom. In this context, the Indian Council of Historical Research (ICHR) omitted the picture of Nehru from its poster ‘Azadi Ke Amrit Mahotsav’. This poster had the pictures of Mahatma Gandhi, Subhash Chandra Bose, Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar, Sardar Patel, Bhagat Singh, Rajendra Prasad, Pandit Madan Mohan Malviya and Veer Savarkar. It excluded Pandit Nehru and Maulana Abul Kalam Azad. However, the government should remember that the history of the freedom struggle cannot be completed by excluding these two people. This only shows the pettiness of this government,” Raut wrote.He added, “You may have differences with Nehru’s and Congress party’s policies but trying to erase them from history is an insult to every freedom fighter.” Raut then wrote of Nehru’s political journey from 1912 and how he rose through the ranks of the Congress party. “Nehru suffered long-term imprisonment during the Quit India movement and at that time the founders of RSS and Jan Sangh (previous avatar of the BJP) were nowhere in sight,” said Raut.Raut said that after independence, it was Nehru who created national assets. “These institutions were responsible for creating employment for citizens. The current government should be forever thankful for Nehru for creating these assets. However, the current government is practising the politics of revenge and bent on wiping off Nehru’s role from the independence of India,” he added.Raut asked the Central government to learn a lesson from DMK chief and Tamil Nadu chief minister M K Stalin, who allowed the distribution of 6.5 million school bags carrying photos of political rivals former chief ministers J Jayalalitha and E Palinaswami of the AIADMK, to ensure the money spent on procurement of bags doesn’t go waste for political vendetta.“Stalin ordered his officers not to change the bags as it would have cost ₹15 crore to the state exchequer. He said he would use that amount for fighting the Covid-19 menace. This was despite the fact that Stalin’s late father K Karunanidhi in 2001 was roughed up and arrested at midnight on orders of J Jayalalitha,” said Raut.BJP spokesperson Keshav Upadhyay dismissed Raut's comments, saying, "The Shiv Sena is so drunk on power that it is now always praising the Congress that it was opposed to for years. Hence, the Saamana article does not deserve any comment per se."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shiv-sena-says-modi-needs-to-thank-nehru-for-creating-national-assets-101630829614672.html
05-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: BJP MLA blames Taliban for fuel price rise in India and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Rising fuel prices? A BJP MLA blames Taliban takeover of AfghanistanBJP MLA from Karnataka Arvind Bellad has blamed the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan for the skyrocketing prices of gas, petrol and diesel in India. Read more180 million Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in India in August, more than in all G7 states together: CentreFigures shared by the Union government show that total 101 million vaccine doses were administered in the G7 nations last month. Read moreKolkata welcomes Durand Cup but Bagan, East Bengal skip itFive ISL teams, defending champions Gokulam Kerala FC, Mohammedan Sporting among 16-teams in 130th edition which begins on Sunday. Read moreNeetu Kapoor, friends celebrate Rishi Kapoor's birthday with his cutout, cake that shows his love for whiskey, TwitterNeetu Kapoor celebrated her husband, late actor Rishi Kapoor's 69th birth anniversary on Saturday in a unique fashion. Read moreWant to challenge your core and fix posture? Try 5 Plank exercises by Yasmin KarachiwalaYasmin Karachiwala shares five intense Plank variations to challenge the core muscles and fix posture. Read moreMercedes-Benz set to introduce its first all-electric AMG modelThe luxury automaker now has teased an all-electric AMG model that is also all set to grab attention at the motor show. Read moreProud son shares post about mother working as a teacher, tweet wins heartsTeachers’ Day 2021: The post is shared by IRS officer Naveed Trumboo on Twitter. Read moreModi makeover & losing a loved one: Shashi Tharoor on politics, personal lifeCongress leader Shashi Tharoor describes the ordeal of being an accused in the case regarding the death of his wife Sunanda Pushkar. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-bjp-mla-says-taliban-takever-in-afghanistan-led-to-fuel-price-rise-in-india-and-all-the-latest-news-101630824664801.html
05-09-2021||India||Rising fuel prices? A BJP MLA blames Taliban takeover of Afghanistan||A Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator from Karnataka has blamed the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan behind the global fuel supply problems and skyrocketing prices of gas, petrol and diesel in India.The BJP’s MLA from Hubli-Dharwad West Arvind Bellad said since the beginning of the Taliban issue in Afghanistan, there were problems regarding fuel supply across the world. “This has led to an increase in the price of gas, diesel and petrol in India,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Karnataka | Since the beginning of the Taliban issue in Afghanistan, there have been problems regarding fuel supply across the world. This has led to an increase in the price of gas, diesel & petrol in India: BJP MLA from Hubli-Dharwad West Arvind Bellad (03.09) pic.twitter.com/KL5gLuGor6Petrol prices have crossed the ₹100-mark in several states across the country in July as state-run fuel oil companies on multiple occasions since July.A litre of petrol cost 101.34 per litre in Delhi, while diesel was ₹88.77 a litre. In Mumbai, petrol was selling at ₹107.39 per litre and diesel at ₹96.33 for the same quantity. The Monsoon session of Parliament had seen several Opposition-led disruptions with MPs seeking discussions on inflation and rising fuel prices in the country.This is not the first time that politicians, mostly from the ruling camp, have dragged the crisis in war-torn Afghanistan to describe or speak about issues concerning India over the past few days.Recently, a BJP leader from Madhya Pradesh had advised a journalist to go to the neighbouring country following its seizure by the Islamic militants when asked about high inflation and high fuel prices in India. A district unit chief, Ramratan Payal, further said questions were being asked about petrol prices at a time when the third wave of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic was about to hit the country.His party colleague in Bihar, Haribhushan Thakur, had also urged everyone who felt any sort of fear in India to go to the war-ravaged state, while adding petrol and diesel prices were cheaper there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rising-fuel-prices-a-bjp-mla-blames-taliban-takeover-of-afghanistan-101630824495249.html
05-09-2021||India||IMD forecasts very heavy rain in Goa, authorities on alert||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast "very heavy rainfall” in Goa prompting the coastal state’s administration to put a high alert on Sunday. Control rooms have been activated and people were asked to remain alert in case there was flooding in their areas, a senior official from the North Goa district administration was cited as saying by news agency PTI. “After the experience of last month, when several places were flooded (due to heavy rains), we are leaving nothing to chance,” the official said, according to PTI.On Saturday, Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant said the state administration was put on high alert in the wake of the possibility of very heavy showers in the coastal state. Sawant also gave out helpline numbers for people to contact in case of any emergency caused by rains. "In view of the warning issued by IMD, Goa, regarding heavy rainfall in the state over the next 48 hours. I have directed the state administration to be on high alert and to immediately spring into action for taking all precautionary measures and prepare for the oncoming showers," the Goa chief minister tweeted.Request to all people to be on alert and contact local authorities in case of any emergencies. Collector Helpline- North: 08322225383 | South: 08322794100. 2/2IMD said on Saturday monsoon activity may get strengthened over south Konkan and Goa in the coming days with the likely formation of a low-pressure area over north and adjoining central Bay of Bengal during the next 48 hours. “Very heavy rainfall (exceeding 11.5 cm in 24 hours) is very likely at one or two places over the districts of Goa on September 5, 6 and 7. Likelihood of heavy rainfall (64.5-115.5 mm in 24 hours) continues over North and South Goa districts for about a week from 4th September, with scattered and isolated spatial distributions,” the IMD said.The weather bureau also predicted that intense spells of showers for a short duration are very likely over the North and South Goa districts during this period. “Winds with speed around 40 kmph are likely to occur along with rain spells. With increased rainfall activity to continue, the areas vulnerable for landslide and flooding may be kept under monitoring,” the IMD said.Water levels in rivers and reservoirs should be monitored and necessary precautions must be taken, the IMD also alerted theGoa government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-forecasts-very-heavy-rain-in-goa-authorities-on-alert-101630823285895.html
05-09-2021||India||180 million Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in India in August, more than in all G7 states together: Centre||The Union government informed on Sunday that in August, India administered more doses of vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) than all G7 countries put together. Sharing the data, the Centre said that more than 180 million vaccine doses were administered in the country last month, while the G7 states administered only 101 million doses.“Yet another achievement! With more than 180 million vaccine doses administered in the month of August, India leaves a mark on the global map of leading its way in vaccinating its population on priority,” the official MyGovIndia Twitter handle said, sharing the data. Yet another achievement! With more than 180 million vaccine doses administered in the month of August, India leaves a mark on the Global map of leading its way in vaccinating its population on priority. #LargestVaccineDrive pic.twitter.com/ftvdHVIWMkThe figures show that Canada, at 3 million, administered the least number of Covid-19 vaccine doses within the G7, with the United Kingdom, Italy and Germany next on the list with 5 million, 8 million and 9 million doses respectively. Within the bloc, only Japan, the United States and France delivered more than 10 million shots, with the Asian nation topping the chart at 40 million. The US and France, meanwhile, administered 23 million and 13 million doses, respectively.In India, where the nationwide inoculation drive began on January 16, more than 684 million doses have been administered thus far, including nearly 7.2 million in the last 24 hours, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHW). Nearly 160 million beneficiaries have been fully vaccinated (received both doses), while 523 million people have taken their first shot.Thus far, six vaccines have received Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA) from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI). Among these, Covaxin and ZyCoV-D are both indigenously developed jabs, the other four (Covishield, Sputnik V, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson) are foreign made. Covaxin and Covishield were the first two vaccines authorised by the DCGI, while ZyCoV-D is the latest.Currently, only those aged 18 and above are eligible to get vaccinated against Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/180-mn-vaccine-doses-administered-in-india-in-aug-more-than-all-g7-states-govt-101630823243145.html
05-09-2021||India||Will discuss strategies to continue stir: Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait in UP||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Sunday said the farmers' groups would discuss strategies on continuing the agitation against the three contentious farm laws at the Kisan Mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar.Thousands of farmers from across the country have gathered at GIC ground in Uttar Pradesh's Muzaffarnagar, responding to the call of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmers' unions leading the protests against the amended farm laws introduced by the Centre in November 2020. SKM leaders said Sunday's gathering in Muzaffarnagar would set the stage for ‘Mission Uttar Pradesh’ to continue discussions on issues concerning the farmers. They said they were expecting around a lakh participants at the gathering. Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra took to Twitter in support of the protesting farmers at the Kisan Mahapanchayat. किसान इस देश की आवाज हैं।किसान देश का गौरव हैं।किसानों की हुंकार के सामने किसी भी सत्ता का अहंकार नहीं चलता। खेती-किसानी को बचाने और अपनी मेहनत का हक मांगने की लड़ाई में पूरा देश किसानों के साथ है।#मुजफ्फरनगर_किसान_महापंचायतProminent social activists such as Yogendra Yadav and Medha Patkar shared the dias at the Muzaffarnagar gathering with Rakesh Tikait and his brother Naresh Tikait as well as khaps and farmer leaders.BKU state president Rajbeer Singh Jadaun said that similar Kisan Mahapanchayats would be organised in 18 divisions of Uttar Pradesh in months to come. The BKU leader is expecting around five lakh farmers to attend the gathering. The district administration made elaborate security arrangements given the mega-gathering. It has deployed six companies of the provincial armed constabulary (PAC) and two companies of rapid action force (RAF) other than police forces from various districts in and around the venue.The district administration turned down the request of Rashtriya Lok Dal chief Jayant Chowdhary to shower flowers on farmers from a helicopter preempting any stampede-like situation. Last week, Haryana police personnel baton-charged a group of protesting farmers in Karnal. The incident drew flak from several quarters after videos of Karnal sub-divisional magistrate Ayush Sinha ordering to “break the heads” of any protesters who "cross the barricades" went viral on social media.  Several protesters were injured in the incident, following which SKM leaders sought the resignation of Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar. The IAS officer has since been transferred.ALSO READ | Farmers broaden agenda, it’s no longer just about farm lawsExpressing their solidarity for the farmers different khap panchayats have arranged for community feasts for the protesting farmers even as local gurdwaras are organising langars while members of the Muslim community have distributed sweets among the participants in the morning.National convenor of Jan Kisan Andolan Avik Saha called the Kisan Mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar a “history in the making” as he tweeted visiuals from the gathering, terming it a “march towards the future.”Kisan MahapanchayatMuzaffarnagar, Uttar Pradesh5th September 2021History made again new beginning towards the future.A Better Future for All Indians Because India Deserves Better#मुज़फ्फरनगर_किसान_महापंचायत #किसान_महापंचायत pic.twitter.com/uyn8FdM7v3Farmers from across the country have been seeking the repeal of three controversial agriculture-related laws — Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 — which they say will do away with minimum support price for their produce and expose them to exploitations by corporates, even as the Centre claim these laws will bring "reforms" in the agriculture sector through private-sector investment and create supply chains for the produce in the national and global markets. Several rounds of talks between the farmer leaders and the government remained inconclusive in the past 10 months, prompting the BKU to move the Supreme Court against the three laws. After hearing the petitions, the apex court had in January stayed the implementation of the three laws, and set up a four-member panel to make recommendations on the legislations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-discuss-strategies-to-continue-stir-farmer-leader-rakesh-tikait-in-up-101630819175714.html
05-09-2021||India||Centre says new IT rules deal with unlawful content, don’t stifle free speech||The Union ministry of information and broadcasting (MIB) and the ministry of electronics and information technology (MeitY) have filed two counter-affidavits before the Madras high court defending the constitutional validity of the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 or IT Rules.This is in response to two different petitions challenging the IT rules filed in HC by Carnatic vocalist and Ramon Magsaysay awardee T M Krishna, and Digital News Publishers Association (DNPA), made up of 13 media outlets, along with journalist Mukund Padmanabhan.The Madras high court had disapproved of the delay in filing the counter affidavits by the Centre and given it an extension. On August 25, the MeitY filed the counter stating it was delayed since the Centre had to frame a “consistent defence” on the matter given the several cases challenging IT rules filed in different high courts across the country. In some cases, Part II, relating to “intermediary due diligence”, had been challenged while in others, Part III, relating to “Digital Media and Code of Ethics” had been questioned, it said.Presently there are a total of 19 writ petitions pending across high courts and each emanate out of a unique set of circumstances, the MEITY submitted. But all cases commonly seek to declare the IT Rules 2021 ultra vires the Constitution and the IT Act, 2000, the ministry noted. “Therefore, there was an overbearing need for the Union to present a consistent, uniform stand before all high courts,” MeitY stated.MeitY defended the new rules while the MIB filed a separate 115-page counter-affidavit on August 26, seeking to dismiss the petitions.The petition by the information technology ministry said the new rules have no chilling effect on speech and expression as it does not impose any penalties on users who post content in contravention of the IT Rules. The only ramification is the removal of such content or the termination of user’s access by the intermediary, which may be challenged by the user under the grievance redressal mechanism specifically set out in the IT Rules or by way of judicial review, the affidavit read. “In the absence of additional civil or criminal liability, mere removal of content or blocking of access of users vis a vis information which is in any case unlawful will not tantamount to creating a chilling effect on speech and expression,” it said.Speaking of safeguards against abuse, the affidavit added that content can be removed only if it is unlawful and following a court order and after being notified by the authorised agency. “No other executive other than the appropriate government or its agency is empowered to issue an order for removal of content,” it assured.It said that the IT Rules 2021 were meant to empower ordinary digital users of any intermediary platform to seek accountability given the misuse of social media and spread of fake news. It spoke of the necessity to eliminate child pornography and rape on digital platforms. The counter stated that a framework was necessary to deal with viral messages that had led to riots, mob lynching and sexual abuse of children in the past. The new rules, it said, focused on the online safety of women and children, to report cases such as revenge porn and violation of privacy. It further added that the rules were formed after public consultation.Expanding on this, the ministry of information and broadcasting submitted that it’s well within the scope of the Information Technology Act (IT Act), 2000 and the Constitution.The Madras HC’s first bench of chief justice Sanjib Banerjee and justice P D Audikesavalu posted the next hearing in the case for September 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-says-new-it-rules-deal-with-unlawful-content-don-t-stifle-free-speech-101630820013326.html
05-09-2021||India||Nipah virus kills 12-year-old in Kerala. Here’s how Centre, state govt are handling situation||Nipah virus has claimed the life of a 12-year-old boy in the Kozhikode of Kerala, prompting the Centre to rush a health team to the district with the state government saying there is no need to panic. A team of the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has been sent to provide technical support to the state, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said.Kerala health minister Veena George said the infection was confirmed by the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune on Saturday night. "Three samples—plasma, CSF and serum—were found infected. He was admitted to the hospital with a heavy fever four days ago. But on Saturday, his condition became worse. We had sent his samples for testing the day before yesterday," the minister was quoted as saying by news agency PTI."We had a meeting with the ministers from the district along with concerned officials about the Nipah virus. A team will be formed to handle the situation. We have initiated the contact tracing measures,” she also said. "As of now, there is no need to panic, but we need to exercise caution," she said, adding that no one from the boy’s family or other contacts has any symptoms of the Nipah virus.1. Active case search in the family, families, village and areas with similar topography, especially Malappuram2. Active contact tracing during the past 12 daysAlso read | How the Nipah virus outbreak devastated a family in a Kerala3. Strict quarantine of the contacts and isolation of any suspects4. Collection and transportation of samples for laboratory testing1. George said none of the close contacts of the boy is showing any symptoms as of now and that the health department has already traced all those who came in contact with the child.2. “The patient was first taken to a private hospital, then to the medical college and from there again shifted to a private hospital. So we have traced all his contacts. The friends he played within his locality, his cousins and others, the health department had completed the identification and tracing of all these contacts," George said.Also read | All you need to know about Nipah virus infection3. Police have cordoned off an area of a three-kilometre radius around the boy’s house. They have said all their basic needs will be met by authorities.4. A high alert has been sounded in the neighbouring Malappuram and Kannur districts.The first Nipah virus disease outbreak in south India was reported in the Kozhikode district of Kerala on May 19, 2018—there have been 17 deaths and 18 confirmed cases as of June 1, 2018. World Health Organization (WHO) said that theNipah virus is caused by fruit bats and is potentially fatal to humans as well as animals. It is also known to cause fever, muscular pain, headache, fever, dizziness, and nausea along with respiratory illness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nipah-virus-kills-kerala-boy-here-s-how-centre-state-are-handling-situation-101630819257123.html
05-09-2021||India||Assam: Man accused in murder of college student injured in police shooting||The main accused in the brutal murder of a college student in Assam last month sustained a bullet injury in police firing while he allegedly attempted to escape from police custody on Saturday night, officers said. “One Rintu Sarma, accused of killing Nandita Saikia of Moridhal College, Dhemaji tried to snatch a police weapon this evening and escape custody. He was injured in police firing in self-defence and to prevent his escape,” special director general of police (DGP), GP Singh, tweeted at 11:00 pm on Saturday. Giving details of the incident, a senior police officer said on condition of anonymity that Sarma tried to escape while being transferred to police custody. “He was released from judicial custody on Saturday and sent to police remand. When we were taking him for routine medical examination around 10 pm,when he asked for the vehicle to be stopped as he needed to urinate. When he got down, Rintu tried to snatch the weapon of the constable who was accompanying him and tried to flee. He was injured when the police team fired to prevent his escape,” he said.Rintu Sarma, an employee of Moridhal College in Dhemaji district, was arrested last month for murdering Nandita Saikia, a student of the same college on August 21. He attacked the victim, her friend and the friend’s father, while they were waiting at a bus stop, with a machete. Saikia, who sustained severe head injuries, died on August 26. The other two sustained minor injuries and were recovering. According to reports quoting Saikia’s friends, both the accused and the victim were in a relationship and Sarma was upset since Saikia had started to avoid him. The accused was arrested within minutes of the incident. The incident led to demonstrations by student bodies and residents demanding strictest punishment for Sarma. Opposition parties, Congress and All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF), accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government of failing to protect women in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-man-accused-in-murder-of-college-student-injured-in-police-shooting-101630816592972.html
05-09-2021||India||Covid-19: India sees mild rise in fresh cases, positivity rate at 2.45%||India on Sunday registered 42,766 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours taking the active caseload to 4,10,048 comprising 1.24 per cent of the total infections. This was a slight rise from Saturday’s figures at 42,618.According to the latest update from the Union ministry of health and family welfare, the daily positivity rate stood at 2.45 per cent while the weekly positivity rate (2.62 per cent) remained less three per cent for the last 72 days.With 38,091 patients recovering from the disease, the recovery rate currently stood at 97.42 per cent. This took the total number of people successfully being treated from the virus 3,21,38,092.As many as 17,47,476 samples were tests for the infection during the day. Also read | Ramp up 1st Covid vaccine dose coverage of 18+: Centre to N-E, hill statesSo far, 68.46 crore vaccines have been administered against the virus since the rollout of the vaccination drive on January 16 this year, the Union Health Ministry said."In a landmark milestone, India's COVID-19 vaccination coverage has crossed 68 Crore landmark milestone (68, 37, 29,058) today," a press release of the ministry read.Further, it was informed that over 62.25 lakh (62, 25,922) vaccine doses were administered during the day. Also read | Covid R-value rises amid threat of third wave: All you need to knowThe ministry said over 66.89 crore vaccine doses had been provided to states and Union territories so far, with more than 1.56 crore doses in the pipeline. “More than 4.37 crore vaccine doses are still available with the states/UTs,” the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-india-sees-mild-fall-in-fresh-cases-positivity-rate-at-245-101630815630882.html
05-09-2021||India||On Teachers' Day, PM Modi thanks educators for nurturing young minds||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday took to Twitter to extend his greetings on Teachers’ Day, and pay his respects to Dr Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan, whose birth anniversary is observed annually as Teachers’ Day. “Greetings to the entire teaching fraternity, which has always played a pivotal role in nurturing young minds. It is commendable how teachers have innovated and ensured that the education journey of students in the Covid-19 times,” PM Modi tweeted.Also Read | Teachers Day 2021: Know all about Dr Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan“I pay my respects to Dr S Radhakrishnan on his Jayanti and recall his distinguished leadership as well as contributions to our nation,” he added. I pay my respects to Dr. S. Radhakrishnan on his Jayanti and recall his distinguished scholarship as well as contributions to our nation.Union home minister Amit Shah, too, extended his greetings on the occasion. “I remember and pay tribute to a great philosopher and excellent teacher, former president Dr S Radhakrishnan on his birth anniversary. I salute our hardworking teachers who have contributed remarkably in the building of our nation by enriching the lives of our students with the light of education,” a rough translation of Shah’s tweet, posted in Hindi, read.
05-09-2021||India||Nipah virus returns to hound Kerala, boy dies, 30 others under observation||A 12-year-old boy died of Nipah virus in north Kerala’s Kozhikode on Sunday morning, triggering concerns of a possible outbreak of another deadly virus while the state administration struggles to contain the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic. State health minister Veena George said all three samples of the boy were found to be positive for Nipah virus by the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune.The minister said the boy was admitted to a private hospital with high fever a few days ago, and initially he was suspected to be suffering from brain fever but later samples were rushed to the NIV for further testing. She said all relatives of the boy and all those involved in his treatment were put under quarantine. Authorities have put a total of 30 persons linked to the boy’s case under observation and sent 17 samples for testing. The health authorities have said that they suspect the virus to have spread through bats, as was the case earlier.“No need to panic. But high vigil is the need of the hour. I am also leaving for Kozhikode. We have a Nipah protocol and we will go by this,” said the minister in Thrissur. Two other ministers, A K Saseendran and Mohamad Riyza are camping in the north Kerala city to evaluate the situation. There are reports that the Union health ministry has also rushed a team to Kozhikode. Like Coivd-19, isolation and quarantine are the best options to contain Nipah virus but its fatality rate is very high, above 80%, said experts.The boy died at 5 in the morning and his cremation will be held at 10 am under strict protocol. As precautionary measures, the Mavoor panchayat area in Kozhikode district, from where the boy belonged, has been sealed.In 2018, the deadly virus had claimed 17 lives in Kozhikode but later it was localised and contained effectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nipah-virus-returns-to-hound-kerala-boy-dies-30-others-under-observation-101630812873187.html
05-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Delhi heads for wettest monsoon in a decade and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.IMD forecasts more intense rains, Delhi headed for wettest monsoon in a decadeCompared to the normal monsoon rain 552.6mm, Delhi has already had a 79% surplus -- 988.4mm rain so far, shows IMD data. Read moreRajasthan Panchayat Elections 2021: Congress wins 670 Samiti seats; BJP victorious on 551Meanwhile, in the Zila Parishad, the two parties won 99 and 90 seats respectively. as per data shared by the state Election Commission. Read moreTokyo Paralympics: Suhas Yathiraj wins silver medal in men's singles badminton SL4 eventYathiraj lost to France's Lucas Mazur 21-15, 17-21, 15-21. India have now extended its medal tally to 18 at the ongoing Paralympic Games. Read moreVidyut Jammwal and Nandita Mahtani spark engagement rumours with diamond ring, Taj Mahal picsIn the photos, Vidyut and Nandita are seen standing in front of the Taj Mahal, holding hands and posing for the camera. Read moreKareena Kapoor in ₹61k print top and pants is chic for lunch date with Taimur, Jeh and familyKareena Kapoor Khan took her sons Taimur and Jehangir for a get-together at her father Randhir Kapoor's home in Mumbai on Saturday. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-delhi-heads-for-wettest-monsoon-in-a-decade-and-all-the-latest-news-101630810398126.html
05-09-2021||India||Paralympics: Prez, PM congratulate Noida DM Suhas LY on historic silver||Top leaders of the country extended their wishes to India's Suhas Lalinakere Yathiraj as he bagged a historic silver after going down fighting against top seed Lucas Mazur of France in the men's singles SL4 class final at the Tokyo Paralympics on Sunday.Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the 38-year-old Noida district magistrate, who has an impairment in one of his ankles, “has captured the imagination of our entire nation thanks to his exceptional sporting performance”. Calling him a fantastic confluence of sports and service, Modi wished Yathiraj the best for his future endeavours.A fantastic confluence of service and sports! @dmgbnagar Suhas Yathiraj has captured the imagination of our entire nation thanks to his exceptional sporting performance. Congratulations to him on winning the Silver medal in Badminton. Best wishes to him for his future endeavours. pic.twitter.com/bFM9707VhZPresident Ram Nath Kovind said Yathiraj’s dedication in pursuing sports while discharging duties as a civil servant is exceptional.Also read | Millions in cash, government jobs: How Haryana is honouring Paralympics stars“Congratulations to Suhas Yathiraj who gave a tough fight to world 1 and won silver medal in badminton at Paralympics. Your dedication in pursuing sports while discharging duties as a civil servant is exceptional. Best wishes for a future full of accomplishments,” the President wrote on Twitter.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath also congratulated him. “On earlier occasions too he won many medals. Along with efficiently discharging his administrative duties, he has been successful in Paralympics,” Adityanath said.The Noida DM produced an entertaining performance before narrowly going down 21-15 17-21 15-21 to two-time world champion Mazur in a 62-minute summit clash.Suhas had lost to Mazur, who has won three gold medals in European Championships as well, in the qualifying group A match, but the Indian made a tremendous effort in the final to challenge his world No. 1 rival.The district magistrate of Gautam Buddh Nagar (Noida) thus also became the first-ever IAS officer to win a medal at the Paralympics.Suhas had earlier outwitted Indonesia's Fredy Setiawan 21-9 21-15 in the semifinal.A computer engineer, Suhas went on to become an IAS officer and has been posted as a district magistrate of Noida since 2020, a role that saw him at the forefront of the fight against coronavirus pandemic.On court, he has won gold medals at 2017 BWF Turkish Para badminton championship in men's singles and men's doubles. He also won gold in 2016 Asia championships, besides a bronze at 2018 Asian Para Games.More medals are in store for India as Krishna Nagar also sailed into the men's singles SH6 class final.Pramod Bhagat, 33, and his partner Palak Kohli, 19, will meet Japanese pair of Daisuke Fujihara and Akiko Sugino in the bronze medal play off in mixed doubles SL3-SU5 class later on Sunday.They lost the semifinals 3-21 15-21 to Indonesian combination of Hary Susanto and Leani Ratri Oktila.Bhagat on Saturday had claimed India's first gold at the Paralympics in men's singles SL3 class.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/paralympics-prez-pm-congratulate-noida-dm-suhas-ly-on-historic-silver-101630810933420.html
05-09-2021||India||Kerala: 12-year-old boy dies of Nipah virus in Kozhikode||A 12-year-old boy died on Sunday morning from Nipah virus infection after undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Kozhikode district of Kerala.A high-level meeting of the health department was reportedly held late on Saturday night over the case of the virus that had an outbreak in 2018 and claimed a number of deaths in the southern state. Another meeting will be held in a while in Kozhikode.The samples had been sent to the lab of the National Institute of Virology in Pune and they have confirmed presence of the virus. The boy died on 5am on Sunday.Also read | Amid Delta variant spread, Nipah virus antibodies in bats concern expertsHealth minister Veena George has left for Kozhikode on Sunday morning to take stock of the situation.The victim's relatives and all those who treated him have been put under quarantine. Strict vigil has been imposed in Kozhikode. The Union health ministry is also rushing a team to Kozhikode.Already reeling under an unrelenting spread of the coronavirus outbreak, report of the Nipah virus death has only added to the state's worries. The first Nipah virus disease outbreak in south India was reported in the Kozhikode district on May 19, 2018. The state had witnessed 17 deaths and 18 confirmed cases till June 1, 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-12-year-old-boy-dies-of-nipah-virus-in-kozhikode-101630808942984.html
05-09-2021||India||Teachers Day 2021: Know all about Dr Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan||Teachers Day is celebrated every year on September 5 to mark the birth anniversary of Dr Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan, who was the first vice president of India (1952-1962) and also a teacher and philosopher. This day is observed to honour the bond between the children and their mentors who influence their lives in several ways.Dr Radhakrishnan was also the second president of India (1962-1967). Despite all his accomplishments and contributions, Dr Radhakrishnan remained a teacher throughout his life. He believed that true teachers are those who help us think for ourselves, so they should be the best minds in the nation.In India, September 5 is marked as Teacher's Day, whereas Worlds Teacher's Day is celebrated every year on October 5. This day is an important event in both teachers' and students' lives. This is a day to honour and show gratitude to all mentors and teachers. Across India, schools and higher educational institutions celebrate this day by paying a tribute to Dr Radhakrishnan.Know all about Dr Sarvapalli Radhakrishnan1. Dr Radhakrishnan was born to a Brahmin family in Tiruttani of Andhra Pradesh on September 5, 1888. He was considered an incredible student and also an exemplary teacher who dedicated his life to education.2. Dr Radhakrishnan was a popular teacher among his students during his teaching career. In his later period of life, he served as a vice chancellor of Andhra University and Banaras Hindu University.3. The beliefs of Dr Radhakrishnan have motivated thousands to take up education.4. When Dr Radhakrishan took the office of the second president of India in 1962, his students sought his permission to celebrate September 5 as a special day. Dr Radhakrishnan instead made a request to observe September 5 as Teachers’ Day to recognise the contribution of teachers to society. He said, "Instead of celebrating my birthday, it would be my proud privilege if September 5 is observed as Teacher's Day." Since then, his birthday is celebrated as Teacher's Day.5. Dr Radhakrishnan was posthumously awarded the Bharat Ratna, the nation's highest civilian honour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/teachers-day-2021-know-all-about-dr-sarvepalli-radhakrishnan-101630801598409.html
05-09-2021||India||J-K police file case after videos show Syed Ali Shah Geelani's body in Pak flag||Jammu and Kashmir police have registered a case under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act after videos surfaced showing the body of hardline separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani wrapped in a Pakistani flag and the alleged raising of "anti-national" slogans after his death, PTI reported citing officials.According to the news agency, the Budgam Police registered the first information report (FIR) against unnamed people under various provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Police took cognisance of a video that showed Geelani's body draped in a Pakistani flag.Geelani, 91, died on Wednesday night at his residence after a prolonged illness. He was buried in a quiet funeral at a graveyard in a nearby mosque in Srinagar’s Hyderpora early on Thursday. Police allowed only close relatives and neighbours to participate in the funeral at the graveyard that was completely sealed by the forces. Geelani’s family told reporters that the police forcibly took away his body and carried out the burial even before their relatives could reach Srinagar. They also accused the police of misbehaving with them.Also read | With Geelani’s death, Hurriyat stares at a leadership voidThe situation across Kashmir remained peaceful on Saturday following Geelani’s death, even as several people were taken into preventive detention to maintain law and order, police said. "Today, the situation across Kashmir valley remained peaceful and no untoward incident was reported from anywhere except one minor pelting in Narkara area of Budgam," a police spokesperson was quoted as saying by PTI.Also read | SAS Geelani: The man central to the separatist story in Kashmir departsThe spokesperson said several preventive measures have been taken to maintain law and order situations, including preventive arrests.“People are yet again requested not to pay any heed to the rumours being maliciously spread by the anti-national elements especially across the border with an objective to disturb the prevalent peaceful atmosphere in the valley,” Vijay Kumar, inspector general of police (Kashmir), said.The clampdown imposed on communications and movement following Geelani’s death was eased on Saturday. Mobile calling and broadband internet services were restored while other restrictions were partially removed in parts of Kashmir. Internet services on mobile phones were yet to be restored.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-police-file-case-after-videos-show-syed-ali-shah-geelani-s-body-in-pak-flag-101630802544064.html
05-09-2021||India||International Day of Charity: Know its history and significance||Mother Teresa's death anniversary is observed as International Day of Charity on September 5 every year. Mother Teresa, who is known for her dedication towards the downtrodden, died on September 5, 1997, at the age of 87. Mother Teresa’s followers in many parts of the world, including the Philippines, will commemorate Sunday (September 5), as her 24th death anniversary.After her death, Mother Teresa was granted a state funeral by the government in recognition of her services to the poor of all religions in India. She was sanctified by Saint John Paul II in 2003. Pope Francis canonised her on the eve of her death anniversary on September 4, 2016.Widely known during her lifetime as the ‘living saint,’ Mother Teresa founded the Missionaries of Charity in 1950, which today has spread to different countries.On August 12 this year, the United Nations issued a commemorative stamp honouring Mother Teresa. On the right side of the stamp appears one of Mother Teresa’s most celebrated quotes: “Not all of us can do great things. But we can do small things with great love.”History of International Day of CharityThe International Day of Charity was officially declared by the United Nations General Assembly in 2012. This day also got the support of the Hungarian Civil society with the support of the Hungarian parliament and government.Significance of International Day of CharityIn 2015, during the United Nations Sustainable Development Summit, the idea of International Day of Charity was conceptualised as a way to help bridge the gap between the rich and poor and also to help the poor nations with finance to meet the sustainable development goals set for the world to achieve by 2030. September 5 was chosen as the International Day of Charity to observe the death anniversary of Mother Teresa.Every year on her death anniversary, Mother Teresa's devotees gather at her gravesite in Kolkata, for the special thanksgiving masses and prayers, and also to offer flowers, candles and sing hymns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/international-day-of-charity-know-its-history-and-significance-101630798488693.html
05-09-2021||India||Teachers' Day 2021: President Kovind to honour 44 meritorious teachers today||President Ram Nath Kovind will on Sunday, September 5, virtually honour 44 meritorious teachers on the occasion of Teacher’s Day, as announced by RC Meena, joint secretary in the Ministry of Education earlier this week. The ceremony will take place virtually due to the ongoing pandemic of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Also Read | Teachers’ Day 2021: Date, history, significance and celebration in India“The function will begin at 10:30am, and will go on for an hour. 44 teachers, who have done remarkable work in the field of education, will be honoured with the National Teacher’s Award. The selection has been made by the jury in their respective fields,” Meena had told news agency ANI on the day of the announcement. “I would like to inform that the selection for National Teacher’s Award begins at the district level, and then it takes place at the state level. Finally, meritorious teachers are selected at the national level and all selected teachers will be awarded on Teachers’ Day,” he had further said.Also Read | Happy Teachers' Day 2021: Best wishes, quotes, images, messages to celebrate your teacherLast year, a total of 47 awardees were honoured by President Kovind on September 5. The National Award to Teachers, which was instituted in 1958, aims to celebrate the unique contribution of the finest teachers in the country, and honour those who have not only improved the quality of schoold education but also enriched their students’ lives.Sunday will also mark the beginning of Shikshak Parv-2021 under the Ministry of Education. The programme will be held in online mode and continue till September 17.Teachers’ Day is observed annually on the birth anniversary of Dr. Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan, who was born on this day in 1888. He was also the first vice president and, later on, the second president of India. The first Teachers’ Day was observed in 1962.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/teachers-day-2021-president-kovind-to-honour-44-meritorious-teachers-today-101630800526769.html
05-09-2021||NA||Breaking news: Afghan resistance leader Massoud says ready for talks if Taliban withdraw from Panjshir, reports Reuters||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.India reported 42,766 new Covid-19 cases and 308 deaths, according to data shared by the the Union health ministry on Sunday. Today's date, September 5, also marks the birth anniversary of former president Dr S Radhakrishnan and is observed annually as Teachers' Day.Also, a mega "Kisan Mahapanchayat' is taking place in Uttar Pradesh's Muzaffarnagar in protest against the three central agricultural laws.Follow all the updates here:Assam reports 321 Covid-19 cases, 6 deathsAssam reports 321 new #COVID19 infections, 372 recoveries and 6 deaths in the last 24 hoursActive cases: 4,999Total recoveries: 5,79,935Death toll: 5,699 pic.twitter.com/qvDxUsV1DPHealth minister Mansukh Mandaviya meets his Brazilian counterpart Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya met his Brazilian counterpart Marcelo Queiroga in Italy on Sunday. "We spoke about One Health & the introduction of Nano-Urea for better results. Also, offered India's full support to aid Brazil's fight against TB," Mandaviya tweeted after the meeting.Taliban meet UN under-secretary general in KabulTaliban leader Mullah Baradar met with Martin Griffiths, UN under-secretary general for humanitarian affairs, on Sunday at the foreign ministry in Kabul, TOLO news reported.Guinea govt dissolved, President ‘taken’ #BREAKING Guinea putschists say president 'taken' and govt dissolved pic.twitter.com/zoYId2pGOaMaharashtra records 4,057 Covid-19 cases, 67 deathsMaharashtra reported 4,057 Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the total number of cases to 6,486,174. In the last 24 hours 67 deaths were also recorded, the death toll in the state now stands at 137,774.TMC candidates Jakir Hossain & Amirul Islam to contest bypolls Trinamool Congress (TMC) candidates Jakir Hossain and Amirul Islam will be contesting from the Jangipur and Samserganj seats respectively in the upcoming Assembly bypolls, which are scheduled to be held on September 30. 4 killed, 17 injured after tractor-trolley overturns in MPFour people were killed and 17 were injured in a road mishap on Sunday in Jhabua district of Madhya Pradesh, after the tractor-trolley they were travelling in overturned, police told news agency ANI.Kerala reports 26,701 Covid-19 cases, 74 deathsKerala reported 26,701 Covid-19 cases on Sunday. The state's total tally of active cases now stands at 2,47,791. In the last 24 hours, 74 deaths have also been recorded, the death toll now stands at 21,496.Varavara Rao seeks extension of bail due to health related complications Elgar Parishad accused P Varavara Rao while seeking an extension of his medical bail by another six months told the Bombay high court that the neurological problems he started facing while incarcerated has gotten worse, and he is suffering from memory loss. The urinary tract infection he was diagnosed with in prison has also not gotten better and he will be needing surgery soon for another condition. Rao was granted bail due to his failing health in February and released in March for a period of six months. S Jaishankar meets Denmark PM Mette FrederiksenExternal Affairs Minister S Jaishankar meets Denmark PM Mette Frederiksen"Appreciate her leadership in taking forward our Green Strategic Partnership. Conveyed greetings & good wishes of PM Modi. Valued her insights & assessments on the key issues of our day," he tweets pic.twitter.com/EJnWPVGRicTMC leader Abhishek Banerjee to appear before ED on MondayTrinamool Congress (TMC )leader Abhishek Banerjee will be appearing before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Monday, reported ANI. ED has summoned Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee's nephew and TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee and his wife for interrogation in an alleged multi-crore coal pilferage scam. PM Modi congratulates winners of Tokyo ParalympicsThe historic number of medals India won has filled our hearts with joy. I would like to appreciate the coaches, support staff and families of our athletes for their constant support to the players. We hope to build on our successes to ensure greater participation in sports.Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted in support of the winners in Tokyo Paralympics on Sunday. Voicing his appreciation for the "coaches, support staff and families of our athletes for their constant support to players". Kerala reports 2 more cases of Nipah virusKerala has reported 2 more cases of the Nipah virus on Sunday, state health minister Veena George said. A central team has been rushed to the state after an individual succumbed to the virus on Sunday. "National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune has confirmed a sample of a 12-year-old boy from Kerala has turned Nipah positive. The patient passed away on Sunday morning," George told reporters. Rahul Gandhi to visit Jammu in September Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will be undertaking a visit to Jammu on September 9 and 10. The Member of Parliament is also likely to offer prayers at Vaishno Devi temple, reported news agency ANI.Kisan Mahapanchayat underway in Muzaffarnagar#WATCH | Farmers gathered in large number in Muzaffarnagar to attend Kisan Mahapanchayat, demanding repeal of three farm laws pic.twitter.com/RoITYBBI0gFarmers gathered in large number in Muzaffarnagar to attend Kisan Mahapanchayat, demanding repeal of three farm lawsSuicide blast in Pakistan's Quetta kills 3As many as three people killed and 20 others wounded in a suicide bomb blast at a check-post located at Quetta in Pakistan's Balochistan.Unknown miscreants loot shop in Delhi's Khera Khurd#UPDATE | Search for three accused seen in the CCTV footage is underway. We are also looking into history-sheeters. Accused had also fired bullet. Probe on: Delhi PoliceTwo unknown miscreants looted a hardware shop at gunpoint in Delhi's Khera Khurd area on Saturday. “Search for three accused seen in the CCTV footage is underway. We are also looking into history-sheeters. Accused had also fired bullet. Probe on,” says Delhi Police.Rakesh Tikait arrives at Kisan MahapanchayatBKU spokesperson Rakesh Tikait arrives at Kisan Mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar, shares stage with elder brother and BKU chief Naresh Tikait for first time in nine months.180 million Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in August: GovtYet another achievement! With more than 180 million vaccine doses administered in the month of August, India leaves a mark on the Global map of leading its way in vaccinating its population on priority. #LargestVaccineDrive pic.twitter.com/ftvdHVIWMkIn August, India administered more vaccine doses than all G7 nations put together: CentreMumbai: Man held for alleged rape of minorMumbai Police arrest 24-year-old man for the alleged rape of a minor girl under Colaba police station limits. Case registered under section 376 IPC and POCSO Act.Will discuss strategy to continue agitation, says Rakesh Tikait“We will be discussing strategies to continue the agitation across the country,” says BKU leader Rakesh Tikait ahead of Kisan Mahapanchayat on his home turf of Muzaffarnagar.Australia logs 1684 new Covid-19 cases Australia records 1684 new Covid-19 cases. The country has, thus far, seen just under 62,000 infections of Covid-19 and 1040 deaths due to it.India reports 42,766 new Covid-19 cases and 308 deathsIndia logs 42,766 fresh Covid-19 infections, as against 42,618 from a day ago. Active caseload rises to 410,048. 38,091 recoveries and 308 fatalities take recovered cases and death toll to 32,138,092 and 440,533 respectively. Total tally rises to 32,988,673.President Kovind congratulates Noida DM for silver at ParalympicsCongratulations to Suhas Yathiraj who gave a tough fight to world #1 and won silver medal in badminton at #Paralympics. Your dedication in pursuing sports while discharging duties as a civil servant is exceptional. Best wishes for a future full of accomplishments.“Congratulations to Suhas Yathiraj who gave a tough fight to world #1 and won silver medal in badminton at Paralympics,” tweets President Ram Nath Kovind.PM Modi greets on Teachers' DayI pay my respects to Dr. S. Radhakrishnan on his Jayanti and recall his distinguished scholarship as well as contributions to our nation.On Teachers' Day, greetings to the entire teaching fraternity, which has always played a pivotal role in nurturing young minds. It is commendable how teachers have innovated and ensured the education journey of students continues in the Covid-19 times. I pay my respects to Dr. S. Radhakrishnan on his Jayanti and recall his distinguished scholarship as well as contributions to our nation: PM Narendra ModiNIV confirms Nipah virus case in Kerala; patient succumbsKerala health minister Veenu George announces National Institute of Virology, Pune confirmed Nipah case in Kozhikode. Patient succumbed at 5am today, says George.Suspected case of Nipah reported in KozhikodeHigh alert announced in Kerala's Kozhikode after suspected case of Nipah virus reported. The patient, a 12-year-old boy, reported to be critical. Senior health officials, including state health minister Veena George, leave for Kozhikode.28 new Covid-19 cases in ChinaChina reported 28 new Covid-19 cases on September 4, the same as a day earlier. Total cases reach 95,010 while death toll unchanged at 4636.AAP's ‘Kisan Mazdoor Khet Bachao Yatra’ in Haryana from todayThe AAP will begin its week-long “Kisan Mazdoor Khet Bachao Yatra” in Haryana from today. It will begin from Rohtak and conclude on September 13 in Palwal.US president, First Lady to travel to all 3 sites of 9/11 attacks: White HouseOn Saturday, September 11, president Joe Biden and the First Lady will honor and pay respects to the lives lost 20 years ago with travel to all three sites of the 9/11 attacks - New York City, Shanksville, and the Pentagon: White HouseFarmers to hold ‘mahapanchayat’ in Muzaffarnagar todayFarmers protesting against the three central farm laws will hold a mahapanchayat in Uttar Pradesh's Muzaffarnagar today. According to organisers, lakhs of farmers will attend the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-september-05-2021-101630798650701.html
05-09-2021||India||Assembly bypolls to Mamata’s home seat, 3 others to be held on Sept 30||Bypolls to four assembly seats, including West Bengal’s Bhabanipur where Mamata Banerjee is expected to contest as she needs to get elected to the state assembly by November to continue as the chief minister, will be held on September 30, the Election Commission of India (ECI) announced on Saturday.Banerjee took oath as the chief minister on May 5 and requires getting elected within six months to retain the post. Her Trinamool Congress (TMC) party swept to power for the third time this summer by winning 213 out of the 292 seats, for which elections were held in eight phases in March and April. But Banerjee lost the poll from Nandigram to her protégé-turned-adversary Suvendu Adhikari of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) by a narrow margin of 1,956 votes.TMC has been pressing for holding the bypolls as soon as possible. It has been critical of the ECI over the delay in announcing the schedule for them. In June, Banerjee said the election watchdog was awaiting Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s instructions to hold the by-elections. A delegation of TMC parliamentarians met the ECI on July 15, seeking the bypolls at the earliest. The bypoll schedule was announced days after the ECI sought inputs on 30 constituencies across the country from concerned chief secretaries and disaster management authorities in view of Covid pandemic.“The chief secretary of West Bengal informed that in view of the administrative exigencies and public interest and to avoid (a) vacuum in state, by-elections for Bhabanipur from where Mamata Banerjee intends to contest elections may be conducted,” ECI said in statement.Apart from Bhabanipur, the bypolls will be held to Jangipur, Samerganj (West Bengal), and Pipli (Odisha) assembly seats.The ECI has allowed 14-day campaigning in Bhabanipur while curtailing the electioneering in other constituencies as per the pandemic situation. “Campaigning is allowed but it has been notified according to the pandemic (situation)...,” a person familiar with the matter said on the condition of anonymity.Banerjee, who was scheduled to leave for a three-day tour of north Bengal on Sunday, postponed the visit as the ECI declared the bypoll schedule.The ECI said public gatherings will be prohibited during the nomination process. “Only three vehicles (will be) permitted within a periphery of 100 meters of RO’s (returning officer) office. No procession for nomination shall be permitted,” the ECI said in an order. For indoor campaigns, 30% of the allowed capacity or 200 persons, whichever is less, will be permitted.The results of the bypolls will be announced on October 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assembly-bypolls-to-mamata-s-home-seat-3-others-to-be-held-on-sept-30-101630788522816.html
05-09-2021||India||India, US keeping close watch on Pakistan’s actions in Afghanistan: Harsh Shringla||India and the US are carefully watching Pakistan’s actions in Afghanistan in light of Islamabad’s role in backing the Taliban, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said as he wound up a three-day visit to Washington during which the situation in the war-torn country was a key part of discussions. Shringla also told reporters in Washington on Friday that India has had a “limited” engagement with the Taliban, during which the group indicated it would be “reasonable in the way they handle things”. His remarks came against the backdrop of the rapidly evolving situation in Afghanistan, where the Taliban is set to form government after sweeping to power in Kabul on August 15. Shringla spoke hours before Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) chief, Lt Gen Faiz Hameed, became the first senior Pakistani leader to fly into Kabul for talks with the Taliban. Shringla noted Pakistan has extended backing to the Taliban, and said India and the US will assess Pakistan’s actions in Afghanistan with a “fine-tooth comb”. “They (US) will obviously see how different players get engaged in the situation in Afghanistan. Pakistan is a neighbour of Afghanistan. They have supported and nurtured the Taliban. There are various elements there that Pakistan supported, so its role has to be seen in that context,” he said. India is closely engaged with the US on developments in Afghanistan, and both sides have adopted a wait and watch policy towards the Taliban and are calibrating their actions in response to the evolving situation, he added. Shringla contended that India’s concerns related to Afghanistan, especially the use of Afghan soil for terrorism, had been addressed in a UN resolution adopted last month. This resolution, he said, mentioned UN-designated terror groups such as Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) and Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT). “So we do have concerns about the free ingress that these two terrorist groups have had in Afghanistan, their role and we will watch that carefully,” he said. Shringla acknowledged that India currently has no immediate substantial engagement with Afghanistan, and described New Delhi’s contacts with the Taliban as limited. “Our engagement with them (Taliban) has been limited. It’s not that we have a robust conversation. But from whatever conversations we’ve had so far, the Taliban seem to indicate they will be reasonable in the way they handle things,” he said. “I don’t see members of the international community being passive over the situation in Afghanistan. We are not there on the ground, [we] have no assets there. It’s not like we are not doing anything, we are in touch with every country that has an interest in Afghanistan,” he added. After months of informal contacts with the group, India’s ambassador to Qatar, Deepak Mittal, held talks with senior Taliban leader Sher Mohammed Abbas Stanekzai on Tuesday, the first officially acknowledged contact between the two sides. During the meeting held at the Taliban’s request, the India side raised its concerns about Afghan soil being used for anti-India activities and terror. Shringla met US secretary of state Antony Blinken and other senior American officials during his visit, and the situation in Afghanistan figured prominently in discussions. The ISI chief arrived in Kabul with a high-level delegation for talks with the top Taliban leadership on security and other issues. Unnamed Pakistani military officials told the media in Islamabad on Thursday that the ISI chief would work with the Taliban to help reorganise the Afghan Army. Unlike a low-key visit to Kabul by the CIA chief, Lt Gen Hameed was spotted in the lobby of a hotel along with the Pakistani ambassador and even spoke to Pakistani journalists. The ISI chief’s visit coincided with reports of divisions within the Taliban over government formation and the allocation of powers. The reports said there were differences between the camp of senior leader Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar and the Haqqani Network, which has long-standing and close ties with Pakistan’s military establishment. There were also reports of differences between the leaders from the political office in Doha, such as Baradar, and the commanders on the ground, including Mullah Mohammad Yaqoob, the son of Taliban founder Mullah Mohammad Omar, over the allocation of powers in the new set-up. People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that the ISI is working to ensure security-related departments, such as intelligence, defence and interior, are retained by the Haqqani Network. The ISI chief’s visit to Kabul is being seen in the context of these differences and efforts to protect the interests of the Haqqani Network, the people said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-us-keeping-close-watch-on-pakistan-s-actions-in-afghanistan-harsh-shringla-101630786885165.html
05-09-2021||India||Fissures emerge in Maharashtra as Raju Shetti hits out at NCP over MLC names||The ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi’s (MVA) ties with the Swabhimani Paksha, led by Raju Shetti, appear to be souring, with Shetti saying on Saturday that it was up to the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) to fulfill the promise of giving one seat in the state legislative council to his party “or stab him in the back”.In response, NCP chief Sharad Pawar expressed surprise and rejected the speculation that the MVA has requested governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari to drop Shetti’s name from the list of 12 people recommended to be appointed as MLC. The NCP is one of the allies in the MVA government along with the Shiv Sena and Congress.“The decision has to be taken by the NCP over fulfilling the promise or stab (me) in the back. I don’t care. I didn’t go to them begging for the position. I am in no position for the last over two years but respect for me among the people has not reduced. I will do a correct program at an appropriate time,” Shetti said on Saturday. The term “correct program” was used by BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis at a rally for dislodging the Uddhav Thackeray-led MVA government in the state.Shetti is considered a strong farmer leader with good grassroots support. He is currently holding a five-day long march against the MVA government, demanding more relief to the people affected by flooding.“Based on his contribution in the field of agriculture and cooperation, Raju Shetti’s name was part of the list submitted to the governor by CM and deputy CM. The decision (to appoint him as a MLC) was taken by us but the final decision has to be made by the governor. I am surprised how come he can make such a statement. We have honestly done our work. I have fulfilled the promise made (to him) and am waiting for the governor’s decision,” Pawar said, responding to remarks by the Swabhimani Paksha leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fissures-emerge-in-maharashtra-as-raju-shetti-hits-out-at-ncp-over-mlc-names-101630786165101.html
05-09-2021||India||Bihar first state to simplify road accident claims||Bihar will be the first state to simplify claims of road traffic accident (RTA) by removing the victim or their dependents from the litigation process and paying them an interim ex-gratia amount of ₹5 lakh within 15 days in event of death, officials driving the change have said.The state will also take the onus to contest the case in court, on behalf of the victim, if the insurance firm of the accused vehicle owner, decides to challenge the order.Come September 15, and the state will implement the new amendment to the Bihar Motor Vehicle Rules that empowers the state transport appellate tribunal to settle all such accident claims within 60 days. The new amendment was notified in the Bihar gazette on August 11 after a cabinet order.So far, road traffic accident claims are tried in the civil court and linger for years.“This is the first of its kind initiative in India to simplify accident claims,” said Bihar’s transport secretary, Sanjay Kumar Agarwal.The new rules allow immediate payment of ₹5 lakh as interim compensation for death and ₹50,000 for grievous injury to dependents or victims of road traffic accidents, involving vehicles that are insured, uninsured or involved in hit-and-run case. The compensation for grievous injury is proposed to be increased from ₹50,000 to ₹2.5 lakh.As part of the new rules, victims or their relatives will not have to run from pillar to post for settlement of claim. The state will pay the interim compensation and also take the responsibility of fighting a legal suit on behalf of the victim if an insurance firm were to challenge its order.“We have set up a revolving corpus of ₹50 crore under the Bihar motor vehicle accident assistance fund through which such payments will be made,” said Agarwal.In case of insured vehicles, the state will pay the compensation to the victim or their dependents through the corpus fund and recover the amount from the insurance firm after the tribunal settles the case within the stipulated 60 days, he added.For uninsured vehicles, the state will recover the compensation amount by auctioning the vehicle if its vehicle owner is unable to pay the compensation to the victim’s family. Should the amount realised through auction be less than the compensation fixed, the state will bear the difference amount through the Bihar motor vehicle accident assistance fund, said Agarwal.Nearly 20% of the 13.60 lakh registered vehicles in the state till 2019-20 do not renew their insurance. “We will start a special drive to check for insurance of motor vehicles soon,” he added.For hit-and-run case, the compensation amount will be borne through the corpus fund and replenished partially by the Centre through insurance companies, which pay  ₹50,000. The state will bear the remaining  ₹4,50,000 in deaths involving hit-and-run cases.Under the changed rules, all sub-divisional officers (SDO) will be the accident claim inquiry officer and district magistrates (DM) the accident claims assessment officer. The SDO conducts the inquiry on the basis of site inspection done by the police and the motor vehicle inspector.“The changed rules do not mandate any site inspection or examination of witness at the trial stage. If challenged, the case will be adjudicated on the basis of a summary trial based on the petition of the victim or their relatives, deposition by the insurance firm and reports by the police, the SDO and DM,” said Agarwal.In case the tribunal or a higher court awards a higher compensation, the difference of the amount already paid as interim compensation would be credited into the bank account of the victim’s family. However, in case of an adverse order for the government, the interim amount already paid as compensation to the family of the victim will not be taken back but adjusted through the Bihar motor vehicle accident assistance fund.Bihar ranks 15th in India in terms of road accidents and ninth in terms of fatalities arising out of them, as per the latest data released by the ministry of road transport and highways (MoRT&H) in 2019.Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Kerala, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh and Gujarat are among states which rank higher than Bihar both in terms of number of road accidents and deaths.Bihar had only 9.3 recorded cases of road accidents against the national average of 34.2 per lakh population in 2019.With a score of 11.7, it ranked 22nd in terms of accidents per 10,000 vehicles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-first-state-to-simplify-road-accident-claims-to-give-rs-4-5-lakh-within-15-days-101630784605191.html
05-09-2021||India||Preparations underway for PM’s possible visit to US this month||A visit to the US by Prime Minister Narendra Modi this month is being linked to clarity on the holding of the first in-person summit of Quad leaders following Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga’s decision to step down, people familiar with developments said on Saturday.The first face-to-face meeting of leaders of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue, after their maiden virtual summit in March, was being seen as the centrepiece of a visit to the US by Modi. However, Suga’s surprise move led to confusion and uncertainty about the Quad meet to be hosted by Washington, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity.The Indian side has begun advance preparations for a possible visit by the prime minister, and some of the grounds were laid during foreign secretary Harsh Shringla’s three-day visit to Washington this week. There has been no formal announcement from the Indian side, though dates between September 22 and 27 were being looked at for the visit.If the visit does go ahead, Modi is also expected to address the annual UN General Assembly in New York and hold his first bilateral meeting with US President Joe Biden.“There is some amount of confusion and lack of clarity on whether the Japanese PM will travel to the US following his decision to step down. The Indian side has begun the spade work but a call will have to be made at a higher level,” one of the people cited above said.The people said the latest reports from the Japanese side indicated that Suga is not expected to visit the US. Earlier, Japan had proposed holding the Quad Summit in a hybrid format, with Suga joining virtually. There were also suggestions to hold the summit after the election of a new Japanese prime minister. It is learnt that not all Quad members were keen on holding the summit in a hybrid format.Asked about the possibility of the political developments in Japan affecting the Quad Summit, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla told reporters in Washington on Friday: “If there is a summit, Prime Minister Modi has already said he would be happy to attend that summit. I think other leaders have also said that they will be ready. So, it’s all a question of...getting the leaders together and going ahead.”The people also noted the US recently asked more than 150 countries planning to send a leader or a minister to speak in person at the UN General Assembly to consider giving a video address in order to prevent the meeting from becoming a super-spreader event.The Quad comprises India, Australia, Japan and the US. Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison is expected to travel to the US in September to join Biden for events commemorating the 70th anniversary of the Australia, New Zealand and US Security Treaty, or ANZUS Treaty.On Friday, Suga announced his decision not to seek re-election as leader of the ruling Liberal Democrat Party (LDP) in the face of mounting criticism over his handling of the Covid-19 crisis. Suga took over just under a year ago after Shinzo Abe resigned citing ill health.Opposition to his leadership among LDP lawmakers has diminished his chances of winning a second term in the LDP’s presidential election on September 29. Suga is also expected to be preoccupied with campaigning for the party election, which will begin on September 17.The political developments in Japan have also raised the possibility of the annual bilateral summit with India being cancelled for the third straight year. The meet couldn’t be held in 2019 because of violent protests against the amended citizenship law in Guwahati, the proposed venue, and it wasn’t held last year because of the pandemic.The planned Quad Summit was aimed at giving fresh impetus to several key initiatives, including the grouping’s vaccine partnership and measures to ensure an open and free Indo-Pacific. The four countries plan to distribute one billion doses of US-developed vaccines produced in India across the Indo-Pacific but the move hit a road block after India was hit by a devastating second wave of infections.In March, Biden hosted the first virtual Quad leaders summit that pledged to work for an open and inclusive Indo-Pacific anchored by democratic values and unconstrained by coercion, an apparent signal to China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/preparations-underway-for-pm-s-possible-visit-to-us-this-month-101630784004915.html
05-09-2021||India||Farmers to hold mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar today||Security has been stepped up in Uttar Pradesh’s Muzaffarnagar ahead of Sunday’s ‘Kisan Mahapanchayat’ in the district, with the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of 40 farmer unions, saying that thousands of people from across the country were set to take part in the meeting.The SKM, which is at the forefront of the protest against the three contentious farm laws, said that gathering will prove that their agitation has the support of “all castes, religions, states, classes, small traders and all sections of the society”.“The mahapanchayat of September 5 will make the Yogi-Modi governments realize the power of farmers, farm labourers, and supporters of the farm movement. The Muzaffarnagar mahapanchayat will be the biggest ever in the last nine months,” the SKM said in a statement. Muzzafarnagar is the home district of Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait, who is scheduled to share the stage with SKM leaders Gurnam Singh Chadhuni, Balbeer Singh Rajowal and Yogendra Yadav.Hundreds of farmers have been camping at Delhi’s borders since November last year, seeking a repeal of the new farm laws, which they say will erode their bargaining power, weaken a system of assured prices, and leave them vulnerable to exploitation by agri businesses. The government has maintained that the laws aim to ease restrictions on farm trade by setting up free markets, allow traders to stockpile large stocks of food for future sales and lay down a framework for contract farming.Six companies of the provincial armed constabulary (PAC) and two companies of rapid action force (RAF) will be deployed at the farmers’ gathering to maintain law and order, officials familiar with the matter said. DIG of Saharanpur range Preetinder Singh said that the event will be videographed and five SSPs, seven ASPs and 40 police inspectors will be posted on security duty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-to-hold-mahapanchayat-in-muzaffarnagar-today-101630783707581.html
05-09-2021||India||Centre signs tripartite Karbi Anglong agreement, announces funds for development||The Centre signed the tripartite Karbi Anglong agreement on Saturday promising to fulfil all the conditions for development of the Karbi people within the stipulated time. The agreement was signed in the presence of Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Union Minister of Shipping and Waterways, Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and the representatives of Karbi Anglong Autonomous Council in New Delhi. “Signing of the historic Karbi Anglong Agreement: Modi government is committed to resolving the decades-old crisis, ensuring the territorial integrity of Assam,” Shah tweeted.The agreement mainly promised to invest ₹1,000 crore by the Assam government for development of the Karbi Anglong area in the next five years, provide reservation for the people of Karbi for the first time, rehabilitation for the surrendered militants, setting up of Karbi Welfare Council by the Assam government, supplementing resources of Karbi Autonomous Council by augmenting consolidated fund of the state, along with protection of their language and culture etc. After signing the agreement, Amit Shah said that the agreement would be written in golden words in the history of Assam and Karbi region as over 1,000 cadres of five different organizations have laid down their arms to join the mainstream. “Both the Central government and Assam government are fully committed to their rehabilitation,” said Shah. He added that Narendra Modi, after becoming Prime Minister, has not only set his focus on the Northeast Region but was also working towards a developed, peaceful and progressive Northeast. It is the Modi government’s policy that we talk more politely to those who shunned their arms and give more to them than they ask for. After following this policy, we have resolved all pending problems one by one, the minister said. Referring to previous agreements, Shah said that they had signed the Bodoland Peace Accord (Assam), Bru Rehabilitation Agreement and National Liberation Front of Tripura (Tripura) and 80 per cent of the conditions mentioned in those agreements have been fulfilled. A total of 1,040 militants of five militant groups surrendered along with their weapons during an event at Guwahati in Assam on February 25. The five groups are Karbi Longri NC Hills Liberation Front (KLNLF), People’s Democratic Council of Karbi Longri (PDCK), Kuki Liberation Front ( KLF), United Peoples Liberation Army (UPLA) and Karbi People’s Liberation Tiger (KPLT). A major ethnic community of Assam--- Karbis are dotted by many factions, and marked by ethnic violence, killings, abductions, taxation since the late 1980s.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-signs-tripartite-karbi-anglong-agreement-announces-funds-for-development-101630783704985.html
05-09-2021||India||Govt signs peace accord with 5 insurgent groups of Assam||New Delhi: A tripartite agreement among five insurgent groups of Assam, the Centre and the state government was signed on Saturday to end years of violence in the Karbi Anglong region.Union Home Minister Amit Shah, who was present on the occasion, said the accord will bring lasting peace and all round development in Karbi Anglong.The insurgent groups which signed the peace accord include Karbi Longri North Cachar Hills Liberation Front, People’s Democratic Council of Karbi Longri, United People’s Liberation Army and Karbi People’s Liberation Tigers factions.About 1,000 militants belonging to these groups have surrendered along with their arms and have joined the mainstream.Shah said the signing of the Karbi-Anglong Agreement is another milestone in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision of “insurgency-free prosperous Northeast”.“Over 1000 armed cadres have abjured violence and joined the mainstream of society, which reflects their trust in Modi ji’s leadership,” he said.Shah said that a ₹1,000 crore development package will be given to Karbi Anglong.“I want to assure everyone that we will implement this accord in a time-bound manner,” he said.The home minister said the central and state governments are committed to all round development of Karbi Anglong and there will be peace in the region.“We not only sign peace accords but implement them within our time too,” he said, citing the example of similar peace pacts earlier signed with other insurgent groups of the Northeast -- the NDFB, NLFT and Bru groups.Shah said ever since the Modi government came to power, its focus in the Northeast is not only to ensure peace but also overall development.“We have ensured that there is all round peace, no violence, no blast, no firing in the Northeast,” he said.Shah said it is the policy of the Modi government that those who give up arms are brought into mainstream and we talk to them even more politely and give them more than they ask for.He said due to this policy only, the country is getting rid of old problems one by one that the Modi government had inherited.The accord is significant as Karbi Anglong, which is the territory of ethnic Karbi tribals, has seen years of violence, killings and abduction in the rebels’ fight for a separate homeland.Union minister and former Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal, who was present on the occasion, appreciated the efforts of the prime minister and the home minister in bringing peace in Assam and the Northeast.Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said it was a historic day as the militants of these five insurgent groups will now join mainstream and work for the development of Karbi Anglong.The peace agreement will ensure greater devolution of autonomy to the Karbi Anglong Autonomous Council (KACC), protection of identity, language, culture of Karbi people and focussed development of the council area, without affecting the territorial and administrative integrity of Assam.​​​​​​​ The Karbi armed groups have agreed to abjure violence and join the peaceful democratic process as established by law of the land.The agreement also provides for rehabilitation of cadres of the armed groups.The government of Assam shall set up a Karbi Welfare Council for focussed development of Karbi people living outside KAAC area.The consolidated fund of the state will be augmented to supplement the resources of KAAC.Overall, the present settlement proposes to give more legislative, executive, administrative and financial powers to KAAC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-signs-peace-accord-with-5-insurgent-groups-of-assam-101630783407585.html
05-09-2021||India||17-year-old girl held captive, raped by 3 in Uttar Pradesh: Police||Mahoba (UP): A 17-year-old girl was allegedly gangraped by three men who kept her locked in a room for a day, police here said on Saturday. The teen, who works in a private company, was sexually assaulted on Thursday and made her escape on Friday while she was being taken to another place, police said. Efforts are on to nab the accused who fled the area. On Thursday, she was taken by a man, an employee at a nearby dak bungalow, to a room in a deserted area where she was raped by him and two of his friends, Station House Officer at Mahoba’s Kotwali police station Balram Singh said. The girl also alleged that they made a video of her, he said. The men locked her inside after raping her and went out, he said. On Friday, they came back. While one of them was taking her to another place on a motorcycle, she jumped off and shouted for help. Police registered a case on Friday on the complaint of the girl and her family members, Singh said. The girl has been sent for medical examination. PTI CORR VN VN MIN MIN||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/17yearold-girl-held-captive-raped-by-3-in-uttar-pradesh-police-101630783164967.html
05-09-2021||India||Independence, freedom of expression of citizens crucial in democracy; good policing must: Shah||New Delhi: Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday said the most important thing in a democracy is a citizen’s independence and freedom of expression which is directly linked to good policing, and this needs to be continuously improved.He said ‘beat constable’ deployed at the lowest level of the police system makes the “biggest contribution” towards making a democracy successful by protecting the common man.Delivering the keynote speech during the 51st foundation day event of the Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPR&D), the minister said democracy cannot be successful if law and order is not good.“Democracy is our nature... this was our character even before independence and we accepted this after gaining freedom. This is the nature of our people. The biggest thing in a democracy is a person’s independence and freedom of expression,” he said.When it comes to freedom of expression of a person, it is directly linked to law and order, he noted. “Democracy is not just about voting for parties and forming a government... this is just a part of the system. What is the success or fruit of democracy? The fruit is that 130 crore people of the country, according to their capabilities and intelligence, get to develop themselves and the country gets the benefit of this cumulative effect for its development,” Shah said.He emphasised that democracy cannot prosper if law and order in a country is not good. “This work is done by police and forces that guard our borders. It is very important for a successful democracy that the security of a person is ensured. The citizen should keep getting his legal rights in an uninterrupted manner. A citizen should be able to discharge his duties as per the spirit of the constitution,” the Union minister stated.And hence, he said, upgrading and improving police force is the work of BPR&D.Shah noted that the image of police, at certain times, is maligned by certain quarters.“I do not know why a campaign has been run to damage the image of police. Some incidents are hyped and shown, while good incidents are not popularised,” he said.The home minister said while various other institutions like the parliament, state assemblies, judiciary, election commission, CAG and vigilance commission have made democracy successful, the beat constable of police deserved a far greater appreciation in this context.“Not because I am the home minister, but I have had this thinking since my childhood that to make democracy successful, the biggest contribution is of the beat constable,” he said.Without reviving beat policing, basic policing cannot be good and this has to be updated which requires technology upgradation and BPR&D needs to work on that, the minister noted. “I want to say it again that the most difficult job in the government service is that of a policeman,” he reiterated. During all festivals, whether it is Holi, Deepwali or Eid, policemen are on duty, he said.“There are no fixed work hours, neither a definite scope of work for a policeman. I have seen that all this takes a toll on their health and there is no acknowledgement of these things.... the sacrifices made by police personnel is not mentioned much,” the minister rued.He asked the BPR&D to give “special focus” and work on the image building of police.The police should change their work style as per the challenge, he said, counting cyber attacks, drone attacks, narcotics smuggling, fake currency and hawala rackets as the “biggest” challenges for the security establishment.“For all this, you (BPR&D) should prepare our forces and also study the best practices across the globe,” he said.The skills of the cops should be sharpened, Shah said.The minister also talked about reforms done by the Modi government and various steps taken to empower the law enforcement agencies.“The home ministry is doing a number of things to bring about radical changes in the IPC, CrPC and the Evidence Act,” he said.Interaction has been held in this context with at least 14 states, three UTs, eight central police organisations, six CAPFs and 7 NGOs; and they have sent in their suggestions.“This is a work in progress...this is a big work,” he added.The minister said his government has brought in necessary “radical changes” in the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) to check funds sent to “destabilise” the country.Addressing officers and personnel from various central, state and Union Territory police forces, Shah said the next decade is going to be very important from the point of internal security as the country under Prime Minister Narendra Modi was taking giant leaps in becoming a strong nation and economy, and we should “not think that some forces will try to stop this.” He added that as many as 3,700 armed cadres of various insurgent groups have surrendered with their weapons before the Union government in the last two years.  Whosoever will shun weapons, we will take steps to bring them to the mainstream, he said.The minister finally asked the BPR&D, a central government think tank, to prepare the police forces as smart and strong units. PTI NES SRY||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/independence-freedom-of-expression-of-citizens-crucial-in-democracy-good-policing-must-shah-101630782867306.html
05-09-2021||India||Textile bodies welcome tn’s move to remove 1% cotton cess||Textile trade bodies have welcomed the announcement of the Tamil Nadu government on the withdrawal of one per cent cess on purchase of cotton and cotton waste. Chairman of Confederation of Indian Textile Industry T Rajkumar told reporters here on Saturday that the scrapping of cess, which was a long-pending demand, would benefit cotton farmers and the industry across the cotton textile value chain.The Southern India Mills’ Association lauded the decision on the revoking of the tax as it would benefit 200k farmers and help increase cotton production from 500k bales to 2.5 million bales by 2030.This would also encourage farmers to switch over to cotton crop from other cash crops and may benefit 1 million farmers in the long run, the trade body said.The removal of the cess would attract several private cotton traders and the Cotton Corporation of India to open depots in the state and sell the cotton on a daily basis to small spinning mills, the trade bodies said, adding that this would reduce the working capital requirements and also the cost, time and transportation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/textile-bodies-welcome-tn-s-move-to-remove-1-cotton-cess-101630781010830.html
05-09-2021||India||Migrations and their effect on Bengaluru’s lingual diversity||A recent analysis of the 2011 Census suggested, with over 107 languages spoken, Bengaluru is one of the most linguistically diverse cities in India.The analysis, conducted by Shamika Ravi, a non-resident senior fellow of Brookings Institution, and Mudit Kapoor, an associate professor of economics at Indian Statistical Institute, pointed out that these 107 languages include 22 scheduled and 84 non-scheduled languages.The analysis also said that Kannada, which is the official language of the city, was listed as the mother tongue by 44.62% of the city’s population. Other major languages include Tamil (15%), Telugu (14%), Urdu (12%), Hindi (6%), and Malayalam (3%). Apart from them, the residents of the city also speak Maithili, Odia, Punjabi, Kashmiri, Sindhi, Konkani, Santali, Marathi, Manipuri and Nepali. The non-scheduled languages include English, Kabuli, Pashto, Tibetan, Arabic, Nishi, Mundari, Lushai, Nicobarese, Sherpa, languages from Nagaland, among others.Historians and experts attribute this diversity in languages to the multiple waves of migrations the city has seen over centuries, especially three particular incidents in history.In Census 2001, inter-district and inter-state migrants constituted 30.27% of the city’s population. Over the next decade, the migrant population increased by more than 12%, making them the fastest-growing community in the city. Historian Suresh Moona said that soon after Bengaluru’s formation, there was a call made for people to come to the city for trade. “When Kempegowda built his mud fort in 1537, a call was made for traders and other craftsmen to move to the new city. He knew that unless there is no thriving trade, a city can’t grow. Many areas in Bengaluru were named after occupations such Akkipet (rice), Ragipet (millet), among others.”He said the tradition continued with Tipu Sultan, who invited craftsmen from different parts of the country to live in Bengaluru. Most of these skilled labourers migrated to Bengaluru to support Tipu’s military industry. The remanence of the Tipu era migration remains in Bengaluru, the Kalasipalaya areas in the heart of the city, was a settlement of Kalsi, the expert tent-pitchers and organisers of military camps of Tipu’s army. But the first big migration that changed the linguistic character of the city happened during the British India era. After the military engineers found Bengaluru’s topography and proximity to other cities to be good for developing a cantonment, manpower was required. “When the British started constructing the cantonment area since they had a base in the Madras presidency, they brought in skilled labourers and traders as part of the development of the cantonment. This is one of the reasons why the cantonment area in Bengaluru has a large Tamil speaking population,” said Moona. “While the migration before independence was limited largely to the Tamil speaking region, post-independence the emergence of industry and public sector undertakings changed the patterns of migrations,” said Janaki Nair, a professor of modern Indian history at the Centre for Historical Studies at Jawaharlal Nehru University. After Independence, Bengaluru became the ideal location for strategic industries as it was away from international borders and its proximity to other major cities. The next big wave of migrants hit Bengaluru in the 1950s and 60s when major public sector undertakings — such as Bharat Electronics and Hindustan Aeronautics — made the city their base.Research carried out by Times Research Foundation in the 1980s, shows during the peak of the Bengaluru industrial era in the 1980s, 14% of the population was engaged in industrial work associated with the large-scale manufacturing economy led by the public sector undertakings.Both Moona and Nair agreed that from having a large migration of Tamil speaking areas, the emergence of the industries resulted in a wider pool of migrants, especially from Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Odisha. The linguist influences in the city, too, changed during this period.Decades later, the open markets and globalisation made Bengaluru the world’s back office. The city, which has an ecosystem developed by the industries and the institutes of science and technology, soon became the hub of Information Technology, finding itself a spot among the global cities known for innovative technologies.As Bengaluru became the Silicon Valley of India, the migration patterns in the city too changed. “From having a large Tamil population post-independence, the service industry now witnesses a large migration of the citizens from north-east India,” added Nair. “Bengaluru is one of the few cities where you could survive without knowing the local language or with your mother tongue. That is because migration has made the city a multilingual and multicultural city. These concepts are common in the new globalised worlds, but Bengaluru had such a culture even before many other cities,” said Moona.ENDS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrations-and-their-effect-on-bengaluru-s-lingual-diversity-101630781009634.html
05-09-2021||India||Tamil Nadu reports 1.5k Covid cases, 19 deaths in 24 hrs||Tamil Nadu recorded a marginal rise in fresh COVID-19 infections for the second consecutive day, adding 1,568 cases, including five returnees from Kerala, pushing the overall caseload to 26.19 lakh till date. The fatality count mounted to 34,980, with 19 people succumbing to the virus, a health department bulletin said.After witnessing a declining trend over the past few weeks, the number of cases have gone up since Thursday.Meanwhile, recoveries eclipsed new infections with 1,657 people getting discharged in the last 24 hours, aggregating to 2,568,161, leaving 16,370 active cases.A total of 160,742 samples were tested in the last 24 hours, pushing the cumulative number of specimens examined to 42,793,906 till date.Coimbatore, with 239 cases, Chennai 162, Erode 125 and Thanjavur 108, accounted for the bulk of the cases, while the remaining were scattered across other districts.Seven districts reported cases below double digits, while there were no fresh deaths in 25 districts. Ramanathapuram and Virudhunagar recorded the least number of cases with three each.Among the 19 fatalities, one person did not have any pre-existing illness, the bulletin said .Minister for medical and family welfare Ma Subramanian earlier in the day called on Union health minister Mansukh Mandviya in New Delhi along with top officials and discussed various issues pertaining to Tamil Nadu, including allocating vaccines based on the size of the state’s population, expediting construction work to set up the All India Institute of Medical Sciences hospital near Madurai and setting up of 11 medical colleges in the state. Briefing reporters later, Subramanian said that during the previous meeting with the Union minister in June, the state had requested allocation of more vaccines, based on which the Centre increased supply in June, July and August. The minister said Mandviya was also requested to step up vaccine supply to nine districts bordering Kerala as that state had been reporting high number of cases and added that all the residents in these areas would be inoculated. Subramanian said during the meeting with Mandviya, a request was also made to set up an AIIMS Medical College in Coimbatore, which he said he would consider. Noting that new Primary Health Centres had not been sanctioned to Tamil Nadu in the last three years, Subramanian said “we reiterated our earlier demand that we need 25 new PHCs in Tamil Nadu”. To a query about some students and teachers in districts like Ariyalur and Cuddalore having tested positive after schools reopened on September 1, he said they might have contracted the virus earlier.“They would have contracted the contagion much earlier and then come to the schools without knowing of it. They were identified due to the efforts of health department officials, who will now conduct a probe,” he said. The minister said there was no need for anyone to panic and the department was taking all efforts to break the virus chain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-reports-1-5k-covid-cases-19-deaths-in-24-hrs-101630781008441.html
05-09-2021||India||Anwar to visit Kerala amid Cong infighting||Amid the simmering dissension in the Kerala Congress unit over the selection of district Congress committee (DCC) chiefs by the new leadership, party general secretary Tariq Anwar will arrive in the state next week to placate sulking senior leaders Oommen Chandy and Ramesh Chennithala. A party leader, who did not want to be named, said Anwar will reach the state capital on September 8 to talk to the two senior leaders. Amid the growing differences, Chandy said on Saturday that he is ready to talk to anyone to settle the present crisis. He said in Kottayam that lack of proper discussion before finalising the district office-bearers’ list led to the present stalemate and it can be settled if someone takes the lead. “There are no big issues as portrayed and they can be settled through talks,” Chandy said. The party leader mentioned above said Anwar’s visit comes in the wake of several complaints to Congress president Sonia Gandhi alleging that the new leadership was enforcing discipline without meeting party guidelines and that it will further drain the party. Two days back while inaugurating the new party office in Kannur virtually, party leader Rahul Gandhi, also a member of parliament from Kerala, reminded the state leadership about the “spirit of collective leadership.” Meanwhile, PCC secretary P S Prashant, who was expelled last week, joined the ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) on Friday. Desperate to widen its base, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is also eying some of the disgruntled Congress leaders. “So the party is desperate to check further damage and is rushing the general secretary,” the senior Congress leader said. State Congress president K Sudhakaran expressed confidence that everything will be settled soon, but insisted that discipline is paramount. He took a dig at the CPI(M), saying “it turned a waste bin” by accepting those thrown out by the Congress. Chennithala gave a clear message on Friday that he is not ready for a truce. “When I and Chandy led the party, we never used the language of arrogance. We led the party for 17 years and we notched up many victories. A good leadership will have to take everyone along. If the track record of those enforcing discipline is examined, they would not have been in the party by now,” Chennithala said, taking a dig at Sudhakaran. Another leader, K C Joseph, also said disciplinary action was selective and taken in a hurry. The DCC list that was announced on August 28 triggered public outbursts by Congress leaders. Two senior leaders K Sivadasan Nair and KP Anil Kumar were suspended and PCC secretary Prashant was expelled. Another senior leader, A V Gopinathan, quit the party. Chandy and Chennithala publicly expressed their differences with the new leadership of the state unit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anwar-to-visit-kerala-amid-cong-infighting-101630781006969.html
05-09-2021||India||Covid situation is under control, says Kerala CM||Even as Kerala continues to report the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the country, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Saturday that the situation is under control and that there is no big jump in infections after the Onam festival as was feared. The state recorded 29,682 Covid cases on Saturday with a test positivity rate (TPR) of 17.54% after 169,237 samples were tested. It also reported 142 deaths, pushing the toll to 21,422, according to the health ministry data. Talking to newsmen in the state capital, Vijayan said though the number of patients increased, hospital admissions came down in the last three weeks and that situation will stabilise soon. In mid-August hospitalisation rate was 5.99% of active cases, but it came down to 5.23% between August 28 and September 3, he said. “There is no big hike (in Covid cases), as we feared, after Onam. Hospitalisation rate is coming down slowly. Even in the recent experts’ meeting, all lauded the state’s containment strategy,” he said. The state government had called a meeting of experts on September 1. The CM said the night curfew and Sunday lockdown will continue till the situation gets stabilised. Many experts have criticised the night curfew, saying movement was minimum during night hours. Vijayan said the state has vaccinated 75% of the eligible population and out of this 27.4% got both the doses. The CM also flagged off a new campaign, ‘Be the Warrior’, exhorting youngsters and volunteers to participate in a big way in the fight against the pandemic. The opposition Congress and BJP, however, said the government’s containment measures remained only in slogans and public relations exercises. “Now the government is taking refuge in the experts’ meeting to paint a rosy picture. Instead of admitting that its containment strategy was an utter failure, it is searching for alibis,” said BJP leader S Suresh. Active Covid cases in the state now stand at 250,065. According the state health ministry bulletin, Thrissur district reported the maximum Covid cases, 3,474, followed by Ernakulam with 3,456 and Malappuram with 3,156. North Kerala’s Wayanad and Kasaragod districts reported less than 1,000 cases. In the last 24 hours, the country reported 42,618 cases and 330 deaths. The national TPR is below 3% and active caseload stands at 405,681, according to the Union health ministry data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-situation-is-under-control-says-kerala-cm-101630781005126.html
05-09-2021||India||K’taka bans all forms of online gambling||Karnataka became the third state to ban online gambling on Saturday after the state cabinet approved the decision. However, the decision does not include a ban on lottery and horse racing. Talking to reporters after the cabinet meeting, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister JC Madhuswamy said: “We are amending the Karnataka Police Act, intending to put an end to online gambling, based on the High Court directions. The cabinet has approved the amendments, it will be placed before the assembly.” He added that a draft bill proposing the ban is ready. “The draft Bill defines online games as, games involving all forms of wagering or betting including in the form of tokens valued in terms of the money paid before or after the issue of it or electronic means and virtual currency, also electronic transfer of currency in connection with any game of chance,” the minister said. The amendment bill to this effect will be tabled in the upcoming session of the legislature starting September 13. In July, the state government informed the High Court, which is hearing a petition seeking a ban on all forms of online betting and gambling, that it had drafted a Bill. A Public Interest Litigation (PIL) filed by D R Sharada, a resident of Davanagere, in July, sought a direction to ban all forms of online gambling and online betting of any nature until an appropriate regulatory regime is established and regulations are framed. In the affidavit filed before the HC in July, the state had said that the home department will take immediate measures to place it before the state legislature after getting approval from the cabinet. The chief secretary stated that the stand of the government on the issue will be placed before the court after the approval of the cabinet and the legislature. Last November, Tamil Nadu had promulgated an ordinance banning online gambling, and earlier this year, Kerala had imposed a ban on online rummy games. (With input from the PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ktaka-bans-all-forms-of-online-gambling-101630780947168.html
05-09-2021||India||4 yrs on, trial in Lankesh case yet to begin; SC to hear sister’s plea||September 5 will mark four years since Gauri Lankesh, a journalist turned activist, was murdered in front of her house. Even though the Special Investigation Team (SIT) filed a charge sheet in the case on March 10, 2018, the trial is yet to begin. On September 8, the Supreme Court is expected to hear the plea filed by Kavitha Lankesh, challenging the dropping of charges under the Karnataka Control of Organised Crime Act 2000 (KCOCA) against one of the accused in the murder case. A bench led by Justice AM Khanwilkar had issued notice to the Karnataka government on the petition filed by Kavitha, in which she appealed against the state high court’s decision in April to quash charges against Mohan Nayak. KCOCA is a law enacted by the state since 2000 to combat organised crime and terrorism. The Act was modelled on the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act, 1999 (MCOCA). According to the police, if the charges of KCOCA are dropped against Nayak, it could set precedence for charges to be dropped against other accused in the case. There are a total of xx accused in the case, including the shooter Parashuram Waghmore and the mastermind of the crime Amol Kale.The hearing in the case is expected to start following this hearing, which the SIT said is crucial for the investigations on other rationalist murders. During the investigation, the SIT found that a nameless organisation that recruited right-wing activists from various Hindutva organisations was behind the murder. The investigation into the Lankesh murder case also unearthed a link between the murders of four rationalists – MM Kalburgi, Govind Pansare, Narendra Dhabolkar, and Lankesh. During the initial days of the investigation, the SIT found a connection between the murders of Lankesh and professor Kalburgi, who was killed on August 30, 2015. The four bullet slugs and cartridges recovered from Lankesh’s house matched with the slugs and cartridges of the Kalburgi murder case. The forensic labs found that both bullets were fired from the same gun. The Maharashtra SIT, which is probing the murder of another rationalist, Govind Pansare, also found that the same was used in Lankesh and Pansare murders. The link between the murders of Lankesh and Narendra Dhabolkar, another Maharashtra-based rationalist, murdered on August 20, 2013, emerged during the later stages of the investigation. It was found that fifty-year-old Rajesh Bangera, a second division assistant in the Education Department, who was the tenth person arrested by Karnataka SIT, provided weapons training to the killers of Dhabolkar and Lankesh. According to SIT officials, the trial of the Gauri Lankesh case will have a severe impact on the investigations into other rationalists’ murders, which have become cold cases. “We hope that after the SC hearing on September 8, the trial in the case will begin,” said senior SIT officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-yrs-on-trial-in-lankesh-case-yet-to-begin-sc-to-hear-sister-s-plea-101630780886366.html
05-09-2021||India||Mumbai reports Covid spike, registers 413 new infections||With over 400 coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases being reported in Mumbai daily over the last three days, the city has witnessed a 20% spike in weekly caseload in the last seven days as compared to the week before, according to data from the Maharashtra health department.However, experts said it cannot yet be termed as the start of the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.While Mumbai reported over 1,893 daily Covid-19 cases between August 21 and 27, it went up to 2,279 in the last seven days between August 28 and September 3, as per the state data.According to the data, between August 21 and 27, the case tally went up from 740,870 to 742,763. The city also reported 22 deaths in the same period. However, between August 28 and September 3, the case tally increased from 743,154 to 745,433. Mumbai also reported 15 deaths in the period, taking the toll to 15,987. While the weekly cases have gone up, the number of Covid-19 deaths in the city has gone down, as per the state data.The last seven days has also seen city testing more individuals for Covid-19. According to the data of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), between August 21 and 27, 210,140 tests were conducted in the city, of which 1,893 tested positive at test positivity rate (TPR) of around 0.90%. Between August 28 and September 3, the city conducted 256,214 tests, of which 2,279 reported positive for the infection at TPR of 0.88%. Overall, 9.3 million tests have been conducted in the city between February 3 last year and Friday. The overall positivity rate throughout the two waves stood at 7.94%.Dr Rahul Pandit of Fortis Hospital, Mulund who is also a member of the state’s Covid-19 task force, said, “We have opened up (relaxed Covid-19 restrictions) since August 15, and with this opening up there some spike expected in the number of cases. But we still have a chance to control this figure around 400. If we do not adhere to Covid protocols, there will be further increase. Also, we cannot yet say it is the start of a third wave. But I will say that the third wave is at the door knocking on us. It is for us to remain cautious now.”Meanwhile on Saturday, the city reported 413 new Covid-19 cases and four deaths, taking the case tally to 745,846 and toll to 15,991. Mumbai’s recovery rate is 96% with 723,386 recoveries. There are 4,031 active cases in the city and the fatality rate is 2.14%, according to the state health department.So far, 9,802,995 beneficiaries have been given at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine in Mumbai and another 2,769,355 have been fully vaccinated, according to Mumbai civic body data..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-reports-covid-spike-registers-413-new-infections-101630780224213.html
05-09-2021||India||BJP plans events to mark PM Narendra Modi’s 20 years in public life||The Narendra Modi government and the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) are preparing to celebrate a milestone next month. On October 7, it will be 20 years since Modi took public office as the chief minister of Gujarat and to mark the occasion special events have been planned starting with his birthday on the 17th of this month and culminating on the anniversary day.The drive has been named “Sewa Aur Samarpan Abhiyan”, which means a campaign in tribute to service and dedication. While the government’s information and broadcasting ministry held a meeting on Thursday on how to mark the occasion, the party wrote a letter to all office bearers to conduct activities to celebrate the feat “which very few leaders in a democracy have managed to obtain”.“Since there is unique confluence of two important dates this year, the Honourable President of BJP Shri Jagat Prakash Naddaji has directed to observe these 20 days as Sewa Aur Samarpan Abhiyan. While the PM’s birthday reminds us of the importance of service, October 7 reminds us of the importance of complete dedication to our country and its people,” wrote the party’s national general secretary Arun Singh.The BJP has appointed a four-member team led by Kailash Vijaywargiya to plan activities for party workers throughout the campaign. “Our focus will be to showcase the way Modi ji has worked to uplift the deprived sections of society. We will focus on his values of service and sacrifice,” Vijaywargiya said.Another member Vinod Sonkar told HT that he was still in Tripura and would take a briefing on the activities on his return to Delhi. However, a senior official of the information and broadcasting ministry confirmed that the government was also planning events around both those dates.“It is very early to talk about this,” said the official. “The idea is to pay tribute to Prime Minister Modi and to highlight his key moments from the way he transformed Gujarat to his role since 2014 when he came to the national stage.” Cabinet minister Anurag Thakur has asked ministry officials and those from Prasar Bharati to come up with ideas for the 20 days.Meanwhile, the party has told all workers to host exhibitions on the PM’s life and achievements at every district office. The NaMo app will also be showing a virtual version of this exhibit while equipment and aid will be given to the disabled, ration bags to the poor and blood donation camps will be held to mark the campaign. Party workers have been told to encourage those who are NaMo fans “and looking for an opportunity to express affection” to be recruited for this campaign.The letter said since the BJP has a presence across the country, workers should generate 50 million postcards from booths spread across the country. Workers have been encouraged to take care of Covid orphans and the party plans to auction any gifts that the PM receives, with funds to be directed to the Namami Gange project.“Honourable PM in these 20 years has embodied the spirit of Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabhka Vishwas, Sabka Prayas,” the letter said, urging workers to give testimonials of how this has changed people’s lives.Asked for a comment, a PMO official said there was no plan finalised yet. However, the government’s publicity department had started preliminary work on this months ago. For instance, in a celebration of the PM, the campaign will focus on how the journey in 2001 was fraught with challenges as Modi had to handle the aftermath of the Bhuj earthquake. Despite that, officials say, he managed to create brands such as the Gujarat Model and Vibrant Gujarat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-plans-eventsto-mark-pm-narendra-modi-s-20-years-in-public-life-101630780104763.html
05-09-2021||India||India, US will hold 2+2 talks in November||The next round of India-US 2+2 ministerial dialogue is expected to take place in November this year and there is possibility of a meeting between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and US President Joe Biden later this month although there is no confirmation from the Indian government as yet. Foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla told reporters on Friday, at the end of two days of meetings with American officials and business leaders, that the dates for the 2+2 dialogue are still being discussed. He also spoke of the tentative bilateral summit and said it was under discussion.“We are looking at the 2+2, which will happen in November. The exact dates are not yet worked out,” Shringla told reporters at the conclusion of his visit in Washington.It is the US’s turn to host the 2+2 annual meeting of the foreign and defence ministers of the two countries and it will be the first meeting of this format for the Biden administration. The last meeting was held in New Delhi last October with Mike Pompeo and Mark Esper, secretaries of state and defence in the Trump administration.The upcoming meeting will be between India’s external affairs minister S Jaishankar and defence minister Rajnath Singh, and US secretary of state Antony Blinken and defence secretary Lloyd Austin.The Indian side has also begun advance preparations for a possible visit to the US by Prime Minister Narendra Modi by the end of September, people aware of the matter said. Though there has been no formal announcement from the Indian side, the dates between September 22 and 27 were being looked at for the visit, they added. An in-person summit of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue (Quad) -- a grouping of the US, India, Japan and Australia -- was also being discussed for the end of September after leaders of the four countries held a virtual meeting in March this year, the people said. However, there is a lack of clarity on holding the face-to-face Quad summit after Japan’s Yoshihide Suga announced he will step down as Prime Minister. The foreign secretary also said President Biden’s special envoy on climate, John Kerry, will visit India soon for a second time in this capacity. Kerry was the US secretary of state in the Obama administration. During his visit to Washington, Shringla met senior leaders of the US State Department, including secretary of state Blinken and deputy secretary of state Wendy Sherman, along with top leaders at the US Department of Defense and the National Security Council at the White House.The situation in Afghanistan predictably made its way into conversations with American officials, with the foreign secretary saying that the US’s position of “wait and watch” tracked closely with India’s own approach on the issue. Shringla said the US has adopted a “wait and watch policy” and that they will calibrate their actions depending on how the situation evolves in Kabul, which has been taken over by the Taliban as western forces pulled out their troops from the country to end a 20-year war in chaos. “That’s also similar to what we ourselves conveyed in the parliamentary briefing that was held a few days ago. We said we will have a wait-and-watch policy, which does not mean you don’t do anything,” Shringla said, adding, “It simply means… the situation is very fluid on the ground, you have to allow it to see how it evolves. You have to see whether the assurances that were made publicly are maintained on the ground.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-us-will-hold-2-2-talks-in-november-101630779444158.html
05-09-2021||India||CID summons BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari for questioning in suicide case||Kolkata: The West Bengal Crime Investigation Department (CID) has summoned Leader of Opposition in the state assembly, Suvendu Adhikari, to appear before it on Monday in connection with the alleged suicide of his security guard in 2018, officials familiar with the matter said on Saturday. The development comes days after chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew and Trinamool Congress MP, Abhishek Banerjee, was summoned to appear before the Enforcement Directorate on Monday in an alleged money laundering case involving coal smuggling. The Diamond Harbour MP’s wife, Rujira Banerjee, too, was earlier asked to appear before the agency in New Delhi on September 1.While Adhikari didn’t respond to calls and messages for a comment, a Bharatiya Janata Party spokesperson termed the notice “vendetta politics”. Protégé-turned-adversary Adhikari had defeated Mamata Banerjee from Nandigram by a narrow margin of 1,956 votes in the recently-concluded assembly elections. “When the security guard died, Adhikari was a minister in the TMC government. Back then he was God. Now that he has joined the BJP, and has defeated Mamata Banerjee, he has become a demon. The TMC is not being able to digest the defeat of Mamata Banerjee. This is nothing but vendetta politics,” said Samik Bhattacharya, BJP spokesperson. Earlier in July, a four-member CID delegation visited Purba Medinipur to probe into the death of Adhikari’s security guard who reportedly died by suicide in October 2018. According to the police, the deceased allegedly shot himself with his service revolver. In July, after the TMC came to power for the third time, the victim’s wife lodged a three-page complaint with the local police in the East Midnapore district demanding a fresh probe into her husband’s death. “BJP is continuously resorting to vindictive politics. The way, Abhishek Banerjee and a few others are being attacked in the name of investigation, people of West Bengal won’t accept it. It has been proved that such steps are not above vindictive politics,” Partha Chatterjee, state minister and Trinamool Congress’ secretary general had told the media when ED had summoned the CM’s nephew.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cid-summons-bjp-s-suvendu-adhikari-for-questioning-in-suicide-case-101630779385693.html
05-09-2021||India||Taliban ‘reasonable’ to our concerns: India||India and the US are carefully watching Pakistan’s actions in Afghanistan in light of Islamabad’s role in backing the Taliban, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said as he wound up a three-day visit to Washington during which the situation in the war-torn country was a key part of discussions.Shringla also told reporters in Washington on Friday that India has had a “limited” engagement with the Taliban, during which the group indicated it would be “reasonable in the way they handle things”.His remarks came against the backdrop of the rapidly evolving situation in Afghanistan, where the Taliban are set to form government after sweeping to power in Kabul on August 15. Shringla spoke hours before Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) chief, Lt Gen Faiz Hameed, became the first senior Pakistani leader to fly into Kabul for talks with the Taliban.Shringla noted Pakistan has extended backing to the Taliban, and said India and the US will assess Pakistan’s actions in Afghanistan with a “fine-tooth comb”.“They (US) will obviously see how different players get engaged in the situation in Afghanistan. Pakistan is a neighbour of Afghanistan. They have supported and nurtured the Taliban. There are various elements there that Pakistan supported, so its role has to be seen in that context,” he said.India is closely engaged with the US on developments in Afghanistan, and both sides have adopted a wait and watch policy towards the Taliban and are calibrating their actions in response to the evolving situation, he added.Shringla contended that India’s concerns related to Afghanistan, especially the use of Afghan soil for terrorism, had been addressed in a UN resolution adopted last month. This resolution, he said, mentioned UN-designated terror groups such as Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) and Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT).“So we do have concerns about the free ingress that these two terrorist groups have had in Afghanistan, their role and we will watch that carefully,” he said.Shringla acknowledged that India currently has no immediate substantial engagement with Afghanistan, and described New Delhi’s contacts with the Taliban as limited.“Our engagement with them (Taliban) has been limited. It’s not that we have a robust conversation. But from whatever conversations we’ve had so far, the Taliban seem to indicate they will be reasonable in the way they handle things,” he said.“I don’t see members of the international community being passive over the situation in Afghanistan. We are not there on the ground, [we] have no assets there. It’s not like we are not doing anything, we are in touch with every country that has an interest in Afghanistan,” he added.After months of informal contacts with the group, India’s ambassador to Qatar, Deepak Mittal, held talks with senior Taliban leader Sher Mohammed Abbas Stanekzai on Tuesday, the first officially acknowledged contact between the two sides. During the meeting held at the Taliban’s request, the India side raised its concerns about Afghan soil being used for anti-India activities and terror.Shringla met US secretary of state Antony Blinken and other senior American officials during his visit, and the situation in Afghanistan figured prominently in discussions.The ISI chief arrived in Kabul with a high-level delegation for talks with the top Taliban leadership on security and other issues. Unnamed Pakistani military officials told the media in Islamabad on Thursday that the ISI chief would work with the Taliban to help reorganise the Afghan Army.Unlike a low-key visit to Kabul by the CIA chief, Lt Gen Hameed was spotted in the lobby of a hotel along with the Pakistani ambassador and even spoke to Pakistani journalists.The ISI chief’s visit coincided with reports of divisions within the Taliban over government formation and the allocation of powers. The reports said there were differences between the camp of senior leader Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar and the Haqqani Network, which has long-standing and close ties with Pakistan’s military establishment.There were also reports of differences between the leaders from the political office in Doha, such as Baradar, and the commanders on the ground, including Mullah Mohammad Yaqoob, the son of Taliban founder Mullah Mohammad Omar, over the allocation of powers in the new set-up.People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that the ISI is working to ensure security-related departments, such as intelligence, defence and interior, are retained by the Haqqani Network. The ISI chief’s visit to Kabul is being seen in the context of these differences and efforts to protect the interests of the Haqqani Network, the people said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/taliban-reasonable-to-our-concerns-india-101630779384157.html
05-09-2021||India||Case pendency has become a challenge, says law minister Kiren Rijiju||Pendency of cases has become a “challenge”, Union law minister Kiren Rijiju said on Saturday as he called for effective delivery of justice to the common man.The minister also pointed out that it is the subordinate judiciary where the issue of pendency requires to be looked into with urgency as when a person from a humble background expects justice, he/she gives up everything for the sake of justice.“And if that justice gets delayed, then it is a big question mark on all of us...So, we have to ensure that last mile person, the common man, must be given the priority when we talk about justice delivery mechanism in our country,” said Rijiju at an event organised by the Bar Council of India to felicitate Chief Justice of India NV Ramana. During the event, the law minister also commended the Supreme Court and the judiciary for taking up several important cases and delivering judgments despite the challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic.Rijiju said that in the last Cabinet meeting, the government took some important decisions for supporting infrastructure building, especially in the lower courts, and sanctioned at one go for the creation of critical infrastructure for courtrooms, lawyers’ halls, toilets, digital rooms and others. “The government will always try to ensure not only the independence of the judiciary but also to support, to strengthen the Indian judiciary,” he said.Apart from the CJI and Rijiju, several sitting apex court judges, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, office-bearers and members of several bar bodies from across the country were present at the function.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/case-pendency-has-become-a-challenge-says-law-minister-kiren-rijiju-101630779279498.html
05-09-2021||India||Prefer 50% women at all judicial levels: CJI Ramana||Days after the collegium headed by him paved the way for a woman judge to head the judiciary in 2027, Chief Justice of India, NV Ramana, on Saturday said that he would prefer at least 50% representation of women in the judiciary at all levels.Lamenting the inadequate number of women judges across the courts in the country, the CJI was of the view that the legal profession still has to welcome women into its fold since a majority of women advocates struggled within the profession.“Very few women find representation at the top. Even when they do, they continue to face significant challenges. After 75 years of independence, one would expect at least 50% representation for women at all levels, but I must admit, with great difficulty we have now achieved a mere 11% representation of women on the bench of the Supreme Court,” said justice Ramana.Speaking at a function organised by the Bar Council of India (BCI) to felicitate him, the CJI emphasised that the issue pertaining to the representation of women in the judiciary must be highlighted and deliberated upon.Out of the sanctioned strength of 34 judges, the Supreme Court currently has four women judges — justices Indira Banerjee, Hima Kohli, BV Nagarathna and Bela M Trivedi — which is the highest ever number in its history. Other than justice Banerjee, three judges were appointed on August 31, taking the total number of women judges appointed in the top court to date to 11. Justice Nagarathna is in line to become the first woman CJI in September 2027, and she will have a tenure of a little over a month.According to data from the Union ministry of law and justice, out of 677 sitting judges in both the Supreme Court and high courts, only 81 are women. This makes out the representation of women judges in the total working strength to a mere 12%.Among the 25 high courts, only the Madras high court has women judges in double digits. Out of the working strength of 58 judges, the Madras HC has 13 women, which is more than 22% representation. At least five high courts — Manipur, Meghalaya, Bihar, Tripura and Uttarakhand — do not have even a single woman judge while seven other high courts have just one woman judge each.The sanctioned strength of judges across 25 high courts in India is 1,098. Of these, 465 posts (more than 42% of the total strength) were vacant, as of September 1.In his speech, CJI Ramana highlighted how the collegium, which also includes justices Uday Lalit, AM Khanwilkar, Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and L Nageswara Rao, is attempting to address the issue of vacancies in the higher judiciary on an urgent basis.Putting on record his appreciation for the other members of the collegium, justice Ramana said that it is only due to the collective efforts that the vacancy in the Supreme Court has been reduced to one judge while 82 names have been recommended for appointment in various high courts since the CJI took the helm in April this year.“I hope the Government will ensure that the names are cleared at the earliest just the way the 9 names were cleared for the apex court. It is an ongoing process. We hope to live up to the herculean challenge of filling nearly 41% vacancies existing in all the high courts,” added justice Ramana.In the last week, the collegium has recommended 68 names for appointment in total across 12 high courts. The numbers included nine names which were objected to by the Union government but have been reiterated by the collegium after overruling the opposition. The reiterations further included four names for the Calcutta high court; two for the Jammu & Kashmir high court; two for the Karnataka high court, and one for the Rajasthan high court.This is the highest number of names recommended for appointment as HC judges.Among the 68 names cleared, 44 are lawyers while 24 are serving judicial officers. There are 10 women among the recommendations. In yet another first, a woman judicial officer belonging to the Scheduled Tribes was recommended for appointment in the Gauhati high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prefer-50-women-at-all-judicial-levels-cji-ramana-101630779145103.html
05-09-2021||India||Centre using ED to ‘subdue’ Opposition parties: Sharad Pawar||Pune The BJP-led Union government is using the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to “subdue” opposition parties across the country, NCP president Sharad Pawar alleged on Saturday.Speaking to reporters here, Pawar said the misuse of the investigation agency was being seen not only in Maharashtra but in other states too. “Of late the (Union) government seems to be using this agency to subdue the opposition. This is happening not only in Maharashtra, but also in Punjab, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and in some southern states too,” he said. The Union government is also ignoring the farmers who have been protesting against the new farm laws for over a year, the former agriculture minister said. “It has been 14 months since farmers have sat in protest, leaving behind their homes. The government should have taken cognizance of these protesters who have been sitting there for so long, but it is unfortunate that they are being ignored,” he said.On the BJP’s demand that temples in Maharashtra be thrown open to the public, Pawar said the Centre itself has given instructions to the state government about taking extra precaution in view of the COVID-19 pandemic situation.“The chief minister (Uddhav Thackeray) and state government are following the Centre’s directive,” said Pawar whose party is part of the ruling combine in the state. He also cleared the air about Swabhimani Shetakari Sanghatana chief Raju Shetti’s name being recommended for appointment as a Member of Legislative Council from the governor’s quota.“We have kept our word. We have proposed that Shetti’s name be included in the list....We are waiting for the governor’s decision,” Pawar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-using-ed-to-subdue-opposition-parties-sharad-pawar-101630779024815.html
05-09-2021||India||5 ‘mystery deaths’ in Bihar trigger panic, docs rushed||A team of doctors was sent to Bihar’s East Champaran district on Saturday, after the deaths of five members of a family under mysterious circumstances over the last five days triggered panic and anger among local residents, officials familiar with the matter said. Dr Sharvan Paswan, in charge of Motihari public health centre, suspected it to be a case of food poisoning or snake bite. Dr Anil Sinha, deputy superintendent (in-charge) of Sadar hospital in Motihari said: “Blood clots were noticed on the nasal passage and mouth of deceased. An autopsy was inconclusive...” Family members of the deceased, however, alleged exorcism. Agitated villagers blocked the Motihari-Pakaridayal road for hours in protest.Police have identified the deceased as Ravindra Prasad (40), Deventi Kumari (12), Anshu Kumar (10), Kallu Kumar (6) and Priyanshu Kumar (5).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-mystery-deaths-in-bihar-trigger-panic-docs-rushed-101630778844794.html
05-09-2021||India||BRICS proposes vaccine access, consumer safety||The BRICS nations -- Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa – proposed to have a common action plan to ensure consumer protection amid growing usage of e-commerce while emphasising on the need for an early outcome of the Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) waiver for Covid-19 vaccines.At the 11th BRICS trade ministers meeting on Friday, which was held under the chairmanship of Indian commerce minister Piyush Goyal, members agreed to work on newer areas such as consumer protection, e-commerce, genetic resources, traditional knowledge and cooperation in professional services, a commerce ministry statement said.The members also agreed for a common approach towards the multilateral trading system, particularly in the forthcoming ministerial conference of World Trade Organisation (WTO), it said. The 12th ministerial conference (MC12) of WTO will take place from November 30 to December 3 this year in Geneva.India and South Africa lead the group of countries at WTO in seeking a waiver for certain provisions of the TRIPS agreement to provide universal access of Covid-19 vaccines to the poor countries.At the meeting, which was held in virtual format on Friday, Goyal raised developmental needs of developing and least developed countries (LDCs) and urged BRICS countries to work together for strengthening the multilateral system such as the WTO, the statement said.There was a consensus among BRICS members for jointly working towards protection of genetic resources, traditional knowledge and traditional cultural expressions so as to address the issue of its misappropriation through mandatory disclosure of source of origin of the resource, it said. “This will also help moving together in international forums on this issue,” it added.“In this era of exponential jump in the use of e-commerce and online electronic transactions, the convergence to draw a common action plan amongst BRICS countries will help in to promote exploring practical options for ensuring consumer protection,” the statement said. India in July last year proposed the Consumer Protection (e-Commerce) Rules to prevent unfair trade practices in e-commerce that harm the interest of consumers in the long run.At the meeting, Goyal stressed on the need for a permanent, adequate and equitable solution to the public stockholding programmes for food security purposes. The matter has been under discussion at the WTO. The issue of public stockholding programmes for food security purposes requires developing countries to purchase and stockpile food and distribute it to the poor. But, the scheme is also viewed by some as a trade distortion as it could be an indirect way to support farmers.Despite numerous challenges and constraints on account of the Covid-19 pandemic and the associated travel restriction, Goyal was successful in building consensus for new areas of work and cooperation amongst BRICS countries. Common understanding amongst BRICS countries was reached on a range of subjects for the first time such as consumer protection, e-commerce, genetic resources, traditional knowledge and cooperation in professional services, the statement said.The theme chosen by India for its BRICS chairship is ‘BRICS@15: Intra BRICS Cooperation for Continuity, Consolidation and Consensus’. The BRICS ministers acknowledged the importance of strengthening intra-BRICS cooperation in achieving the common goal of making their goods and services globally competitive and further integrating into the global value chain, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/brics-proposes-vaccine-access-consumer-safety-101630778668204.html
05-09-2021||India||National Nutrition Week: 8 spices to include in your diet||A sprinkle of cinnamon in your morning coffee. A handful of freshly chopped basil over pasta. Herbs and spices can make any food appetising. Don’t you just love how happy your taste buds feel when you use spices to season your foods? We all do. Spices are not only great for flavor, but they are great for health too!Spices do add colour and heighten the taste and aroma of food, but they can also do a lot to keep you well as well. This National Nutrition Week, let’s explore the therapeutic properties, protecting and alleviating properties of spices.“India has a variety of spices, the two ranges of spices are the grounded spices and the whole spice range from a vast assortment of spices. The grounded spice can be incorporated by adding them directly into the curries and gravies and they have proven to have health benefits including fighting chronic diseases and also thanks to the anti-inflammatory effects of the spice,” says Mr Shammi Agarwal, Managing Director, The Pansari group. Whole spices have health benefits of lowering your blood sugar levels and help to heal heart diseases.Turmeric, popularly referred to as the golden spice delivers some solid-gold benefits. That’s thanks to its high amounts of curcumin, a powerful antioxidant. “Curcumin found in Turmeric aka haldi found in almost every Indian household is one of the most potent ‘natural’ antioxidants and anti inflammatories we can find. Amazing for lowering inflammation, health, immunity and even joints,” says Yash Vardhan Swami online health and fitness educator , coach as well as a nutritionist.Star anise, a small flower like fruit, is a storehouse of some key ingredients and is also famous for its medicinal properties. “Chakra Phool is a rich source of antioxidants and vitamin A and C, which help fight free radicals that are responsible for early aging and diabetes,” says Mr. Amit Juneja, CEO and MD, Annakoot by ISKCON Bangalore.Zamurrud M. Patel, RD, Chief Dietician, Global Hospitals, Mumbai, believes curry leaves are rich in alkaloids and phenolic compounds which are protective and potent health substances. “Curry leaves have shown positive effects on Cholesterol and thereby Heart Health. It’s very effective in correcting gut issues too. Simple, inexpensive herbs which can be added to all meals.”A member of the mint family, rosemary is prized both for its flavour and its fragrance. “Rosemary, a scented herb with characteristics that strengthen sight and memory. Its usage dates back to ancient Greeks and Romans preparing a fragrant distilled water from the flower and inhaling its odour for best effects. A tea made from this herb is also very beneficial in relieving tiredness and fatigue. The oil of rosemary can also be used as a stimulant with few drops taken internally,” says Vikas Chawla, Founder and Director, Vedas Cure.Bay leaves are a fragrant leaf from the laurel tree used as an herb. The leaves are added to slow-cooked recipes, such as soups, sauces, and stews, and are removed before serving the dish. Bay leaves are a rich source of vitamin A, vitamin C, iron, potassium, calcium, and magnesium. Also regular inclusion of bay leaves in meals promotes general health. “Indian bay leaves are commonly known as “tej patta” and are used in dried form in curries, biryani and korma. Organic compounds like rutin and caffeic acid are found in the bay leaves which are good for heart health as they eliminate LDL or bad cholesterol from the cardiovascular system and strengthen the capillaries. They improve the insulin function , which is good for people suffering from diabetes,” says Dr Rohini Patil, dietitian and nutritionist, Nutracy Lifestyle.Sorrel or better known in India as Gongura is a garden herb cultivated in the North-East region of India. The leaves of this herb are closely similar to Spinachbut have a tangy taste like Kiwi fruit. “Single Cup of Sorrel enriches your body with 3g of Protein, 17 percent Iron, 4g of Fibre and 106 percent of regularly suggested Vitamin A and C with on 30 Calorie. It helps in boosting slow digestion, reduces stress and anxiety as it contains high value Magnesium and Vitamin B6 and possibly helps in cure of sinuses,” says Eshanka Wahi, a Dubai & Delhi-based Wellness Advocate & Nutrition Coach.Dr. Angeli Misra, Founder & Director, Lifeline Laboratory says,”There’s magic in your spice box! Herbs and spices commonly used in Indian cooking, in soups as a garnish, for tempering dals, added in gravy, or simply tossed up with salads, were recognized for their nutritional and medicinal uses thousands of years ago.”She suggests nutmeg, a popular spice used in cooking across the world and is also famous for its health benefits “Nutmeg contains a wide array of powerful anti-inflammatory compounds and acts as an antioxidant in your body. It has antibacterial properties to protect from harmful strains of bacteria,” she adds.The kalonji, or Nigella seeds, is used for tempering, and adds a beautiful aroma to the dishes, and a hint of flavour that you can’t quite nail.“Kalonji, also known as Nigella sativa, black seed, and black cumin. Its seeds have long been used in herbal medicine to treat a variety of diseases and conditions ranging from diabetes to arthritis, It’s suggested that the active components in kalonji seeds boost weight loss by affecting the expression of specific genes related to appetite control and fat loss,” says Rani Garg, Director, ZeoNutra||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-nutrition-week-8-spices-to-include-in-your-diet-101630769434319.html
05-09-2021||Editorials||The debate on representation||Lamenting the inadequate number of women judges in courts across India, the Chief Justice of India (CJI), NV Ramana, on Saturday, said that he would prefer at least 50% representation of women in the judiciary at all levels. The CJI acknowledged that it was only with “great difficulty” that the Supreme Court (SC) had achieved a “mere” 11% representation of women on the bench, and said that the issue of representation of women must be “highlighted and deliberated” upon. Justice Ramana’s comments have highlighted a serious, structural lacunae in India’s legal system — the under-representation of women on the bench.
05-09-2021||Editorials||The aftermath of floods in Bihar||A six-member central team will reach Bihar on Monday to assess the damage caused by floods since June this year. Besides affecting 1.99 million people in 15 districts (September 3), this year’s flooding is emerging as a flashpoint between the Janata Dal (United) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), in the backdrop of enhanced tensions within the ruling alliance in Bihar. The maximum affected was on August 30 (17 districts and 3.1 million people).
