08-09-2021||Other||PM to lay stones of state varsity, Aligarh node of defence corridor: UP CM||Agra Prime Minister Narendra Modi would lay foundation stone of a state university named after noted freedom fighter Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh and the Aligarh node of the defence corridor here on September 14, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said in Aligarh on Wednesday. Yogi Adityanath, who reviewed preparations for Modi’s visit with senior officials of the district, said 400 colleges in Aligarh, Etah, Kasganj and Hathras districts would get affiliated to the upcoming university. He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi would allocate land to investors investing about ₹1500 crore in Aligarh node of defence corridor. The chief minister visited the site of the defence corridor and inspected the model of the upcoming state University. “Beside traditional education, this university would provide education in skill development and also offer job-oriented courses. The university will become an axis for development of Aligarh,” he said. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi had given sanction for six nodes of the defence corridor in Agra, Aligarh, Lucknow, Jhansi, Chitrakoot and Kanpur. For the Aligarh node of defence industrial corridor, 200 acres of land have been reserved. The Prime Minister will also allocate land to 19 investors investing about ₹1500 crore in this defence corridor in Aligarh,” said the CM. “Aligarh district is known for its hardware products and locks. The hardware industry has been included in One District One Product plan. Now Aligarh would also be known for defence equipment manufactured in the defence industrial corridor,” Yogi said. “The Prime Minister’s visit symbolizes the respect which both state and central government hold for great reformist Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh and the programme on September 14 would be a tribute to him. Youths of Aligarh would not only get an opportunity for modern education but also find job avenues. The association with defence corridor project would further strengthen the commitment towards ‘Made In India’” said Yogi. AMU, other parties forgot Raja’s generosity: Yogi Chief minister Yogi Aditya Nath on Wednesday complained that except the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), all other parties and even the Aligarh Muslim University ( AMU) forgot the generosity and martyrdom of Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh who provided land to AMU on which the present varsity stood. It was the BJP, which was showing respect for Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh, he claimed. Addressing BJP leaders and party workers during his Aligarh visit on Wednesday, he said,” Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh was a great freedom fighter thinker, reformer and writer and it was his concern for education that he gave land for Aligarh Muslim University and worked for spread of education in the nation. It was, however, unfortunate that AMU and other political parties forgot the generosity of the Raja,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pm-to-lay-stones-of-state-varsity-aligarh-node-of-defence-corridor-up-cm-101631125782963.html
08-09-2021||Other||Six missing as boat turns turtle in Ganga in Varanasi, 8 rescued||Six persons went missing after their boat turned turtle in the Ganga river on Wednesday afternoon, police said. Eight persons have been rescued so far, police said adding that total 14 persons, all residents of Jharkhand, were travelling by the boat when the mishap occurred on Wednesday afternoon. A senior police officer said that 14 people had hired a boatman at Akhada Ghat in Vindhyachal to take them across the river Ganga by boat in the afternoon. They were returning after taking a dip in the river Ganga, when the mishap occurred, police said.Locals and boatmen who were present at the shore were the first to launch the rescue act when they saw the people struggle to survive, police said. “They also informed us about the incident,” a police officer said. Those rescued were identified as Rajesh Tiwari (35), Vikas (28), Deepak (27), Sudeep (35), Alka (9), and Ritika (7). Identity of two others who have been rescued is still not known.Those who are still missing have been identified as Gudiya (28), Khushbu (30), Anisha (26), Satyam (5) and two infants.Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has taken note of the incident and instructed officials to launch quick relief and rescue operation. Deputy inspector general of police, Mirazpur range, RK Bharadwaj, district magistrate Praveen Kumar Lakshar also reached the riverside to supervise relief and rescue operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/six-missing-as-boat-turns-turtle-in-ganga-in-varanasi-8-rescued-101631125482395.html
08-09-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow Municipal Corporation has no records of 44,862 houses, finds GI Survey||As many as 44,862 houses in the city are not in the records of Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC). This was revealed in the latest Geographic Information Survey (GIS). Despite having a number of tax inspectors, LMC has been unable to locate these properties which are within the municipal limits. As a result, apart from loss of property tax, these houses have also not been paying sewer and water tax to Jal Sansthan. Sardar Patel ward corporator Girish Mishra said, “The officials of LMC are responsible for these missing properties. Presently there are 5,75,238 properties registered with LMC for paying tax. But only 4.3 lakh houses are paying regular property tax to LMC, while there are 1.75 lakh houses which have not paid any sort of tax even once.” These startling figures were highlighted when the GIS report was presented in front of officials last Sunday. Municipal Commissioner Ajay Dwivedi said, “The GIS report has revealed some new properties and LMC is doing physical verification of these properties, which is essential before reaching any conclusion. All these properties would be brought into the tax system of LMC. However, LMC is still evaluating these properties and a final report is awaited.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-municipal-corporation-has-no-records-of-44-862-houses-finds-gi-survey-101631125182385.html
08-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai records over 500 Covid cases first time in 7 weeks||Even as the state’s daily Covid-19 caseload continues to hover around 4,200 for the past few weeks, Mumbai’s figures have been steadily increasing, making it a cause for concern for authorities. Although authorities clarified that curbs would not be re-imposed immediately, local authorities have been directed to take due precautions to avoid crowding during Ganeshotsav. Maharashtra reported 4,174 new infections, taking its tally to 6,497,872, while Mumbai, for the first time in seven weeks (since July 15), crossed the 500-cases mark. The city on Wednesday reported 532 new cases. The Covid-19 case tally has now gone up to 747,605, while Mumbai also reported four deaths due to Covid-19, taking the toll to 16,004. Over the past two weeks, the number of Covid-19 cases in the city has been steadily increasing. Mumbai reported less than 300 cases per day until the last two weeks of August, which increased to over 300 cases since. There are 4,273 active cases in the city.The tally of active cases slightly reduced to 47,880 as 4,155 recoveries were reported in the last 24 hours. It also saw 65 casualties and the total number of fatalities stood at 137,962. Ahmednagar reported the highest toll with 12 deaths. It was followed by Raigad with 11 fatalities.State again registered highest one-day inoculation on Wednesday by administering 1,455,749 doses till 9pm, taking the tally of doses administered to 65,520,560. Though the state stands second in total doses given, it tops chart of fully vaccinated citizens in the county. A total of 17,978,805 citizens in the state have got both their doses, while 47,541,755 people have been inoculated with their first dose. “The health machinery of the state is making all the efforts to make our vaccination drive against Covid-19 pandemic successful and setting records as well. On September 4, we vaccinated 1,227,224 people and on August 21, 1,104,465 doses were vaccinated,” said Dr Pradeep Vyas, additional chief secretary, health department.Amid the threat of crowding during Ganeshotsav, government banned physical “darshan” of Ganesh idols at pandals during the ten-day Ganeshotsav festival starting from September 10. An order issued by the home department has stated, “Darshan shall be made available online by the organisors.”“The decision was taken considering the rise in daily cases in Mumbai and other areas. We all know that lakhs of devotees visit community mandaps for physical darshan of Ganesh, which ultimately will result in crowding. We are not in a position to take any sort of risk, when a threat of a potential third wave is looming large on us,” said a senior health official, wishing not to be named.State, however, is unlikely to re-impose curbs anytime soon as the authorities feel, that there is no rise in cases in the state, barring a few exceptions.Dr Vyas, made a presentation before the state cabinet on the Covid situation. “He (Dr Pradeep Vyas) informed us that though there is no rise in daily cases, but our testing has been reduced significantly. Earlier, the state used to conduct over two million tests a day, which has been reduced to around 1.7 million a day. It also means that the active cases may be more than what we are seeing today,” said a senior minister, requesting anonymity.There are five districts, including Mumbai whereas rise in Covid-19 cases has been experienced and most cases are coming from these areas only. In the 10 days (between August 29 and September 9), the state has reported 41,425 cases, of them 28,373 (68.49%) cases comes from Pune (9,062 cases), Ahmednagar (7,544 cases), Satara (4,261 cases), Mumbai (3,919 cases) and Solapur (3,587 cases), according to a presentation prepared by the state health department.Going by the prediction made by experts, the state government is expecting a rise in Covid-19 cases between September 15 and the first week of October, which could also be the beginning of the third wave. In the last 24 hours, the state tested 179,408 samples and had a positivity rate of 2.32%. However, the overall positivity rate of the state stood at 11.74%, according to the data issued by the state health department.Mumbai Congress chief Bhai Jagtap has demanded for the opening up of film and drama theatres and swimming pools at the earliest as these sectors and the workforce dependent on them are suffering hardships. Jagtap said the entertainment industry has suffered losses of Rs4,800 crore in the last 18 months because of the lockdown. He has also demanded to resume 23 BEST routes, which have been discontinued from September1. (With inputs from Eeshanpriya MS)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-records-over-500-covid-cases-first-time-in-7-weeks-101631125123060.html
08-09-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: BJP picks new election team, aims to strike caste balance||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leadership on Wednesday put into effect Mission UP 2022, appointing a new election team headed by Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan, an Other Backward Classes (OBC) leader from Odisha, for Uttar Pradesh where the assembly election is due early next year.The new election panel described by a BJP leader as “Team Modi in UP” also combines an interesting caste mix for the polls. The team headed by an OBC, has a Dalit, a Rajput, a Vokkaliga, a Bhumihar, a Brahmin, Yadav and a Jat.While playing on the perceived neglect of the community, various opposition parties have been wooing Brahmins. Yadavs are considered loyal to the Samajwadi Party, the state’s main opposition party.As for the Jats, the ongoing farmers’ protest against the Centre’s three new farm reform laws mainly comprises Jats, party leaders admitted. The appointment of the new election panel also coincided with the resignation of Uttarakhand governor Baby Rani Maurya, a Dalit leader from Agra in Uttar Pradesh, two years ahead of the closure of her five-year gubernatorial term. BJP leaders indicated that she could be given some key political assignment in UP. Suspense is rife about her new role, especially with four names for MLCs yet to be declared and a possible ministry expansion of the Yogi Adityanath government still on the cards. The BJP’s new UP panel has Union minister Arjun Ram Meghwal, a Dalit from Rajasthan, Anurag Thakur, a Rajput from Himachal Pradesh, Saroj Pandey, a woman Brahmin leader from Chhattisgarh, Shobha Karandlaje, a woman leader belonging to the Vokkaliga (upper caste) from Karnataka, Rajya Sabha member Vivek Thakur, son of party veteran from Bihar CP Thakur, a Bhumihar, former Haryana minister Captain Abhimanyu, a Jat, and Annapurna Devi, a Yadav. “Captain Abhimanyu, a member of the UP election panel is a Jat who has relationships in western UP. In Vivek Thakur, we have a Bhumihar leader. While the community may just have about 2 per cent vote bank, it has sizeable pockets of influence in eastern UP. As luck would have it after the appointment of Manoj Sinha as the lieutenant governor of Jammu and Kashmir, we just have Surya Pratap Shahi, the agriculture minister of UP, as a Bhumihar face so the new appointment is just right,” a BJP leader said. “It does appear to be a caste bouquet for a state due for elections and where caste matters have a huge impact. But mind you, these leaders are not just about caste for together they pack great experience and expertise,” said Irshad Ilmi, a veteran journalist. When asked if Baby Rani Maurya’s resignation as Uttarakhand governor and the likelihood of her assuming an active role in politics came as a surprise, a BJP leader said, “That’s the beauty of the new BJP. Such surprises have become routine now and it’s difficult to pick the party leadership’s mind.” “You may recall in 2019 the BJP leadership had got Phagu Chauhan, six- term lawmaker from Ghosi assembly constituency in eastern UP, to quit as MLA and appointed him as Bihar governor ahead of the assembly polls in the neighbouring state. In Babyji’s case, it could well be a case of a governor quitting for re-entry into active politics,” a party leader said. Baby Rani Maurya had unsuccessfully contested the assembly election from Etmadpur seat in Agra in 2007. The BJP also named in-charges for all six organisational regions of UP. Lok Sabha MP Sanjay Bhatia has been put in charge of western UP. Bihar lawmaker Sanjeev Chaurasia will look after the Braj region. National secretary Satya Kumar will be in charge of the Awadh region. The BJP’s national co-treasurer Sudhir Gupta has been made in charge of Kanpur region. The Gorakhpur region in charge is national secretary Arvind Menon and Sunil Ojha would look after the Kashi region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-bjp-picks-new-election-team-aims-to-strike-caste-balance-101631125002647.html
08-09-2021||Other||Sahakarnar citizens forum calls for action against stray dogs||PUNE: Residents of Sahakarnagar have asked PMC to address various issues that local population is facing. During its first ward sabha held on Saturday, Sahakar nagar citizens’ forum (SCF) asked Pune Municipal Corporation to address the menace of stray dogs and start shuttle bus service between Sahakarnagar and Swargate. Following the ward Sabha, Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Ltd (PMPML) started the bus service on Tuesday while Mayor Murlidhar Mohol, who also attended the meeting said the civic body will look into other demands. More than 200 members/residents signed-up on-the-spot to discuss and present their issues to Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) officials. Besides Mayor, ward officer Pradnya Potdar; divisional commissioner Jayant Bhosekar; elected corporators Aba Bagul, Ashwini Kadam and Mahesh Sable; and nominated member Subhash Jagtap were also present. “Almost all bus routes from Sahakar nagar have been terminated over the past few years citing losses but citizens demanded better public transport connectivity and during the ward sabha, PMPML traffic manager Zende and PMPML director – the mayor himself, took a spot decision to start a shuttle service from Sahakar nagar to Swargate,” said Amit Abhyangkar of SCF. “From some documents that SCF procured through the right to information (RTI), we realised that three tenders had been awarded and work completed on the jogging track using paver blocks at Tulshibagwale colony ground. However, we did not find any such track on the ground,” Abhyangkar said. On the issue of stray dogs where there have been an increasing number of clashes between dog lovers and citizens afraid of canines. “We filed an RTI and found out that a person has been awarded a contract for neutering dogs. But while the tender is for neutering 1,000 dogs per month, only 992 dogs have been neutered over the past 18 months. Also, the contractor is not following tender norms. When this discussion came up, a health department official who was present at the sabha assured that the contract terms will be enforced,” Abhyangkar informed. Mayor Mohol tweeted about the success of the ward sabha and urged others to follow in the footsteps of SCF to facilitate direct interaction between residents and authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sahakarnar-citizens-forum-calls-for-action-against-stray-dogs-101631124885466.html
08-09-2021||Other||PMC to acquire land for road-widening projects via credit bond||PUNE: As land acquisition is proving to be a major hurdle in the completion of road-widening projects such as Katraj to Kondhwa and Shivane to Kharadi with land owners asking for cash compensation, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is planning to introduce credit bonds (reverse convertible bonds) to take the project forward.Initially, TDR (transferable development rights) and FSI (floor space index) was offered to the land owners as compensation but they rejected the same in favour of cash. The cash-strapped PMC could ill afford this as cash compensation for the Katraj to Kondhwa road-widening project alone would have cost it a whopping Rs700 crore. Besides, costs have been further escalating due to delays in project completion. The civic body has already missed the original September deadline for widening of the Katraj to Kondhwa road on account of land acquisition.Vikram Kumar, municipal commissioner, said, “It has become a tough task to complete a big project with cash compensation, so we plan to use credit bonds. These can be given to people whose land falls under the project instead of cash.”Credit certificates will now be issued to land owners which can be used while paying tax returns to the PMC.“Once the proposal is approved by the standing committee, the PMC plans to use credit bonds in other major projects as well. Credit bonds seem the most feasible option right now for fast-tracking development projects,” said a corporation official on the condition of anonymity.The widening of the 17km Shivane to Kharadi road was proposed in 2016 and it was originally scheduled for completion in 2018. Nearly three years past the original deadline however and the project is still incomplete.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-to-acquire-land-for-road-widening-projects-via-credit-bond-101631124884806.html
08-09-2021||Other||50% of women not comfortable discussing health issues: survey||PUNE: A survey conducted by Pune-based Emcure Pharmaceuticals in association with Ipsos Research Private Limited (Ipsos India) found that nearly 50% of the women studied, in the age group 25 to 55 years, across seven cities (Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune) are not comfortable discussing one or more women’s health issues due to the prevalent societal taboos and stigmas associated with them. The survey revealed that commonly occurring health issues in women such as PCOS, breast cancer and endometriosis are still subject to taboos and stereotypes, reflecting the current state of women’s health in India in poor light. As part of the study – aimed at finding the social, cultural and medical outlook for working women and arriving at solutions involving various stakeholders – women working in white-collar jobs shared details of the health-related stigmas they face and how these lead to social pressures and professional issues.The study found that though nearly 50% of the working women surveyed are either diagnosed with or know someone else diagnosed with issues such as infertility, breast cancer and PCOS, they are still hesitant to discuss them despite most employers taking initiatives to help address these health issues. More than 80% of the women studied also felt that their male colleagues lack sensitivity when it comes to women’s health-related concerns. Moreover, 52% of the working women studied found it difficult to manage their health alongside work, with the percentage of such women being the highest in the retail sector (67%).Namita Thapar, executive director, Emcure Pharmaceuticals, said, “The study indicates that besides health issues, there are multiple professional and societal stereotypes that women are exposed to, which can lead to stigmatization and affect their professional performance. Ignorance and lack of awareness and acceptance will only make these issues more difficult to diagnose and resolve.”Preeti Karmarkar of Nari Samata Manch, a Pune-based women’s organisation that deals with violence against women including domestic violence and sexual harassment at the workplace, said, “These findings, though unfortunate, reflect our gender realities. The prevalent patriarchal gender system is dichotomous, giving more social power to men over women. The discomfort that women experience talking about health issues and the insensitivity of men towards their women colleagues is a telling comment on our society. Along with these concerns reflected in the study, sexual harassment at the workplace is another problem that women encounter. It shows that much effort is required to develop gender-friendly workplaces where women will be seen as equal partners.”The survey also found that over 90% of working women face a conflict of interest while balancing familial/personal and professional obligations and about 84% working women have faced stereotypes/ judgments around their period (menstruation cycle) such as being told not to go near sacred places or into the kitchen or even to hide their sanitary napkins. The study also found that 66% of working women think society considers women suffering from endometriosis as unsuitable for marriage||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/50-of-women-not-comfortable-discussing-health-issues-survey-101631124884092.html
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||30 sites shortlisted for electric vehicle charging stations in Ludhiana||The municipal corporation and Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority have proposed 30 sites to set up electric vehicle charging stations in the city.Under the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP), the first phase of the project is being planned for two and three-wheelers. The proposed list of sites has been forwarded to the State Transport Commissioner’s office. While MC has finalised 10 sites, another 20 have been shortlisted by GLADA in the areas falling under their respective jurisdictions. According to MC officials, among the proposed sites are MC’s multi-storey parking lot near MC Headquarters, parking of Rose Garden, near fire station on Hambran road and outside the MC Zone C office, among others. MC additional commissioner Aaditya Dachalwal said a committee had selected these sites in view of their higher footfall. The stations will be set up by Energy Efficiency Services Limited, a Government of India company. A team will visit the city soon to look into the feasibility of establishing these stations. Ludhiana is among the 122 non-attainment cities in the country according to the NCAP norms, which means, it has over a five-year period not consistently met the National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) for harmful PM 10 (particulate matter that is 10 microns or less in diameter), PM 2.5 or NO2 (nitrogen dioxide). The Union government has allocated ₹52 crore for Ludhiana under the NCAP, following which authorities have been working on various projects, including introduction of mechanical sweeping and rejuvenation of green belts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/30-sites-shortlisted-for-electric-vehicle-charging-stations-in-ludhiana-101631124404047.html
08-09-2021||Lucknow||IMD predicts heavy rain across west UP in next 48 hours||Districts in western and some parts of central UP may experience heavy to very heavy rainfall accompanied by strong winds in the next 48 hours, according to the forecast issued by the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) on Wednesday.Districts including Moradabad, Sambhal, Saharanpur, Baghpat, Bulandshahar, Aligarh, Amroha, Hathras and others will experience a change in climatic condition according to the forecast. The state MeT department has alerted the administration of west UP districts about the forecast and advised them to take preventive measures to avoid any loss caused by the adverse weather conditions.“Rain will be caused by a strong western current arising over the Thar Desert which is progressing east. The weather change will lead to heavy rain over western districts of Uttar Pradesh. Some districts in central UP may also be affected by it,” said JP Gupta, director of the state MeT department.Meanwhile, the state recorded 12 mm average rainfall on Wednesday. Rain was reported in over 24 districts of the state, including the state capital. The rain brought down temperatures across the state and provided relief from high relative humidity.The maximum temperature in Lucknow was recorded at 33 degrees Celsius while the minimum temperature was at 27 degrees Celsius. The MeT department has issued a similar forecast for Lucknow for Thursday.The maximum temperature in the state was recorded in Banda where the mercury reached the 40-degree mark. Prayagraj, Jhansi and Hathras also recorded temperatures close to the 39-degree mark, as per the MeT department data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/imd-predicts-heavy-rain-across-west-up-in-next-48-hours-101631124284666.html
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana police end gang’s ATM card swapping spree with arrest of two||A day after two gangs involved in stealing cash from ATM machines were busted in Khanna, the local police nabbed two members of an inter-state gang that swapped debit cards to steal money.According to police, the accused fraudulently withdrew money from various ATM machines in Punjab, Haryana, Delhi NCR, Uttar Pradesh and other states by targeting gullible bank customers. As many as 72 ATM cards have been recovered from the accused, identified as Sonu and Bhure, both from Jaloon district in Uttar Pradesh.“The duo was nabbed from a special check post at Ratanheri Fatak on Tuesday following a tip-off. They used to target people facing difficulty in withdrawing money from ATM kiosks. After offering to help them, they would swap the card with a fake one, and later use the original card to withdraw money from the victim’s bank account,” said Gursharandeep Singh Grewal, senior superintendent of police (SSP), Khanna, while addressing the media on Wednesday.“They have committed frauds to the tune of over ₹20 lakh in various states. The accused are being questioned about involvement of more gang members,” the SSP said.Both accused have been booked under Sections 420 (cheating) and 380 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code. They were produced in court that sent them to police custody for further questioning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-police-end-gang-s-atm-card-swapping-spree-with-arrest-of-two-101631124102867.html
08-09-2021||Mumbai||Woman seen with Sachin Vaze at five-star hotel in Mumbai was an escort: NIA||The mystery woman seen with dismissed police officer Sachin Vaze at a five-star hotel in south Mumbai in February was allegedly a female escort who was in close contact with him since 2011, the charge sheet filed by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in the Antilia explosives scare and Thane trader Mansukh Hiran murder case has revealed. The woman’s statement to NIA also revealed that Vaze had been paying her ₹50,000 every month since August 2020, two months after he was reinstated in service.The 36-year-old-woman, a resident of Mira Road, is separated from her husband and works as an escort. She told the agency that she met Vaze in 2011 and that he became her client in 2013.According to the statement, Vaze was thereafter in continuous touch with her. Initially, he had allegedly lied to her saying he was a businessman but later told her that he was a police officer under suspension at the time. The woman had business relations with Vaze and the two had started two firms in 2016 in the name of the woman’s son. It was allegedly Vaze’s idea to set up firms to deal in rental of electric two-wheelers. As Vaze was not earning well then, he had told her she should put her escort service money and buy some four-wheelers and rent them out to support her.In 2017, Vaze had allegedly asked the woman to become a director in one of his companies, set up to create a chain of maintenance workshops for two-wheelers and rental franchises. The woman claimed she invested ₹17 lakh in the company, but due to lack of support from two other partners, the business could not be started. She added that in 2019, Vaze tried to revive the business and changed it to rental of electric two-wheelers. In January-February 2020, Vaze purchased 30 electric scooters for the company at the cost of ₹15 lakh, however the company did not make profits in view of the Covid-19 lockdown.In June 2020, Vaze asked the woman to stop working as an escort as he was reinstated in service and would earn enough to support her. Following this, Vaze started paying ₹50,000 per month to the woman since August 2020.The woman was spotted visiting Vaze in a posh south Mumbai hotel on February 18 and 20 this year. NIA questioned her over images preserved on the scanning machines installed at the entrance of the hotel which showed pictures similar to bundles of currency notes.The woman told NIA that on February 15 she had visited Vaze’s office near Crawford Market and collected ₹40 lakh from him and then returned the same to him on February 18 at the five-star hotel after sorting and removing old notes from the bundles. She further said that Vaze told her to remove notes with 786 in their numbers.Further, while leaving the hotel on February 19, the woman took ₹36 lakh cash with her and returned it to Vaze the next day.The agency has found ₹1.5 crore in the bank account of the company in which she was a director. When questions, the woman told the agency that only Vaze could tell who had credited the money in the company’s accounts.She also failed to give satisfactory answers when questioned about ₹39 lakh in her bank account. She has, however, stated that she was not earning anything from any of the companies formed by her.The agency has also found that she had removed ₹5 lakh from a bank locker held jointly by her and Vaze on March 18, five days after Vaze’s arrest. The woman allegedly handed the money to her brother, asking hi m to find a good lawyer in case she was arrested. The woman later fled to her hometown Banaras along with her son.The case against Vaze and nine others pertains to the recovery of the explosives-laden vehicle near Antilia, residence of Reliance Industries chairman Mukesh Ambani, on February 25. A note threatening his family was also recovered from the vehicle. Thereafter on March 5, the body Thane-based auto parts dealer Mansukh Hiran, who owned the said vehicle, was found in a creek at Reti Bunder near Mumbra.NIA subsequently took over the investigation and arrested Vaze in connection with both cases. Vaze was dismissed from service in May. The investigating agency later also arrested encounter specialist Pradeep Sharma and four others — Santosh Shelar, Anand Jadhav, Manish Soni and Satish Mothukari — in connection with the murder case. The agency claimed that the four accused acted on the instructions of Vaze and others, and allegedly strangled Hiran to death and dumped the body in the creek.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/woman-seen-with-sachin-vaze-at-five-star-hotel-in-mumbai-was-an-escort-nia-101631123862314.html
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||Parliamentary committee to inspect PGIMER, Dadumajra health centre today||A parliamentary standing committee of the Union ministry of health and family welfare led by chairperson Ram Gopal Yadav will inspect the healthcare system at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) and Dadumajra health and wellness centre on Thursday. Keeping in view the possibility of third wave of the pandemic, the central government team is likely to review the Covid management plans in the government hospitals, vaccination status of the UT, cancer-related funds for poor at PGIMER and implementation of the Ayushman Bharat scheme. The committee that reached Chandigarh on Tuesday has members of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha, including Indu Bala Goswami, Dr L Hanumanthaiah, Dr Sanghamitra Maurya, Arjunlal Meena, K Navaskani, Adoor Prakash, Hazi Fazlur Rehman, Dr Rajdeep Roy, Dr DNV Senthikumar S, Dr Mahesh Sharma, Dr Sujey Radhakrishna Vikhepatil and Dr Krishan Pal Singh Yadav. Besides Chandigarh, the parliamentary panel is expected to inspect the healthcare system at hospitals in Punjab and other states as well. It may be noted that the committee reviews the healthcare system every year. While presenting its recommendations about the Chandigarh healthcare system in the Rajya Sabha on March 8, 2021, the panel had asked PGIMER and its related authorities to complete the construction of satellite centres at Sangrur, Una and Ferozepur to provide better medical facilities to the poor patients.The committee had also recommended the completion of work for modernisation of research blocks A and B and revamp of the Nehru Hospital without further delay. Also, the panel wanted timely filling up of 1,686 posts in various cadres of PGIMER, Chandigarh for smooth functioning of the institute.The committee had recommended PGIMER to start a separate department of rheumatology and all rheumatologists and immunological-related services for patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/parliamentary-committee-to-inspect-pgimer-dadumajra-health-centre-today-101631123502549.html
08-09-2021||Mumbai||Nod for redevelopment of Motilal Nagar in Goregaon in Mumbai||The state cabinet on Wednesday cleared the redevelopment of Motilal Nagar spread over 50 hectares (ha) in western suburban Goregaon (West). The redevelopment of the colony, which houses around 3,700 families, is expected to generate 33,000 additional homes, the government said. Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (Mhada), which is the nodal agency for the project, got clearance from the state cabinet that granted ‘special project status’ to the redevelopment.Motilal Nagar 1, 2 and 3 were built in 1960 to chiefly house people belonging to the economically weak sections. Though it has 200-sqft houses, many have extended their rooms owing to paucity of space. According to a statement from the chief minister’s office, there are around 5,300 tenements, including 1,600 hutments and slums and 3,700 houses on the 50ha land. The project will be executed by the developer under redevelopment guidelines for 33(5) of the Development Control & Promotion Regulations (DCPR), 2034 on behalf of Mhada. “The tender for the project will be finalised based on the agency that will provide the maximum share of the remaining built-up area (BUA) to Mhada, excluding the rehabilitation portion,” the statement said.Out of the approved area of 1,600 sqft for residential, the developer will bear the cost of construction for 833.80 sqft additional area being given as per the redevelopment guidelines, the statement added. Similarly, for an approved area of 978 sqft for non-residential use, the developer will bear the cost of construction for 502.83 sqft under the said guidelines.Housing minister Jitendra Awhad tweeted after the cabinet, “#MHADA will redevelop the biggest layout #MotilalNagar in # Mumbai...Changing skyline of #Mumbai...#BDD to start with A better life in a better place (sic).”Expedite BDD redevelopment work, CM tells officialsChief Minister Uddhav Thackeray took stock of the progress on the redevelopment of the BDD Chawls in Mumbai and directed officials to expedite the work. During the high-powered committee meeting on Wednesday, Thackeray also directed housing department officials to take a list of eligible beneficiaries of families residing in police service quarters in BDD Chawls, who will get ownership of 500-sqft redeveloped space in place of paying construction cost, from the home department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nod-for-redevelopment-of-motilal-nagar-in-goregaon-in-mumbai-101631123202612.html
08-09-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees record one-day inoculations, over 1.4 million Covid-19 vaccine doses administered on Sept 8||Over 1.4 million Covid-19 vaccine doses were administered in Maharashtra on Wednesday, in what officials called as the highest single-day inoculations in the state so far, since the beginning of the vaccination drive early this year.As many as 1,439,809 doses were administered to eligible beneficiaries in the state on Wednesday, according to a report by news agency PTI. “It is the highest figure achieved by the state till now,” PTI quoted additional chief secretary of the public health department Dr Pradeep Vyas as saying. Dr Vyas also said that more than 65.5 million doses of the vaccine have been administered in the state so far and 17,978,805 people have been fully immunised against Covid-19.On September 4, as many as 1,227,224 doses were administered in the state which was the highest until Wednesday. Over 48% of the adult population (people aged 18 and above) in the state have been administered at least one dose of the vaccine. While 37% people in the 18 to 44 age group have received a single dose, over 52% people above 45 years have received the same.The capital city of Mumbai reached the milestone of administering one million Covid-19 vaccine doses earlier on Tuesday, according to data from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). So far, 10,041,579 doses have been delivered in the city.Also, Maharashtra recorded the highest single-day vaccinations on the same day as the country’s cumulative coverage crossed 710 million doses. According to the Union health ministry’s data, over 7 million doses were administered in the last 24 hours alone and the country has so far administered 715,254,153 doses as of 7pm on the day.Meanwhile, 4,174 new Covid-19 cases and 65 more related fatalities were reported from Maharashtra in the last 24 hours. Of these 532 new cases and four deaths were logged from Mumbai. With this, the state’s tally reached 6,497,872 and the death toll climbed to 137,962, according to the latest data from the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-record-one-day-inoculations-over-1-4-million-covid-19-vaccine-doses-administered-on-sept-8-101631122459903.html
08-09-2021||Lucknow||Compulsory retirement: Further screening of Uttar Pradesh cops begins after fresh order||Further screening has begun to weed out “incompetent, undisciplined and corrupt” cops across Uttar Pradesh and give them compulsory retirement after fresh orders to this effect were issued, said senior police officials here on Wednesday.Additional director general (ADG), Establishment, Sanjay Singhal issued the fresh orders in this regard on Monday, the senior police officials said here on Wednesday.A senior police official said the order stated all police departmental heads and district police chiefs should complete the process of screening police personnel from the rank of constable to inspector.He said the order stated that the screening of all police personnel up to the age of 50 years till March 31, 2021, would be done according to their “performance” or “non-performance.He also said the state government had emphasised on this policy for past two years to weed out “incompetent, undisciplined and corrupt” police personnel.Additional director general of police (Law and Order) Prashant Kumar clarified that it was not a new thing, but the order related to the screening of employees above 50 years was there since 1985 and it had also been done in other departments and central government units.“This screening should not be considered that the employees will be given retirement forcibly, but it has been done as per their utility in the service,” he said.The ADG said those police personnel above 50 years of age, whose screening has been done once, will not be part of the further screening.Earlier, 364 police personnel from the rank of inspector to class four employees were given compulsory retirement across the state in 2019. This included 11 inspectors, 57 sub-inspectors, eight sub-inspectors (ministerial), 80 head constables and 200 constables and class four employees. Besides, some Provincial Police Service (PPS) and Indian Police Service (IPS) officers were also given compulsory retirement since 2019.Another senior police official said the screening of gazette officers, whose service records are not good enough for them to continue in the police force, will also be done later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/compulsory-retirement-further-screening-of-uttar-pradesh-cops-begins-after-fresh-order-101631122844121.html
08-09-2021||Noida||Resident assaulted by security guards in highrise, eight detained||A 55-year-old resident of Lotus Boulevard high-rise society in Sector 100 alleged that he several security guards of the society assaulted him on Wednesday morning after they allegedly refused handover keys to the building’s shaft.Complainant Suresh Kumar Singh, in his police complaint, said that the incident happened at around 11am.“We were installing a broadband connection for which the technician needed access to the shaft area. I went to ask for the keys but the guards (in the lobby) refused saying they needed permission from their superiors,” said Singh in his police complaint. Singh alleged that the guards then misbehaved and assaulted him.Upon hearing the commotion, several residents gathered in the lobby area hearing the commotion, he said.Singh, in the complaint, said he suffered several injuries and that when he tried to retaliate, he was held back by another resident.Despite multiple attempts, Singh could not be reached for comment.A guard at the society, who did not wish to be named, said that Singh created the ruckus first when he pulled the guard on duty by his collar and slapped him for refusing to give him the key.Police said an eyewitness called the local police post in-charge, following which a team of personnel was rushed to the spot.“A case has been registered against the security-in charge and another guard based on the complaint of the resident. The matter allegedly escalated after he slapped a guard but the way he was attacked was very brutal. We have detained eight security personnel and are questioning them. We are scanning the CCTV footage also. Due action will be taken against all erring parties,” said additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Kumar Ranvijay Singh.Tej Prakash, president of the Apartment Owners Association of Lotus Boulevard society, said, “Following the incident, we immediately called for a resident’s forum. It has been decided that the security agency needs to be changed. We will come up with a plan in the next few days”Residential bodies across the city have condemned the incident.“Internal discords result in such unpleasant situations. Engaging untrained/ unskilled security personnels is another reason for such unfortunate situations. Safety of the resident is undoubtedly of prime importance,” said Rajiva Singh, president of Noida Federation of apartment owners associations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/resident-assaulted-by-security-guards-in-highrise-eight-detained-101631122230077.html
08-09-2021||Bhopal||88 oxygen generation plants operational in Madhya Pradesh: CM Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has said 88 oxygen generation plants, with a collective capacity to generate over 45,000 litres of oxygen per minute, have become operational in the state.Overall, 190 oxygen plants will become operational by the end of this month, Chouhan said in an official statement late Tuesday evening. “The deficiencies seen in the health infrastructure during the second wave of Covid-19 are being addressed on a priority basis. The most important of these shortcomings was the availability of medical oxygen,” the CM said. As on Tuesday, 88 out of the 190 proposed oxygen plants have become functional in Madhya Pradesh so far, Chouhan said. “These 88 plants have a generation capacity of 45,890 litres per minute,” he added. With the start of oxygen production in Madhya Pradesh, now there will be no need to get the life saving gas from other states, Chouhan said. “Our target is to set up oxygen plants at tehsil-levels and all the district headquarters. Besides, oxygen concentrators have been provided at places where oxygen plants are not installed,” he added. There are total 52 districts in the state. Chouhan said out of the 190 oxygen plants proposed in MP, 102 are being set up with the help of the Centre. On Tuesday, MP reported 11 new cases of coronavirus, taking the tally of infections to 7,92,281, while the death toll stood at 10,516 as no fresh casualty were reported during the day, as per official data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/88-oxygen-generation-plants-operational-in-madhya-pradesh-cm-chouhan-101631121046180.html
08-09-2021||Mumbai||High population, fewer Covid cases: BMC study on Mumbai wards inconclusive||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) month-long study, which started in the end of July, is inconclusive on why some civic wards reported fewer novel coronavirus cases despite high population. The BMC is now awaiting the results of the fifth serological survey in order to connect the dots with their initial findings of the study. Officials said this exercise will help them understand if sero prevalence was a factor leading to high or low burden of Covid-19 cases in some wards. HT had reported earlier that since the start of the pandemic in March 2020, wards A (Fort), B (Dongri) and C (Kalbadevi) saw the fewest infections among all 24 wards. For instance, on April 7 last year, when the city was at the peak of the first wave, these three wards had fewer than seven cases each. On the same day, however, G-South (Elphinstone) ward, by D (Nana Chowk), E (Byculla) and K-West (Andheri West) ward saw 78, 59, 46 and 43 cases, respectively, the highest number of patients across all wards. The ward-wise difference is also visible in the data shared by the BMC. For instance, till September 6 this year, B ward recorded a total of 3,963 cases, the lowest in the city. It is followed by C and A wards, with 6,896 and 16,571 cases, respectively. On the other hand, K-W (Andheri West) has recorded 55,613 cases, the highest in the city. Similarly, R-Central (Borivli) and K-East (Andheri East) have registered 51,898 and 46,625 cases so far. Anticipating a third wave, the BMC decided to study the infection pattern of Sars-CoV-2—the virus that causes Covid-19, but the results have been inconclusive. “We have found that some wards have performed more tests, which pushed their cumulative Covid-19 cases. But testing is directly proportional to the number of infected patients. A ward with more active patients will record more tests, as it also includes contact tracing. Thus, it doesn’t prove that testing is the only reason for ward-wise Covid-19 disparity,” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, BMC. He also added that higher population was also considered as one of the contributing factors. A few crowded wards like L (Kurla) and M/East (Deonar, Govandi), with a population of more than 800,000 and 900,000, respectively (as per the Census 2011), recorded fewer Covid-19 cases. “We couldn’t find an explanation why some crowded wards recorded higher cases while others didn’t. The findings therefore haven’t been conclusive,” he added. To understand if sero-prevalence was the reason behind fewer Covid-19 cases in some wards, the BMC has conducted a fifth ward-wise serological survey which will help them gauge how many people in a population have been infected with Covid-19 and have developed antibodies. The results are expected to be announced this week. Dr Ramesh Bharmal, dean of BYL Nair hospital, Mumbai Central, stated that prevalence of a virus depends on various factors such as size of the population, movement of the public, demography and prevalence of antibodies. “As seen in the previous sero surveys, a large number of slum dwellers and younger population have developed antibodies which help curb fast transmission of the virus. So, there is a possibility that wards with higher young demography may have developed better resistance against the virus which is attributed in controlling its spread. This hypothesis can be established with the latest sero survey,” he said. The BMC has predicted that the city could record 1.25 lakh Covid-19 cases in the anticipated third wave. So, it is essential for the BMC to chalk out the reasons behind ward-wise variation of Covid-19 cases, which will help them plan better if the city witnesses another surge, said BMC official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/high-population-fewer-covid-cases-bmc-study-on-mumbai-wards-inconclusive-101631121943922.html
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||Five cases of dengue reported in Ambala||Five fresh cases of dengue have been reported in the Ambala district in the last 48 hours, mounting pressure on the health department which is already preparing for the possible third wave of Covid and carrying out vaccination drives to tackle the infection.As per the department, three cases surfaced on Monday — two from Panjokhara area and one from the city — while one case each was found in the cantonment and city on Tuesday. All patients are undergoing treatment at home, officials said.The district had reported at least 250 dengue cases last year when the pandemic hit the nation. The first case was found on September 15, but no instance of double infection (Covid and dengue) was reported then. District epidemiologist Dr Sunil Hari said after it wreaked havoc in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, the department is on high alert.“We have started preparing a flu ward and special OPD services that were earlier being used for coronavirus patients. Sampling will be increased and private labs have been asked to report every case to the department,” he added. There are currently five active cases of Covid in the district. Dr Hari said the larva of female aedes aegypti mosquito is mostly found in the back tray of refrigerators filled with water and empty tires. Dr Kuldeep Singh, chief medical officer, said several teams are checking coolers and other objects at houses and alerting the residents about the larva that can develop into mosquitoes within 14 days.“We are also advising patients to stay in bed nets as if a mosquito bites the infected person, it can act as a carrier and might infect others,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/five-cases-of-dengue-reported-in-ambala-101631120623533.html
08-09-2021||Other||Supply water to merged villages through tankers if necessary: Mayor to PMC||PUNE: In only the second general body meeting held offline in the past one-and-a-half year on Wednesday, mayor Murlidhar Mohol asked the municipal commissioner to hold a meeting with elected members from the villages recently merged with the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) after they raised the issue of the water crisis in these areas, mainly in Uruli Devachi and Phursungi. Mohol asked the municipal commissioner to supply water to the merged villages through water tankers if needed.In what was the first PMC general body meeting held offline after a long gap, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) members Yogesh Sasane, Deepali Dhumal and others demanded that the water crisis in these merged villages be urgently resolved. While the corporation had started recovering water tax from these villages, no attention had been paid to the water shortage they were facing even during the rainy season, the NCP members said. The crisis was acute in the Uruli Devachi and Phursungi villages, they pointed out.Responding to their demand, the mayor said, “If necessary, the municipal administration should provide additional water tankers. Even the commissioner will call a meeting with these members in the next two or three days and sort out their problem.”Meanwhile, the mayor assured that all three general body meetings this month would be conducted offline if possible. He said that he was in favour of holding the meetings offline and had written several letters to the state government to that effect.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/supply-water-to-merged-villages-through-tankers-if-necessary-mayor-to-pmc-101631120441381.html
08-09-2021||Other||NIV’s Truenat test kit gets emergency use approval from DCGI for Nipah virus||PUNE Pune’s National Institute of Virology’s (NIV) Truenat test kits has received emergency use approval from the Drugs Controller General of India for the diagnosis of the Nipah virus. An outbreak of the Nipah virus is currently seen in Kerala.Leveraging the large footprint of Truenat machines deployed across the country for diagnosis of infectious diseases such as TB, Covid-19, and Hepatitis, a Truenat testing kit for he Nipah virus will help diagnose eh virus rapidly, on demand, and closer to affected people, resulting in effective management of the disease and containment of the spread of the virus. The kit has been made in collaboration with a Goa- based firm Molbio Diagnostics.Sriram Natarajan, director and CEO of Molbio Diagnostics said, “Covid-19 has brought out the importance of early and accurate testing for better disease management. Truenat is the first platform to be authorised by the DGCI for Nipah virus testing.” Nipah virus (NiV) is an emerging zoonotic disease that causes severe infections in humans. Signs and symptoms range from asymptomatic to acute respiratory infection and fatal encephalitis. Prior to the current reported case from Kozhikode, when a 12-year old boy died on September 5, India had reported three NiV outbreaks in the past - Siliguri in 2001, Nadia in 2007 (West Bengal) and Kozhikode and Malappuram in Kerala in 2018.“The R&D work on the Truenat test for Nipah virus was first started in 2018 in collaboration with the National Institute of Virology, Pune (ICMR), to enable the detection of the infectious virus during outbreak situations. The ability to quickly deploy the platform to the point of need and the rapid testing capability makes it a powerful tool in diagnosis and containment of the Nipah virus. This collaboration with NIV allows us to react quickly in times emergencies,” said Dr. Chandrasekhar Nair, director of the company.Truenat is a battery-operated, IoT-enabled point of care RT-PCR platform developed and manufactured by Molbio. The platform can test for nearly 30 diseases, and results take less than an hour. Truenat is a WHO approved frontline platform for TB diagnosis and approved by ICMR for TB, Covid-19 and other diseases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nivs-truenat-test-kit-gets-emergency-use-approval-from-dcgi-for-nipah-virus-101631120201423.html
08-09-2021||Other||Annasaheb Magar jumbo Covid centre to shut from September 15||PUNE The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) will close the Annasaheb Magar Jumbo Covid centre from September 15. With the number of Covid patients dropping, the decision was taken by the civic body on Wednesday.However, if need be, the facility can be restarted on short-term notice.Currently, there are 99 patients at the facility which has 816 beds and was re-opened on March 28 during the second wave.“We have been informed verbally regarding the closing of Annasaheb Magar Jumbo Covid centre from September 15. The maintenance work will be done once the centre is shut,” said Dr Priti Victor, chief administrator officer.Vikas Dhakane, additional commissioner, Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) said, “A written order regarding the Annasaheb Magar stadium will come from civic chief Rajesh Patil.”On Wednesday, 184 fresh Covid-19 cases were recorded in PCMC, while the number of active cases in hospital are 585; 808 are in home isolation. The total number of active cases in PCMC is 1,393.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/annasaheb-magar-jumbo-covid-centre-to-shut-from-september-15-101631120141378.html
08-09-2021||Lucknow||UP B.Ed counselling likely from September 17||The Lucknow University (LU) is likely to conduct the counselling for Uttar Pradesh B.Ed entrance examination from September 17, as per a notification issued by the varsity on Wednesday.Lucknow University organised the state level B.Ed exam on August 6 which was attended by over 5 lakh candidates. The results were declared on August 27.The counselling will be held entirely online. The candidates will have to report directly to the allotted college once their seat is finalised, said LU spokesman Durgesh Srivastav.He said “The counselling schedule was delayed because the final year results of over 2 lakh students who had cleared the B.Ed exam were not released yet. However, we are hopeful that the counselling can be resumed from September 17 onwards.”The process has been planned in three phases to accommodate the choice of college and preference of maximum number of students, he said.The university administration has also advised candidates to register for online counselling on its official website and submit the counselling and advance college fees. The counselling fee that will be non-refundable is ₹750 while advance college fees is ₹5000.A detailed brochure of frequently asked questions has also been uploaded on LU’s website.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-b-ed-counselling-likely-from-september-17-101631120021912.html
08-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai court relief for Pankaj, Sameer Bhujbal in 2015 case||A special sessions judge on Wednesday discharged Pankaj Bhujbal, son of cabinet minister Chhagan Bhujbal, nephew Sameer Bhujbal and two other directors of Devisha Infrastructure Private Limited — Rajesh Dharap and Satyan Kesarkar — who were booked by the Navi Mumbai Police for cheating, breach of trust and under the Maharashtra Ownership Flats Act (MOFA). The case was registered against the Bhujbals and others in 2015 on a complaint of a Chembur resident who claimed that the company had planned to sell 2,344 flats and had collected ₹44 crores but had not developed the project.Additional session’s judge HS Satbhai allowed the discharge application of all four persons, under section 239 of Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) for discharge.The complaint was registered on June 13, 2015, by one Yunus Shaikh. Sameer and Kesarkar appeared when summons were issued against them and were granted bail immediately.The state claimed that the four applicants who have applied for discharge are directors of Devisha Infrastructure Private Limited (DIPL). The applicants along with others hatched a conspiracy and projected that they will develop project Hexworld on 25-acres of land in Kharghar. However, they were fully aware that DIPL had no lands in its name, no construction permission and no possession of the land. They misrepresented to potential flat buyers by concealing the above facts with a view to cheat them and sold 2,344 flats and collected ₹44.04 crores from buyers. The possession of the flats was delayed, the construction has been completed only up to the plinth, and till 2011 DIPL had no permission to undertake any constructions. The sale proceeds were deposited in a designated account, however, the same was not used for construction and was siphoned off for personal use of the applicants. Neither the booking amount was refunded nor the flat was handed over to the flat purchasers. The charge sheet was filed in the matter on February 25, 2016.The Bhujbals and the other two applicants were represented by advocate Sajal Yadav and Sudarshan Khawase, who argued that Alibag magistrate court, after going through the documents, had said there is no prima facie evidence to infer that since the date when the accused’s company started receiving booking amount, there was an intention on the part of the accused to cheat the informants and the witnesses. The court had also said that a case is not made out against the accused under section 420 of the Indian Penal Code for cheating. To charge a person for cheating there has to be any intent in this case the directors had no fraudulent or dishonest intention at the time of making the promise. The inability of fulfilling contractual obligations due to reasons beyond the control without culpable intent is not an offence.The court after hearing both the parties on Wednesday discharged the four applicants and posted the matter on September 20 for further hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-court-relief-for-pankaj-sameer-bhujbal-in-2015-case-101631119902711.html
08-09-2021||Other||Ahead of meeting with civic chief, hawkers’ union threaten stir||PUNE Despite protests from hawkers in the city against ongoing anti-encroachment drives, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), on Wednesday, said that the drives would continue.“Tomorrow (Thursday) we have a meeting with Vikram Kumar, civic chief, to decide on the demands of hawkers’ unions. However, action will continue on illegal structures in the city,” said Madhav Jagtap, head of the anti-encroachment department.The union has claimed that civic officials are taking unnecessary action and also halting renewal of hawkers’ permits.“The anti-encroachment department is taking unnecessary action after they are being pressured by local corporators. The action taken by officials on Singhad road and at Balaji nagar was taken due to pressure from corporators. Common people did not have any problem with the hawkers,” said Balasaheb More, general secretary, Pathari Vyavasayik Panchayat, a hawkers’ union.“Many illegal structures have come up in the last one year. People took advantage of Covid-19 to build temporary structures,” said Jagtap.“If our demands are not met at the meeting then there is a chance we will again protest in front of the PMC office. In the last two years we have suffered a lot due to Covid-19, and due to action by the PMC we have been facing more problems,” said More.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ahead-of-meeting-with-civic-chief-hawkers-union-threaten-stir-101631119901434.html
08-09-2021||Other||3 remanded to police custody for plotting murder of BJP corporator Dheeraj Ghate||PUNE Three men were remanded to custody of the Pune police for plotting the murder of local BJP corporator Dheeraj Ghate at a local restaurant in Pune on the afternoon of September 3. The arrested men were identified as Vicky alias Vitul Vaman Kshirsagar (33), a resident of Sane Guruji nagar near Ambala canal in Pune; Manoj Sambhaji Patole (33), also a resident of the same area; and Mahesh Inderjit Agarwal (25), a resident of Lohia nagar. The men were arrested around 10pm on Tuesday by a joint team of unit three and unit four of the Pune police crime branch.“We are looking for two more people in the case. The weapons they were carrying were quite deadly. The complainant had come to me after looking at the CCTV after the incident happened over suspicions about these men,” said Amitabh Gupta, commissioner of Pune police.Kshirsagar, who is the main accused, is hopeful for his brother Rakesh Kshirsagar to win in the upcoming local body elections in Pune. The 33-year-old man also used to work for the BJP member whose murder he was arrested for plotting.“The case has been strategically registered in the light of upcoming elections. The allegations are baseless and a case has been registered purely based on suspicion against the accused. The court has rejected the demand for seven days police custody,” read a statement from defence lawyer Vijaysinh Thombare.The plot took place in a restaurant called Hotel Saffron on Shastri road in Navi peth at around 3pm on September 3. Kshirsagar arrived at the restaurant while Ghate was drinking tea – both with a few men accompanying them. The complainant submitted that Kshirsagar desisted from attacking him because Ghate was with multiple party workers and outnumbered his alleged potential attacker.“The complainant tells us that the main accused probably believed that killing him would clear the path for his brother in the local body elections,” said commissioner Gupta.After learning about Kshirsagar‘s intention, Ghate claims to have checked the CCTV footage of the restaurant where he was drinking tea to find that the accused were carrying a bag which was later found with deadly sharp weapons.A case under sections 115, 120 (B) (criminal conspiracy) of Indian penal code was registered at Vishram Bagh Police Station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3-remanded-to-police-custody-for-plotting-murder-of-bjp-corporator-dheeraj-ghate-101631119781418.html
08-09-2021||Other||Koregaon Park area residents see red over frequent power outages||PUNE: Residents of the Koregaon park area - especially the north, south and Mangaldas road – are miffed due to daily power outages lasting anywhere between five minutes and one hour since January 2021 that are frequently throwing their life and work out of gear.According to residents, not only power outages that last longer but even those that take place for a shorter duration of time disrupt things like wifi, laptops, desktop computers and other electrical appliances. So much so, that a Whatsapp group comprising the residents and Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Ltd (MSEDCL) officials has been formed to address the problem. Notwithstanding, power outages continue to occur frequently, the residents pointed out.Sathi Nair, a resident and member of the Koregaon park mohalla committee, ward number 21, said, “We were facing this issue earlier as well but the frequency of power outages has increased since last month. The problem has become severe. The daily lives of residents are getting impacted because of this problem. Because of the pandemic, many are working from home. Power outages have become a serious issue in their professional lives as well. For us, it is really annoying because power gets cut-off unexpectedly at any time…”Some residents claimed that their electrical appliances have suffered damage due to fluctuations in power supply, not to mention the additional expenditure of electricity generators that housing societies have had to endure.Ashutosh Nanda, a resident of Koregaon park, said, “My refrigerator turned inoperative because of this issue. We have constantly written to the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Ltd (MSEDCL) regarding this problem but it has not been resolved. Officials keep giving inexcusable explanations for the problem. We have been paying our bills on time, that too for frequently interrupted power supply!”Asked about the problem faced by residents, MSEDCL officials claimed that power outage issues can occur during the rainy season. “Power outage may happen if it is raining or the mainline trips. It cannot be denied that power outages do occur but they are not all that frequent. I will have to collect more data on how many times outages have occurred,” said Satish Kulkarni, additional executive engineer, Wadia sub-division, Pune MSEDCL.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/koregaon-park-area-residents-see-red-over-frequent-power-outages-101631119721339.html
08-09-2021||Mumbai||Police file FIR against TBZ jewellers in Mumbai over Rs6.57 crore dues||The Mulund police have registered a cheating case against jewellery retail chain Tribhovandas Bhimji Zaveri (TBZ) for allegedly failing to clear dues of ₹6.57 crore of a Mulund-based jeweller. Senior police inspector Vijay Bhise of the Mulund police station said, “The complainant, Harsh Susaniya, the owner of Bhavi Jewellers who makes gold ornaments for retail chains, claimed that he had given gold ornaments worth ₹6.57 crore to TBZ on several occasions in the past two years, but did not receive any payments.”Susaniya had given a written complaint last month. His application was verified and following a preliminary investigation, a case of cheating and breach of trust was registered against TBZ on Monday.“We have not arrested anyone yet as verification of facts and investigation is going on,” Bhise added. “We have given notice under section 41 (B) Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPc) to the persons booked in the case against whom the victim claimed to have given gold ornaments. We will verify their posts in TBZ,” added Bhise.The complainant has a jewellery outlet in a mall in Mulund. The victim claimed in his written complaint that he and TBZ have had business relations for many years. The victim had been approached many times for his pending dues but the firm was not ready to clear his dues, so he approached the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/police-file-fir-against-tbz-jewellers-in-mumbai-over-rs6-57-crore-dues-101631119661941.html
08-09-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow may host Junior Men’s Hockey World Cup again||Hockey India, the game’s governing body in the country, has reportedly “approached” the Uttar Pradesh government and Uttar Pradesh Hockey to host the 12th edition of the 2021 Men’s Junior World Cup in Lucknow from November 24 to December 5.The state capital earlier hosted the event in 2016 when Mandeep Singh-led India won their second trophy, beating Belgium 2-1. India lifted their maiden trophy in 2001 when they defeated Argentina 6-1 at Hobart in Australia.The event was originally scheduled to be played at Guwahati, but due to some uncertainty, Hockey India has approached Uttar Pradesh Hockey. The hosting rights for the 2023 event have already been given to Malaysia.“Things have changed a lot since the Covid-19 pandemic halted domestic hockey in March last year. Now, we are hoping to have the event in Lucknow on the same dates,” a Hockey India insider said on condition of anonymity.He confirmed that Hockey India officials visited the state capital last week to take stock of the situation.“Everything is perfect in Lucknow, both at the Major Dhyan Chand Stadium at the Guru Gobind Singh Sports College and also at the Padma Shri Mohd Shahid Hockey Stadium at Vijayant Khand Stadium in Gomti Nagar,” he added.The official said that the 2016 event was a great success with the presence of a 20,000-strong crowd at the Dhyan Chand Stadium.“Eight players from the 2016 gold-winning Indian team were part of the (national) team which won a bronze medal at the Tokyo Olympics,” he said, adding, “Lucknow has always been a lucky place for Indian hockey. Here, the sport lives in everybody’s heart.”He, however, said that unlike the 2016 event when a huge sum was spent, especially on relaying the turf at the Dhyan Chand Stadium and construction of Mohd Shahid Stadium, the event won’t require big expenditure this time.“Hockey India has already approached the state government and we are expecting a positive response soon,” said the official, adding, “The event would boost the sporting stature of Uttar Pradesh as well as Indian and Uttar Pradesh hockey.”The move comes soon after India ended a 41-year medal drought in hockey with the men’s team winning silver at the Olympics after 41 years at the Tokyo Games last month. Prime Minister Narendra Modi praised Indian hockey in his “Man Ki Baat” programme on the occasion of the National Sports Day on August 29.The Yogi Adityanath-led Uttar Pradesh government felicitated the Indian hockey team and six other medalists at the Tokyo Games with ₹42.03 crore at a function at the Atal Bihari Vajpayee Ekana stadium in Lucknow soon after the athletes came back to India in August. The UP government now plans to felicitate the Paralympians who won medals at the Tokyo Paralympics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-may-host-junior-men-s-hockey-world-cup-again-101631119062117.html
08-09-2021||Other||Minor’s gang-rape: Rickshaw unions tell drivers to respect safety of passengers||PUNE Autorickshaw unions in the city have taken serious cognisance of the rape of a 14-year old minor, for which several rickshaw drivers were allegedly arrested the Pune railway station autorickshaw stand. “All our registered drivers with an RTO are going through a financial crisis due to lockdown. There are many who do not have any permit to run a rickshaw and so we have instructed our drivers to be alert and respect the safety of passengers, especially from the railway station and ST stands,” said Bappu Bhave, president of Pune Autorickshaw Federation.The incident happened on August 31 after the girl was kidnapped. She was then sexually assaulted by several people. Fourteen have been arrested, all residents of Pune, and the police are on the lookout for five others.“It is necessary to have character verification and licence and permit checking done of all drivers operating from the railway station and ST stands in the city. We have also instructed our members to not get involved in any unlawful activity which can cause harm to passengers,” added Bhave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/minors-gang-rape-rickshaw-unions-tell-drivers-to-respect-safety-of-passengers-101631119001402.html
08-09-2021||Other||Minor’s pregnancy reveals 23-year old’s sexual assault||PUNE A 23-year-old man has been arrested by the Pimpri- Chinchwad police on Thursday for the sexual assault of a minor girl leading to her pregnancy. The 14-year-old girl’s pregnancy came to light after her mother took her to a hospital.The arrested man was identified as Govind Taterao Manule (23), a resident of Pawarvasti area of Dudulgaon in Haveli and a native of Belgaon in Hingoli.“The man is in police custody till tomorrow (Thursday),” said assistant police inspector AE Khatal who registered the case.The man sexually assaulted the girl in the second week of June 2021 in Dudulgaon area of Haveli.A case was registered under Sections 376(2)(n)(i) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) along with Sections 4 and 6 of Protection of children from sexual offence act (Pocso) at Dighi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/minors-pregnancy-reveals-23-year-old-s-sexual-assault-101631119002013.html
08-09-2021||Lucknow||Parties remember Muslims only when polls draw closer: Owaisi||LUCKNOW All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief Asaduddin Owaisi said the Samajwadi Party (SP), thee Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and the Congress blamed the Muslim community for their defeat in the assembly and Lok Sabha elections in Uttar Pradesh. These parties were not concerned about promoting Muslim leadership but used Muslims as a vote bank, he said. “The AIMIM stopped the BJP from expanding its base in Telangana. It defeated the BJP candidate on Auranagabad Lok Sabha seat in Maharashtra. The saffron brigade failed to make inroads in Hyderabad as well,” said Owaisi while addressing the ‘vanchit-shoshit’ conference in Sultanpur on Wednesday.Owaisi announced the name of Mirza Akram Beg as AIMIM candidate from the Sultanpur assembly seat for 2022 assembly election. The AIMIM chief said his party was fighting for a share in power for the Muslim community. “Political parties only remember the Muslim community when the election draws closer. Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav considers Muslims a mere vote bank. The SP has been a mere spectator to the harassment and exploitation of the Muslim community in UP,” he added.“The suppressed communities should fight for social justice. Voters have power to make a Prime Minister or chief minister. The deprived and the community will have to vote for a party that is fighting for their rights,” emphaised Owaisi.To grab votes of the Kurmi community in the coming assembly elections in UP, the BJP made a prominent Kurmi leader Anupriya Patel a minister in the union cabinet, he said.Shaista Praveen, wife of gangster turned politician Atiq Ahmed, who joined AIMIM on Tuesday, read the message of Atiq who is lodged in Sabarmati jail in Gujarat. “The SP and the BSP have exploited the Muslim community as a vote bank,” stated the message.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/parties-remember-muslims-only-when-polls-draw-closer-owaisi-101631118881985.html
08-09-2021||Other||Stricter rules to ensure safety of passengers on public transport: Pune police chief||PUNE Amitabh Gupta, Pune commissioner of police, said stricter rules for the safety of passengers will be implemented on all modes of public transport in the city. Gupta announced this on Wednesday in the light of a case of gang-rape of a 14-year-old girl, which has not gained much traction in political circles as well“We are already in the process of formulating some new rules which will make public transport providers think twice before committing such crimes in the future. I cannot reveal the specifics at this point as I believe in making a statement after implementation. Various stakeholders are being consulted and the full effect of it will be felt after the Ganapati festival is over,” said commissioner Gupta.Regional transport officer Ajit Shinde said that he was in no position to make any comments as he had not had an interaction with the police commissioner yet. The commissioner was asked about safety of public transport facilities after this case became the second such incident in recent months, to have been initiated from a public transport depot. The 14-year-old girl was kidnapped by an autorickshaw driver from Pune railway station. The involvement of two workers of the Railways department has invoked quick action from the railway department, resulting in their suspension.The girl is believed to have been sexually assaulted by 13 of the 14 arrested men. She was found travelling to Chandigarh on September 5 with a man, her friend, whom she met in Mumbai. On August 31, she had come to the railway station to meet him, but he had not shown up at the time.The police have formed five teams in order to gather evidence and put together a timeline of the multiple locations that she was taken to after she was kidnapped around 10pm on August 31. All the arrested men are in police custody till September 16 – most are autorickshaw drivers who are friends of the main accused who first kidnapped her.“He is facing charges of kidnapping as the girl is a minor and he was taking her away from her parents. As of now, he is not facing sexual assault charges,” said Commissioner Gupta.The Pune police will also ask the state government to appoint a special public prosecutor in the case to ensure a speedy trial in the case, according to Gupta. The case will be tried in the fast track court meant for Pocso cases.Special women’s atrocity court?Chitra Wagh, head of the BJP’s women’s wing of Maharashtra, visited Commissioner Gupta and commended the work done by the police by arresting all the accused within two days.“I discussed the idea of a special women’s atrocity court in order to get speedy trials for cases under Sections like 376 (sexual assault), 354 (sexual harassment/molestation), 509 (outraging modesty of a woman), and 498(a) (domestic violence) of the Indian Penal Code. Why did none of these men feel the need to stop and question themselves while handing her around?” asked Wagh, while interacting with the media after her meeting with Commissioner Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/stricter-rules-to-ensure-safety-of-passengers-on-public-transport-pune-police-chief-101631118761338.html
08-09-2021||Kolkata||Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh says ‘we’re ready’ ahead of Bhabanipur bypolls||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) West Bengal president Dilip Ghosh on Wednesday said that the party is ready for the upcoming Bhabanipur bypolls and that their supporters are with them.“Contest is between [the] state government and [the] BJP. We’re ready,” he told news agency ANI. His statement was in reference to the CPM announcing earlier in the day that Srijib Biswas will be contesting from the Bhabanipur seat in the by-elections. Congress, on the other hand, announced yesterday that it won’t be fielding any candidate for the Bhabanipur by-polls. “There can be any number of candidates in by-polls, our voters are with us. CPI(M)-Congress announcing or not announcing their candidates isn’t a factor in West Bengal polls. They didn’t get [an] entry into [the] Assembly in [the] last polls. Contest in between state government and [the] BJP,” Ghosh was quoted as saying. The Bengal’s BJP president stressed that the Congress-CPM’s presence will “make no difference.”“They got only 10,000 to 15,000 votes in [the] last polls. It proves they’ve no existence here. No need to look at them,” he said, adding that people have “made up their minds” so the contest will be between Trinamool Congress (TMC) and BJP.It'll make no difference. They got only 10,000-15,000 votes in last polls. It proves they've no existence here. No need to look at them. People have made up their minds, contest will be b/w TMC & BJP: WB BJP chief Dilip Ghosh on Left Front announcing candidates for WB bypolls pic.twitter.com/MrG1A5Lu4rOn Tuesday, Hindustan Times reported that BJP’s Bengal unit proposed six names to the party leadership in Delhi to find a candidate against TMC supremo and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee in the Bhabanipur bypolls.“We have sent a list of six names to Delhi. It includes the names of Priyanka Tibrewal and Biswajit Sarkar among others,” a senior BJP leader said on condition of anonymity.Meanwhile, Banerjee started her campaign for the Bhabanipur bypolls on Wednesday. She informed she will be filing her nomination for the constituency on Friday (September 10).Also Read | Bhabanipur by-polls: Mamata’s plans to ensure she remains the CM of BengalAddressing a TMC workers’ convention in Chetla under Bhabanipur constituency, Banerjee said that Sovandeb Chattopadhyay, who originally won the seat, will not contest from Khardaha constituency. “He had resigned for me. He will continue as a minister,” the chief minister was quoted as saying by ANI.Mamata Banerjee has to win the Bhabanipur bypolls in order to have the chance to become a member of the state assembly, and as per the Indian constitution, this needs to be done by November 5 – for her to remain in the chief minister’s chair.The TMC chief had lost the Nandigram seat this year to her former protégé Suvendu Adhikari by a narrow margin of 1,956 votes. Adhikari, who is now the Leader of Opposition in West Bengal, left TMC after serving the party for two decades and joined BJP, a few months before the assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-bjp-chief-dilip-ghosh-says-we-re-ready-ahead-of-bhabanipur-bypolls-101631117561579.html
08-09-2021||Patna||Nitish holds high-level meeting on flood, asks for quick assessment of crop loss||Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Wednesday held a high-level meeting to review the situation of flood and drought in the state and directed the officials to provide compensation to the farmers for crop loss after assessment.The CM said that the agriculture department, disaster management department and the concerned district magistrates should carry out a panchayat-wise assessment, including those farmers who could not do sowing due to early floods, so that assistance could reach all those affected by floods. “The assessment should be completed in 3-4 days. After that the ministers in charge of the concerned districts will sit with the DMs to give it final shape,” he added.He also asked for an assessment of those districts, which have received less rainfall. Though technically none of the Bihar districts has so far been declared drought-hit this year, the impact of flood has been unprecedented, with crops on over five lakh hectares damaged.The CM also pointed to the extensive damage due to floods, which has affected nearly 70 lakh population spread across 26 districts and asked the water resources department for a comprehensive long-term plan for a permanent solution to the problem, which hits Bihar every year.Kumar also directed the animal husbandry and fisheries department to do their assessment so that assistance could reach the affected. All the DMs of the flood-affected districts, the ministers and officials of different departments were present at the meeting, which lasted over five hours.The review meeting was called after the central team’s visit to take stock of the flood situation and damage caused. The team, which came on Monday, returned on Tuesday evening after doing an aerial survey of Darbhanga, Bhagalpur and adjoining areas and holding talks with the government officials.During the meeting, a PowerPoint presentation was also made to throw light on the situation, relief and rehabilitation measures initiated and how the state had to face flood situation in three phases this year, starting from June 13 itself. The government claimed to have distributed relief worth ₹477.32-crore among 795538 families, while the remaining would receive it by September 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/nitish-holds-high-level-meeting-on-flood-asks-for-quick-assessment-of-crop-loss-101631117442087.html
08-09-2021||Dehradun||‘Need to stop migration; will improve tourism’: Uttarakhand MLA who joined BJP||Pritam Singh Panwar, the Independent MLA from Dhanolti, who joined Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday in Delhi, said that he wants to improve the tourism sector in Uttarakhand as he wants to solve work-related migration in the state.Speaking to ANI, he said, "Migration is the biggest problem in the state. People are moving to other states and we need to stop this by improving tourism sector. I will work to solve this problem."Panwar, who was formerly with Uttarakhand Kranti Dal and a former minister in the state government, joined the BJP in presence of Union minister Smriti Irani, newly-appointed election co-in charge of Uttarakhand RP Singh, BJP state chief Madan Kaushik and BJP media in-charge Anil Baluni.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/need-to-stop-migration-will-improve-tourism-uttarakhand-mla-who-joined-bjp-101631116073128.html
08-09-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand assembly clears Bill to reserve 75% of pvt sector jobs for locals||The Jharkhand Assembly Wednesday cleared the Jharkhand State Employment of Local Candidates in Private Sector Bill, 2021, which reserves 75 per cent of all existing jobs in the private sector with a monthly salary of up to ₹40,000 for locals.Once notified, the Act will make Jharkhand the third state in the country, after Andhra Pradesh and Haryana, to have passed a law reserving jobs for locals in the private sector.On Tuesday, the select committee of the state assembly had cleared the original bill with some key changes and submitted its report. The Bill was first originally tabled in the assembly in its budget session in March and was referred to the panel for deeper examination. The amended Bill was tabled in the assembly for consideration by labour minister Satyananad Bhokta on Wednesday and was passed by the House without any further discussion amid pandemonium due to the continued disruptions of proceedings by BJP legislators. However, earlier in the day, while speaking on the issue of employment policy and jobs for the locals in the House, chief minister Hemant Soren said, “The select committee report on private sector jobs bill has been tabled. It is one of the first steps in providing jobs to the locals.” Andhra Pradesh became the first state in 2019 to pass a Bill providing for 75% quota for locals in private industrial jobs. In June this year, Haryana passed a similar law, reserving 75% of private sector jobs with monthly salary of less than ₹50,000 for locals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-assembly-clears-bill-to-reserve-75-of-pvt-sector-jobs-for-locals-101631117201175.html
08-09-2021||Patna||Chirag meets Tejashwi to invite him for Paswan’s death anniversary event||Lok Janshakati Party (LJP) leader Chirag Paswan Wednesday met Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and invited him to an event being organised in Patna to mark the first death anniversary of his father and LJP founder Ram Vilas Paswan on September 12.Both scions of their respective parties sought to downplay political significance the meeting, saying their fathers shared a close bond in their political career and they had “family ties”.“I have met Tejashwi Yadav to invite him to Barkhi (a ceremony to mark the first death anniversary) of my father to be held on September 12. I will also meet Lalu Prasad Yadav tomorrow in Delhi. My aim is to invite everyone who has worked with him to pay their tributes,” Chirag Paswan told reporters.Tejashwi said his ailing father, RJD chief Lalu Prasad, might even come down to Patna to attend the event if his health permits.Paswan said he hoped to meet Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar with an invite. “I have sought an appointment. Making a demand on his time is tough, especially when it involves me,” the LJP MP from Jamui said. Ties between the two nosedived after Chirag Paswan decided to contest the 2020 Bihar assembly elections alone despite being a constituent of National Democratic Alliance (NDA).Tejashwi and Chirag did not comment on the possibility of an alliance between their parties.“We cannot say anything after what Lalu ji had said. Lalu ji himself has expressed a wish that both of us come together,” Tejashwi Yadav said. “This is not the right to discuss politics. I am here to invite them as a family,” said Chirag Paswan, who has been challenged by his uncle and MP Pashupati Kumar Paras for LJP’s control. Paras, who has demonstrated support of five of the party’s six MPs, has since become a union minister.Paras’s name figures in the RSVP section of the invite.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/chirag-meets-tejashwi-to-invite-him-for-paswan-s-death-anniversary-event-101631117083041.html
08-09-2021||Delhi||Dhanbad judge death: CBI takes over auto, mobile theft cases||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has taken over two cases filed by the Jharkhand police to investigate the theft of an auto-rickshaw and three mobile phones as part of its probe into death of a judge in Dhanbad, who was mowed down by an auto-rickshaw while on a morning walk in the coal city on July 28, officials familiar with the matter said, The Supreme Court as well as the Jharkhand high court had taken suo motu cognizance of the hit-and-run incident after CCTV footage showed the three-wheeler deliberately swerving on an empty road to knock down Uttam Anand, who was posted in Dhanbad as additional sessions judge.The auto-rickshaw, which was stolen from Dhanbad, was later recovered from the neighbouring Giridih district on July 28 night.According to the July 29 FIR (first information report), which was re-registered by the CBI on Tuesday, one Sugani Devi, 44, stated that her auto-rickshaw having registration number JH10R-0461 was stolen on July 17 by unknown persons. The same vehicle was used by the two accused, Rahul Verma and Lakhan Verma, on July 28 for mowing down the judge, police have maintained. The second case, registered by Jharkhand police August 13 and re-registered by CBI on Tuesday, pertains to theft of three mobile phones belonging to one Purendu Vishwakarma by Rahul Verma on July 27-28 night. Vishwakarma has told police that since his phones were inexpensive, he didn’t file a complaint immediately. Officials familiar with the probe said they will look at every possibility, including whether thefts were part of a conspiracy. CBI has already announced a reward of ₹10 lakh for any information regarding the death. It has also carried out polygraph and psychoanalysis tests on both the accused. The CBI had taken over the probe in August first week after the Supreme Court said the incident had larger ramifications for the independence of the judiciary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dhanbad-judge-death-cbi-takes-over-auto-mobile-theft-cases-101631117082150.html
08-09-2021||Patna||Bihar child rights panel wants schools to allow online classes too||Bihar State Child Rights Protection Commission has recommended that online classes for students should also be available in all the schools in the state, saying parents and guardians cannot be forced to send their children to the schools amid the Covid-19 pandemic. As part of its phased unlock plan, Bihar has allowed schools to resume offline classes since August 16. In a letter to the education department here on Wednesday, the Commission said public and private schools should be directed to arrange online classes too along with the offline classes. Every public and private school should conduct all examinations online till December 2021 to ensure that every student is able to participate, the panel has recommended. “Though schools have been asked to follow strictly the Covid guidelines and keep things sanitized and maintain social distancing, parents and guardians are still not sure whether the child would be safe in schools,” Pramila Kumari, chairperson, State Child Rights Protection Commission, said. She said several parents had approached the Commission to express their fears and made written representations to ask schools to allow online classes. DK Singh, chairman, Bihar Public School and Children Welfare Association, said most of the schools have stopped online classes as offline classes got started from August 16. “All other institutions and public places too have reopened. But some parents are still in fear of Covid infections,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-child-rights-panel-wants-schools-to-allow-online-classes-too-101631116902279.html
08-09-2021||Patna||Spike in viral fever cases among kids triggers fear in Bihar||Paediatric wards in major government hospitals of Bihar were full on Wednesday with children admitted with viral infections, said officials monitoring the situation, adding that the health department has directed all medical colleges and hospitals to prepare a line list of viral infection cases at their facilities on a daily basis. Officials are also looking for a quack who allegedly administered an injection to two children, suffering from fever and abdominal pain, leading to their death at Sirsha village in Amanaur block of Saran district on Monday. “We have around 50-60 cases of respiratory diseases due to viral infection in the 90-95 children admitted in our paediatric intensive care unit (PICU), which has a capacity of 102 beds,” said Dr Gopal Shankar Sahni, professor and head, department of paediatrics at Sri Krishna Medical College Hospital (SKMCH) in Muzaffarpur. At the Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH), all 84 beds in the paediatric unit were full on Wednesday. The previous day, 87 children were admitted as against 84 beds available. “We have an additional 42 beds for paediatric Covid-19 patients in the maternal child health building, where total 106 beds are for Covid-19 patients. We may shift some children there in case of a surge in cases of viral fever. No Covid-19 patient was admitted here in last five days,” said Dr Binod Kumar Singh, professor and head of paediatrics and also NHCH medical superintendent.Meanwhile, there was an increase of 21% in admission of patients to the paediatric ward through the outdoor patient department (OPD) on Wednesday, as compared to admissions on August 31, said Dr IS Thakur, medical superintendent at the Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH), the oldest medical college in the state. The PMCH paediatric ward was almost full. “As many as 165 of our 190 beds in paediatrics department are occupied. The remaining 20-25 beds are reserved for clinical viva voce of MBBS medicos, whose examinations are underway,” Dr Thakur said. Around 80% beds in the paediatric unit were occupied at AIIMS-Patna, said its professor and head, Dr Lokesh Tiwari. “As many as 42 of the 48 beds in paediatric wards are occupied. However, this is nothing unusual, as 70%-80% bed occupancy is the usual norm at our institute throughout the year. We have all kinds of patients, including four to five of respiratory illness,” said Dr Tiwari. As many as 24 cases of acute respiratory illness cases were reported at Government Medical College Hospital (GMCH) at Bettiah. “We have 30 beds and are making arrangements for another 39 beds,” said Dr Pramod Tiwari, medical superintendent of the GMCH. Two similar cases have also been reported in Motihari, said Dr Anjani Kumar, civil surgeon of East Champaran district. The 76-bed pediatric ward of the Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) was overcrowded with children admitted during last four days with suspected viral infections. A surveillance team has collected samples for testing. The doctors, however, said there was nothing to worry about, and that the manifestation of viral fever in children was an annual feature. “The onset of viral fever in children has been slightly early this year, but it has nothing to do with Covid-19. It normally begins before the onset of winter. The viral infection is acute bronchiolitis, which is associated with wheezing and cough and in a few cases fever and dengue. The infection is not at all fatal, but the fear of an anticipated third wave of Covid-19 is making parents panic and rush to doctors,” said Dr Nigam Prakash Narain, a retired professor and former head (paediatrics) at the PMCH and former vice-president of National Indian Academy of Paediatricians. “The infections are of four types — bronchiolitis, which affects children less than two years of age, and is caused either by respiratory syncytial virus or para-influenza virus; flu-like illness, dengue and adenovirus (2-3 weeks of severe cough with vomiting),” added Dr Narain. First Japanese encephalitis case in 2 years Meanwhile, the state reported its first case of Japanese Encephalitis (JE), a virus spread by the bite of infected mosquitoes, in last two years. An 11-year-old boy of West Champaran was admitted to the SKMCH on Tuesday for the same. His condition was said to be serious. (With inputs from Sandeep Bhaskar in Bettiah and Bishnu K Jha in Darbhanga)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/spike-in-viral-fever-cases-among-kids-triggers-fear-in-bihar-101631116781893.html
08-09-2021||Other||Punjab food dept seeks paddy yield of districts to start new payment system||Chandigarh The Punjab food and civil supplies department has asked the state’s agriculture department to provide district-wise estimated paddy yield for the last procurement season. This will help the state meet norms that call for integrating land records with the food grain procurement, which is scheduled to start from October 1. The system is being implemented for the first time in state. The Centre has mandated Punjab and other paddy growing states to link procurement to farmers’ land and to the yield to check bogus billing and the malpractice of adding previous seasons’ produce to the current procurement. On getting the average figures, per acre purchase by state purchase agencies and the Food Corporation of India (FCI) will be frozen at a particular limit. The state’s paddy yield varies between 27 quintal per acre to 35 quintal per acre. “We have the yield figures and will share these with the department. There is not much variation in yield from season-to-season, just 2-3%,” said director agriculture SS Sidhu. The district-wise yield figures will be linked to the procurement portal. Farmers bringing more than average produce will not be accepted. “We have to deal with the issue cautiously, so that we are within the procurement norms and also ensure that farmers do not suffer,” said a food department officer. State remote sensing centre figures show that paddy, including premium variety basmati, is sown over 72.5 lakh acre. Of this, basmati is sown over 12 lakh acre. For procurement in the upcoming season, the agriculture department has pegged total paddy arrival to 191 lakh tonne for which a Cash Credit Limit (CCL) of ₹42,000 crore has been sought from the Reserve Bank of India. The agriculture department has started crop-cutting experiments and the results will coincide with start of procurement next month. As the Centre is pushing for mandatory land record integration with food grain procurement the state government has started a process for its 10.5 lakh farmers. The food department has started arranging camps in mandis along with the arhtiyas to compile data of around 40% of the farmers, who are not clearly covered under any category as yet. The Centre has made it compulsory for Punjab to carry out procurement after taking land details from farmers, who will get their payment (MSP) for their produce (wheat and paddy), only when the revenue record of their agriculture land is linked to the Public Finance Management System (PFMS). In rabi (wheat) procurement season this year, the state had implemented the Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) system, through PFMS, by transferring crop payment directly into farmers’ bank account, bypassing the traditional system of routing payment through the arhtiyas (commission agents).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-food-dept-seeks-paddy-yield-of-districts-to-start-new-payment-system-101631116181727.html
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||Mobile phone, drugs recovered at Ambala Central Jail||Authorities of the Ambala central jail have recovered a mobile phone and two types of drugs from its premises during a checking, police said on Wednesday. As per the police, jail officials during a routine round on Tuesday found an inmate checking a piece of packet. On seeing the officials, the inmate scaled a wall to jump into another block. “The packet contained a mobile phone along with two packets of drugs. It was handed over to the police,” assistant superintendent of jail Dhajja Ram said.The police said that the packets contained 53.1 gram of sulpha and 17 gram opium. A case under the provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act and the Prisons Act has been registered against the inmate, who is yet to be identified, at the Baldev Nagar police station. The matter is under investigation, the police added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mobile-phone-drugs-recovered-from-ambala-jail-101631116001747.html
08-09-2021||Mumbai||Maratha outfits want fresh data to prove backwardness for reservation in Maharashtra||While expressing displeasure over the state government’s failure to keep the promises made to them, Maratha outfits have demanded immediate commencement of the collection of the data to prove the social and educational backwardness of the community.Rajya Sabha MP and Maratha leader Chhatrapati Sambhajiraje said on Wednesday that barring a few assurances, most of them remained to be unfulfilled. The Maratha leader had put his protest for the restoration of the Maratha quota on hold after a meeting with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and other ministers in June.“We were told that the state will take immediate steps on the demands we raised before them. Barring the funding for SARTHI and the announcement of its sub-centre Pune, all other demands remain unfulfilled. The state government has failed to make an adequate allocation for Annasaheb Patil Arthik Magas Vikas Mahamandal. It has not made provisions to recruit the community candidates, who have cleared all exams, by making legal provisions under quota. No strong steps have been taken to ensure that the review petitions filed in the Apex court come for the hearing,” Sambhajiraje said in a press conference in Mumbai.He has also demanded that the state government should immediately begin the collection of the community data to prove its backwardness. “There is no need to wait for the ruling in the review petition. There is no alternative to collect fresh data after the Supreme Court turned down Gaikwad commission’s report,” he said.The Maratha leader said that the agitation has been put on hold to avoid crowding in the wake of the threat of the third wave of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maratha-outfits-want-fresh-data-to-prove-backwardness-for-reservation-in-maharashtra-101631115041795.html
08-09-2021||Mumbai||Prepare for mini assembly polls, Sharad Pawar tells NCP leaders in Mumbai||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) is all set to start its preparations for the upcoming local bodies polls touted as ‘mini assembly elections’. Party chief Sharad Pawar asked the party leaders to start preparations. They were directed to become aggressive against the wrong policies of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Central government and raise their voice on issues that are directly related to the common people, such as a spike in prices of fuel and LPG cylinders.NCP ministers were also asked to resolve local issues related to people, hold visits of districts, flood-hit areas and ‘janata darbars’ (public courts) by following Covid-19 protocols.The party has also decided to field Other Backward Classes (OBC) candidates on the seats reserved for the community in the local bodies and fell vacant following a verdict of the Supreme Court over political reservation of the OBC community. The decision was taken in case the Apex court directed the state election commission to hold by-polls of the concerned local bodies.NCP also declared that they are not in favour of holding elections in any of the local bodies until the issue related to OBC reservation is resolved, said Nawab Malik, national spokesperson, NCP.More than 15 municipal corporations (including Mumbai, Navi Mumbai and Thane), 29 of 36 district councils and over 90 municipal councils will go for polls over the next one year. The election bandwagon to these local bodies in such a huge number is considered as the ‘mini assembly polls’.“Pawar saheb asked the party leaders to become vocal on issues directly related with the Central government especially LPG gas, fuel prices as people are very much affected. As we are unable to hold large public gatherings owing to Covid restrictions, he directed to go among people on the issue by following Covid protocols,” Malik said.“In the next five-six months elections of local bodies such municipal corporations, municipal councils, zilla parishads and nagar panchayats are expected to be held and NCP leaders should start their preparations. Ministers were asked to help local leaders in resolving issues related to the people. As far as the alliance is concerned, the decision will be taken at a later stage, based on the local situation. It is not necessary that there will be an alliance (with MVA partners) in all the local bodies,” Malik told reporters after the meeting.NCP had contested 114 seats in the state assembly elections held in 2019 and won 54 seats.The leaders present for the meeting were asked to explain the political situation of the district, public issues at the local level among others. Around 55 leaders expressed their views and opinions in the meeting that lasted for almost six hours.“The most common problem raised by the leaders was the disconnection of power connection of the farmers over non-payment of power bills. The leaders said that the farmers are already facing serious financial problems and disconnection of power bills have added to their woes and the action started by the power company needs to be stopped immediately,” said an NCP leader, wishing not to be named.“To this, Pawar saheb asked the ministers to see what can be done to provide relief to the farmers in these testing times,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-start-preparations-for-mini-assembly-polls-sharad-pawar-tells-ncp-leaders-101631114981761.html
08-09-2021||Mumbai||Expedite land acquisition for Mumbai to Ahmedabad bullet train: BJP minister||Minister of state for railways Raosaheb Danve in a meeting on Wednesday asked to expedite the land acquisition for the bullet train project between Mumbai and Ahmedabad.In the meeting with officials from National High Speed Rail Corporation Limited (NHSRCL), Western Railway (WR), collectors of Thane, Raigad and Palghar districts at the WR’s headquarters in Churchgate, Danve directed the officials to expedite the work for completion of the project within the stipulated target period to avoid an increase in cost and time. He asked the state government and railway officials to resolve concerns and issues of people who will be rehabilitated for the construction of the project.Danve tweeted, “Today at the headquarters of Western Railway @dfccil_india ,@nhsrcl held a review meeting with state government officials. Apart from speedy execution of projects, several other important topics were also discussed with emphasis on fast-track disposal of land acquisition related matters.”According to railway officials that were present in the meeting, the collectors expressed interest and assured cooperation of acquiring land in the state. “The projects are unique and so are the challenges of land acquisition in different areas. Deadlines for different areas were given and the collectors assured full cooperation in acquiring land,” said a senior railway official.Meanwhile, Danve while reviewing the tribal land acquisition for the bullet train project at Palghar district, asked the railway and state authorities to complete process by DecemberThe NHSRCL has acquired 30% land in Maharashtra, 97% of land acquisition has been done in Gujarat and 100% in Dadra and Nagar Haveli for the bullet train project.Of the 508.17km of the project, 155.76km is in Maharashtra, 384.04km in Gujarat and 4.3km in Dadra and Nagar Haveli. The estimated cost of the Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train project is ₹1,10,000 crore, of which, ₹88,000 crore will be funding from the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/expedite-land-acquisition-for-mumbai-to-ahmedabad-bullet-train-bjp-minister-101631114801920.html
08-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: In an unusual case, woman gives birth to triplets without C-section||In an unusual case, a 32-year-old woman from Bhiwandi had triplets through a normal delivery early on Tuesday. Doctors said that the case was rare also because the woman was in her 35th week of pregnancy and that the babies were conceived naturally and not with the help of assisted reproductive technology. The woman, a housewife, was in her hometown in Uttar Pradesh due to the pandemic. Despite being pregnant, she did not seek any gynaecological scan till June, when she and her husband, a daily wage labourer, returned to Bhiwandi. “We put her on regular follow-ups after she came to us for a check-up and had planned her cesarean section,” said gynaecologist Dr Humaira Shaikh, who conducted the delivery at Bhiwandi’s Royal Hospital. “We also gave her blood transfusions during the follow up as she was anaemic,” she said. On Tuesday at around 12.15am, the woman experienced pain in the abdomen. By the time she was rushed to the hospital, she was already in labour. “We carried out preliminary investigations and realised that we can go ahead with a normal vaginal delivery as the first baby was in a vertex position,” said Shaikh. Commonly during birth, the baby’s head comes out first and this is known as the vertex position. Shaikh and her team had kept the backup of the C-section ready. An anaesthetist was on standby in case an emergency procedure had to be undertaken. Before the second baby was delivered, the woman was shifted to the operation theatre. However, the second baby was also in the vertex position and could be delivered normally. “The third baby was in a horizontal position, but we got enough space to move the baby and go ahead with the delivery,” said Shaikh adding that the babies- two boys and a girl- weighed 1.7kg, 1.8kg and 1.9kg respectively. “They are low weight babies but stable with no respiratory issues,” she said. A natural conception of triplets is seen in one in 8,000 cases. “Delivering triplets through a normal delivery at 35 weeks is also rare,” said Mumbai-based gynaecologist Dr Jatinder Kaur who practices at Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital. Kaur has delivered triplets at 35 weeks once in her 15-year long practice through a C-section. “In higher-order pregnancies, maternal complications like postpartum haemorrhage are known. Expert neonatal care is also essential. Therefore, it is advisable to plan a C-section in advance,” said Kaur. Dr Ashok Anand, head of the gynaecology department at the state-run JJ Hospital agreed that it was an unusual case. “It is common to see triplets in an In-vitro Fertilisation (IVF) case, but rare in a natural conception. Also, such multiple pregnancies are always delivered via C-section procedures to lower the risk of complications,” he said. Anand said he recalls delivering triplets normally only once at JJ Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaiin-an-unusual-case-woman-gives-birth-to-triplets-without-csection-101631114681812.html
08-09-2021||Lucknow||Cong MLC for ‘chulha’ at his residence, says wood cheaper than LPG||LUCKNOW As a mark of protest against rising prices of LPG cylinders, Congress MLC Deepak Singh has asked to be provided with a ‘chulha’ instead of a gas stove at his government residence.“An LPG cylinder worth ₹975 needed to be refilled twice a month, while the cost of cooking food on a ‘chulha’ would be ₹500 per month, Singh claimed in a letter to the management officer of his official residence at Bahukhandi Awas here.Singh claimed that the majority of the legislators living in his building also wanted this arrangement as there was no chance of getting respite from the high price of LPG before 2024.‘People looking towards Cong as an option’The Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) claimed that the Samajwadi Party and the BSP were no alternative to the BJP and people of all sections of society were now looking towards the Congress as an option to vote out the Yogi Adityanath government in 2022 assembly elections. UPCC president Ajay Kumar Lallu, speaking to media persons, gave a detailed account of activities of the Congress, including the training programmes for partymen and said the party was ready for the polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/cong-mlc-for-chulha-at-residence-says-wood-cheaper-than-lpg-101631113421755.html
08-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Drone, boats to monitor illegal liquor brewing in coastal areas, mangrove belts||The state excise department now has an eye in the sky in the form of an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) to aid its crackdown against illicit hooch manufacturers. The department has been given a drone and boats to patrol coastal areas and mangrove belts, where this liquor is brewed illegally. The pilot project, which has been launched from Thane district, may soon be replicated across Maharashtra, including Mumbai, Raigad and Palghar.Kantilal Umap, commissioner, State Excise, Maharashtra, said that the state excise staff in Thane district had been given a drone, seven mechanised boats and four paddle boats through the District Planning Committee’s funds (DPC). This equipment cost around ₹1.25 crore. “We have requested for this to happen in Palghar as well. We are also eager to get this modern equipment for use in the Mumbai suburban district,” he added.Hooch is brewed largely in coastal areas, mangrove belts, marshy lands and areas with dense vegetation and forests, which law-enforcing authorities found difficult to access. The drums containing the brew are often buried for fermentation on the banks of water bodies like rivers and creeks, especially during the monsoons.“We lacked our own boats to crackdown on illegally-brewed liquor. For a raid, we had to rent boats from local residents who may be afraid of or even hand-in-glove with these bootleggers. They may refuse to co-operate or even leak out information. Having our own fleet of boats will help us conduct raids effectively,” said Usha Verma, director, vigilance and enforcement, State Excise.The department is also undertaking a special drive against hooch and duty-evaded liquor from other states from 5 September to 8 October.Nilesh Sangade, superintendent, State Excise, Thane, said after they received the drone and boats a month ago, they used drones to reconnoitre areas and check where liquor was being brewed illegally and followed it up by raids using boats. Around 12 such raids had been conducted in a fortnight. Some areas in Thane where hooch is produced are the creeks, Kariwali, Ulhasnagar and Dombivali.Between 1 April and 31 August, state excise officials have filed 10,195 cases across the state for production, sale and transport of illicit liquor, arrested 4,377 people and seized liquor and vehicles worth ₹21.60 crore.Hooch, or tharra, khopdi, and gavthi daaru as it is referred to, is often laced with dangerous chemicals like methyl alcohol to make it more potent and give the drinkers a stronger ‘kick.’ However, despite the obvious risks to life and health, this is often consumed by the poor and working-class, as it is sold at rates as cheap as ₹10 per pouch or glass, as against country liquor, which is priced at around ₹50 per bottle.In 2015, over 100 people lost their lives after consuming hooch at Malvani. Similarly, this illicit alcohol also caused the deaths of around 90 people in Vikhroli in 2004 and 101 people at Tardeo in 1991.An alcohol tragedy at Khopoli in the 1970s led to the state government formulating the country liquor scheme in 1973 to make good quality liquor available to the working class at cheap rates.The bootlegger mafia is said to have been born after the decision of the Morarji Desai government in the Bombay Province to impose prohibition in 1952. One of the prominent liquor mafias of Mumbai was the dreaded underworld don Varadarajan Mudaliar, who manufactured the brew in areas like Dharavi and supplied it across the city.Hooch manufacturing processLow-quality black jaggery, navasagar or yeast, peels of citrus fruits like oranges and sweet lime are mixed with water and kept for a few days in a barrel. This barrel is submerged in water in shallow creeks, nallahs and rivulets for a few days to aid fermentation.Some bootleggers even add organic waste, lizards, rodents, leather chappals, as this is supposed to make the brew stronger.After the brew ferments, some ‘masala’ is added to this wash, and it is put on a wood-fired ‘bhatti.’ A pipe collects the condensed steam.This liquor has around 16 to 17% alcohol content, and chemicals like ethanol and methanol are added to it for a stronger ‘kick.’ However, excess infusion of methanol may lead to fatal consequences like the loss of vision and even death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaidrone-boats-to-monitor-illegal-liquor-brewing-in-coastal-areas-mangrove-belts-101631112402286.html
08-09-2021||Lucknow||Village heads to assist Lucknow admn in fight against dengue||LUCKNOW The district administration on Wednesday launched a special cleanliness drive in the rural pockets of Lucknow to curb dengue and other vector-borne diseases. Gram pradhans were asked to ensure cleanliness and check mosquito breeding in their vicinity. “The threat of dengue and other vector-borne diseases is looming large on the entire district and rural pockets are no exception. Hence, we have launched a special cleanliness drive that would cover rural areas of the district,” said Abhishek Prakash, district magistrate. “The village heads will have a crucial role to play as they would be the ones to spearhead the drive in their respective areas,” said the DM. The cleanliness drive would include cleaning of ponds, lakes, lanes, villages, garbage dumps etc. “It would be ensured that the areas are clean and cleared of stagnant water that acts as a breeding point for mosquitoes,” he said. The DM said village heads would also ensure anti-larvae fogging at ponds and lakes in their areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/village-heads-to-assist-lucknow-admn-in-fight-against-dengue-101631111383234.html
08-09-2021||Other||Punjab CM to launch employment training centre in Tarn Taran||Chandigarh Punjab technical education minister Charanjit Channi on Wednesday said chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh will launch two projects that the department has prepared through video conferencing on Thursday (September 9). The first project that will be inaugurated is the Centre for Training and Employment of Punjab Youth (C-Pyte), being set up at Asal Uttar (near the memorial of Abdul Hamid, of Indo-Pakistan War 1965) in Tarn Taran district. The institute will impart pre-selection training to educated unemployed youth of Punjab for recruitment in the army/ paramilitary forces, besides imparting technical training to upgrade their skills, the minister said, adding, “Free food and accommodation will be provided to the youngsters during their training. The youth of Tarn Taran can really shine here and get good jobs.” He added that to make this project a reality, 8 acre 7 kanal land of Asal Uttar gram panchayat has been transferred to the department of employment generation, skill development and training. Channi added that the second scheme that the CM would launch is free online coaching to Punjab’s youth for government (state/central) jobs. “HPCL Mittal Energy Limited, Bathinda has given ₹1 crore under Corporate Social Responsibility for this project. Classes 10-12 qualified students can get free coaching for exams that have this qualification as eligibility. The course will be designed, specially for competitive examinations. The duration of the course will be four months,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-cm-to-launch-employment-training-centre-in-tarn-taran-101631110721972.html
08-09-2021||Lucknow||Expand BSP’s base among ‘sarv samaj’, Maya tells partymen||LUCKNOW Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati has decided to mobilise the Dalits – the core support base of the party – for the 2022 assembly elections with a show of strength at the Kanshi Ram memorial in Lucknow on October 9 (the death anniversary of party founder Kanshi Ram).A day after addressing the ‘Prabudh Varg Sammelan’ aimed at garnering he support of intellectuals, especially Brahmins, Mayawati on Wednesday instructed partymen to work on a war footing to expand the party’s base among the ‘sarv samaj’.Addressing party leaders and office-bearers in the state unit office on Wednesday, Mayawati called upon supporters from across UP to visit Lucknow in strength to pay tribute to Kanshi Ram on his death anniversary. Earlier, the party used to organise the programme at divisional and district headquarters. But the programme will be organized on the premises of the grand memorial located in Lucknow, she said.BSP office-bearers were entrusted with the task of transportation of party workers from various districts to the state capital. After paying obeisance to the Dalit icon, Mayawati will address party workers and motivate them to challenge the might of the BJP, SP and Congress in the assembly polls.Mayawati directed party leaders to organise cadre camps in Dalit dominated villages to enlighten workers about the strategy for the 2022 polls. “Along with launching membership drive, the workers should donate to the party coffers for the election campaign,” she said.Before the 2012 and 2017 assembly elections, Mayawati had organised programmes on the premises of Bhimrao Ambedkar and Kanshi Ram memorials to mobilise Dalit supporters.After successive electoral defeats in the 2012 and 2017 assembly elections and desertion of senior leaders, the party cadre had been lying low. “Even when the BSP lost in the assembly election, Dalits stood solidly like a rock behind the party. Attempts by rival parties to lure Dalits failed and the BSP is proud of the support of the Dalit community,” she said.A BSP leader said the party chief directed office-bearers to strengthen booth committees in all the 403 assembly constituencies. Leaders coming from the Dalit community will head the booth committees in majority of the constituencies, he said.In a tweet on Wednesday, Mayawati said party leaders and office-bearers had been directed to strengthen the party organisation to the polling booth level. During the visit to Kanshi Ram memorial on October 9, party workers will follow Covid protocol and cover their faces with mask, she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/expand-bsp-s-base-among-sarv-samaj-maya-tells-partymen-101631109328642.html
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||PU allows students to pay semester fee in instalments||Panjab University (PU) has allowed students to pay their semester fee in four instalments again this year considering the problems faced by them during the pandemic. The decision was taken after a varsity panel made the recommendations to allow students to pay fee in instalments during a meeting in August. The communication in this regard was issued by the varsity administration to heads of teaching departments on Wednesday. The development comes after students submitted a representation to PU last month.“In the wake of difficulties faced by the students (due to prevailing situation of Covid-19), the competent authority, on the recommendation of the committee, has allowed the payment of course fee for the session 2021-22 in four instalments instead of two, in anticipation of the approval of the syndicate,” reads the communication issued by PU.It also states that if a student does not deposit the full fee within the time prescribed for the fourth and the last instalment, then a late fee of ₹2,000 will be charged.Last month, many student bodies had written to the dean student welfare (DSW) after students were asked to pay fees by August 24, asking the varsity to implement the previous year’s system of allowing payment in instalments. They also asked students not to pay the fees unless their demands were accepted. “The university is very insensitive that it took so many days to address such a small issue. But it is our win and the hard work of student leaders,” said Ankur Goyat of the Youth For Swaraj (Y4S). Departments to maintain recordThe heads of the departments have also been requested to maintain a proper record of fees deposited by students. They have been asked not to release the DMCs/degrees without seeking clearance from the fee checking (students section) of the accounts department. Students were allowed to pay their fees in four instalments last year after a series of protests. PU has already decided to suspend the annual hike in semester fees for varsity students and those studying in affiliated colleges for the second year in a row.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-allows-students-to-pay-semester-fee-in-instalments-101631109149088.html
08-09-2021||Lucknow||OTT will help us get a wider audience: Anupam Ghosh||Filmmaker and writer Anupam Ghosh is happy that his new venture got streamed recently on two different platforms. The Lucknowite feels that till last year it was tough for filmmakers to find audience without big stars but then OTT turned the things for good. “I had completed writing the film in 2019 and was working on the post-production since last year. After the film was ready, I started meeting theatre owners in Mumbai and was given a slot that i knew would never attract audience. So, eventually I released my debut feature as a director on OTT and I am extremely happy that it will get a wider audience now.” Talking about his new film, Ghosh says, “After releasing two short films in the last few years, this story was in my head. I was working on the script that was based on a real life event that happened a few years back. The subject of my film Ganda Baccha is about the youth of our country who have lost their way and end up in a crime-terror nexus,” says the Salesman and Chinky My Foot, director. Winner of Gomti-Gaurav Samman says he is a mix of Bengali and Ganga-Jamuni culture and that well reflects in his stories too. “Be it theatre, TV or films I believe in telling stories that are real and helps me to give something back to the society. I have shot this project at real locations in Malihabad, near Lucknow.” He has written shows like 9 Malabar Hill, Basera, Intezaar Aur Sahi, Dariba Dairies besides being a director as well as a creative director for Ansh and Mr & Mrs Sharma Allahabadwale before coming up with his own production house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ott-will-help-us-get-a-wider-audience-anupam-ghosh-101631108905499.html
08-09-2021||Bangalore||BBMP shares revised guidelines for Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations, stresses on masks, Covid appropriate behaviour||The Bengaluru civic body on Wednesday issued new guidelines to be followed during the Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations in the city in view of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.“With Ganesha Chaturthi just around the corner, here are the guidelines to be followed to ensure safety of everyone involved. Follow Covid appropriate behaviour and help us contain the spread of the virus,” said Gaurav Gupta, chief commissioner of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), sharing a list of 15 revised guidelines. It also showed that legal action would be taken against anyone found in violation of the order.With Ganesha Chaturthi just around the corner, here are the guidelines to be followed to ensure safety of everyone involved. Follow Covid appropriate behaviour and help us contain the spread of the virus.#BBMPFightsCovid19 pic.twitter.com/k1wlxVmx4GThe guidelines came a day after the Bengaluru administration announced that the celebrations in the city would be allowed only for three days, even though the state government had allowed it for five days. The BBMP had allowed a three-day celebration for the festival during last year too because of the pandemic.“Ganesha festival will not be allowed for more than three days in Bengaluru city. There should not be any procession while bringing the idol or during immersion,” Gupta had said on Tuesday.In the guidelines, the BBMP directed the public to celebrate the festival in a “simple manner with a minimum number of devotees inside the temple and in their own homes or government/private open areas.”Also read | Covid-19: Delhi bans Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations in publicFurther, it capped the height of the idol to be erected in public places at 4ft and in houses at 2ft. In temples and public places, daily sanitisation, thermal screening of visitors and sanitation facilities for them have been mandated. Maintaining six-feet distance, face masks have also been made compulsory for everyone in these premises.Mentioning that the installation of the idols must be done without causing any inconvenience to traffic, the BBMP allowed one idol per ward across the 198 wards in the city. Also, only 20 people would be allowed in the venue of these idols at once. Bengaluru police would deploy home guards at the installation venue to ensure adherence. BBMP marshals have been directed to penalise anyone found violating Covid appropriate behaviour.“Any kind of cultural/dance/music and especially through DJ and other entertainment programmes will not be allowed at the Ganesh idol installation venue,” the BBMP said, noting that DJ/loudspeakers have been banned.Covid-19 negative report and vaccination certificate have been mandated for organisers of the celebrations. Further, they have also been directed to conduct vaccination drives at these venues while health officials have been asked to oversee this process.Among other orders, the BBMP said that the procession before and after the installation of the deity have been banned. Statues made of plaster of Paris have been banned inside BBMP limits.For people celebrating in their homes, BBMP has deployed mobile tankers for the immersion of the idols while those idols in public or private open areas need to be immersed by a “minimum number of people in pits/mobile tankers by the BBMP/Karnataka pollution control board.” The exact count of people allowed during these events were not explicitly mentioned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bbmp-shares-revised-guidelines-for-ganesh-chaturthi-celebrations-stresses-on-masks-covid-appropriate-behaviour-101631107548751.html
08-09-2021||Other||40kg drug smuggling from Gurdaspur: 3 booked for sheltering main accused||Amritsar Police have booked three persons, including two women, for providing shelter to the main accused in the case of smuggling of 40-kg heroin from Pakistan. In a joint operation with the Border Security Force (BSF), Amritsar-rural police had recovered 40.8-kg heroin along the India-Pakistan border in the Dera Baba Nanak sector of Gurdaspur district on August 22. The contraband, which was packed in 39 plastic packets, was pushed into the Indian territory through a PVC pipe inserted through the barbed wire fence in the Panjgraian Border Out-post (BOP) area. The seizure was carried out on an Intelligence input. Besides the heroin, 180-gram opium and two plastic pipes were also seized. A motorcycle and a scooter belonging to Indian smugglers were also impounded.Nirmal Singh, alias Sonu Mayer, of Bhakna village near Attari, was booked for smuggling the consignment. A notorious drug smuggler, he has been absconding. Those booked are Nirmal Singh’s wife Gurpreet Kaur, her father Harbhajan Singh, and her aunt (father’s sister-in-law) Rekha of Dhapai village in Amritsar. Police said, “Gurpreet and her father Harbhajan arranged Nirmal’s accommodation in Rekha’s house after the contraband was seized.”A police source added, “Our teams have been working round the clock to nab Nirmal, for his arrest would lead us to more recoveries. Nirmal can also disclose possible links of Pakistan with contraband smuggling.”A case has been registered under Sections 212 (harbouring offender) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Ramdas police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/40kg-drug-smuggling-from-gurdaspur-3-booked-for-sheltering-main-accused-101631107584833.html
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chitkara University bags A+ NAAC grade||Chitkara University has been awarded the rating of A+ by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC), which places it among the 5% Higher Education Institutions (HEIs) in India to be granted such a grade. The university has scored a cumulative grade point average (CGPA) of 3.26 on four-point scale. The university has been praised for its three major features by the peer team — good infrastructure for education, innovation and research; neat and clean, green, and well-maintained campus; and the location of the institute in a well-developed urban area with good placement opportunities.Chitkara University Chancellor Ashok K Chitkara said, “It is the years of hard work by our students, staff and faculty that resulted in securing this recognition. Moreover, the university has a well-defined research promotion policy which has led to the development of state-of-the-art facilities. CURIN has multidisciplinary advanced facilities supported by research funding from government agencies such as DST and DRDO to the tune of ₹37.24 crore. The research scholars and faculties are provided seed money for undertaking research and filing patents.”University’s Pro Chancellor Madhu Chitkara said, “The curricula are developed following standardised procedures and revised at regular intervals by taking feedbacks from all our stakeholders. Experimental, participative, and project-based learning is in practice. We have adopted flexible CBCS system that gives freedom to the students to undergo multidisciplinary approach. The assessment process is well defined to evaluate the attainment level in critical thinking and problem-solving skill through programme-specific learning.”Established in 1994, NAAC is an autonomous body of UGC which assesses and accredits HEIs. University’s V-C Archana Mantri said, “The varsity practices Global Week for students and faculties exchange programme with foreign academic institutions. Various dynamic collaborations have been established through internationally funded research projects, international conferences and cultural immersion across the campus. A significant number of global experts (250) and students (25,000) have been impacted through this practice.”Director, accreditation and quality assurance cell, KK Mishra said, “In the old scheme before 2017, the entire evaluation was based on an overhauled visit by the peer team, but under the current process, 70% of the evaluation is based on data from the institution and university that is evaluated by a third party that makes it even harder and stricter to be accredited.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chitkara-university-bags-a-naac-grade-101631106685619.html
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||Olympic medallists look forward to memorable dinner with Punjab CM||Keeping his promise, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh is set to host and cook a lavish dinner for Punjab’s Olympic medal winners and gold medallist Neeraj Chopra at his Siswan farmhouse near Chandigarh on Wednesday. Also read: Watch: Afghan Sikhs flee from Taliban, take refuge at Delhi gurudwaraCapt Amarinder Singh had promised such a meal to the Punjab players who had participated and also won medals at the Tokyo Olympics during a felicitation function last month. It was discus thrower Kamalpreet Kaur who initiated this request to him during the felicitation function. “The Punjab CM has a big heart. I requested him for such a get-together, and he was kind enough to agree to it. It feels wonderful when a person of his stature values athletes. I am excited to join other athletes during the dinner and taste all the delicacies which sir will cook. I will never forget this gesture. I am foodie but a vegetarian, so will be eyeing the vegetarian dishes,” said Kamalpreet, who hails from Kabar Wala, Malout, a village in Muktsar district. She had finished sixth in the discus throw event at Tokyo. Capt loves cooking for guests Capt Amarinder Singh had said during the function that he was not a foodie but loved cooking for his guests. It is expected that the players will be served a royal Patiala treat from pulao, lamb, chicken, aloo and zarda rice. Expressing delight over the dinner invite, Indian men’s hockey team captain Manpreet Singh said, “The whole country has bestowed us with so much love and warmth. It is unimaginable. The Punjab CM has been kind, encouraging and treated us all as his children. I’m looking forward to the dinner and spending time with the athletes and CM sir.” During the felicitation function on August 12, Capt Amarinder Singh had elevated Manpreet from the post of deputy superintendent of police to superintendent of police. Manpreet, who belongs to Mithapur village in Jalandhar district, got ₹2.5 crore as prize money. The cash reward for 11 players from the state, who were part of the Indian hockey team that won a bronze after 41 years, was increased from the earlier ₹1 crore to ₹2.51 crore each. Vice-captain Harmanpreet Singh, Rupinder Pal Singh, Simranjit Singh, Mandeep Singh, Gurjant Singh, Shamsher Singh, Varun Kumar, Dilpreet Singh, Hardik Singh and Krishan Pathak from Punjab are expected to attend the dinner. On a cheat diet since Olympics The Indian women’s team could not win a medal during the Tokyo Olympics, but they finished creditably fourth. Gurjit Kaur and Reena Khokhar from the women’s team will be there during the dinner. Drag-flicker Gurjit too seemed excited and said, “Since the Olympics ended, we have been attending felicitation events. But the heart is where home is. The Punjab government has given us so much love and appreciation and not to forget the financial aid, it is just outstanding. As far as dinner is concerned, I have been on a cheat diet since the last game and am so excited to eat the delicacies during dinner. I won’t count the calories.” From Miadi Kalan village in Amritsar, Gurjit will be accompanied by her sister Pradeep Kaur. Boxer Simranjit Kaur, shooters Anjum Moudgil and Angadveer Singh, athletes Tejinder Pal Singh Toor and Gurpreet Singh will also be there. However, all eyes will be on Neeraj Chopra during the dinner, who had won an elusive gold for India in javelin throw. The 23-year-old athlete from Haryana could not make it to the function on August 12 and was awarded in Chandigarh on Wednesday evening with a cash award of ₹2.51 crore during a function. Along with him, Jakarta Para-Asian athlete Gurlal Singh was also felicitated. Punjab sports and youth services minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi handed over the cash awards to Gurlal and Neeraj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/olympic-medallists-look-forward-to-memorable-dinner-with-punjab-cm-101631105244686.html
08-09-2021||Other||Opposition questions govt, AASU silence on crucial Clause 5 of Assam Accord||Opposition parties in Assam have slammed the Bharatiya Janata Party-led state government and the All Assam Students Union (AASU) for their silence on the crucial Clause 5 of Assam Accord during a meeting held on Tuesday to discuss the implementation of the 36-year-old deal. The clause relates to detection, deletion (from electoral rolls) and deportation of foreigners who entered Assam illegally after March 25, 1971. On Tuesday, Assam govt. and AASU agreed on forming a panel to implement clauses 6, 7, 9 and 10 of the accord. The Assam Accord was a tripartite agreement signed in 1985 between the Centre, the All Assam Students Union (AASU) and the All Assam Gana Sangram Parishad (AAGSP) that brought the six-year-long anti-foreigner movement in the state to an end. While some provisions of the accord, which primarily sought detection and deportation of foreigners who entered the state after March 25, 1971, have been implemented, several others, including Clause 6, have remained unfulfilled. “It is surprising that both the state government and AASU remained silent on Clause 5 while they formed another committee to seek ways to implement other clauses in the accord. The heart of the Assam Accord has been taken away,” Congress MLA and leader of opposition in state assembly Debabrata Saikia said. On Monday, AASU and state government agreed on forming an eight-member sub-committee consisting of three Cabinet ministers and five AASU representatives. It has been given a timeline of three months (after formation) to prepare the accord implementation roadmap. The sub-committee would look into all aspects of the accord including Clause 6 that deals with providing constitutional safeguards to Assamese people, Clause 7 on economic development, Clause 9 on securing the India-Bangladesh border to prevent further infiltration, Clause 10 on prevention of encroachment of government lands, AASU chief adviser Samujjal Bhattacharya said. “A committee constituted by Centre has already submitted its recommendations on implementing Clause 6 of the accord. No action has been taken on that and instead another new sub-committee has been formed. This seems like a ploy to confuse the public and distract them from the real issue,” said Saikia. Clause 6 of the accord states, “Constitutional, legislative and administrative safeguards, as may be appropriate, shall be provided to protect, preserve and promote the cultural, social, linguistic identity and heritage of the Assamese people”. In February last year, a 13-member committee formed by Centre had submitted to the state government its recommendations of how to implement Clause 6. “The government has killed the basic premise of Assam Accord i.e. Clause 5, which deals with detection, deletion and deportation of illegal foreigners,” said Md Aminul Islam, MLA and organising secretary of All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF). “The present chief minister was a minister for the Assam Accord implementation for 10 years in previous governments. He failed to do anything at that time and now a new drama has started with creation of another committee as the present government doesn’t have any agenda for development,” he added. Following Tuesday’s meeting, parliamentary affairs minister Pijush Hazarika had said that both the state government and AASU decided to move ahead first with issues on which both sides didn’t have any dispute and then focus on all other aspects of the accord. “We discussed on ways to implement clauses 6, 7, 9 and 10 of the accord. Talks were also held on issues on which both sides had differences and try and find ways to move forward,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/opposition-questions-govt-aasu-silence-on-crucial-clause-5-of-assam-accord-101631103684499.html
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||An inspiring tale of a ‘grand’ mother, unsung superwoman||The devastating wave of my mother’s sudden demise had dismantled the wholesome configuration of our house like a house of cards. However, enhancing her stature to an unmovable rock in the whirlpool of sorrows, my gritty granny towered tall and stately in exhibiting her tough role, wiping our tears in public and her own in private. Despite her age, she forsook her comfortable living back in the village to join us in the bustling city life to help her son’s family rise from the ashes bit by bit. Her unexpected stance to undertake an uphill task of rearing three young kids, including my two elder siblings, put the speculation of dad’s second marriage at rest against our forthright reservation in accepting a new lady as our stepmother. Taking up multiple roles to the circumstantial needs was her inspiring flair. Getting up too early like a diligent homemaker, she’d prepare breakfast for the entire family, and pack four tiffins for dad’s office and three school going children. Accustomed to living in the green and spacious rustic settings, she never whined about her personal stifling travails, dedicating her entire living to forging a promising future for all of us besides leaning a comforting shoulder to her bereaved son mutely battling his inner longings for his departed better half. To engage in a long-winded conversation with each one of us in the evening was her unbroken routine with a covert aim to ensure pangs of loneliness didn’t overpower us at the melancholic light of the twilight. What indeed strengthened the family’s balance sheet were her hawk-eyes, keeping a tab on our routine expenditure. Anyone, including breadwinner dad, would get a dressing down lest they dared to splurge on needless things. Her occasional tightening of the noose around her adrenaline-bound grandchildren driving high on hormonal imbalances getting through their impressionable age successfully averted our expected derailing from righteous paths. The truth is, healing powers of time failed to fill the motherly vacuum in our lives, but our grandmother’s presence did help ease our angst. The tough time slowly flew by, giving way to prosperous years. Both my sisters got married in well-to-do families, and I too got a government job and a supportive spouse. Scooting down memory lane, my heart often fills with utmost respect to grandmother’s priceless contribution besides experiencing a sinking feeling over an insidious thought how our future would have spelt, had she not donned the role of our ‘mother’, earning the much-deserved epithet of being our ‘grand’ mother. Holding my newborn son in her arms scaled her unsung accomplishments to a higher mark, straddling three generations of different timelines inextricably entwined in the web of her love and care. She would sit her great grandson upon her toes in locking cross of her veined legs to bathe him with lukewarm water, dress him as the most loyal babysitter, and rock his cradle singing familiar lullabies until his working parents returned home. Cut to the present, she gets him ready for school, slipping his tiffin and notebooks into his bag, seats him in his Montessori van and picks him in the afternoon. Our entire clan, spanning people of all ages, lovingly calls her with a universal name, Beebi Ji, unmindfully underlining one gospel truth that addressing an unsung ‘superwoman’ like her with one specific relation would indeed belie her exceptional virtue of fitting into multiple roles at composite levels and above all, shifting gears to the need of the hour. sandeep.charnoal@gmail.comThe writer is an Amritsar-based professional in the banking sector||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/an-inspiring-tale-of-a-grand-mother-unsung-superwoman-101631103444795.html
08-09-2021||Pune||Sutradhara’s tales: 350-year old Peshwa-era Katraj nahar keeps Pune water secure even today||PUNE Every year during the monsoon months, I am awakened by frantic calls from residents of the peth areas. The agitated residents narrate: “Our basement is flooded, madam! We have recently shifted into a new building and we do not know the source of the water, but it is flooding our entire basement. What should we do?” I direct them to the PMC’s water department. Such calls are regular during the monsoon months and people wonder why. It is because of a perennial water source under various peths which modern development and city governance have chosen to neglect; a matter of great embarrassment indeed.I have often said in my talks that Pune’s development is directly a function of water and it is more so during the 18th century, the formative years of urban Pune.Any urban settlement, even in the medieval times could not develop without sufficient and secure water sources.As the great visionary Nanasaheb Peshwa envisaged and planned the development of the peths, trade, religious complexes, gardens and so on, making permanent public arrangements for water proved to be critical task. Before this, the limited Pune population subsisted on seasonal streams, river water, and wells. The water, then, was not always clean and had to be fetched from distances. Now, the Sahyadri hills and forts are well equipped to supply water through rock-cut tanks and a network of stream and lakes, but the plains of Pune demanded a different strategy. Various Dakhhani sultanates such as Nizamshahi of Ahmednagar and the Adilshahi of Bijapur had mastered the art of harnessing water for large settlements. This can be seen in the form of various nahar or canal systems in Aurangabad, Junnar, Bijapur, and Ahmednagar thanks to the efforts of able administrators such as Malik Amber. Inspired by such systems, Nanasaheb Peshwa envisioned a water system that would not only provide water throughout the year, but also be clean and available at the doorstep. For this, two streams flowing near Katraj village, the Fadtari stream and the Navlaicha nala, were selected for creating dammed lakes. Two lakes were commissioned to be built, a smaller one upstream and a lower one with a bigger capacity as per the sloped terrain. Work began in 1749 for the upper lake with a dam wall of 600 feet in length and eight feet wide. The wall was equipped with holes at various levels which could be opened and closed either to store water or to allow the flow further. The main storage lake was built between 1755 and 1757 at a lower level. The wall of the storage lake measured approximately 1,000x15 feet and was around 40 feet high. The two lakes were connected in such a way that silt from the stream and rain water would settle at various storage levels and allow clean water to flow on to the next stage. The excess of water from both lakes drains into the original Ambil stream.The water from these storage lakes was brought to a settlement via a long, underground aquaduct stretching 8km across, via a dug channel. The dug channel was 30 feet below ground, six feet high and 2.3 feet wide, water-proofed with brick and lime mortar. The channels travelled from various areas such as Katraj, Indiranagar, Padmavati, Arnayaeshwar, Sanas chowk, Wadia hospital, Kala houd tank, Badami houd tank, Bhau maharaj bol , Tulshibaug, Kotwal chawadi, Faraskhana, and Nanawada to Shaniwar wada. On its way it branched off and irrigated numerous public and private tanks, wells and wadas of prominent Peshwa-period sardars and nobles. It ultimately meets the river Mutha through an underground channel at Onkareshwar and Amruteshwar ghats. Most of the water supply to private homes came from wells which were narrow in circumference and were either stone or brick- lined. Some used the Persian wheel to draw water, especially for irrigation of gardens.The channel travelled along the gentle slope from lakes to various parts of medieval Pune and was provided with air release and settlement ducts. These ducts are called “utshwas” literally meaning exhaled breath or air. These “utshwas” were built at every 30 metres and at places where the canal changes its direction. An eight to 10 feet deep well was built below each “utshwas”, to allow clean flow of water and collection of silt at the base which was regularly cleaned. At certain places, water from an “utshwas” well could be collected by building a small wall and then accessed via a tap.Stone pipes and taps were used at certain locations to regulate and access water flow. Such pipes and attachments can be seen preserved at the Bharat Itihas Samshodhak Mandal’s museum. Public tanks built over Katraj nahar during the Peshwa period proved to be great utility and convenience for residents of various peths. These public tanks were elaborate structures built to provide water for washing, cleaning and drinking and were located at prominent places. The Peshwa archives inform us about the logistics of building one such Kotwal tank by the Kirad caste. The Beldars use to specialise in demolition, quarrying stones, rebuilding terraces and entire structures. Around 175 Beldars, plus their women, 200 labourers and 305 draft animals such as donkeys and male water-buffaloes were employed to complete this average-sized project. These numbers offer us good idea about what an enormous feat of construction the entire Katraj water system was. In its heyday, the Katraj system would provide 2.3 million to 2.5 million litres of water every day to medieval Pune. The Katraj water system network amongst other water sources of the Peshwa period has single-handedly contributed to the flourishing and rapid urban development of Pune, ensuring water security.Most of these public tanks were operational till today, but have been encroached upon or engulfed by road widening. Few such as Nana houd opposite Nana wada are still in use. Various wadas and even apartments who have kept the wells are effectively using clean water of the Katraj nahar as additional water supply, even today. However, the irresponsible digging of deep foundations for new constructions and abrupt closing of the channel has led to a break in continuous flow at various places and leads to flooding.The original Ambil Odha was not diverted when the Katraj water system became operational. In 1755, Nanasaheb Peshwa built a bund across the Ambil stream, to divert the stream out of the city to avoid flash floods and to supply water to the Parvati lake.Shrikrishna Bhagwat, Shriram Bhagwat and Nandkumar Bangude were the young researchers who traced the entire underground Katraj canal and travelled underground to explore it first-hand during the last decade. Pallavee Gokhale, an archaeologist and GIS expert has scientifically studied the entire route and for the first time, prepared 3D maps to demonstrate the entire canal system, through scaled maps.Through such numerous efforts, we Punekars are made well aware of a monumental endeavour of public utility and proud heritage in the form of Nanasaheb’s “Katraj Nal yojna”. Now, the onus is on us and the governing bodies of the city to cherish and revive this invaluable khajina*! (*khajina (Marathi): literally means treasure, and can also mean water)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sutradharas-tales-350-year-old-peshwa-era-katraj-nahar-keeps-pune-water-secure-even-today-101631102664591.html
08-09-2021||Jaipur||Former Rajasthan assembly speaker Kailash Meghwal to move censure motion against LoP||Former speaker of the Rajasthan Assembly and sitting BJP MLA Kailash Meghwal has decided to move a censure motion against Leader of Opposition Gulabchand Kataria over his controversial statement against Maharana Pratap and Lord Ram in the recent past. Meghwal has written to party president JP Nadda claiming Kataria’s statements have damaged the image of the party. He has also written a letter to BJP state president Satish Poonia informing him that he will move a resolution against Kataria in the party’s legislature meeting ahead of the assembly session which will begin on September 9. In April, this year, while campaigning for by-polls in Rajsamand, Kataria had triggered a row by making derogatory comments about legendary Rajput ruler Maharana Pratap. Around the same time, he had also said that, if the BJP had not been there, Shri Ram’ would have been in the sea. The remarks had led to widespread criticismThe resolution will condemn Kataria for his statements and comments about Maharana Pratap and Lord Ram which caused the party to lose the by-polls, indicates Meghwal’s letter written to Poonia on September 4. Meghwal has asked Poonia, who is also an MLA, to convene the proceedings of the meeting as the censure motion is against the leader of opposition in the assembly.. In the letter written to JP Nadda, Meghwal has referred to Kataria’s remarks about Maharana Pratap and Lord Ram. He said that the party has suffered a huge loss due to Kataria’s controversial statements. Reacting to the issue, Kataria said that he had heard that Meghwal would bring a censure motion against him at the BJP legislature party meeting, and he was ready for whatever decision the party takes. “I am ready for whatever decision the party takes about me,” he said in a video message. BJP leaders, however, refused to comment on the issue. People close to state party chief Satish Poonia claimed that no such letter has been received. Political analyst Manish Godha said Meghwal and Kataria have had differences since the beginning but this letter seems be related to the upcoming by-polls of Vallabnagar where Kataria is opposing Randheer Singh Bhindar. Bhindar is known to be close to former CM Vasundhara Raje, and Meghwal too is close to Raje. Commenting on the letter, transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas said that the questions which Meghwal has raised are important. “Though it is their internal matter, the questions which he has has raised are important,” said Khachariyawas. Health minister Raghu Sharma said that infighting in the opposition party has clearly surfaced and is visible. “The sort of circumstances which have been created clearly shows that BJP is an indisciplined party. There are six CM candidates in BJP. The party recently took out a Jan Aashirwad yatra but what they are seeking blessings for?” Sharma asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/former-rajasthan-assembly-speaker-kailash-meghwal-to-move-censure-motion-against-lop-101631099962935.html
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal tourism: Homestays draw tourists to Chamba’s Pangi valley||The Himachal Pradesh government is promoting homestay tourism in the remote Pangi valley of Chamba district to generate self-employment opportunities for local youngsters. A team of the state tourism department recently undertook a five-day visit to the isolated Pangi valley that is home to picturesque landscapes and dense forests rich in wildlife. It told local residents about the government-run homestay scheme. Also read: Himachal car accident: Three of family killed in KinnaurThe remote Pangi valley borders Jammu and Kashmir and is home to the Pangwala tribe. The valley runs parallel to the Pir Panjal range of the Himalayas with the Chenab river meandering through a deep and narrow gorge. The valley is gaining popularity among backpackers and adventure tourists, but its potential is yet to be tapped due to poor infrastructure. Homestays registered in 12 villages Chamba district tourism development officer (DTDO) Vijay Kumar said that the team registered 23 new homestay units in over a dozen villages during its visit. Residents of remote villages such as Findru, Findpar, Sach, Sechu, Chask Bhatori, Sahali, Kumar Bhatori, Shaur, Ajog, Purthi, Thamoh and Killar were linked to the scheme that aims to woo tourists to the scenic valley. The number of homestays has gone up to 38 from just one about two-and-a-half years ago. Besides, there are three hotels at the sub-divisional headquarters of Killar, including a newly registered 18-room unit. “We organised a camp at Sechu village to motivate local people to join the homestay scheme,” said the tourism officer. Youngsters being trained at 10-day camp A 10-day camp is on in the valley in which 60 local youngsters are being trained in housekeeping besides food and beverages through the Himachal Pradesh Kaushal Vikas Nigam (Skill Development Corporation). By October-end, the tourism department and the Pangi administration will provide training to more than 20 youngsters in managing homestays. Pangi valley is spread over 1,601 sq km and has a population of about 20,000. The valley is accessible from Kishtwar in the Jammu region, Udaipur from Lahaul-Spiti and the 4,400-metre Sach Pass from Chamba. It remains cut off from the world for a considerable part of winter due to heavy snowfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-tourism-homestays-draw-tourists-to-chamba-s-pangi-valley-101631099242896.html
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||Sukhbir Badal appears before Hoshiarpur court in SAD constitution forgery case||Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal appeared before the additional chief judicial magistrate in Hoshiarpur on Wednesday to seek bail in the alleged party constitution forgery case filed by social activist Balwant Singh Khera. He furnished a bail bond of ₹1 lakh as mandated by the sessions court that had ordered him to surrender before the trial court on or before September 13. Also read: Punjab elections: Shekhawat is BJP affairs in-charge amid farm backlashA few days ago, the Punjab and Haryana high court dismissed the plea of Sukhbir, his father and former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal and party spokesperson Daljit Singh Cheema in the case filed against them in 2019 under Sections 420, 465, 466, 467, 468, 471 and 120-B of Indian Penal Code, for stay of trial, after which Sukhbir had moved an application for interim bail. Khera has alleged in the petition that the SAD possessed two constitutions – one that is submitted with the Gurdwara Election Commission and the other with the Election Commission of India (ECI). He has accused the SAD of giving a false undertaking to the ECI to get recognition as a secular political party. Sukhbir was accompanied by Cheema, who is already on bail in the case but had been directed by the court to appear personally. SAD district (urban) president Jatinder Singh Lally Bajwa furnished the surety bond of ₹1 lakh on behalf of Sukhbir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sukhbir-badal-appears-before-hoshiarpur-court-in-sad-constitution-forgery-case-101631098942683.html
08-09-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Police use water cannons on BJP protesters amid namaz hall row||Police on Wednesday used water cannons against Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders and workers protesting against the allotment of a room for offering namaaz on the premises of the Jharkhand legislative assembly. During the demonstration, the MLAs sat at the entrance of the assembly and chanted Hanuman Chalisa. They also held placards reading 'Hare Ram' to protest against the decision.A row broke out in Jharkhand after the assembly speaker Rabindra Nath Mahto dedicated allotted room number TW 348 in the assembly for offering namaaz. The opposition leaders of BJP have been protesting against the decision, calling it "unconstitutional." They are also demanding a separate hall for chanting 'Hanuman chalisa', a Hindu devotional hymn in praise of Lord Hanuman, and places of worship of other religions in the assembly premises.On Monday, BJP leaders repeatedly disrupted the proceedings by raising slogans. Some BJP leaders also trooped into the well of the assembly and shouted: "Jai Shri Ram" (Glory to Lord Rama).On Tuesday, BJP MLA Hari Bhushan Thakur demanded a room to chant Hanuman Chalisa and said he will meet the Bihar assembly speaker to raise the demand. "All sections of society are equal before the Constitution,'' he said, according to a report by news agency ANI. "If a room is allocated (in the Jharkhand assembly) to offer namaaz in a secular country, why shouldn't there be room to chant Hanuman Chalisa,” he asked. Thakur represents Bisfi constituency in Darbhanga district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-police-use-water-cannons-on-bjp-protesters-amid-namaz-hall-row-101631097843248.html
08-09-2021||Dehradun||Nikita Chand’s village to motivate youngest girls in families in her honour||Every household in a remote village in Uttarakhand’s Pithoragarh district will now be named after the youngest girl in the family in honour of Nikita Chand, who brought it recognition by winning a gold medal in the Asian Junior Boxing Championship (60kg) held in Dubai in the last week of August.The gram panchayat of Badalu in Pithoragarh district has decided that over 150 families in the village will mention names of the youngest girl in their families on the front side of the house, to inspire them to work hard like Nikita and make a name for themselves and their village.“The decision was taken by the Gram panchayat after Nikita Chand, a young girl from our village, won a gold medal in an international boxing competition over a week ago,” said Diwakar Joshi, the village head.Joshi said the villagers were elated with her achievement. “To motivate families and inspire our girls and to further strengthen the campaign of Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao (Save and educate girl child), we decided to take this initiative,” Joshi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/nikita-chand-s-uttarakhand-village-to-motivate-youngest-girls-in-families-in-her-honour-101631097802625.html
08-09-2021||Mumbai||9% voters on Thane electoral list don’t have photos||Almost 9% of voters registered in Thane district have not uploaded their photos in the electoral list. Thane district collector has now announced a special voters’ enrolment drive for updating photos, changing duplication of names and other amendments to the list which will take place each Sunday till November 1. Post this, the main focus will be registering new voters or 18-year-olds in the electoral roll. This will be completed by January 1, 2022. Rationalisation of polling stations will also be taken up and will continue in an intensive manner till October-end.As part of the continuous revision of voter lists with photographs in 18 assembly constituencies within Thane district, an intensive drive will take place till October 31 across the district. “The main motive is to include photographs in all electoral rolls, avoid duplication and rationalising of polling stations. All political parties should take action to appoint booth level officers in the constituencies where the number of voters without photographs is high. We request residents to cooperate with the officials,” said Rajesh Narvekar, Thane district collector and district election officer in a special meeting of all political parties held on Tuesday.The names of 611,000 voters in the district are listed without photographs among the 6,637,679 voters registered across the district. Voters are expected to check their names and photographs in the electoral roll before October 31. Moreover, a door-to-door inspection by polling station officials will take place to identify duplication, identification, multiple entries, and elimination of logical errors. Those whose names are there in the list but photographs are not available and if during inspection it is revealed that the person does not reside there then their names will be removed from the list.All voters in Thane district are requested to check their names by visiting the website www.nvsp.in. If their name is not in the electoral roll or has been omitted, they should register in the special brief revision programme starting from November 1 by filling up form 06. The supplementary list of voters registered during the special revision programme will be published on January 5, 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/9-voters-on-thane-electoral-list-don-t-have-photos-101631096902844.html
08-09-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Congress recommends action against MLA Solanki for cross-voting||The Rajasthan Congress Committee has forwarded the recommendation of the observer appointed for the election of Jaipur Zila Pramukh post suggesting action against party MLA from Chaksu Ved Prakash Solanki to the party high command. The observer in his report to state party chief Govind Singh Dotasra has held Solanki responsible for the partynot being able to win the post of Jaipur Zila Pramukh. Senior Congress leader and observer for Jaipur Zila Parishad polls Mumtaz Massih blamed Solanki for the cross-voting. “We have submitted our detailed report with facts and have recommended strict action against Solanki. He betrayed the party,” said Massih. A senior leader familiar with the development said the state party chief has forwarded the recommendation to the party leadership for necessary action. The Congress in Jaipur, despite receiving the mandate in the Zila Parishad polls with 27 seats and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) settling with 24, lost the post of Pramukh as two of the ruling Congress candidates switched sides. The two belonged to Chaksu assembly constituency, where Solanki, who is considered close to Sachin Pilot, is the MLA. Reacting to the charges, Solanki has stated that this is a conspiracy to malign the image of Pilot. “I take responsibility, as for cross voting it is the MLA who is responsible. But has cross voting happened only in Jaipur? What about Bharatpur, Dausa, Nagaur etc, everyone should take the responsibility and punishment should be for all,” he said. Solanki said he had urged the state party chief and election in-charge to confine the party candidates at one place to avoid horse trading but nothing was done. “The election management and coordination should have been effective. I was continuously saying that our people aren’t working properly. There was no organisation –everyone was campaigning in the election but none from our side. There was no planning,” he said. A senior MLA close to Pilot said cross-voting had happened in other districts too, including that of the state party chief. “The entire plot is to dent Pilot’s image,” he said. Political analyst Manish Godha said Jaipur was not an isolated case of cross-voting because similar incidents took place in other districts. “But in Jaipur, Gehlot camp got an opportunity to target the Pilot camp, that too swiftly. Nobody knows what has happened. But the high command is informed that they (Pilot camp MLAs) haven’t changed,” he said. The party leaders including CM Ashok Gehlot, Dotasra and the sports minister reacted sharply on cross-voting. The CM had stated that people involved in horse-trading are those who tried toppling the government earlier. State Congress chief Govind Singh Dotasra too said that it was the partymen who betrayed the party. “Democracy was dismantled, robbed, and a game of bribery played in the election of Zila Pramukh in Jaipur. It is our people who have betrayed the party. We are taking the report and those stabbed in the back will not be spared,” said Dotasra addressing newspersons on Monday. Commenting on the people who switched sides and action that will be taken them, Rajasthan sports minister Ashok Chandna on Tuesday called them traitors. “I have no complaints with BJP but there are some who are working for them while being in Congress. They have sold themselves to BJP and the intention is clearly visible on their face,” said Chandna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-congress-recommends-action-against-mla-solanki-for-crossvoting-101631096422805.html
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||Jalandhar court denies anticipatory bail to Punjabi singer Gurdas Maan||The additional and district sessions court of Jalandhar on Wednesday denied anticipatory bail to Punjabi singer Gurdas Maan in a case of hurting religious sentiments. Mann had approached the court on September 1 and sought anticipatory bail.Also read: Jalandhar police book singer Gurdas Maan for hurting religious sentimentsA posse of police personnel remained posted in the court complex as Sikh organisations have been threatening Maan since he made the statement on August 24, hurting religious sentiments. A video of his statement is being widely shared on social media. Apology for remark on social media Maan had put up the video on social media, offering an apology for his statement made during the annual mela at Dera Murad Shah in Nakodar. “Gurus should never be compared with anyone, and I can never even think about insulting the great gurus. If my words have hurt anyone’s sentiments, I apologise to them 100 times,” Maan, who is also the chairman of Dera Murad Shah, said in this video. Sikh organisations, including members of the Satkar Committee, had lodged a police complaint and sought a case against Maan. Members of these organisations had also staged an indefinite protest against Jalandhar police opposite the SSP office. Sikh protesters up the ante On August 26, Sikh protesters upped the ante and gathered at the Rama Mandi Chowk on the Jalandhar-Ludhiana national highway and blocking traffic. It was then that the police lodged the FIR and got the protesters to clear the highway. Maan was booked under Sections 295A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings) of the Indian Penal Code at Nakodar city police station in the district. Maan had also courted controversy in 2019 after he supported the idea of ‘One Nation, One Language’ for the country in a radio talk-show in Canada and faced protests from a section of Punjabi community, during his live show in Canada.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jalandhar-court-denies-anticipatory-bail-to-punjabi-singer-gurdas-maan-101631094982411.html
08-09-2021||Mumbai||Sachin Waze planted bombs near Antilia to regain ‘supercop’ clout, says NIA||Dismissed Mumbai Police assistant inspector Sachin Waze planted explosives in an SUV outside Antilia to orchestrate a terror threat and regain his clout as a ‘supercop’, National Investigation Agency (NIA) said in its chargesheet filed last week.On February 25, this year, an SUV with gelatin sticks and a threat letter was found parked illegally on Carmichael Road, near businessman Mukesh Ambani's residence, Antilia. The owner of the vehicle, Mansukh Hiran, was found dead in a creek in Thane on March 5, days after claiming that his vehicle had been stolen. Police arrested Waze on March 13 on conspiracy charges.The NIA chargesheet named Sachin Waze as one of the main conspirators behind placing the explosives-laden vehicle, with a fake registration number, and a threat note. The probe agency also said that Waze played a key role in the murder of Thane-based trader Mansukh Hiran.Waze was suspended from the police force in 2004 — in connection with the Khwaja Yunus suicidal death case — before being reinstated in 2020, when he was posted in the Crime Intelligence Unit of Mumbai Police.The  NIA mentioned in its chargesheet that Besides, Waze hatched the conspiracy to extort money from wealthy and prosperous individuals by instilling fear of life in them. While heading the Crime Intelligence Unit, Waze handled some of the sensitive cases, and during the course allegedly collected huge amounts of money through extortion and used parts of them to commit the crime."He (Waze) wanted to regain his clout as an ace detective/encounter specialist. Thus, he hatched a conspiracy to place the Scorpio laden with Gelatine sticks (explosives) and a threat note addressed to chairman of a major business group near his residence," the NIA mentioned in its chargesheet.The NIA chargesheet elaborated how Waze asked Hiran, who he knew from earlier, to leave the vehicle at a pre-determined location, after which Waze himself drove the vehicle to Carmichael Road and parked it there, after planting gelatin sticks and a threat letter in it. Waze also asked Hiran to lodge a complaint that the vehicle was stolen.Waze also tampered with the registration plate of the vehicle and installed a forged plate bearing the number of another vehicle that belonged to the convoy of Mukesh Ambani's wife, Nita.When the security detail of Ambani family found the parked vehicle, Waze led a team to the spot and got the high-profile case transferred to the Crime Intelligence Unit.“The wording on the threat note ‘agle baar connect hokar aega‘ (next time the bomb will have wires connected) clearly depicts [the] intention of Waze for furtherance [of] acts to re-establish himself as a supercop by staging a fake encounter as to regain his lost glory,” the NIA chargesheet said.The disgraced police officer initially tried to make the bomb scare look like an organisation called ‘Jaish ul Hind’ was behind it. Soon after, he tried to convince Hiran to take responsibility for placing the car near Antilia. When Hiran refused, Waze conspired to get him killed with the help of encounter specialist Pradeep Sharma, as Hiran was aware of the entire conspiracy and could “spill the beans”, the NIA claims.Waze then began destroying evidence, such as CCTV footages, vehicle entry register at the police headquarters, and the mobile phone he used, to cover his tracks.The NIA alleged in its chargesheet that Waze financed his conspiracy through an extortion racket.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sachin-waze-planted-bombs-near-antilia-to-regain-supercop-clout-says-nia-101631092098664.html
08-09-2021||Patna||Bihar researcher writes to PM, seeks return of Buddha’s bowl from Kabul museum||Amid the turmoil in Afghanistan where the Taliban have formed the government, archaeologists and researchers of Bihar have expressed concern for the safety of a bowl reportedly belonging Lord Buddha at Kabul Museum. In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi dated September 3, researcher Ranjit Kumar, who is also an associate of late MP from Vaishali, Raghuvansh Prasad Singh, said the lawmaker had demanded for the bowl to be brought back till his death September 2020. The bowl, titled ‘Alms Bowl of Lord Buddha’ is learnt to be on display at the Kabul Museum in Afghanistan. Singh claimed Lord Buddha had given his bowl to the people of Vaishali. Also Read | PM Modi launches key education initiatives for ‘education revolution’“It was Raghuvansh Babu’s last wish. Almost a year has elapsed since he expressed it his last letter to the chief minister. He especially mentioned my name to be consulted in this connection. We are preparing for his first death anniversary on September 13. But the bowl is still in Kabul,” Kumar said. In 2010, in response to Singh’s request to the ministry of external affairs, then minister SM Krishna had said that the bowl was earlier at Kandahar and was restored to Kabul Museum during the time of President Najibullah. “The then minister also said that as the bowl carries inscriptions in Persian, a team of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) would be sent there. A team was sent there in 2014, but nothing came out of it,” he said. PK Mishra, former regional director of the ASI and a part of the team that visited Kabul in 2014, said, “The inscriptions have a few lines in Brahmi script which proves it to be from the time of Lord Buddha. It’s a big bowl and must have been made during his lifetime for alms.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-researcher-writes-to-pm-seeks-return-of-buddha-s-bowl-from-kabul-museum-101631090361786.html
08-09-2021||Kolkata||Calcutta HC puts interim stay on rustication of 3 Visva Bharati students||The Calcutta high court on Wednesday imposed an interim stay on the rustication order of three Visva Bharati University (VBU) students and allowed them to join classes from Thursday. Somnath Sow and Falguni Pan of economics, and Rupa Chakrabortty of Hindustani classical vocal were expelled for three years on August 23 by the VBU authorities for taking part in a campus protest in January this year.  “The court said the rustication order of the three students is being kept in abeyance. The matter would be heard again next Wednesday. The court also ordered the students to end the agitation. The court observed that the rustication order was harsh, excessive and disproportionate,” said Samim Ahmmed, the students’ lawyer. Also Read | Bombs hurled outside BJP MP’s residence in BengalAn agitation began on August 28 in the wake of the students’ expulsion on disciplinary grounds. VBU vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty was confined to his campus residence since then as the students blocked the gates. The university authorities moved the high court seeking intervention in ending the impasse. On September 3, the high court passed an interim order banning demonstrations anywhere within 50 metres of the campus at Santiniketan in West Bengal. Meanwhile, a section of the faculty members wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking a probe against the V-C. V-C Chakraborty and the VBU spokesperson did not take HT’s calls. Set up in 1921 by Rabindranath Tagore, Visva Bharati is Bengal’s only central university, and the Prime Minister is its chancellor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/calcutta-hc-puts-interim-stay-on-rustication-of-3-vishva-bharati-students-101631089161702.html
08-09-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand CM Soren invites BJP to join delegation to PM over caste census||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren said in assembly on Wednesday that he has requested a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi to discuss the contentious issue of caste census. Soren added that the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was also invited to join the delegation to meet the PM. “I have written to the Prime Minister seeking his time. I want to lead a delegation of all parties to present our views on caste census. I want members from both treasury and opposition benches to join us,” said Soren.Reacting to the CM’s statement, senior BJP legislator and former minister Neelkanth Singh Munda said while his party was ready to cooperate on the issue of caste census, the CM should also take up the issue of “dwindling population of tribals in the state”. Sudesh Mahto, former deputy CM and president of AJSU Party, an ally of the BJP, asked the CM to also inform the House about his electoral promise to expand the reservation for the Other Backward Castes (OBCs) in the state to 27% from existing 14 %. AJSU Party, too, has taken a clear stand in favour of caste census. “It’s good that you have sought time on caste census, let us know what happened to the 27% OBC reservation. That should not be an issue now as the Centre has already delegated the power to list OBCs to the states,” Mahto said. Replying to this, CM said the government was working on it and he was in favour of passing a unanimous resolution on OBC reservation as a message to the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-cm-soren-invites-bjp-to-join-delegation-to-pm-over-caste-census-101631089101835.html
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab elections: Shekhawat is BJP affairs in-charge amid farm backlash||The Bharatiya Janata Party on Wednesday appointed Union cabinet minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat as the party affairs in-charge for Punjab in the run-up to the assembly elections early next year. Also read: Punjab BJP appoints Sikh faces on key postsBesides Shekhawat, who is the Jal Shakti minister in the Narendra Modi cabinet, BJP chief JP Nadda issued the appointment orders of Union ministers Hardeep Singh Puri and Meenakshi Lekhi and Lok Sabha MP Vinod Chawra as co-incharges for the Punjab elections. In the BJP rank and file, these appointments are being seen as a reflection of the seriousness of the party in contesting the Punjab assembly elections in 2022. The stakes are high for the saffron party this time in Punjab as the party will contest all 117 assembly seats amid an unprecedented backlash for its leaders in the state due to the farmer protests against the three farm laws. Earlier, the BJP used to contest the Punjab elections in 23 constituencies in alliance with the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD). The SAD snapped ties with the BJP last year over the farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-elections-shekhawat-is-bjp-affairs-in-charge-amid-farm-backlash-101631084841157.html
08-09-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: Delhi bans Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations in public||Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations in public and any related procession or gathering have been prohibited in the national capital due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic for the second consecutive year. An order to notify the ban on such festivities was issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority on Tuesday night. Ganesh Chaturthi will be celebrated on Friday, September 10 this year and the 11-day celebration will conclude on September 21.The order, signed by Delhi chief secretary Vijay Dev, urges devotees to celebrate Ganesh Chaturthi at home. “Ganesh Chaturthi festival will be celebrated during this month, i.e. in the month of September, 2021 and considering the prevailing restrictions on gatherings and congregations and present situation of Covid-19 pandemic, it has been decided that Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations may not be allowed in public places and people may be advised to celebrate the festival at their home only,” read the order seen by HT.Accordingly, all district magistrates and the Delhi Police have been directed to ensure that no idol of Lord Ganesha is set up in tents, pandals or public places. They also have been asked to strictly disallow any form of procession and not grant permission to any committees. Around a 100 committees seek permission for community celebration of Ganesh Chaturthi in Delhi every year, but thousands of people celebrate in their residences and they follow the idol immersion ritual in Delhi. “All district magistrates and their counterpart district deputy commissioners of police and all authorities concerned shall ensure strict compliance of this order and shall adequately inform and sensitise the field functionaries about these instructions for strict compliance in letter and spirit,” the order read. “It is also directed that the district magistrates and district DCPs shall convene meetings with religious/community leaders/Ganesh Chaturthi festival committees before the festival to get their cooperation to maintain law and order and harmony and also to sensitise public for compliance of guidelines.instructions issued for combating Covid-19 by the government from time to time,” the order added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-delhi-bans-ganesh-chaturthi-celebrations-in-public-101631083881205.html
08-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC transfers Ankit Gujjar’s death probe to CBI||The Delhi high court on Wednesday transferred the probe in the alleged custodial death of Ankit Gujjar at Tihar jail on August 4 from the local police to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), saying his injuries indicated that he was brutally beaten and left unattended.Justice Mukta Gupta said Gujjar was not given proper medical treatment and the investigation also needed to probe the role of jail doctors. “Not only did Narender Meena (Dy Superintendent) and others assault the deceased mercilessly, the jail doctor also failed to perform his duty when he examined Ankit at 1am and administered the injection, as he neither informed the senior officers of his condition nor referred him to the hospital. It is unfathomable that the jail doctor did not see the multiple injuries on Ankit,” the court said.The 14-page order said that Gujjar’s case calls for immediate remedial actions by the state so that “unscrupulous officers” at jail do not take advantage of the non-working CCTVs to indulge in illegal activities. The next date of hearing is October 28.Also Read | Delhi weather: Cloudy sky, light rain likely today, says IMDThe judgment comes on a plea by 29-year-old Gujjar’s mother Geeta seeking a CBI probe into the alleged murder of her son. In the plea, Gujjar’s family contended that he was harassed by the jail officials as he was “unable to meet their regularly increasing demands for money” and was murdered “as a part of pre-planned conspiracy”.The counsel for the mother argued that the “police was not conducting investigation in proper format” as the DVR of the CCTV installed in the jail was yet to be recovered and the aspect of extortion by jail officials through online transactions was not being looked into.The plea submitted that Tihar Jail authorities are operating an “organised extortion syndicate” and the police were trying to manipulate the investigation in order to shield the culprits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-transfers-ankit-gujjar-s-death-probe-to-cbi-101631082320834.html
08-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi bans Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations in public spaces, cites Covid-19 curbs||Delhi has prohibited any public celebration of Ganesh Chaturthi this month in view of the prevailing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation. In an official order, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) said on Wednesday that Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations will remain prohibited in public spaces and cited the existing pandemic-related restrictions as the reason.Delhi remains “threatened” with the spread of Covid-19, and thus necessary and effective measures must continue to cut further transmission of the coronavirus, the DDMA said in its order. All social, political, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious, and festival-related gatherings, and congregations are prohibited, it read, adding that no visitors are allowed at religious places in Delhi.Just in: Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) prohibits Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations in public spaces later this month, citing Covid-19 restrictions. @htTweets pic.twitter.com/Yqz0Fm7MTR“[The] Ganesh Chaturthi Festival will be celebrated during this month i.e. in the month of September 2021 and considering the prevailing restrictions on gatherings and congregations and present situation of Covid-19 pandemic, it has been decided that the Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations may not be allowed in public places and people may be advised to celebrate their festival at their home only,” the DDMA order explained.The DDMA said that district magistrates and deputy commissioners of police will ensure that idols of Lord Ganesha are not set up in a tent or pandal. Further, it should be ensured that crowds do not gather at any religious or social place. Permission will also not be granted for any procession, it said, advising people to celebrate the festival at home.Ganesh Chaturthi, a ten-day festival that starts on the fourth day of the Hindu lunisolar calendar month Bhadrapada, will start on September 10 this year. Also known as Vinayaka Chaturti, the festival celebrates the arrival of Ganesh to earth from Kailash Parvat with his mother Goddess Parvati/Gauri. Due to the prevailing Covid-19 restrictions, artisans across the country are making small and eco-friendly Ganesha idols at this festival. (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-bans-ganesh-chaturthi-celebrations-in-public-spaces-cites-covid-19-curbs-101631081514835.html
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal car accident: Three of family killed in Kinnaur||Three members of a family were killed, and a woman who took a lift went missing after their car skidded off the road and fell into a 500-metre gorge at Yulla in Kinnaur district on Tuesday evening. Kinnaur superintendent of police Ashok Rattan said a couple and their daughter died on the spot and the elderly woman, who took the lift, was swept away in a gushing stream. Also read: Woman engineer killed as car skids off road in KinnaurThe dead were identified as Krishan Kumar, 36, his wife Kalpavati, 33, and their daughter Raveena, 8. The SP said that a search was on for the missing woman, Gangasarni, 66. Initial reports suggest that Krishan Kumar lost control on the car while negotiating a curve. A case of rash and negligent driving and causing death due to negligence was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-car-accident-three-of-family-killed-in-kinnaur-101631082200888.html
08-09-2021||Dehradun||Roorkee woman pushed into Ganga canal by married lover||A married man with four children in Uttarakhand’s Roorkee town was arrested for allegedly killing a 27-year old woman he was dating after she started insisting on marriage, police said.31-year old Ajay Saini who runs a photography shop was arrested on Tuesday after the police recovered Ritu’s body from a Ganga canal, in which he had pushed her at Gangnahar area.Inspector Praveen Koshyari, station house officer of Gangnahar police station said, “On September 2, Ritu’s mother lodged a complaint against Saini, accusing him of abducting her daughter on September 1 night. Based on the complaint, police started a search to find her but failed.”“After a couple of days, police found Ritu’s two-wheeler, mobile phone and Aadhar card abandoned in a colony near the Ganga canal in Gangnahar area. Based on that, police then detained Saini for questioning during which he confessed,” said Koshyari.He later told police that he was in an extramarital affair with Ritu for the last three years.“He also told us that she was a divorcee and was pressuring him to marry her for the last few weeks and fought with him a few days before she went missing. On the night of September 1, Saini went to her place to take his phone back when both of them had another argument in front of her family before Saini pacified her and took her to Ganga canal, where he later pushed her with an intention to kill her,” said Kosyari.“Based on his confession, he was booked for murder under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and produced before the local court which sent him to jail,” said Koshyari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/roorkee-woman-pushed-into-ganga-canal-by-married-lover-101631081900608.html
08-09-2021||Patna||Senior Bihar Congress leader Sadanand Singh passes away; leaders pay tribute||Senior Bihar Congress leader Sadanand Singh passed away on Wednesday, prompting outpouring of grief in the state’s political circles. Singh, who, according to reports, was severely ill for the last few days, breathed his last at a hospital in Danapur, where he was undergoing treatment. During his political career, Singh, a 9-term MLA, held several important positions. He was a former Congress Legislative Party (CLP) leader in the Bihar assembly, and also headed the party’s state unit. A former Speaker of the assembly from 2000 to 2005, Singh was also a minister in erstwhile Bihar governments.Several senior leaders from Bihar, including deputy chief minister Tarkishore Prasad and Leader of Opposition in the assembly, Tejashwi Yadav, condoled the Congress leader’s demise. “This news is deeply disturbing. The void left behind by him will not be filled so easily. Our sympathies are with his family,” Prasad, from the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), tweeted in Hindi. वरिष्ठ कांग्रेस नेता सदानंद सिंह जी के निधन की खबर व्यथित कर देने वाली है। उनके जाने से बिहार के राजनीतिक व सामाजिक जगत में उभरा शून्य जल्द भरा नहीं जा सकेगा। हमारी संवेदनाएं उनके परिजनों के साथ है। ईश्वर उन्हें अपने श्री चरणों मे स्थान दें।ॐ शांति।।#SadanandSingh pic.twitter.com/GyD9modk7kYadav, who is from the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), described Singh as a skilled politician. “I express my deepest condolences on the passing away of Sadanand Singh. He had a long social and political experience. May his soul rest in peace and may God give strength to his family to bear this loss,” he tweeted. बिहार कांग्रेस के वरिष्ठ नेता और पूर्व मंत्री श्री सदानंद सिंह जी के निधन पर गहरी शोक-संवेदना व्यक्त करता हूँ। उनका लंबा सामाजिक-राजनीतिक अनुभव रहा। वो एक कुशल राजनेता थे। ईश्वर से उनकी आत्मा को शांति तथा शोक संतप्त परिजनों को दुःख सहने की शक्ति प्रदान करने की प्रार्थना करता हूँ।Dr Madan Mohan Jha, who heads the Bihar Congress, said that the late politician was a father figure to him. Jha tweeted, “This is the end of a political era. I will always remember your smiling face.” बिहार के सर्वमान्य नेता , कांग्रेस के योद्धा,मेरे पिता तुल्य सदानंद सिंह जी का आज स्वर्गवास हो गया ।एक राजनीतिक युग का अवसान हुआ ।आपका हँसता हुआ चेहरा हमेशा याद आएगा। ईश्वर उनकी आत्मा को शांति प्रदान करेएवं उनके परिवार को इस असहनीय दुःखद घड़ी को सहने की शक्ति दे।ॐ शान्ति pic.twitter.com/RPsuIGp3JZHindustani Awam Morcha (HAM) president and former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi, too, conveyed his condolences on the veteran leader’s demise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/senior-bihar-congress-leader-sadanand-singh-passes-away-leaders-pay-tribute-101631080102870.html
08-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai got heavy rains during the night, but worst is over||Mumbai received 78.7mm of rainfall in the 24 hours ending 8.30am Wednesday, owing to the passage of a low pressure zone (originating from the Bay of Bengal) over the Konkan coast. Despite predictions of heavy rains during the day, officials say that the most intense showers have passed by the city at night, and that the day is likelier to see only light to moderate showers.“The rains which began late last night were the result of easterly winds brought on because of the low pressure area, which passed almost directly over northern Mumbai. As a result, the suburbs got more rain than South Mumbai. The low pressure area is travelling quite fast, and since it has moved beyond the city and towards Gujarat, there is no worry of flooding in Mumbai,” said a meteorologist with the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) regional centre in Mumbai.Also Read | Pollution from tarballs in Mumbai: Who is to blame for it?A popular independent weather forecaster, who goes by the name of Weatherman of Mumbai on social media, said Mumbai had “a narrow miss” on Wednesday morning, after initially speculating that the city may receive over 300mm of rain between September 7 and 8. Doppler radar images from this morning showed rain-bearing clouds dumping moisture a few kilometres off the coast, after being pushed seaward by easterly winds. Experts have said that unless the wind direction changes to westerlies, there will be no heavy showers in Mumbai during the day.However, officials have asked citizens to remain alert and continue following IMD’s official warnings. KS Hosalikar, head of IMD’s surface instrument division in Pune, pointed out that the latest available satellite images (from 9.30am) show formations of very dense cloud mass over the north Arabian Sea, particularly over Palghar, Dahanu, Daman and north Konkan region, along with scattered clouds over northern madhya Maharashtra and north Marathwada, indicating that there is still some chance of heavy rains in the region.The IMD has placed Mumbai, Thane and the remainder of the Konkan districts on orange alert for today, while Palghar has been placed under a red category alert, indicating chances of very heavy rain with extremely heavy rain at isolated locations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-got-heavy-rains-during-the-night-but-worst-is-over-101631079500578.html
08-09-2021||Other||As more samples test negative for Nipah, Kerala almost out of danger: Minister||As more samples tested negative for Nipah virus, Kerala health minister Veena George on Wednesday said the north Kerala district of Kozhikode is almost out of the danger zone of a serious threat, but strict vigil will continue for 21 days. Talking to mediapersons in Kozhikode, the minister said so far 30 samples tested negative for Nipah--all close contacts of the 12-year-old boy who died of the virus last week--including his parents and relatives.“It is a great relief that all samples tested negative. But we will not lower our guard. All restrictions will be in force till the window period of the virus (three weeks) are over,” she said, adding 21 more results are expected in the evening. Since a majority of immediate contacts tested negative, the government feels that worst is over. She said going by the preliminary reports, bats are suspected to be the main carrier of the virus, but more studies are needed to pinpoint the exact trigger. Many experts said the affected areas are also infested with wild boars and their samples will also be taken for testing. A team from the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases Laboratory from Bhopal will co-ordinate more such studies, she said. Forest minister AK Saseendran, who is also camping in the city, said special permission will be granted to capture boars and other animals for testing. Samples of domestic animals and pets were also taken to weed out suspicion, he said. Experts said the strict protocol in place due to Covid-19, like masking, physical distancing and no overcrowding, really helped the state blunt the impact of Nipah. “Due to Covid-19 protocols, this time Nipah transmission will be limited. Prevention of Covid-19 really helped fight Nipah also,” said immunologist and public health expert D Padmanabha Shenoy. Many experts like him said the main source of the virus should be identified to check its further outbreak. This is the third time the state is witnessing the onset of virus in four years--in 2018 it claimed 17 lives in Kozhikode, in 2019 a youth was infected in Ernakulam but later cured and in 2021, the virus has claimed the life of a 12-year-old boy in Kozhikode. Many experts have asked the government to develop an integrated multi-disciplinary approach to tackle repeated incidents of zoonotic infections and set up high-tech animal and virus testing labs. Many zoonotic diseases such as Sars, avian influenza, swine flu and monkey fever have been reported in the state in recent years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/as-more-samples-test-negative-for-nipah-kerala-almost-out-of-danger-minister-101631079020655.html
08-09-2021||Patna||Bihar to open Patna’s Patliputra Sports Ground tomorrow; only for sportspersons||The Patliputra Sports Ground in the state capital of Bihar will be thrown open for sportspersons from this Thursday. Players may use the ground for training and practice sessions, but the ground will still not be available to morning walkers and sports contests will also not be allowed there. Located at Kankarbagh in Patna, the Patliputra Sports Ground was closed in March 2020 following the Covid-19 lockdown and was reopened on January 25 this year. But it was closed again in April this year amid the second wave of the pandemic. It is also among the few non- medical buildings in the city which were turned into Covid hospitals and is still being used as a vaccination centre. Also Read | Bihar Panchayat polls: Nomination for 2nd phase begins“But these activities are now being held in one corner of the ground. So sportspersons have been allowed to use the rest of the space for training and practice sessions,” Dr Sanjay Sinha, director, directorate of sports, culture department, said. Practice for the games like athletics, basketball, volleyball, Taekwondo, archery, kabaddi, and weightlifting will be allowed there, he added. “There will be two practice sessions of practice -- once in the morning and then in the evening. But the sports associations will have to follow Covid protocols. Also, no outsider will be allowed during the practice sessions,” the sports director said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-to-open-patna-s-patliputra-sports-ground-tomorrow-only-for-sportspersons-101631078600507.html
08-09-2021||Jaipur||Sachin Pilot turns 44; his supporters plant saplings, release video on him||Jaipur’s Civil Lines today wore a festive look on the 44th birthday of senior Congress leader Sachin Pilot.The lane next to Rajasthan Governor’s house was closed for traffic with Pilot’s supporters coming from across the state. Pilot’s posters across the state, on every crossing and lanes created a political buzz, especially in the Congress leadership.While a faction in Congress and analyst called today’s programme a show of strength, people close to Pilot called it an expression of people’s love. “I want to thank all those who sent their wishes, and those who came and gave their support, wishes and blessings. I hope to continue to get similar love and support,” Pilot said.A group of his supporters, Sachin Pilot Fans club, also released a 57-second video clip projecting the leader as the future of Rajasthan, presenting his vision for the state without making any reference to the Ashok Gehlot government.On his birthday, his supporters also planted hundreds of thousands of trees across the state on Monday and Tuesday. The plantation drive was being conducted across 200 assembly constituencies and the target was to plant 1 million trees across the state.Pilot met his supporters and party workers at his residence in Jaipur from 11am amid continuing tensions with the state unit of the Congress over the delay in Cabinet rejig. Mukesh Bhakar , a Congress MLA who is also close to Pilot, said, “The scene today outside Pilot’s residence was stupendous...it showed the love people have for Pilot, that, when he holds no post.”A state minister said, “Pilot is making all efforts to maintain his relevance. This is not the first time, he does it to remain in charcha (public eye).”Political analyst Manish Godha said the effort is to show his strength and how much people support him. Such a programme, especially during the ongoing political crisis, is a message to the party high command that he has mass support.CM Ashok Gehlot tweeted his best wishes to Pilot, “Wishing you a very happy birthday Sachin Pilot ji. May you be blessed with happiness, good health and a long life,” he posted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/pilot-turns-44-his-supporters-plant-saplings-release-video-on-him-101631077220038.html
08-09-2021||Jaipur||Day after Congress loses Jaipur Zila Pramukh seat, infighting resurfaces||Infighting in the Congress has resurfaced, a day after the party lost the Jaipur Zila Pramukh seat because of cross voting. Despite receiving the mandate in Jaipur Zila Parishad with 27 seats, and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) settling with 24 – the post of Pramukh went to the Opposition BJP as two of the ruling Congress candidates switched sides. The two belonged to Chaksu assembly constituency, where the MLA is Ved Prakash Solanki, who is considered close to Sachin Pilot. Commenting on the people who switched sides and action that will be taken them, Rajasthan sports minister Ashok Chandna on Tuesday called them traitors. “I have no complaints with BJP but there are some who are working for them while being in Congress. They have sold themselves to BJP and the intention is clearly visible on their face,” said Chandna. “The complaint will reach the leadership...the future course of action will be accepted by all,” said the minister. Chandna, who is known to be close to CM Ashok Gehlot, reacted a day after the CM made a statement that the people involved in horse trading are the same ones who tried toppling the government earlier. State Congress chief Govind Singh Dotasra too accepted that it was the partymen who betrayed the party. “Democracy was dismantled, robbed, and a game of bribery played in the election of Zila Pramukh in Jaipur. It is our people who have betrayed the party. We are taking the report and those stabbed in the back will not be spared,” said Dotasra addressing newspersons on Monday. Acting swiftly, the observer for Jaipur Zila Parishad has submitted his report to Dotasra, blaming Solanki for the cross voting. “We have submitted our detailed report with facts and have recommended strict against Solanki. He betrayed the party,” said Massih. Reacting to the direct and indirect charges, Solanki said, “The entire conspiracy is to malign the image of Pilot.” “I take responsibility, as for cross voting it is the MLA who is responsible. But has cross voting happened only in Jaipur? What about Bharatpur, Dausa, Nagaur etc, everyone should take the responsibility and punishment should be for all,” he said. Solanki said he had urged the state party chief and election in-charge to confine the party candidates at one place to avoid horse trading but nothing was done. “The election management and coordination should have been effective. I was continuously tsaying that our people aren’t working properly. There was no organisation –everyone was campaigning in the election but none from our side. There was no planning,” he said. The ruling Congress government in Rajasthan managed to maintain its dominance in the election of Pradhan for 78 Panchayat Samitis held on Monday. Congress won 49 Panchayat Samitis and BJP 25. Congress and BJP both formed three Zila Parishads each, out of six where elections were held. Political analyst Manish Godha said the Gehlot camp has got an opportunity to target the Pilot camp. BJP MLA and spokesperson Ram Lal Sharma said the Congress infighting has been going on for years and losing Jaipur Zila Pramukh seat is the result.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/day-after-congress-loses-jaipur-zila-pramukh-seat-infighting-resurfaces-101631077159965.html
08-09-2021||Patna||Bihar Panchayat polls: Nomination for 2nd phase begins||The nomination for the second phase of Panchayat polls to be held in 48 blocks spread over 34 districts of Bihar began on Tuesday and will end on September 13 with polling scheduled on September 29.The blocks opened for nominations include extremism-hit blocks of Paliganj in Patna district, Durgawati in Kaimur district, Arwal in Arwal district, Nabinagar in Aurangabad and Ghosi in Jehanabad. In Paliganj block, a total of 183 nominations were filed on the first day. 91 of these were male candidates while 92 were filed by female candidates.Till Monday, 10,225 nominations including 4,966 from male and 5,259 from female candidates were filed for the first phase of Panchayat polls to be held on September 4 in 12 blocks spread over 10 districts. Nomination filing for the first round will end on September 8.Meanwhile, the State Election Commission (SEC) has appointed 160 observers in the rank of deputy secretary and above for monitoring the 11 phases of polls. “The observers will keep a tab on the polling process and counting. One observer will be put on duty through rotation in at least three to four phases,” said secretary, SEC, Mukesh Kumar Sinha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-panchayat-polls-nomination-for-second-phase-begins-101631075121207.html
08-09-2021||Kolkata||Durga Puja 2021: Mamata grants ₹50k to each committee, discount on power tariff||For the second year in a row, the West Bengal government announced a grant of ₹50,000 to each Durga Puja committee in the state primarily to make up for lost sponsorship and extra expenditure due to the Covid pandemic.Chief Secretary HK Dwivedi on Tuesday also announced free licences as well as a 50 per cent discount on the power tariff for the committees organising Durga Puja this year.He was speaking at a programme where Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee met several Durga Puja organisers from Kolkata and other parts of the state.Banerjee had announced a slew of doles including a grant of ₹50,000 to all puja committees last year also.On Tuesday, the chief minister said the state government has taken permission before announcing the grant as the model code of conduct is currently in force.The Election Commission has recently announced that it will hold a by-poll to Bhabanipur assembly constituency and "deferred adjourned" elections in two other seats on September 30."There are certain rules due to the by-elections. We have taken permission before organising this programme since it will be too late to announce puja protocols after the by-polls," said Banerjee who is likely to contest the bypoll from Bhabanipur in south Kolkata.She urged puja organisers to "strictly follow Covid-19 safety protocols and wear masks".After reviewing the situation amid the threat of a third wave of Covid-19 pandemic, the state would decide on lifting the night curfew as many puja revellers go out pandal hopping during that hour, Banerjee said."We will review the Covid-19 situation and then decide on whether to host the (Durga Puja) Carnival," she said.In the carnival, organised by the West Bengal government, selected Durga idols are showcased in a procession at Red Road here.Banerjee urged people to maintain peace and tranquillity in the state.The Bengal CM also said that she has requested the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) to declare Durga Puja as an Intangible Cultural Heritage and a global festival, as a large number of people from various communities assemble to celebrate it.This year the five-day festival of Durga Pujas will be held from October 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/durga-puja-2021-mamata-grants-rs-50k-to-each-committee-discount-on-power-tariff-101631074393652.html
08-09-2021||Other||Govt, AASU agree on forming panel to implement Assam Accord||The Assam government and All Assam Students Union (AASU) have agreed on forming an eight-member sub-committee to formulate the implementation of the Assam Accord. The decision was taken at a meeting on Monday evening attended by chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, senior ministers and bureaucrats with representatives of AASU, Assam’s premier student organisation that had spearheaded the six-year anti-foreigners stir that culminated in the signing of the accord in 1985. “The meeting was held in a very cordial atmosphere and it was decided that in order to prepare a framework for implementation of the remaining clauses of the accord, the sub-committee will be formed,” minister for implementation of Assam Accord, Atul Bora, told journalists after the meeting. The sub-committee will consist of three cabinet ministers of Assam government and five representatives of AASU. It has been given a timeline of three months (from the tie of formation) to prepare the accord implementation roadmap. “The sub-committee will look into all aspects of the accord including Clause 6 that deals with providing constitutional safeguards to Assamese people, Clause 7 on economic development, Clause 9 on securing the India-Bangladesh border to prevent further infiltration, Clause 10 on prevention of encroachment of government lands,” AASU chief adviser Samujjal Bhattacharya said. The implementation framework will also incorporate the demand for updating (re-verification) the NRC released two years ago, addressing flood and erosion problem, rehabilitation of martyrs’ and victims’ family of Assam Agitation etc. The meeting also decided to prepare an action plan consisting of three demands of the AASU i.e. creating a chair in the name of Dr. Bhupen Hazarika in Tezpur University, Guwahati University and Dibrugarh University, beautification of Hazarika’s ‘Samadhi Kshetra’ in Guwahati and incorporation of cultural values and teachings of Hazarika in the school curriculum. The Assam Accord was a tripartite agreement signed in 1985 between the Centre, the All Assam Students Union (AASU) and the All Assam Gana Sangram Parishad (AAGSP) that brought the six-year-long anti-foreigner movement in the state to an end. While some provisions of the accord, which primarily sought detection and deportation of foreigners who entered the state after March 25, 1971, have been implemented several others including Clause 6 has remained unfulfilled. Clause 6 of the accord states, “Constitutional, legislative and administrative safeguards, as may be appropriate, shall be provided to protect, preserve and promote the cultural, social, linguistic identity and heritage of the Assamese people”. In February last year, a 13-member committee formed by Centre had submitted to the state government its recommendations of how to implement Clause 6. There has been no progress on that front after that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/govt-aasu-agree-on-forming-panel-to-implement-assam-accord-101631074880166.html
08-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi weather: Cloudy sky, light rain likely today, says IMD||Delhi is likely to see a generally cloudy sky on Wednesday with light showers or drizzle, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast.The minimum temperature on Wednesday is likely to be 26 degrees Celsius while maximum temperature is predicted to reach 33 degrees Celsius.The minimum temperature on Tuesday was 28 degrees Celsius, and maximum temperature was 34 degrees Celsius.Delhi’s air quality was in the satisfactory category on Wednesday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 81. Also Read | Central and N-W India to receive widespread rain till SaturdayAn AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe".On Wednesday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “Delhi’s AQI is in the satisfactory category with lead pollutant PM10 as predicted by SAFAR. Pollution entering Delhi mainly from eastern side i.e. Indo Gangetic Plain, that will keep Delhi’s AQI in satisfactory category for the next three days due to moderate ventilation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-weather-cloudy-sky-light-rain-likely-today-says-imd-101631070918743.html
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||Protest against deputy DEO in Ludhiana: Teacher association seek mass leave||Hundreds of teachers from different blocks of Ludhiana applied for a mass leave to participate in the protest to be held against deputy DEO Kuldeep Singh Saini outside the DC office on Thursday.The dispute occurred after Kuldeep Singh allegedly reprimanded a teacher, Sapandeep Kaur, deputed in Government Primary School in Sahnewal early this month, following which she allegedly suffered a paralysis attack and was hospitalised.The teacher associations are once again up in arms against Singh, demanding strict action or else warning to stage a huge protest at Mini Secretariat on September 9.In one such letter to the block primary education officer, Khanna-1, jointly signed by around 50 teachers, they accused Singh of harassing and misbehaving with the teachers on various occasions. The teachers’ union have demanded police action against the deputy DEO.General secretary, Elementary Teachers’ Union, Ludhiana, Parminder Chauahan said that teachers won’t stop raising their voices against the tainted officer until the department and the police take stern action against him. “We have jointly applied for leave and will gherao the DC office protesting against Kuldeep Singh,” Chauahan said.The incident had occurred when a vaccination drive was going on in the school premises. After the school had gotten over, both Sapandeep and her colleague Ramandeep Kaur had asked the area municipal councillor to arrange a person who could oversee the inoculation drive and ensure the security of the school furniture and other equipment.At this, the municipal councillor had allegedly told both the teachers that they could leave the school in the evening after the completion of inoculation drive.According to the teachers’ union, in the meantime DEO Jaswinder Kaur, deputy DEO Kuldeep Singh and office clerk Harminder Singh Romi had arrived at the scene and allegedly threatened both the teachers of opening a departmental inquiry against them and transferring them to a remote location. Sapandeep was allegedly snubbed so badly that she had fallen unconscious. Deputy DEO Kuldeep Singh had slammed the allegations as baseless.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/protest-against-deputy-deo-in-ludhiana-teacher-association-seek-mass-leave-101631052417026.html
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||Two women, ‘sorcerer’ held for extortion, theft in Ludhiana||Two women and a ‘sorcerer’ were booked for extortion and theft in Beeja village on Monday. The accused, Karamjit Kaur of Samrala, her friend Harpreet Kaur and sorcerer Raja of Beeja village had threatened to kill the complainant’s newborn son using witchcraft, unless she gave them two gold rings. The complainant, Parvinder Kaur of Beeja village, said that when she was pregnant her aunt, Karamjit, took her to a sorcerer, Raja, who said he would perform a remedy to ensure that she gave birth to a son in return for two gold rings. Parvinder gave him a gold ring in advance. After the birth of her son, the accused demanded two more gold rings and threatened to kill her son if she did not oblige. Later, they stole two gold rings, a gold bracelet, a pair of gold earrings and a watch from her house.Sub inspector Sukhwinderpal Singh said a case had been registered under Sections 420 (cheating), 454 (house-trespass), 380 (theft in dwelling house), 508 (act caused by inducing person to believe that he will be rendered an object of the Divine displeasure), and 384 (extortion) of the Indian Penal Code, and sections of Drugs and Magic Remedies (Objectionable Advertisements) Act has been lodged against the accused. A hunt is on for their arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-women-sorcerer-held-for-extortion-theft-in-ludhiana-101631051996988.html
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana-based NBA player seeks job in Punjab Police||Despite being only the fourth Indian to be selected in the National Basketball Association (NBA), Prince Pal Singh now wants to serve in Punjab Police. Unfortunately, the NBA sensation is yet to get a job offer from the state government.The 20-year-old who is 6-ft 10-inch tall was selected for the NBA Summer League in August this year based on his commendable performance in NBA-G league Ignite.After returning from Los Angeles 10 days back having clinched the NBA Summer League championship for his club SAC, Prince is yet to garner the attention of the Punjab sports authorities.Talking to Hindustan Times, Prince said, “I have many job offers from various parts of the country including Indian Air force, but I want to serve in Punjab Police. Unfortunately, even after achieving the feat, I am unable to get the attention of the state government as no one has offered me any job here.”‘Players need to feel secure’Pitching the same, general secretary of the Punjab Basketball Association, Teja Singh Dhaliwal, said that the government needed to understand that players were the real life heroes and not the management. “Financial support is important for the growth of players and to strengthen the foundation of a player from the initial stage. Our country has forgotten many such heroes. Future of our players should be secured and they should be insured by the government with respectable jobs so that they feel secure,” said Dhaliwal.Prince feels that even though the sport was gaining popularity in India since NBA had started organising tournaments, there was still a need for the government to pitch in and play a pivotal role in uplifting the game in the country.“Government should organise special league tournaments in India like we have IPL for cricket as playing with international stars will boost the local talent,” he added.‘Watching Lebron play was dream come true’Rising from a small village of Dera Baba Nanak in Punjab’s Gurdaspur, meeting NBA legends like Lebron James was a dream come true for Prince: “I am grateful to my coaches Jaipal Singh, Harjinder Singh and to Teja Singh Dhaliwal, for polishing my talent here at the academy because of which I could reach NBA. Watching the likes of Lebron play in front of my eyes was nothing less than a dream come true.”Sharing his four-year journey playing the game, Prince revealed that he was 16 when he reached Guru Nanak Stadium in Ludhiana and It was the first time ever that he saw a basketball ground.Prince is inspired by his own local teammate and a senior basketball player from the academy, Palpreet Singh Brar, who also played for NBA before him. Giving a message for budding players, Prince said that players needed to remain determined and focused in order to live their dreams.The district sports officer (DSO), Ravinder Singh, commenting on the issue said that the government would be happy to offer a job to Prince. “Since he brought laurels to the country, Punjab government will be happy to offer him a job. There is a procedure for hiring players which may take some time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhianabased-nba-player-seeks-job-in-punjab-police-101631051216916.html
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||Staff nurses’ strike hits work at govt hospitals in Ludhiana||Ludhiana Patient care at civil hospitals, community health centres and other government establishments in the district were disturbed as the nursing staff continued their strike against the sixth pay commission for the second consecutive day on Tuesday. Though the health department had deputed contractual employees to substitute for the striking staff, the shortage of staff affected work by and large, including emergency services. On the call of a state-level body, staff nurses under the banner of the Ludhiana Nursing Association raised an agitation outside the civil surgeon’s office. Over 100 nurses deputed at hospitals and health centres in Ludhiana, Khanna, Samrala, Payal, and Jagraon among other areas participated in the agitation.Contractual staff working under the National Health Mission (NHM) was deputed in emergency, and labour wards. A staff member deputed at the Ludhiana civil hospital, requesting anonymity, said, “Only one contractual staff was deputed in the labour ward to substitute for three nurses. Ten deliveries took place in the ward and other employees had to pitch in. A similar ratio was observed in the emergency ward.” Rakesh, who was admitted in the emergency ward of the Ludhiana civil hospital, said, “I first went to the government hospital in Khanna, but they referred me to Ludhiana, citing staff shortage.”Ludhiana civil surgeon Dr Kiran Ahluwalia said, “Work was affected in hospitals and health centres due to the strike, but emergency services were not stopped. Staff working under the NHM was deputed to deal with patients in absence of regular staff nurses.”We do not want to harass patients: NursesThe nursing staff, which is protesting against the sixth pay commission, and demanding an increase in pay grade, the designation of nursing officer; implementation of old pension scheme, allowances including night allowance, diet allowance, and uniform allowance, said they did not want to harass the public but they their legitimate demands were not being fulfilled.Strike called off Ludhiana Nursing Association president Asha said that the nurses called off the strike after a meeting was held between the state government and the representatives of a state-level union in Chandigarh on Tuesday wherein the government accepted most of their demands. “The government has sought a week’s period to issue a notification regarding their demands, and if it fails to issue the same we will go on strike again,” said Asha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/staff-nurses-strike-hits-work-at-govt-hospitals-in-ludhiana-101631050797921.html
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||UCPMA elections: New team assumes charge amid factionalism||Amid factionalism within the executive committee of the United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers’ Association (UCPMA), the eight newly elected executive members assumed charge of their respective offices on Monday evening.Though the office bearers of the two groups, led by president DS Chawla and general secretary Maninder Sachdeva, respectively, assumed charge separately, they stated that they will work for the betterment of the industry with coordination. The president of the election committee Parupkar Singh Ghumman presided over the charge taking ceremony. The Sachdeva group (United Alliance) had bagged six of eight posts, while two posts were captured by the Chawla group during the elections of the association held on September 3.From Chawla group, DS Chawla got elected as the president for the second consecutive term, while Varun Kapoor was elected as finance secretary. On the other hand, five of Sachdeva group got elected for the second consecutive term including senior vice-president Gurcharan Singh Gemco, vice-president Satnam Singh Makkar, general secretary Manjinder Sachdeva, joint secretary Valaity Ram Durga and propaganda secretary Rajinder Singh Sarhali. Rupak Sood of Sachdeva group bagged the position of secretary.Both the groups avoided commenting on each other after assuming the offices.Will work for betterment of industry, both groups say jointlyChawla said they will work for the betterment and upgrading of the industry. Sachdeva said, “Our aim is to upgrade the industry and resolve various problems being faced by the small industry. There can be differences in opinion, but we will work in coordination with the president if he will work for the betterment of the industry.”Sachdeva said that there were various issues that needed to be resolved including the proposal to shift the industry from mixed land use areas in 2023. Further, the industry also needed to be upgraded to meet the challenges in the international market, he added.Both the groups had remained at loggerheads even before the elections and Chawla had also got an FIR registered against 31 persons of the rival group for allegedly thrashing him and tossing his turban during an annual general meeting held on August 18. Chalwa had the support of the then secretary Harsimarjit Singh Lucky, while the other six office bearers were part of the Sachdeva group.Meanwhile, the members of the association demanded that both the groups should bury the hatchet and work for the betterment of the industry.President of Janta Nagar Small Scale Manufacturers’ Association, Jaswinder Thukral, said, “Now that the elections are over and the executive committee has been elected, both the groups should end the quarrel and work in coordination for the betterment of industry, rather than wasting time in fighting each other. The industry has already suffered due to the pandemic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ucpma-elections-new-team-assumes-charge-amid-factionalism-101631050616950.html
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||AAP burns Punjab CM’s effigy over expensive power supply in state||Lambasting the state government for its alleged failure in cancelling the power purchase agreements (PPA) due to which residents were getting expensive power in the state, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday staged a protest outside mini secretariat and burned the effigy of chief minister (CM) Captain Amarinder Singh.AAP leaders slammed the CM for failing to cancel the PPAs with private companies even as the government had promised the same before the assembly elections in 2017.The leaders rued that the state was reeling under dues and private companies were not even able to meet the demand for power supply.AAP Lok Sabha in-charge Aman Mohie said, “The government has run away from cancelling these PPAs and is working to save the image of Badals. The government should cancel the PPAs and reduce the power tariff in the state.”AAP in-charge, Ludhiana east constituency, Daljit Singh Grewal, said even Congress minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa had said that the government had already wasted four and a half years and the PPAs had still not been cancelled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aap-burns-punjab-cm-s-effigy-over-expensive-power-supply-in-state-101631050256871.html
08-09-2021||Other||Passengers a harried lot in Ludhiana as Punjab Roadways staff strike continues||With the indefinite strike by the contractual staff of Punjab Roadways/Punjab Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) entering its second day on Tuesday, the passengers faced a harrowing time at the Amar Shaheed Sukhdev Interstate Bus Terminal as services were hit at large.Though private buses continued to operate, a large number of passengers were seen waiting at the stand as around 200 government-run buses remained off road amid the strike.Women passengers, who avail free travel facility in government-run buses, were a harried lot as they had to pay for travel in private buses.Waiting for a bus to Jalandhar, one Daljit Kaur said, “Employees should not harass the public during their protest and bus services should not be disturbed. I came to meet my relatives in the city and had to spend ₹180 on travel, which could have been for free on a normal day.”District president of Punjab Roadways/Punbus contractual employees union, Shamsher Singh, said, “The indefinite strike will continue till the contractual staff is not regularised by the government. The state department has scheduled a meeting with the representatives of the employees union on Wednesday and further decisions regarding the agitation will be taken after the meeting.”Bus stand station supervisor Kuljit Singh Sodhi said that around 25 buses were operated on different routes by the department by deputing regular staff, but the majority of them remained off road due to the strike by contractual staff. Meetings are being held at state level to resolve the issue, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/passengers-a-harried-lot-in-ludhiana-as-punjab-roadways-staff-strike-continues-101631049536595.html
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||Convict held with five fake passports in Ludhiana||A man was arrested with five fake passports on Monday. The accused, Ranvir Singh of Narangwal village, was sentenced to 10 years in prison for drug peddling and was booked yet again in 2012 for peddling 52kg poppy husk and for possessing illegal weapons. When he was released from jail on parole, he forged documents and assumed a different identity to evade arrest. Three Aadhaar Cards, two PAN cards, a voter card, debit card, bank passbook, marriage certificate, birth certificate and school certificates were recovered from him.The accused had been living at Bhai Himmat Singh Nagar of Dugri as Sandeep Singh Dhillon, who was his friend, and had given him his Class 10 certificate to help him forge documents. A case has been registered and a hunt is on for Sandeep as well. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/convict-held-with-five-fake-passports-in-ludhiana-101631049296843.html
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||Two cases of assault on kids reported in Ludhiana||Two cases of assault on minors were reported in the Tibba area on Monday.In the first case, police arrested a man for torturing his 7-year-old son. He would burn his son with a hot knife over petty issues. The matter came to light when a neighbour alerted a municipal councillor, who in turn called the cops. The accused, Noor Kaish, 34, works as a labourer at Karamsar Colony of Tibba area. The complainant, Lakhvir Singh, said Noor, his wife and two sons , who are aged seven and one, lived in the neighbourhood. The seven-year-old boy could be heard crying frequently and many neighbours had seen Noor brutally torturing him. Inspector Parmod Kumar, Tibba police station house officer, said it was found that the accused would beat his son for little things, including eating without permission. The victim said once he ate an apple without permission as he was hungry and his father burnt his arms with a hot knife. The SHO added that the seven-year-old was entirely responsible for looking after his younger brother and that the mother never intervened when her husband was torturing the child. A medical examination and apparent marks on the boys body have confirmed that he was repeatedly subjected to torture. A case has been lodged against the accused under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons and means) of the Indian Penal Code, and sections of the Juvenile Justice Act.Man booked for sexually assaulting stepdaughterIn another case, the Tibba Police booked a man for allegedly sexually assaulting his 12-year-old stepdaughter. The accused had been harassing the victim for a few months and had warned her with dire consequences if she told anybody about the abuse. The victim’s father had died in 2017 and her mother had remarried after six months. However, five months ago, the accused started touching her inappropriately and then sexually assaulted her. The victim said that on August 20 she noticed her stepfather watching her through the window while she was taking a bath and raised the alarm, after which the neighbours gathered on the spot. The girl’s family did not want to lodge a complaint. However, the girl’s paternal uncle took her to the polices station and had her statement recorded. Assistant sub-inspector Baldev Singh, who is investigating the case, said a case has been registered under Sections 354 (sexual assault) and 354-C (voyeurism) of the Indian Penal Code and sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-cases-of-assault-on-kids-reported-in-ludhiana-101631048937523.html
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||Aam Aadmi Party MP Sanjay Singh appears in Ludhiana court in defamation case filed by Akali leader Majithia||A day after he was issued arrest warrants, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national spokesperson and Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Singh appeared in a Ludhiana court in a defamation case filed against him by former Punjab minister Bikram Singh Majithia in 2016. The court of additional chief judicial magistrate Harsimranjit Singh granted him bail. On Monday, the court had issued arrest warrants against Singh after he failed to appear during the resumed hearing in the case. The defamation suit was filed over Sanjay Singh’s statement at a Moga rally on September 5, 2015, linking Majithia, an Akali Dal leader, with those accused in drug cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aam-aadmi-party-mp-sanjay-singh-appears-in-ludhiana-court-in-defamation-case-filed-by-akali-leader-majithia-101631048456524.html
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||Factory worker held for kidnapping, killing friend in Machhiwara||Police have arrested a factory worker for kidnapping and killing his friend in Machhiwara. The accused, Shatrughan, committed the crime along with one Rakesh Kumar to earn easy money, said deputy superintendent of police, Samrala, Harvinder Singh Khaira. The victim Nitesh Kumar, 18, a shopkeeper, had been kidnapped on September 4. His decomposing body was recovered from a field at Iraq village in Machhiwara on Tuesday, after Shatrughan revealed its whereabouts on Monday. Police said Nitesh had been killed the same day. Shatrughan told police that he and Rakesh had invited Nitesh to have a drink with them, but they took him to the fields and held him captive instead. They beat him up and forced him to ask his parents to pay ₹10 lakh as ransom. They even clicked his pictures and sent them to his parents. Later, they strangled him to death and fled. The DSP said the family approached police and a case of kidnapping was registered. After zeroing in on Shatrughan, police arrested him from the Kalaktar Ganj railway station in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/factory-worker-held-for-kidnapping-killing-friend-in-machhiwara-101631048218937.html
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab BJP appoints Sikh faces on key posts||The Punjab Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) unit on Tuesday appointed Sikh faces on key posts in the organisation. A total of eight appointments, including that of defence columnist Col Jaibans Singh (retd) as media adviser to the state unit, were made, a party leader said.Also, Harvinder Singh Kahlon, who headed the All India Sikh Students Federation and remained one of the prominent faces of the Sikh radical movement in the eighties, was appointed the party’s state spokesperson. The party has also appointed Dr Jaswinder Singh Dhillon, former vice-chancellor, Guru Kashi University, Talwandi Sabo, as co-convener of its intellectual cell. Nirmaljit Singh, Jagmohan Singh Saini, Kavita Sarowal and Jeevan Mahajan have been appointed as special invitees, while Sukhpal Brar and Baljinder Singh Dakoha will be co-conveners of the panchayati raj cell.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-bjp-appoints-sikh-faces-on-key-posts-101631047616743.html
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||Teen stabbed in Ludhiana after he resists mobile snatching bid||A 17-year-old boy was hospitalised after being stabbed in Gagandeep Colony of Bhattian Bet, by two mobile snatchers on Monday evening.The victim, identified as Shivam Yadav, a student of Class-11, suffered critical injuries, with his intestines popping out, as a result of the attack. His condition is stated to be stable.The two snatchers, identified as Daljeet Singh of Amantran Colony and Vikas Kumar of Shimla Colony, have been nabbed. The teen’s father, Ashok Yadav, who is the complainant in the case, said that around 7.30pm, Shivam had stepped out for a walk in his locality. After some time, he got a call from a resident that Shivam has been stabbed. He immediately rushed to the spot and took Shivam to the hospital.On examining the closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras installed in the area, it was found that two scooter-borne miscreants had tried to snatch Shivam’s phone but he resisted and tried to enter a house but slipped and fell down on the ground.The accused then caught him and stabbed him with a knife but failed to take the mobile phone from him. The CCTV footage also showed an onlooker crossing from the spot without caring to help the teen. Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, North) Dharampal said soon after the incident, police reached the spot and initiated investigation. The miscreants were identified with the help of the CCTV footage and nabbed. Salem Tabri station house officer (SHO), inspector Gopal Krishan said a case under Section 379 B (2) (snatching by causing hurt), 511 (attempt to commit an offence) and 34 (act done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused.Family struggles to arrange money for treatmentShivam’s father, who is a labourer, said they have no money for the teen’s treatment. He asked his relatives and friends for help. Inspector Gopal Krishan has deposited ₹20,000 cash in the hospital for Shivam’s treatment. He also promised that he would appeal to various NGOs to donate for the treatment of the teenager.Deja vuOn April 28, in a similar incident three miscreants had stabbed 17-year-old Amandeep Singh, a student of Class 11, in an attempt to snatch his mobile phone in Giaspura. The teen was out for a morning walk with his friend at the time. He was admitted to the hospital, where he succumbed to his injuries after struggling for life for two days. A murder case was lodged against an unidentified accused on May 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/teen-stabbed-in-ludhiana-after-he-resists-mobile-snatching-bid-101631047556486.html
08-09-2021||Bhopal||16-yr-old hacked to death, stalker held in MP: cops||A 25-year-old man was arrested on Tuesday for allegedly hacking a 16-year-old girl to death in Madhya Pradesh’s Balaghat district, police said.Durgesh Armo, Balaghat sub-divisional officer, said the accused, Kiran Maskole, had been stalking the girl. After the Class 11 student refused to marry him, Maskole on Monday hit her with an axe, he added.“The girl was on her way home from school with her friends when Maskole attacked her. Her friends are in shock. They initially refused to recognise the accused but later informed the police that Kiran killed the girl. He used to follow her, forcing her to marry him,” the police officer said.The girl was taken to a nearby community health centre, where doctors declared her brought dead, Armo said, adding that the accused has been booked under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC. Further investigation is on, said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/16yrold-hacked-to-death-stalker-held-in-mp-cops-101631047376409.html
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||Virtual symposium on Sikh architecture begins||Dr SS Bhatti, a former principal of the Chandigarh College of Architecture, delivered the keynote address at the inaugural session of an international symposium on Sikh Architecture, which took off in a virtual format on Tuesday. Bhatti said most historians have ignored Sikh architecture, while some have accepted it as a syncretism of Islamic and Rajputana styles, which he called a historic fallacy. Others who spoke included Pakistan-based Nadhra Shahbaz Khan. The virtual symposium is being organised by Saakaar Foundation to commemorate Parkash Utsav of Guru Granth Sahib. Foundation chairman Surinder Bahga said about 1,000 architects and other professionals from across the world are likely to attend the symposium, which will next take place on September 14 and 21. CU felicitates faculty membersChandigarh University (CU) on Tuesday honoured its 65 faculty members with ‘Best Teachers Award 2021’ during a felicitation ceremony held on its campus. The ceremony was held to mark the 133rd birth anniversary of former president Dr S Radhakrishnan. The university chancellor honoured the talents in various categories of best teaching-learning faculty, best researchers, best e-guru, best digital innovator and best trainer for career development of students. MCM holds competition on Dr S RadhakrishnanThe philosophy department of MCM DAV College for Women in Sector 36 here organised a PowerPoint presentation competition on the ‘Works and Life of Dr Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan’. The competition was held to mark the birthday of the country’s former president, scholar and philosopher Dr S Radhakrishnan, which is observed as Teachers’ Day. The competition witnessed enthusiastic response from the students.Eye donation awareness campaign heldThe department of computer science and applications and NSS unit of Guru Gobind Singh College for Women in Sector 26 here organised an online eye donation awareness campaign in collaboration with GMCH-32 and Netra Foundation on September 4. The event commenced with a short video presentation by Sharanya Jain, founder and president of Netra Foundation. Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, ministry of health and family welfare, encouraged the students to help in eradicating corneal blindness from India.PRCI’s Chandigarh chapter bags four awardsThe Chandigarh chapter of Public Relations Council of India (PRCI) has won four awards in the national talent hunt competition organised from May to August. The winners were declared on Tuesday. Former IAS officer Vivek Atray has been awarded the jury special award. In the moderator category, Vipin Pubby bagged the third prize while Purvi Bhushan got the second prize in the young communicator category. Chandigarh Chapter of PRCI has also been awarded in the best feedback from audience category.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/virtual-symposium-on-sikh-architecture-begins-101631046836455.html
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||Khanna police arrests seven for ATM fraud, card cloning||Seven people affiliated with two different gangs and involved in ATM fraud, and cloning debit and credit cards were arrested on Monday. In the first case, the Crime Investigation Agency of the Khanna police arrested Mohammad Wazid, Abbas and Altaf of Haryana. Altaf is an electronic engineer. The accused would fraudulently withdraw money from different ATM machines in Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and other states and have so far cumulatively withdrawn ₹6 crore from different banks. Eleven ATM cards of an assortment of banks and two steel hooks were recovered from them. The accused were arrested near a checkpoint at Malerkotla Chowk. The car they were travelling in has also been seized. Senior superintendent of police (SSP, Khanna) Gursharandeep Singh Grewal said the accused would insert the specially designed hooks into the money dispensing tray and cut the power supply while the money was being dispensed and take the money. Later, the accused would register an online complaint with the bank claiming a refund saying, their money was stuck in the ATM. Their other associates belong to villages near Gangot in Haryana. The accused told police that most youngsters in Gangot village are involved in such frauds and the village was emerging as a second ‘Jamtara’ gang.The SSP said that the property of amounting ₹3 crore had been traced and will be attached with the case.In the second case, police arrested four people for cloning ATM cards and stealing money from account holders’ account. The police have recovered as many as 30 ATM cards and two ATM card cloning machines, also known as skimmers, from the accused.The accused were identified as Gulshan Kumar of Chandigarh, Ranvir Singh of Mohali, Sachin of Haryana, and Har Singh of Uttarakhand.Senior superintendent of police (SSP, Khanna) Gursharandeep Singh Grewal said the Crime Investigation Agency, Khanna, had installed a special checkpoint near Pristine Mall to nab the accused. Police said the accused used to target elderly and illiterate people and had committed a fraud of ₹25 -30 lakh. A case under Sections 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) , 471 (using as genuine a forged document) , 380 (theft in dwelling house) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/khanna-police-arrests-seven-for-atm-fraud-card-cloning-101631046777095.html
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||Striking Punjab roadways staff to meet CM Capt Amarinder Singh today||The Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC), Punjab Roadways and Punbus Contractual Employees’ Union that started an indefinite strike on Monday over its demands will meet chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Wednesday. Even as they were assured of a meeting with the CM, nearly 8,200 outsourced and contractual employees decided to continue with their strike pending the outcome of the deliberations.Seeking regularisation of their jobs, the drivers and conductors of the state transport undertakings have decided not to ply buses till their demands are met. On Tuesday, the transport services remained affected as only 30% of the public buses plied on their routes across the state. The commuters were seen waiting for hours to reach their destinations.Harkesh Kumar, state general secretary of the contractual workers’ union, said, “Last time, we postponed our strike after we were assured of a meeting with the transport minister, but nothing concrete came out of it. We will press upon the government to meet our main demand of regularising our jobs and give us in written.”The contractual conductors are being paid ₹9,118 per month, while the drivers get ₹10,200.The union is also demanding stringent measures to check the transport mafia, streamlining of daily hourly roaster, strengthening the state transport undertakings, implementation of equal work and equal pay and to stop unnecessary harassment of employees on the basis of daily reports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/striking-punjab-roadways-staff-to-meet-cm-capt-amarinder-singh-today-101631046661232.html
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab govt seeks ₹42,000 crore cash credit limit from RBI for upcoming paddy procurement season||The Punjab government has asked the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and the consortium of banks to arrange a cash credit limit (CCL) of ₹42,000 crore for the upcoming paddy procurement season which is likely to start from October 1.This kharif season, a total of 191 lakh tonne paddy is expected to arrive for procurement in the state’s grain markets (mandis). “We have started arrangements and have written to the Centre for releasing the funds,” said secretary (food and civil supplies) Rahul Tiwari. The total arrivals this time are expected to go down against the last year’s highest-ever figure of 203 lakh tonnes, when a total expenditure of ₹46,000 crore was made on the procurement. The Centre has offered the minimum support price (MSP) of ₹1,940 on paddy for the upcoming season. “This time, the grain arrivals are expected to fall by at least 10% of the last season,” said Tiwari, who held a meeting with the department officials for procurement arrangements. The state food and civil supplies department is yet to supply the Centre rice worth ₹2,000 to match the accounts with the CCL received in 2019 and 2020 kharif marketing seasons. Tiwari said remaining ₹2,000 crore will be cleared in the days to come. “Also, it was decided in the meeting that stringent steps will be taken to stop arrival of paddy from other states so that Punjab’s CCL burden could be curtailed,” he added. The department officials said a requisition for taxes imposed by the state government has also been sent in the form of a draft provisional cost sheet. “In the cost sheet, we have sought 3% each rural development fund and mandi fee besides 2.5% dami for the arhtiyas,” an official said. In the previous two procurement seasons, the Centre had fixed dami of ₹45.88 per quintal. “Let us see how much the Centre allows this time,” the official added. Food and civil supplies department officials said 10 lakh gunny bales are required for the upcoming procurement season. “We are in touch with the Jute Corporation of India in this regard. It was also decided of a total requirement, 5 lakh bales will be arranged by the department and the rest by the paddy shelling mills,” an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-govt-seeks-rs-42-000-crore-cash-credit-limit-from-rbi-for-upcoming-paddy-procurement-season-101631046295996.html
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana starts registrations for e-auction of commercial sites||Haryana government has started registration for e-auctioning of commercial sites of ‘’Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board’. An official spokesperson said the e-auction will be done on a free-hold basis. Beginning September 14, the e-auction of different grain and vegetable markets in Sampla, Ambala city, Siwan, Ambala Cantt, Panipat, Sonipat etc will continue till September 21. IAS officer Gupta’s services placed at disposal of Union govt
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||Dreaded gangster nabbed after a hot chase in Sangrur||Jaspreet Babbi (32), a gangster facing at least 16 criminal cases, including that of extortion, murder and robbery, was arrested after a chase with firearms, ammunition and a stolen car from the Sunam area of Sangrur district, police said on Tuesday. Sangrur senior superintendent of police (SSP) Swapan Sharma said Babbi was in touch with members of a gang headed by Ajaib Khan, who is currently lodged in the Sangrur district jail. “The two had hatched a conspiracy to eliminate rival gangsters Mani Sheron and Feteh Nagri,” he said. While Sheron is facing criminal cases across Punjab and Haryana, Nagri too is facing nearly 25 FIRs. SP (investigation) Karanveer Singh said that following a tip-off a team of the crime investigation agency (CIA) wing laid a trap and chased a Hyundai Verna car for 12-15 kilometres near Sunam. Babbi, who was travelling alone in the vehicle, was nabbed without any exchange of fire even as resisted initially, the SP said. “The cases of extortion, murder, loot and theft are registered against Babbi in different police stations of Sangrur, Bathinda and Patiala districts,” he added. The police said Babbi, a resident of Sheron village of in the district, has been active in criminal activities for the last 11 years and he met Khan when the latter was out on parole.A case under the Arms Act was registered against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dreaded-gangster-nabbed-after-a-hot-chase-in-sangrur-101631045996362.html
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||Indian Air Force presents MiG 21 to Chandigarh’s Kendriya Vidyalaya||The Indian Air Force (IAF) has presented a MiG-21 aircraft to Kendriya Vidyalaya, Sector 47, Chandigarh. Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria visited the school, which is his alma mater, on Monday. In his address, he stressed on the pivotal role his teachers played during his formative years and conveyed his best wishes to the school and Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan.An IAF official said they get multiple representations from schools requesting installation of airforce planes, following which some schools are selected on the basis of merit.MiG 21 is a supersonic fighter jet and interceptor aircraft of Russian origin.Air Chief Marshal Bhadauria had also visited the air force station in Chandigarh on Monday on its 60th anniversary and reviewed the ongoing capability enhancement and infrastructure upgrade process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/indian-air-force-presents-mig-21-to-chandigarh-s-kendriya-vidyalaya-101631045757651.html
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||Lamb, pulao, zarda rice on menu as Punjab CM cooks up a meal for Olympians today||Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh will host a dinner for Punjab’s Olympic medal winners and gold medallist Neeraj Chopra on Wednesday.Amarinder will host the dinner at his Siswan farmhouse and cook a lavish meal for them as promised.“From Patiala cuisine to pulao, lamb, chicken, aloo & Zarda rice, CM @capt_amarinder will prepare each of these delicacies himself to keep his promise to Punjab Olympic medal winners (& Neeraj Chopra) at the dinner he is hosting for them tomorrow!” the chief minister’s media adviser Raveen Thukral tweeted.Jalandhar cantonment MLA Pargat Singh, who is a former India hockey captain, is also expected to join them.The chief minister, while honouring the Olympic medal winners at a ceremony here on August 12, had promised to host a dinner for them, promising to cook for them.“I am not too fond of eating but I do like cooking. I will cook for all of you,” he told them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/capt-cook-punjab-cm-to-churn-out-mouth-watering-delicacies-for-olympic-medallists-101631045756186.html
08-09-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: A poet from Shaheen Bagh||The evening sun is setting behind the Metro station. The adjacent drain, clogged with plastic bags, has turned ethereal in the twilight gold.In her early 20s, Shahana Khatoon is unhurriedly walking along the station’s foot overbridge, towards her home in Shaheen Bagh. The pathway is crowded with men. There’s a stray dog, too. But Ms Khatoon is too occupied in her thoughts to care for the immediate world around her. She isn’t even turning to look at the orange sun as it dips in slow motion at the rear of the Jasola Vihar-Shaheen Bagh station. May be because there’s so much for her to look forward to. Having completed her Master’s in English from Delhi’s Jawaharlal Nehru University some months ago, she plans to do a PhD. A resident of the south Delhi locality where she lives with her parents, Ms Khatoon is also a daytime Gurugram dweller — she started her first full-time job in a start-up in the Millennium City (Udyog Vihar, Phase 4) in June, as a content writer. Additionally, she has arrived at perhaps the most significant milestone in her life. ‘Chaotic, in bits and pieces’, her slim collection of poems, her first book, was published last month.“There are things inherent to my identity that I can’t change, such as my name, my gender, my religion, my nationality, my caste. I never asked for any of these.” As men continue to pass on both sides of her, she talks of how she let poetry complicate who she is. “When I write poems, I try to create a self that incorporates both my given identity and my chosen identity.”Ms Khatoon agrees to share a poem with us.AlmondsWhat do you do when your lover is in your city -Do you close your windows?Do you close your doors?Do you sit under the same sky and try to measurethe distance that isn’t in miles any more?Isn’t it thrilling to witness the distance shrinking,as if almonds turning into raisins,as if apples becoming pines,as if peaches becoming wine.And what do you do when your lover is in your city-but you aren’t lovers any more -Can almonds ever turn into raisins?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-poet-from-shaheen-bagh-101631045380972.html
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Teen dead, brother injured in attack at Ram Darbar||A 19-year-old youth was killed while his 21-year-old brother was injured after they were attacked by a group in Ram Darbar on Monday night. Police have rounded up four attackers, of whom two are juvenile. Police said Sajan, 19, and Vishal, 21, who are residents of Ram Darbar and work as painters in Hallomajra, were out to have some snacks when they entered into an argument with a group of eight youths. The group reportedly asked them to hand over their money too. The accused then attacked them with sharp-edged weapons and fled, said police.Injured himself, Vishal carried his injured brother to Government Medical College and Hospital, GMCH, Sector 32, where the latter died around 3am on Tuesday. Vishal is still undergoing treatment.Police have registered a case under Section 302 (murder) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) at the Sector 31 police station. Police said they will arrest all the accused soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-teen-dead-brother-injured-in-attack-at-ram-darbar-101631045518646.html
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana launches third sero survey, kids to be included in it||Haryana health minister Anil Vij on Tuesday launched the third round of Covid-19 serological survey. Vij said the first round of sero survey was conducted in August 2020 in which the prevalence of Covid-19 infection was found to be 8%. Similarly, the second round was conducted in October 2020 in which the prevalence of Covid-19 infection was found to be 14.8%. Vij said the third round of sero survey will have a broader perspective than the one conducted earlier as 36,520 samples would be taken whereas in the last survey, about 18,500 samples were taken. He said children above the age of six will also be covered in this survey, and it will also be conducted in rural and urban areas. This time, around 3,600 children in the age group of 6 to 9 years, 11,000 between the age of 10 to 17 and 22,000 persons above the age of 18 will be included in the sero survey being conducted this time. In this survey, 60% of the people in rural areas and 40% in urban areas will be covered. He said about 2,200 medical personnel have been deputed to conduct this survey and the report will be submitted in two weeks. The health minister said the serological survey is conducted to determine the number of antibodies formed in a person. “Through this survey, it will be understood as to whether the antibodies were developed due to the administration of vaccine or due to Covid-19 infection. Also, the antibodies developed after the administration of first and second doses of vaccines and the percentage of antibodies developed will also be gauged through this survey,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-launches-third-sero-survey-kids-to-be-included-in-it-101631045517608.html
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||‘Missing’ husband, in-laws booked for abetment after woman dies by suicide in Ludhiana||A man who has been missing for four months and his parents were booked for abetment after his wife allegedly hung herself from the ceiling fan in Rishi Nagar on Monday. The victim’s father has alleged that his daughter’s in-laws had killed his daughter and staged her death to look like a suicide. He also said that her husband, who had been reported missing four months ago, had been hiding to harass his daughter. The 42-year-old victim, who is survived by two daughters, had married the accused in 2006. The victim’s father also alleged that soon after their marriage, the victim’s husband and in-laws had started harassing her for dowry and that he had even bought a ₹12 lakh plot for them. After the victim’s husband went missing in May, her in-laws had filed a complaint against her, alleging that she had beaten them up. The victim had returned to her maternal home in Phagwara with her daughters, but her in-laws took them back to Ludhiana on September 2. Assistant sub-inspector Gian Singh, who is investigating the case, said a case had ben registered under Section 306 (abetment of suicide) of the Indian Penal Code. A few major suicide prevention helpline numbers in India are 011-23389090 from Sumaitri (Delhi-based) and 044-24640050 from Sneha Foundation (Chennai-based).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/missing-husband-in-laws-booked-for-abetment-after-woman-dies-by-suicide-in-ludhiana-101631045516265.html
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity logs Covid death after six days||An 81-year-old man who had tested positive for Covid-19 succumbed at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, on Tuesday. He was a resident of Sector 8.With his death, Chandigarh as well as the tricity reported a virus-related fatality after six days.Meanwhile, on Tuesday, the tricity reported 13 fresh cases — 10 in Mohali, two in Chandigarh and one in Panchkula. On Monday, eight cases were reported.Mohali district’s single-day tally was recorded in double digits after 11 days. It was last on August 27, when the same number of cases had surfaced. Among the fresh cases, seven surfaced in Mohali city, two in Dera Bassi, and one in Kharar.In Chandigarh, the patients are from Sectors 18 and 56, while in Panchkula, the lone case was reported from Sector 19. The active caseload in the tricity saw a dip, from Monday’s 97 to 91 on Tuesday, with 44 patients in Mohali, 34 in Chandigarh and 13 in Panchkula.So far, 65,124 people in Chandigarh have tested positive for the virus of whom 64,275 have recovered, while 815 have succumbed to the disease.Of 68,647 cases in Mohali, 67,543 have been cured and 1,060 have ended in fatalities. Panchkula’s case tally stands at 30,693 of whom 30,303 patients have been cured and 377 have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-logs-covid-death-after-six-days-101631045335953.html
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||Smart meters: Chandigarh administration wants REC to speed up project||In order to complete the pilot project of smart meter installation by year-end, the UT administration has sought faster implementation of the project by the Regional Electrification Corporation (REC).In a meeting with the union power secretary, UT adviser Dharam Pal asked for the presence of CMD of the REC in Chandigarh to resolve the issues leading to delay in project completion. After a surprise visit on the installation site of smart meters on Monday, Pal had expressed his disappointment at the slow progress of the pilot project. “The project was started in 2016, but not even 50% of it has been completed. The system hasn’t been developed,” Pal had said. State-owned REC is implementing the project.Around 30,000 smart meters under the pilot project are to be installed in four sectors (29, 31, 47, and 48), six villages (Faida, Ram Darbar, Hallomajra, Raipur Kalan, Makhanmajra, and Daria), and the industrial area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/smart-meters-chandigarh-administration-wants-rec-to-speed-up-project-101631045277220.html
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||Apartments case: SC allows Chandigarh admn to submit survey report||The Supreme Court has permitted the Chandigarh administration to submit a survey report on identification of residential properties where there has been transfer of shares outside the family. The order in this regard was passed by the apex court on Monday. It took note of submissions made by the UT, which claimed it has already conducted the survey. The apex court directed the UT to submit the report within one week and said the high court can proceed with the hearing of pleas before it after taking into account the report. The HC is requested to adjudicate the dispute in the writ petition at the earliest, preferably within two weeks, the apex court said. The SC was hearing a plea from a Sector-27 resident, which opposed the survey. Acting on it, the SC had stayed the HC order. It was in July, when the HC had directed that those residential properties transferred or sold after December 31, 2019, wherein the shares were transferred to a person outside the family of the original owner, be surveyed. The HC order had come on a batch of petitions pending since 2016, seeking prohibitory orders on conversion of residential plots into apartments. Residential plots in Chandigarh are meant for single-dwelling units. However, in recent years, they are being sold floor-wise to multiple owners, which would “destroy” the city and put additional burden on infrastructure, the petitioners had argued. The matter was taken up in the HC on Tuesday too, but was adjourned for September 16 as the apex court order was not available.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/apartments-case-sc-allows-chandigarh-admn-to-submit-survey-report-101631045155956.html
08-09-2021||Delhi||Can latest speed curbs make roads safer for two-wheelers?||A friendly motorcycle race among a group of youngsters on the Yamuna Expressway on June 25 turned fatal for Mehrauli’s Rahul Teotia, 28, when his motorbike collided with another. His friend, Yash Kumar, 30, who was riding pillion, was severely injured.This was not an isolated incident. Fatal two-wheeler crashes are common in the Capital, and the victims are often young stunt bikers. The law has so far proved inadequate to curb this menace despite several initiatives in the past, including meetings with youngsters from schools and colleges to discuss safe driving practices, community awareness programmes among residents’ welfare associations, and engagement programmes at traffic junctions.Now that the Capital’s traffic police has brought two-wheelers under the ambit of speed restrictions through an order effective from June 11, it plugs a law-enforcement gap through which cases of speed violations involving two-wheelers fell through in courts.All two-wheelers on city roads are now meant to adhere to a speed limit of 50km/hr. On high-speed corridors and expressways, where the speed limit for four-wheelers has been set at 70km/hr, two-wheelers have a limit of 60km/hr.Legal loopholeTraffic police officials say that, previously, two-wheeler speed violations were recorded based on the limits set for four-wheelers (which is 50km/hr in most parts of the city). Most riders used to get away without paying fines for violations as road signs didn’t indicate speed limits for two-wheelers, and they could feign ignorance about the restrictions in court.“Technically, the speed limits for two-wheelers were not notified. The signage in the city also does not specify the speed limits for two-wheelers, so an easy escape for owners was to say that they were not aware,” said a senior traffic official on condition of anonymity.Delhi government data showed that of over 10 million vehicles registered in the city till March 2020, 7.3 million were two-wheelers. Delhi traffic police estimates also show that of the total road accident fatalities, two-wheeler riders form the biggest group at 45%, followed closely by pedestrians (24%) and cyclists (20%).Traffic police data shows that, in 2020, 4,178 accidents were reported in Delhi of which 1,163 were fatal. Another report by the department stated that last year, nearly 30-40% of road accident deaths and injuries involved two-wheeler riders or those riding pillion. In a 2019 study conducted by the traffic police, the share of two-wheeler victims in road accident cases was between 32% and 42%. It also highlighted that while private cars were involved in the highest share of fatal road accidents at 33.10%, two-wheelers were involved in 24.47% of the crashes.A deeper dive into the numbers shows that, in 2019, 496 two-wheeler riders lost their lives in road accidents, while 2,110 were injured. This number was only marginally lower than the 570 deaths and 2,542 injuries recorded in 2018, and 557 deaths and 2,680 injuries in 2017.Often, it is not just the two-wheeler riders that have to pay the price for rash and dangerous driving.Usha Devi’s (52) world turned upside down in 2015 when a speeding motorcycle hit her as she was waiting to cross the road near Zakhira crossing in west Delhi. The accident left her bedridden for 18 months, with fractures to her leg, hip, and spine.“I have metal rods in my leg, and I still cannot walk without support or stand for more than 30 minutes. I had to quit my job as a supervisor at a factory after the accident, and it was only a year ago that my daughter got a job and we have settled. The accident changed my life forever...,” Devi said.Police and road safety experts say that the fatality risk is higher among two-wheeler riders due to their tendency to speed and the low protection the vehicle provides. Traffic police officials say two-wheeler riders in the 19-27 age group speed the most and also form the largest share of fatalities.“With the speed limits now notified under law, enforcement teams will be better equipped to catch violators,” a senior traffic police officer said on condition of anonymity, adding that the general public will also feel more confident now about reporting speeding motorcyclists.Call for more signageSewa Ram, professor of transport planning at the School of Planning and Architecture, who was part of the speed review committee that helped decide the revised speed limits, said that the traffic police and the road-owning agencies in the Capital must now ensure that speed signage is revised to include the limits for two-wheelers.“Revising it will ensure that commuters know that they will be prosecuted if they flout the limit and also create better awareness,” Ram said.Other experts said that while Delhi is “better off” compared to other Indian cities in terms of the availability and placement of road signage, cities such as Hyderabad and Chennai have recently collaborated with traffic experts and organisations to install new signage with accurate and inclusive information.Since 2017, the Chennai traffic department along with the road-owning agencies there have been working towards installing inclusive signage for two-wheelers, cyclists and pedestrians at strategic locations.Amit Bhatt, director (integrated urban transport) at the World Resources Institute (India), who was also part of the speed review committee, said, “While it is not possible to pictorially depict all categories of vehicles, it is important that the three important categories be represented — two-wheelers, four-wheelers and large commercial vehicles... [It] is still in the works.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/can-latest-speed-curbs-make-roads-safer-for-twowheelers-101631044974863.html
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana to purchase 4,500 e-ticketing machines for Roadways buses||To bring transparency and improve revenue collection, the Haryana transport department is all set to buy 4,500 e-ticketing machines for Roadways buses. The machines will help curb malpractices in distribution of tickets to the passengers. Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said the e-ticketing system will be implemented within six months. After its launch, tickets can be purchased through cash as well as card. Closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras will also be installed in buses for security purposes. This is one of the decisions taken in the high-powered purchase committee (HPPC) held under the chairmanship of Khattar. The committee approved purchases of goods and items to be procured by various departments up to the limit of ₹160 crore. Power minister Ranjit Singh, agriculture minister JP Dalal, transport minister Mool Chand Sharma, minister of state for archaeology and archives Anoop Dhanak were also present. Among the important tenders approved include purchasing furniture and water purifiers for playway schools. The water purifiers will be installed in 4,000 playway schools to be opened in anganwadi centres across the state. The committee also gave nod to purchase several items for power Discoms and to purchase 1.20 crore vaccines for prevention of foot-and-mouth disease in cattle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-to-purchase-4-500-e-ticketing-machines-for-roadways-buses-101631045096045.html
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||Two gangs of vehicle thieves busted in Mohali||With the arrest of two men and a juvenile, the Mohali police on Tuesday claimed to have busted two gangs of vehicle thieves. Police have also recovered 16 stolen two-wheelers from their possession. The two men have been identified as Sunny of Uttar Pardesh and Parvinder Singh of Amritsar. While Sunny and the minor were arrested in one case, Parvinder is part of another gang, police said. Sunny and Parvinder were produced in court and sent to police custody for further questioning. Sunny’s accomplice has been sent to a juvenile home. Police said Sunny and the minor were riding an Activa scooter, when they were intercepted. On checking, the scooter was found to be stolen. Following their disclosure statement, police further recovered three Activa scooters and a motorcycle that were stolen from Mohali. Parvinder Singh was arrested following a tip-off. On his disclosure statement, 12 scooters were recovered. Sunny and the juvenile had been booked for a two-wheeler theft at the Phase 1 police station whereas Parvinder was booked for theft at Phase 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-gangs-of-vehicle-thieves-busted-in-mohali-101631044976085.html
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: UTCA beat Delhi Capitals in JP Atray cricket tie||Riding high on Gaurav Puri’s 78-ball unbeaten knock of 75 runs, UT Cricket Association logged a four-wicket win over Delhi Capitals in a match during the ongoing 26th JP Atray memorial cricket tournament at the Sector 16 cricket stadium on Tuesday.Batting first, Delhi Capitals scored 235 for 8 in 50 overs. Rajesh Sharma scored 62 while Prerek Mankad scored 58 for Delhi Capitals. For UTCA, spinner Bhagmender Singh took three wickets.In reply, UTCA scored 236 for four in 49.1 overs. Openers Shivam Bhambri and Taranpreet Singh stitched an opening wicket partnership of 92 runs. Later batting at number six, Gaurav Puri showed his class and hammered 75 runs off 78 balls to help UTCA record win. He remained unbeaten. For Delhi Capitals, Shiva Singh took three wickets.Players XI, UP win tiesIn another match, Players XI, Delhi, beat PCA Colts by five wickets at GMSSS, Sector 26.Meanwhile, Uttar Pradesh got better of Punjab Cricket Club by three wickets in a match played at the Maharaja Yadavindra Stadium, Mullanpur. Akashdeep Nath scored match-winning 87 runs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-utca-beat-delhi-capitals-in-jp-atray-cricket-tie-101631044916106.html
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||Bihar CM Nitish, SAD supremo Parkash Singh Badal, INLD’s OP Chautala to share stage at Jind rally on Sept 25||Pitching for a third front, Indian National Lok Dal’s Om Prakash Chautala will bring together SP patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav, Bihar chief minister and JD(U) leader Nitish Kumar, former prime minister HD Deve Gowda and SAD supremo Parkash Singh Badal on one stage on September 25, the birth anniversary of former deputy prime minister Devi Lal. NCP leader Sharad Pawar, TMC president and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, National Conference leader Farooq Abdullah and RLD leader Jayant Chowdhury have also been invited for a political rally in Jind and their confirmation is awaited, INLD leader Abhay Chautala told PTI. He said Mulayam Singh Yadav, Nitish Kumar, JD(S) leader Deve Gowda and Badal have confirmed that they will attend the ‘Samman Samaroh’ to mark the birth anniversary of Devi Lal. “Many like-minded leaders from non-BJP and non-Congress parties will come together on one stage and raise issues that are close to the people, especially farmers’ issues,” Abhay Chautala said. He said people are looking for an alternative to the BJP and the Congress. By bringing all these leaders “our aim is to form the third front for the overall welfare of the country and the people,” Chautala said. INLD spokesperson Rakesh Sihag said Om Prakash Chautala has “personally met” Deve Gowda and Mulayam Singh Yadav and invited them for the rally. “It will be a huge rally and people from various states will attend it,” he said. Om Prakash Chautala, 86, after his release from Delhi’s Tihar Jail on July 2, had announced that he will contact opposition leaders across the country to forge a “Third Front” at the national level. The former chief minister of Haryana had been serving a 10-year sentence in a recruitment scam. The INLD patriarch had said that before September 25, which is the birth anniversary of his father Chaudhary Devi Lal, he will try to meet opposition leaders and urge them to come on one platform. JD(U) leaders Nitish Kumar and KC Tyagi had met Chautala at his residence in Gurugram last month and had termed it a courtesy call. The parties invited by INLD include those that are either in alliance with the Congress or the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bihar-cm-nitish-sad-supremo-parkash-singh-badal-inld-s-op-chautala-to-share-stage-at-jind-rally-on-sept-25-101631044856431.html
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||Gangrape victim from Pune rescued at Chandigarh railway station||A 14-year-old victim of sexual assault from Pune was rescued by Childline Chandigarh and the railway police force from the city’s railway station, officials said on Tuesday. She was allegedly gangraped by 13 men in and around Pune railway station on August 31 and September 1. Pune police later took her in their custody and have so far arrested at least seven of the 13 accused. Project director of Childline Chandigarh, Sangeeta Jund said, “The girl was accompanied by another minor friend and they reached the Chandigarh railway station on September 4. She was bleeding profusely and we earlier thought that she had run away from home. She was kept at the Child Home in Sector 24 before the Pune police took her.”It has been learnt that she had gone to meet a boy at the Pune railway station, who didn’t show up. An auto-rickshaw driver found her crying there and took her to a lodge. One of the accused had made her board a train to Mumbai from where she had come to Chandigarh with another minor friend of hers, Jund said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gangrape-victim-from-pune-rescued-at-chandigarh-railway-station-101631044795983.html
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||PGTI Players Championship: Chandigarh’s Karandeep, Akshay to aim for title||PGTI Order of Merit leader and Chandigarh’s Karandeep Kochhar along with defending champion Akshay Sharma will be seen in action during the TATA Steel PGTI Players Championship 2021 presented by Haryana government and Panchkula golf club from September 8 to 11. The tournament has an enhanced prize purse of ₹50 lakh. A pro-am event will be played on September 12. The event will feature top Indian professionals such as Olympian Udayan Mane, Rashid Khan, Khalin Joshi, Chikkarangappa, Viraj Madappa, Karandeep Kochhar, Manu Gandas (winner on the PGTI last week) and Aadil Bedi among others. Besides Chandigarh-based golfers Karandeep Kochhar, Akshay Sharma and Aadil Bedi, the tricity will also be represented by Chandigarh’s Yuvraj Singh Sandhu, Harendra Gupta, Abhijit Singh Chadha, Amrit Lal, Ranjit Singh, Ravi Kumar, Jairaj Singh Sandhu, Amritinder Singh and Harmeet Kahlon as well as Panchkula’s Angad Cheema, Martendeya Kanishka Sinha, Rajiv Kumar Jatiwal and Rajesh Kumar.The TATA Steel PGTI Players Championship being held at the scenic Panchkula golf club for the third year in succession will be the second event since the resumption of the 2020-21 season which had a forced break of six months this year due to the pandemic.The foreign names in the field consist of the Bangladeshi duo of Md Zamal Hossain Mollah and Badal Hossain as well as Digraj Singh Gill, who is an American national of Indian origin.Of the three amateurs in the fray, Bishmadpal Singh Seerha and Mandaar S Prashar also hail from the tricity while 14-year-old Aarav D Shah is an Australian national of Indian origin, who is based in Greater Noida. The six-feet-tall Aarav D Shah will become one of the youngest players to ever play a PGTI event when he tees it up in round one on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pgti-players-championship-chandigarh-s-karandeep-akshay-to-aim-for-title-101631044557069.html
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||HCS exams: Sikh candidates asked to report an hour in advance||Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) on Tuesday announced that Sikh candidates, who wish to carry articles of faith, such as kara and kripan, into the examination hall during the Haryana Civil Services (executive branch) and allied services preliminary exam on September 12, will have to report to the centre an hour in advance. An official spokesperson said, the candidates should let authorities to screen the articles of faith to ascertain whether there are any suspected devices, electronic or otherwise. In case, a suspected device is detected, they will be restrained from carrying the same into the examination hall. The spokesperson said in case candidates fail to report an hour early or fail to cooperate with the staff on screening duty, they will not be allowed to take the examination with kara and kripan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hcs-exams-sikh-candidates-asked-to-report-an-hour-in-advance-101631044555975.html
08-09-2021||Delhi||Another step towards airport flyway||The Central Public Works Department (CPWD) has started work on preparing detailed drawings of a 14km elevated corridor from Barapullah near Thyagraj stadium to Mahipalpur bypass in south Delhi that is aimed at decongesting the areas around the eight government residential colonies that are being redeveloped by the Union government.According to senior CPWD and National Buildings Construction Corporation (NBCC) India officials, with the Unified Traffic and Transportation Infrastructure (Planning and Engineering) Centre (UTTIPEC) having approved the project in July, the approximately ₹5,000-crore plan will be sent for the final ratification by the Union cabinet.The corridor was not part of the initial redevelopment plan for eight General Pool Residential Accommodation (GPRA) colonies -- Kidwai Nagar, Nauroji Nagar, Netaji Nagar, Sarojini Nagar, Mohammaddpur, Thyagraj Nagar, Kasturba Nagar, Srinivaspuri---consisting of more than 25,000 dwelling units.Besides helping manage the expected increase in traffic volume on Road Road and other arterial stretches around the redeveloped colonies, the six-lane corridor will provide direct access to Indira Gandhi International Airport for commuters travelling from south, central and east Delhi.A senior CPWD official who is privy to the matter said, “We doing the detailing work, which includes preparing drawings of the corridor based on the approved alignment. This is done before we can float tenders for construction. The detailing work will take at least two-three months.”According to the approved alignment, the road corridor will start from Barapullah flyover near Thyagraj stadium and pass by Aurobindo Marg, Brigadier Hoshiyar Singh Road, Africa Avenue, Vivekanand Marg, Nelson Mandela Road, Vasant Kunj Road and Mahipalpur Bypass, and touch down at National Highway-8. The Delhi government’s Public Works Department (PWD) was tasked with finalising the alignment and getting it approved from UTTIPEC.With the Delhi government in the final stages of acquiring an 8.5-acre land parcel in the Yamuna riverbed which will pave the way for the completion of the extension of the Barapullah corridor up to Mayur Vihar, commuters from east Delhi will have an almost signal-free access up to the airport once the 14km corridor is also completed.The approved alignments provide ramps for traffic to get on and off the corridor at INA Brigadier Hoshiyar Singh Marg, Africa Avenue, and Nelson Mandela Road. “Ramps have been provided to the corridor near all the residential colonies in the plans,” said a Delhi PWD official.Earlier this year, the Union housing and urban affairs ministry decided that the cost of the corridor will be included in the total redevelopment expense that will be recovered from the sale of commercial space at a centre coming up at Nauroji Nagar.A senior CPWD official said, “The corridor was not part of the initial plan which included redevelopment of eight government residential colonies. Cabinet approval will be needed to include this corridor in the overall project.”A senior NBCC India official who is aware of the development said: “It has been decided that the cost of the project will be recovered from the sale of commercial components. The process is on to take necessary cabinet approval. The corridor will be completed along with the redevelopment of the colonies.”With close to 25,000 dwelling units proposed as part of the massive GPRA residential project, traffic experts say the neighbourhoods will cause an unprecedented rise in traffic load on an already exhausted Ring Road.Experts said the Ring Road has reached the saturation point in terms of traffic volume, and there was no further scope for road widening.Sarvagya Srivastava, former engineer-in-chief with Delhi PWD, said, “The redevelopment of these colonies will result in tremendous increase in the traffic in the surrounding areas. The Ring Road is saturated and there is no further space for widening. This corridor is the need of the hour. As it will be an extension of Barapullah flyover, it will reduce the travel time, specially to those going to the airport, for thousands of commuters. Currently, all routes to the airport from south and central Delhi experience heavy traffic.”A study by the School of Planning and Architecture (SPA) on “accessibility to airports” in 2017 found that reaching Delhi airport is far more difficult when compared to travel to the local airport in other cities.The study found the average speed in the 5km radius of Delhi airport is 16.1 kmph, and it increases only after 12-13km, and then remains constant till 20-22km.Sewa Ram, head of the department of transport planning at SPA, who conducted the study, said the corridor or an alternate route to the airport is required as all the existing routes are already congested.He also stressed on the need to upgrade the infrastructure on other arterial roads in order to avoid congestion in the future.Sewa Ram said, “Barapullah is facing a congestion issue since the starting and end points have not been designed properly. At INA, where it touches down, road space is not sufficient for the smooth flow of vehicles. Similarly, the road network near Sarai Kale Khan was not planned properly.“Similarly, besides developing the 14-km elevated corridors, the agencies should upgrade the surrounding arterial roads so that intended purpose is achieved.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/another-step-towards-airport-flyway-101631044132334.html
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||National Education Policy should be backed, says Union minister||Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Tuesday urged faculty members to support and contribute to the timely implementation of the National Education Policy (NEP-2020).He was speaking virtually at the 54th annual day celebrations of National Institute of Technical Teachers Training and Research (NITTTR), Chandigarh. NITTTR is an autonomous institute of ministry of education (MoE) established in 1967.Pradhan laid the foundation stone of the faculty residence building at NITTTR and also inaugurated an AR/VR lab. While delivering his inaugural address, he urged upon the faculty for their support and contributions for effective and timely implementation of the National Education Policy for transformational contribution in Digital Mission, Unnat Bharat, Aatmanirbharbharat and Swachh Bharat Mission. NITTTR director Professor Shyam Sundar Pattnaik also presented the annual report for the year 2020-21. “The institute trained 74,337 technical faculty participants, conducted 55 curriculum workshops, published 269 research publications (215 in international journals, 54 in conferences), submitted 49 research projects, awarded PhD degrees to 10 students, filed four patents and many more which are unthinkable during the pandemic period,” he added. “Professor Pattnaik dedicated the achievement to the sincerity, team work and commitment of its faculty staff and students,” NITTTR said in an official communiqué.During the annual function, the institute also awarded the best-performing employees, meritorious students, best-performing polytechnic and engineering colleges of the northern region and winners of the digital poster competition. NITTTR is aiming to get a ‘deemed-to-be-university’ status under ‘de novo’ category.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nep-implementation-should-be-backed-says-education-minister-101631044255844.html
08-09-2021||Delhi||Arvind Kejriwal to open new-look Chandni Chowk||The ₹99-crore Chandni Chowk redevelopment project, aimed at decongesting and conserving the heritage structure of the Mughal-era market, is likely to be inaugurated by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday.As per the minutes of an August 26 meeting attended by nodal officers for the project, all work was to be completed by September 5. However, officials say that some final touches such as fixing a few CCTV cameras and placement of plants needed to be finished.A senior PWD official privy to the details said preparations are going on in full swing for inauguration of the revamped stretch between the Red Fort and Fatehpuri Masjid.As part of the first phase of the redevelopment plan, the 1.3-km Chandni Chowk stretch between the two landmarks has been revamped and made a no-go zone for motorised vehicles. During the pandemic, as the market shut down, there was a massive loss of business, but as things seem to be coming back to normal, the agencies anticipate shoppers returning to the market once again.Conceived in 2006, the Chandni Chowk redevelopment project was launched after a prolonged delay in December 2018 following the directions of the Delhi high court, which is also monitoring the project.In the first phase of the project, utilities such as electric cables were taken underground and dedicated lanes for non-motorised transport and walkways were constructed. With the overhead mess of wire becoming a thing of the past, the skyline of the once-congested market looks much cleaner now.Facilities such as toilets, ATMs, and benches and bollards were also set up.In the second phase, the façade restoration will be taken up by SRDC and PWD. A uniform façade will be implemented on the stretch.Sanjay Bhargava, president Chandni Chowk Sarv Vyapar Mandal, said while the inauguration was around the corner, some work was still pending. “There are pending issues. Transformers were to be removed from the Fountain Chowk. That has not happened. Streetlights are yet to be installed at some places. Unless all the aspects originally outlined are completed, the project will not be completed,” he said.The PWD official quoted above, however, said all work will be finished to meet the deadline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/arvind-kejriwal-to-open-new-look-chandni-chowk-101631042001046.html
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||Labourer strangled to death in Ludhiana, wife, kids booked||A 45-year-old labourer was allegedly strangled to death by his wife, daughters and brothers-in-law at his home in Bhattian village of Khanna on Monday. The accused, Baljit Kaur, her two daughters, and brothers Ram Singh and Mukhtiar Singh of Khanna Khurd attempted to pass off the murder as a cardiac arrest. However, his relatives noticed ligature marks around his neck and alerted the police, following which the accused fled. Relatives say the women in the house were at odds with the victim, Kulwinder Singh, because of his conservative mindset. He would stop his daughters from wearing jeans and venturing out in the evening. Deputy superintendent of police (DSP, Khanna) Rajan Parminder Singh said, “The victim and his wife had a strained relationship. However, the reason behind the murder will be ascertained after the arrest of the accused.” The victim’s brother, Rajwinder Singh, said, “I was told that my brother had passed away due to a cardiac arrest. However, when we were performing the last rites we noticed bruising on his neck, which suggested he had been strangulated. When we confronted the accused, they fled.” Kin allege police inaction The accused’s relatives have said that the accused were reluctant to take action. They said the police only swung into action when Khanna municipal corporation president Kamaljit Singh and former president Iqbal Singh threatened to block the national highway. The DSP said the body has been sent to the civil hospital for postmortem. A case has been registered under Sections 302 (murder), 148 (rioting) and 149 ( unlawful assembly guilty of offence) of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/labourer-strangled-to-death-in-ludhiana-wife-kids-booked-101631043961709.html
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh mayor inaugurates civil dispensary at Sector 52||Chandigarh mayor Ravi Kant Sharma on Tuesday inaugurated a newly constructed civil dispensary at Rehabilitation Colony in Sector 52 in the presence of municipal commissioner Anindita Mitra. The facility, which has been built at a cost of ₹1.23 crore, would cater to a population of 35,000 in the area.He said the civil dispensary will serve rural area of Kajheri village, EWS colony, electricity colony, and Sector 52 besides helping the people living nearby with a cost-effective medical treatment. He said this dispensary will also be used for regular check-up of staff working with the Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC), specially focusing on wide coverage for door-to-door waste collectors with all possible medical health facilities. The MC commissioner said the two dispensaries in sectors 49 and 50 are being managed by PGIMER and the medicines used are provided by the director, health services, Chandigarh. A process has been initiated to work an arrangement with PGIMER on the same pattern for this dispensary as well, she added. Mitra also briefed about the civil dispensary’s infrastructure, which has two doctor rooms, ANM room with store, injection room, laboratory, and registration room with pharmacy store with adequate facility of separate gender-friendly toilet blocks. The mayor also said that in addition, other services are also being offered at EWS colony, including repairing of internal roads and construction of streets. A community centre in Kajheri is also being built and the work will be completed shortly, he added.Others present during the inauguration were Chanderwati Shukla, area councillor besides other officials and councillors of MC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mayor-inaugurates-civil-dispensary-at-sector-52-101631043896057.html
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh gets its first air purification tower at Transport Chowk||An air purification tower, which is reported to be the tallest in India, became operational at the Transport Chowk, Sector 26, on Tuesday.Standing tall at 24 metres, it was inaugurated by UT adviser Dharam Pal to mark the second International Day of Clean Air for Blue Skies.The purifier has been installed by Pious Air Private Limited without any cost to the Chandigarh administration. The firm will also operate and maintain it for five years, said a UT official.“This is Indian’s highest air purifier which will cover around 500-metre radius around Transport Chowk,” said a spokesperson. The administration is treating it as a pilot project. Originally, five spots were shortlisted to install it, but the Transport Chowk was chosen due to the highest volume of traffic and thus vehicular emissions at this junction, said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-gets-its-first-air-purification-tower-at-transport-chowk-101631043836089.html
08-09-2021||Kolkata||Bengal BJP sends 6 names to fight Mamata Banerjee in Bhabanipur bypoll||Kolkata: The Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) West Bengal unit on Tuesday proposed six names to the party leadership in Delhi to pick a candidate against Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief Mamata Banerjee from Bhabanipur where the bypoll is scheduled on September 30, even as the Congress announced it would not field any candidate against the chief minister.“We have sent a list of six names to Delhi. It includes the names of Priyanka Tibrewal and Biswajit Sarkar among others,” said a senior BJP leader on condition of anonymity.An advocate, Tibrewal is the vice-president of the BJP’s state youth wing. She was also a petitioner in the post-poll violence cases in the Calcutta high court, which ultimately resulted in the court ordering a CBI probe.Biswajit Sarkar is the brother of BJP worker Abhijit Sarkar, who was murdered allegedly by TMC workers in Kolkata on May 2, the day election results were declared. Biswajit is among the petitioners to move the Supreme Court, seeking an SIT probe into allegations of post-poll violence.The list also includes Tathagata Roy, veteran BJP leader and former governor of Meghalaya and Tripura, who has slammed some of his party colleagues over the debacle in the state elections. Rudranil Ghosh, who was the BJP candidate in the constituency in the elections earlier this year, also features in the list.West Bengal Congress chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said his party won’t be fielding anyone against Mamata Banerjee. “The Congress high command has decided that the party will not field any candidate against Mamata Banerjee. It is because that would help the BJP.”TMC leader and spokesperson Tapas Roy welcomed the Congress move.“It is good that good sense has prevailed, and the Congress has realised that fielding a candidate against Mamata Banerjee may help the BJP in turn. As far as the BJP’s candidates are concerned, they can field their central leadership. They would lose with such a huge margin that in future they would think twice before contesting an election,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-bjp-sends-6-names-to-fight-mamata-banerjee-in-bhabanipur-bypoll-101631043776061.html
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh airport: Approach lights on runway to ease fog woes||In a major relief from grounding of flights due to fog, the Chandigarh International Airport has installed approach lights with touchdown zone on the runways, which will allow operations at a visibility as low as 550 metres instead of the existing 1,200 metres. An upgrade to the existing CAT-1 instrument landing system (ILS), it will become operational from October 1. It was carried out by Tata Power Strategic Engineering Division, after the defence ministry reportedly said that the installation of the advanced CAT-3 ILS was not viable. The CAT-3 ILS allows flights to operate even at a visibility of 50 metres.For the past few years, flights operating from the airport remain grounded from mid-December to mid-January due to foggy weather. “There will be no grounding of flights in foggy weather as we have installed 180 approach lights with touchdown zone on runways. Nearly 95% of the work is over and the entire work will be completed by September end. We will make it operational from October 1,” said Ajay Bhardwaj, chief executive officer (CEO) of the airport.Bharadwaj said the new system will allow pilots to land with the help of instruments if they cannot establish visual contact with the runway, especially in foggy conditions, even when visibility is down. At present, the airport faces frequent cancellation of flights in peak winter, when visibility drops due to fog.The airport got the international tag six years ago, and in April 2019, round-the-clock operations began, allowing landing of wide-bodied aircraft. However, no big aircraft is in the pipeline yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-airport-approach-lights-on-runway-to-end-fog-woes-101631043595864.html
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: 30-bed hospital in Phase 3B1 to be ready by November||Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Tuesday said that the 30-bed hospital, which is being upgraded in Mohali’s Phase 3B1, would be ready by November. The minister, along with his team, visited the hospital and inspected the ongoing work of the building, which is being upgraded from a dispensary. Mohali mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu, senior deputy mayor Amrik Singh Somal, and deputy mayor Kuljeet Singh Bedi were also present. Minister Sidhu said in order to provide better healthcare facilities to the people, the infrastructure in Mohali was being strengthened on a large scale under which this dispensary has been upgraded. He said the 30-bed hospital would have two operation theatres, five private rooms, general ward and OPD besides healthcare specialists. Sidhu also visited the land cleared by GMADA in Sector 66 where a new civil hospital will come up. It may be recalled that a medical college would be constructed on the site of the old civil hospital located in Mohali’s Phase 6. Sidhu directed the authorities to start the construction work of a civil hospital here as soon as possible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/30bed-hospital-in-mohali-to-be-ready-by-nov-balbir-sidhu-101631043475919.html
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: 25-year-old man gets 10-year jail in drugs case||A Chandigarh court has awarded 10-year jail to a 25-year-old youth, who was arrested with 20 vials of a psychotropic drug at a garden in Sector 53 in July 2019.A sanitation worker by profession, the convict has been identified as Ricky, aka Choti, of Sector 52.While Ricky pleaded for leniency, stating that he has to take care of his elderly parents and children, the public prosecutor told court that drug menace has become a social malady and needs to be curbed with a heavy hand. “Drug addiction destroys the trait of appreciation of a person, who cannot differentiate between fair and unfair and commits heinous crimes,” said public prosecuter Phool Singh.After listening to the arguments, special court judge Dr Rajneesh observed that the recovered contraband falls in the category of commercial quantity and awarded 10-year jail to Ricky under Section 22 (punishment for contravention in relation to psychotropic substances) of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-25-year-old-man-gets-10-year-jail-in-drugs-case-101631043415934.html
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||Aerotropolis: GMADA to issue letters of intent on September 8||Three years after acquiring land for its Aerotropolis project, the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) will finally start issuing the letters of intent to landowners on September 8. Punjab’s minister for housing and urban development Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria will issue the letters digitally from PUDA Bhawan in Sector 62 at 10am.GMADA had acquired 1,600 acres of land in 11 villages for setting up Aerotropolis, an extension of Aerocity, in the vicinity of the international airport in Mohali. “Scrutiny of applications received from landowners who had applied for land pooling is completed and we will start the process of issuing the letters for nearly 700 acres of land from September 8 at 10am,” a senior official of GMADA said.To ensure quick delivery of letters of intent, provision has been made for landowners to receive an SMS with a download link. GMADA stops manual dispatchThe GMADA will also do away with the prevailing practice of manual dispatch, as earlier there had been instances where allottees complained of not receiving the letters of intent. The process of online issuance of letters of intent will be adopted in all future schemes, the GMADA official said. The development authority has acquired land for the project in Bakarpur, Rurka, Safipur, Matran, Siaun, Manauli, Patton, Saini Majra, Chau Majra, Naraingarh, and Chhat villages. The compensation ranges from ₹1.82 crore to ₹4 crore per acre. Around 90% of the landowners have applied for land pooling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aerotropolis-gmada-to-issue-letters-of-intent-on-september-8-101631043175868.html
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab: Retired policeman kills estranged wife in Mohali||A retired Punjab Police head constable, aged 72, has been arrested after he allegedly killed his estranged wife by hitting her head against the floor repeatedly at his house in Phase 11, Mohali, on Tuesday.The accused, identified as Kartar Singh, was earlier jailed for opening fire at his brother-in-law in 2017 and was released around eight months back.His wife, Kuldeep Kaur, 69, was staying with their son, a head constable, at the police lines in Sector 66, Mohali. The couple has another son, who lives in Australia.Police said the incident took place around 9:30 am, when Kuldeep went to meet her husband on his repeated insistence. The couple reportedly had a verbal altercation, following which Kartar is suspected to have attacked her, slamming her head repeatedly against the floor.The injured woman managed to call her son Harpinder Singh, who is posted at the SSP office in Mohali, and told him that Kartar would kill her. Harpinder then called DSP Mohit Kumar Singla, in-charge, police station, Phase 11, and the two rushed to the spot.“As we reached the house, we found the main door locked from inside. We managed to break open it, and saw the victim lying in a pool of blood and the accused sitting next to her,” said the DSP. Kuldeep was rushed to the civil hospital in Phase 6, where doctors declared her brought dead. Kartar Singh has been arrested for murder. Police are verifying whether he used any weapon. He will be produced in court on Wednesday. After the postmortem, Kuldeep Kaur’s body was handed over to her son. Had fired at brother-in-law in 2017In 2017, Kartar Singh had fired at his brother-in-law, leaving him injured. His wife, Kuldeep Kaur, was the main witness in the attempt to murder case.He was convicted and sent to jail, and was released around eight months back. While Kartar was staying in Phase 11, Kuldeep was now staying with their son in Sector 66.According to family members, Kartar had several times threatened to kill Kuldeep. However, Kuldeep had gone to meet him on Tuesday on his repeated insistence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-retired-policeman-kills-estranged-wife-in-mohali-101631043115905.html
08-09-2021||Other||J&K sees 126 Covid-19 cases, no deaths||Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday recorded 126 fresh Covid-19 infections with no fresh death. There were 92 cases in Kashmir valley while the Jammu division saw 34 infections. The summer capital Srinagar in Kashmir saw the highest count of 46 cases. The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 148 with active positive cases reaching 1,264.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,20,485, prompting the recovery rate to reach 98.25%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,26,169 and the death toll stands at 4,410.The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,142 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 836 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jk-sees-126-covid-19-cases-no-deaths-101631042815731.html
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||PU senate: Polling for graduate constituency on September 26||After deferring it last month, Panjab University (PU) on Tuesday announced that the election for the registered graduate constituency of varsity senate will be held on September 26. The polling date has been announced in anticipation of the approval of the vice-president of India M Venkaiah Naidu, who is the chancellor of PU. The election date is also subject to the approval of one of the states (Uttarakhand), where polling booths are also to be set up for the registered graduate constituency. The polling for the constituency was earlier scheduled to be held on August 18, but was deferred by PU on August 13 citing the non-availability of required polling booths in Punjab and Haryana at that time.After deferring the polls, PU had last month again written to Delhi and Uttarakhand, seeking facilitation of the setting up of polling booths for the conduct of polls. While the directorate of higher education (DHE), Delhi, has asked Delhi University to take necessary action and follow up the matter, PU hasn’t received any response from Uttarakhand yet. The registrar of the Delhi University, north campus, has been directed to coordinate with the registrar-cum-returning officer, PU, regarding the conduct of polling for the registered graduate constituency.Last month, the State Council of Educational Research and Training, Punjab, had informed PU that schools can be made available for setting up booths for senate polls on Sundays.Of the eight constituencies of PU senate, the registered graduate constituency is the largest with around 3.61 lakh voters, who elect 15 members to the senate. Polling booths are set up across seven states/UTs. Polling for the other seven constituencies has already been held. Forty-three candidates are in fray from the constituency for election to PU senate. So far, elections of 32 members have been held from the seven constituencies of the senate.Student to continue protestThe student bodies on Tuesday said that they will continue the indefinite strike on the varsity campus as one of their demands, regarding the reopening of campus for them, has not been met yet. “The student bodies will continue the protest till the varsity releases the schedule of reopening of campus for students,” reads the statement issued by student bodies. Various student bodies had launched an indefinite protest on August 14 after the varsity deferred polling for the registered graduate constituency of the PU senate. The indefinite protest of students entered its 25th day on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-senate-polling-for-graduate-constituency-on-september-26-101631042756276.html
08-09-2021||Other||Gujjar boy detained after Pak numbers found on his phone||The Army on Tuesday detained a minor boy from Gujjar community in Samba district after some Pakistani phone numbers were found on his mobile phone. He was later handed him over to the police for further questioning. “Early Tuesday morning, a Gujjar boy aged around 16 to 17 years, who is a student of Class 7, was detained by 6 JAK-LI and handed over to Rajpura police in Samba district,” said a police officer. The minor is a resident of Chak Desa in Marheen area of Kathua district, who was presently putting up at Sarthian near Babar Nallah in Rajpura area of Samba. Police sources said some Pakistani numbers were found on the mobile of the minor and the army suspected that he was involved in sharing some vital info with Pak handlers via Whatsapp groups. It may be stated here that on August 6, security forces recovered a consignment of arms and ammunition, dropped by a Pakistani drone, from a Babbar Nullah (a seasonal rivulet) in Samba. On July 23, Jammu and Kashmir Police claimed it shot down a Pakistani drone carrying a five kg IED in Kanachak area of Akhnoor sector in Jammu district. On July 24, India had lodged a strong protest with Pakistan over drone activities in Jammu region at a sector commander level flag meeting between the BSF and Pak Rangers in Suchetgarh area of RS Pura sector in Jammu. On June 27, two drones dropped explosives on IAF station in Jammu city that left two personnel injured. Drones have been repeatedly spotted in the region since June 27 when a drone was used to target the Indian Air Force base in Jammu with explosives last month. The explosives left two personnel injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gujjar-boy-detained-after-pak-numbers-found-on-his-phone-101631042695874.html
08-09-2021||Other||JKGF module busted in Poonch, arms, ammo seized, 3 held||The security forces on Tuesday busted a module of the Jammu Kashmir Ghaznavi Force (JKGF) and arrested three operatives in Poonch district, officials said.They also recovered some arms and ammunition from them.“In a joint search operation by the police and the Indian army in Kirni area of Poonch, security forces apprehended one person namely Jahangir Ali, of Kirni in Poonch,” said a police spokesman.During search of his personal bag, two pistols, four Chinese grenades, 100 pistol rounds and four pistol magazines were recovered from his possession.During investigation, it came to fore that the accused had to handover the consignment to Basharat Khan, of Surankote, and Sheraz, of Sangla Surankote. These duo were also also apprehended from different places.“It has come to fore during investigation that trio are associates of proscribed outfit JKGF and were given task to carry out terrorist activities in J&K particularly in Poonch,” said the spokesman.In this connection FIR number 227/2021has been lodged and investigation was taken up, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jkgf-module-busted-in-poonch-arms-ammo-seized-3-held-101631042635934.html
08-09-2021||Mumbai||Pollution from tarballs in Mumbai: Who is to blame for it?||Despite the visible problem of tarball pollution on city shores, officials from multiple government bodies – including the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and the environment department – said they do not have the legal mandate to address the issue. This has drawn the ire of experts and citizens, who said that the problem needs an urgent fix to curb the impact on both marine ecology and public health.The origin of these tarballs – blobs of weathered petroleum mixed with debris and sand – which have been showing up on shores between Gujarat and Karnataka for decades, is still ambiguous. A 2013 paper by the National Institute of Oceanography had linked tarballs found in south Gujarat to offshore drilling rigs in Bombay High. A second paper in 2014 also came to similar conclusions about tarballs found in Goa. Bunker oil and ballast water discharged into the open sea can also lead to the formation of tarballs, which can be as small as coins or as large as footballs. In other instances, they may emanate naturally from seepages in the ocean bed.In Mumbai, too, tarballs have been washing up on city beaches for several years during the monsoon, when strong onshore winds and changing currents bring them to shore. However, due to a dearth of publicly available studies, and the lack of any official response plan at central and state levels, experts can only venture calculated guesses as to where they come from – though there is an overwhelming anecdotal consensus that the primary source is offshore hydrocarbon exploration by Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) at Bombay High oil fields. An ONCG spokesperson denied this allegation and declined to provide a comment this story.But the origins of these pollutants are only half the concern. As Shaunak Modi, director of the Coastal Conservation Foundation (CCF), said, “We need to consider the impact this oil is having on both marine life and the general public. Oil, whether crude or processed, floats on the surface of the water, and there is no doubt that animals living in the uppermost column of the ocean are coming into contact with this material.”Yashwant Sontakke, joint director (water), Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB), referred to the occurrence as a “routine phenomenon”, and pointed out that it does not have a legal mandate to either monitor or resolve complaints of marine pollution. “They are a natural occurrence, and even in developed countries, they are seen along the beaches. The only solution here is to actively clean them up, and that is the responsibility of the local administration where the pollution is reaching. At the moment, there is no national or state-level plan to tackle the issue,” he said.Modi, who previously observed dead fish lying amid tar deposits in Mumbai, also recollected a recent incident when he was involved in rescuing a sea turtle covered in oil. Just four days ago, a finless porpoise (protected under Schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972) was found dead on Juhu beach amid oil deposits. “We can’t conclusively say that the porpoise died due to the tar, of course, but the state government, the maritime authorities and city administration need to initiate the first steps toward understanding the scale of the problem. Simply cleaning up the beach when the tarballs arrive is not a solution,” he said.BMC said they have been cleaning up the deposits regularly in demand to citizens’ response, but emphasised that they, too, do not have any legal mandate for undertaking further steps. Prithviraj Chavan, assistant municipal commissioner at K-West ward (Andheri), did not respond to requests for comment. A junior official, on the condition of anonymity, said, “BMC’s job is not pollution control. Let us assume that the tarballs are coming from the crude oil industry or from ships. We do not have the power to fine them. That is the job of the maritime authorities or the pollution control board. I can’t be sure, but if it was in our power, we would have already taken action against them.”The environment department, meanwhile, said that the responsibility to address pollution from tarballs lies with MPCB. “The right authority to tackle this problem is MPCB, which comes under the environment department. It does not directly come under my purview,” said Narendra Toke, director, environment and climate change department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pollution-from-tarballs-in-mumbai-who-is-to-blame-for-it-101631042397217.html
08-09-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra CET to be conducted between Sept 15 and Oct 19; results by Oct 20||Putting an end to speculations and confusion around the state common entrance test (MH-CET) exams, Maharashtra minister of state higher and technical education Uday Samant on Tuesday announced that the exams will be conducted between September 15 and October 10. Results for the exams will be declared by October 20 and the new academic year for undergraduate (UG) first-year courses for 2021-22 will begin in November.“A total of 855,000 students will appear for the examinations of all courses. 226 centres have been fixed for these entrance examinations. The number of centres outside the state has also been increased this year and efforts are underway to increase the centres,” said Samant at a press conference held in the city.A statement released by the government late on Tuesday revealed that 50,000 computers per day have been provided for the exam. “The entrance examination will be conducted in compliance with the rules and regulations announced by the state,” said Samant, adding that students will be allowed to travel in Mumbai on the day of the exam, provided they carry a physical copy of their hall ticket.Maharashtra CETCET is held for admissions to professional UG degree programmes including engineering, management, architecture, hotel management, pharmacy, agriculture and allied courses among others. For BTech (Bachelor of Technology) alone, nearly 430,000 students have registered to appear for the entrance exam.“After the announcement of results, admissions should be conducted smoothly, and by the first week of November, the academic year should commence. Decision on online or offline classes will be taken at that time depending on the Covid-19 situation in the state,” said the statement.A detailed timetable has been released on the official website of the state CET cell at www.mahacet.org.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cet-to-be-conducted-between-sept-15-and-oct-19-results-by-oct-20-101631042037861.html
08-09-2021||Other||179 Covid cases, 5 deaths in a day in Himachal||Himachal’s death toll due to Covid-19 mounted to 3,602 as five more people succumbed to the contagion on Tuesday.Two deaths each were reported in Kangra and Shimla and one in Mandi.The fatalities due to the virus have begun to see a rise again. A total of 77 fatalities were reported in the state in August and 20 have died in the first seven days of September. The case fatality ratio (CFR) has again climbed to 1.6%.Meanwhile, the state’s Covid case tally rose to 2,14,911 after 179 fresh infections were reported today.The highest 50 cases were reported in Mandi, 35 in Kangra, 23 in Shimla, 21 in Hamirpur, 15 in Bilaspur, 12 in Chamba, seven in Solan, five in Kinnaur, four in Lahaul-Spiti, three each in Kullu and Una and one in Sirmaur.The active cases have come down to 1,682 while recoveries reached 2,09,610 after 191 people recuperated.Kangra is the worst-hit district with 47,931 cases followed by Mandi where 30,157 infections have been reported to date and 26,796 cases in Shimla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/179-covid-cases-5-deaths-in-a-day-in-himachal-101631042036813.html
08-09-2021||Mumbai||Thief steals Rs50,000 from shop near Mumbai after gorging on gulab jamuns||An unknown burglar entered Chamunda medical shop at Kumbharpada in Chandansar, Virar (East) early on Tuesday and fled with ₹50,000 kept inside a drawer after relishing gulab jamuns from a can in the shelf. He also took away a few packets of farsan and biscuits from the shop.The thief entered the shop by twisting the iron grills. However, the CCTV cameras inside the shop recorded the act and Virar police have seized the can for finger print investigation and forensic analysis. “We have registered a case of house trespass and robbery and are investigating further,” said a Virar police officer.The thief took away the cash and coins hidden inside a secret compartment in the drawers. Thus, the police are not ruling out the possibilities of this being an insider’s job. “While leaving the shop, the thief also left the refrigerator, containing medicines and injections to be maintained at low temperatures, open. The owner said the drugs did not get spoiled,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thief-steals-50k-from-shop-near-mumbai-after-gorging-on-gulab-jamuns-101631042035767.html
08-09-2021||Other||Woman engineer killed as car skids off road in Kinnaur||A woman junior engineer was killed and another person got injured after the car they were travelling in skidded off and fell on the banks of Satluj river, 200m below road, near Tapri in Kinnaur, Himachal, police said on Tuesday.The deceased was identified as Divya Mehta, 30, a resident of Ramni village in Nichar tehsil, who worked with National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) in Bhabanagar, and the injured is Meena Kumari, 37, from Changav.Kinnaur superintendent of police (SP) said the victims were on their way from NHAI’s Bhabanagar office towards Tapri. Rattan said a rescue ream comprising cops from Tapri police station and disaster management personnel from JSW rushed to the spot.Body of the deceased was recovered and the injured was referred to Reckon Peo after giving first aid at Choltu hospital.Sub-divisional magistrate Nichar Manmohan Singh has provided immediate relief of ₹20,000 to kin of the deceased and ₹10,000 to the injured.NH-5 still closedThe Shimla-Kinnaur highway (NH-5) remained closed for traffic for the second consecutive day even as PWD authorities put all efforts to restore the road. The highway was closed after a massive landslide hit Jeori in Rampur subdivision on Monday morning.Rampur SDM Yadvinder Paul said the restoration work was halted multiple times due to shooting stones.“It is likely to be opened by the evening. However, vehicles will not be allowed to ply on the stretch as a precautionary measure due to eminent threat of shooting stones,” he said.He said the hillside along the road started caving in on Saturday. A big crack developed on Monday before the slope came crashing down. Wangtu-Kaphanu road in Kinnaur also remained blocked due to continuous rock-fall.Yellow weather alert till Sept 11Meanwhile, the MeT department has issued a yellow warning for heavy rains, thunderstorm and lightening in at least 10 districts of Himachal till September 11.People were advised to avoid venturing near water bodies. Monsoon was normal in state on Tuesday with some places receiving heavy to moderate rain.Naina Devi in Bilaspur was the wettest recording 125mm rainfall, followed by 72mm in Hamirpur, 30mm in Jhandutta, 29mm in Nahan.Jogindernagar in Mandi got 26mm rainfall, Mandi 22mm, Bhoranj and Bharari 18mm each, Ghumarwin 7mm, and Palampur, Paonta Sahib and Mehre 6mm each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/woman-engineer-killed-as-car-skids-off-road-in-kinnaur-101631041917051.html
08-09-2021||Other||Himachal to create special cell to assist institutions, SHGs through agri infra fund||The cooperation department of the Himachal Pradesh government will constitute a special cell to provide assistance to the registered agricultural institutes, women’s self-help groups and other institutions related to agriculture and horticulture through special agriculture infrastructure fund, urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj said on Tuesday.Bhardwaj, in a statement issued here, said the special agriculture infrastructure fund worth ₹1 lakh crore set up by the Centre will be beneficial in strengthening infrastructure at rural level. This fund will also be beneficial in providing facilities of cold store at cluster level and other post-harvest arrangements.“The state government is also laying emphasis on infrastructure development in state, but initiative of Prime Minister Modi to provide assistance at micro level is of utmost importance,” he said.The minister said many institutions are working towards strengthening agriculture and horticulture sector at their own level.“The cooperation department will support these institutions in infrastructure development. Institutions will submit the demands to the cell and assistance will be provided to them in their requirements,” said Bhardwaj.He said the PM has made a provision of this huge amount keeping in view the issues of the agriculturists and horticulturists.He added that apple producers and other farmers will benefit from this initiative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/himachal-to-create-special-cell-to-assist-institutions-shgs-through-agri-infra-fund-101631041795679.html
08-09-2021||Mumbai||Thane asst civic chief wants to know motive behind attack by hawker in which she lost 2 fingers||Thane Municipal Corporation’s (TMC) assistant municipal commissioner Kalpita Pimple was discharged from hospital on Tuesday. Pimple lost two fingers after she was attacked by a hawker during an anti-encroachment drive. While leaving the hospital, Pimple spoke to the media and requested all the authorities concerned to find out the motive behind the attack.“Although it has been said that the accused is a hawker and the incident occurred while we were clearing illegal hawkers at Kasawadavli, I feel that this is a planned incident, as earlier in the week, we had taken action against illegal structures and hotels during the anti-encroachment drive. The attack took place while we were returning to our vehicles after the completion of the drive. If he was indeed a hawker, he would have reacted immediately [during the drive]. Moreover, I have been in this field for 11 years but have never experienced any such reaction by hawkers,” said Pimple. She also expressed gratitude to all those who extended support.Pimple added: “I am a Navy officer’s sister and have courage. I will not stop with this incident. It will take a month for me to recover but I shall join with the same vigour to take action against encroachments.” Earlier in the day, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray at an online inaugural function in Dombivli said no mercy will be shown to hawkers and strict action will be taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-asst-civic-chief-wants-to-know-motive-behind-attack-by-hawker-in-which-she-lost-2-fingers-101631041735724.html
08-09-2021||Lucknow||Modi to lay foundation of university in Aligarh named after Jat king||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Aligarh in western Uttar Pradesh on September 14 to lay the foundation stone of a state university named after Jat king Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh, after whom the RSS-BJP had in the past wanted renaming of the Aligarh Muslim University. This will be the first of the many visits of Modi ahead of the 2022 assembly election in UP, BJP leaders said adding that a detailed itinerary of the PM was being worked out. Last year, Modi had virtually attended the centenary celebrations of AMU but ahead of 2022 UP polls, much political symbolism is being attached to his visit to lay the foundation stone of a state university in Aligarh after Singh, the erstwhile king of Mursan (in Hathras district), who belonged to a community currently at the forefront of the farmers’ stir across the state against the Centre’s three farm laws. Ahead of PM’s visit, chief minister Yogi Adityanath would visit Aligarh on (September 8) Wednesday, a state government spokesman said. The CM would review preparations for the PM’s visit and issue necessary instructions to officials, the spokesman said. Interestingly, Mahendra Pratap Singh, a leftist in his political ideology, had defeated BJP stalwart and former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee from Mathura in 1957 when Vajpayee had contested on a Jan Sangh ticket while Singh as an independent. The farmers’ stir (majority of protesting farmers in UP are Jats), backed by the opposition parties, has been gaining momentum ahead of the UP polls and the BJP’s Uttar Pradesh unit has been targeting the stir through a series of cartoons depicting Yogi Adityanath as a no-nonsense chief minister. “It’s clear that closer to elections, BJP would want to re-emphasise the point about the neglect of freedom fighters or patriots like Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh. Since he happened to be a Jat too, the political symbolism of the move to get the PM to lay the foundation stone of another university in Aligarh is obvious. However, none should object as Singh was a true freedom fighter who deserves all credit,” said Irshad Ilmi, a political commentator. AMU officials admit that the Jat king had in 1929 given 3.04 acres of land to the university on a 90-year lease that expired in 2019, the year when the Yogi government announced to set up a state university after the late king. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath, whose office confirmed the PM’s visit, had said in a public meeting that the Jat king had posed a big challenge to the British and later was believed to have set up a provisional government in Afghanistan. “The Raja was dead against Muhammad Ali Jinnah and had in a letter to Mahatma Gandhi described him as a snake,” claimed Aligarh BJP chief Rishi Pal Singh. “We are proud that a university has been named after a patriot who was against Jinnah and all lovers of his ideology. It would have been befitting had AMU honoured the great leader who had been the president of the provisional government at Kabul in 1915 and who donated land for AMU,” the BJP leader said. Back in 2018, the party’s Aligarh MP Satish Gautam had written to the AMU vice chancellor objecting to a portrait of Pakistan’s founder in the university. The Rashtriya Lok Dal, an ally of the state’s main opposition Samajwadi Party, has welcomed the decision to set up a university after the Jat king.RLD spokesman Rohit Agarwal said party chief Jayant Chaudhary has welcomed the decision. “Raja Mahendra gave land to AMU and was a great freedom fighter. We welcome the decision to honour his legacy and in fact demand a Bharat Ratna for him,” the RLD spokesman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/modi-to-lay-foundation-of-university-in-aligarh-named-after-jat-king-101631041618562.html
08-09-2021||Other||British delegation visits Varanasi to discuss key areas of collaboration with BHU||Members of British High Commission and British Council visited Banaras Hindu University (BHU) on Tuesday to discuss key areas of collaboration between BHU and British educational institutions.Rowan Kennedy, deputy director, British Council India said, “We look forward to not only research collaborations but also for mobility. He said National Education Policy 2020 has opened new avenues for enhancing collaboration between Indian and British institutions.”He elaborated on a new initiative launched by the council-- Going Global Partnership Grant --that aimed at India-UK partnerships for co-creation of joint programmes of study.Richard Barlow, head of political and bilateral affairs, British High Commission, said that Chevening Fellowship and Scholarship were very popular and successful programmes. He called upon researchers and faculty members of BHU to take the opportunities offered by British Council.Vice chancellor (acting), Prof VK Shukla, chaired the session that was held at the committee room of central office of the university.“There are many areas where BHU has great strength and has a lot to offer, like hydrogen energy, climate Change, health and life sciences. For collaborations in health and life sciences, there cannot be a better place than BHU as this great institution offers a large number of disciplines at one place, making it favourable for inter-disciplinary research, especially in the backdrop of a pandemic,” BHU Vice Chancellor (Acting), Prof VK Shukla said.He said NEP puts a greater focus on exchange programmes and other reformative measures.“Currently BHU has 65 MoUs with institutions across the globe for collaboration in various areas. Among these, 4 MoUs are with British institutions in the areas of medicine, social sciences, humanities and natural sciences,” said Prof HP Mathur, chairman, international centre and dean, faculty of management studies.He said that there were more than 400 foreign students from 49 countries studying in different departments of BHU.Prof AK Tripathi, director Institute of Science, Prof SK Singh, dean Faculty of Medicine, Prof Ramesh Chand director, Institute of Agricultural Sciences and Prof SK Dubey, director Institute of Management, gave presentations about their respective institutes and highlighted the strengths and possible areas of collaboration with UK institutions. Prof RK Mall, director, institute of environmental and sustainable development, gave a brief about the institute and key areas of research.The British delegation comprised of Richard Barlow, head of political and bilateral affairs, British High Commission, Katy Budge, minister counsellor, political and press, British High Commission, Rowan Kennedy, deputy director, British Council India and Vishu Sharma, head, higher education, north India, British Council India, said BHU public relations officer Dr Rajesh Singh in a press statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/british-delegation-visits-varanasi-to-discuss-key-areas-of-collaboration-with-bhu-101631040956042.html
08-09-2021||Kolkata||Bhabanipur by-polls: Mamata’s plans to ensure she remains the CM of Bengal||Despite the landslide victory that Trinamool Congress (TMC) had in this year’s West Bengal assembly elections, the upcoming bypolls in Kolkata’s Bhabanipur constituency will decide if party chief Mamata Banerjee can continue to retain the chief minister’s chair.Banerjee will begin her campaign for the bypolls on Wednesday after the Election Commission on Saturday announced that it will hold elections in three constituencies of the eastern state, including the Bhabanipur seat from where Banerjee won twice.Besides Bhabanipur, the bypolls will be held in Jangipur and Samsherganj constituencies in Bengal, and Pipli in Odisha on September 30. The counting of votes will take place on October 3 – the week before Durga Puja celebrations kick off in Bengal. What to expect at the campaign?The TMC chief will launch the campaign following a meeting with her party workers in south Kolkata, those familiar with the development told news agency PTI. “Mamata Didi will address party workers tomorrow and give them direction on how to campaign and the issues that will be highlighted,” a senior TMC leader said, adding that the party leadership mentioned that the campaign must held be in adherence to norms necessitated to check the spread of Covid-19.According to news agency PTI, the chief minister will address her party workers as well as leaders of all eight municipal wards of the Bhabanipur constituency at an auditorium.Another senior TMC leader told PTI that the party’s state president Subrata Bakshi has been given the charge of ward number 63, while party general secretary and state minister Partha Chatterjee has been assigned wards 71 and 72. Additionally, state minister Firhad Hakim and other senior TMC leaders have been tasked with looking after the remaining wards that fall under the Bhabanipur constituency. “This has been done to ensure that Didi (Banerjee) wins the seat with a record margin,” the TMC leader added. Why is it important for Banerjee to win?Banerjee had lost to her former aide Suvendu Adhikari by a close margin of 1,956 votes from Nandigram constituency in the assembly polls this year. However, as TMC came back with a thumping majority, Banerjee was sworn in as the chief minister for the third time. As per the Constitution, the TMC supremo has to win on any seat in the state to have the chance of becoming a member of the state assembly. In fact, she has to win before November 5 to remain the chief minister’s position.TMC’s Sovandeb Chattopadhyay, who originally won the Bhabanipur seat, vacated it for Banerjee to contest. Where do the opposition parties stand?West Bengal Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury confirmed on Tuesday that his party won’t field any candidate for the Bhabanipur bypolls, news agency ANI reported.As far as BJP is concerned, party’s state general secretary Sayantan Basu informed PTI on Tuesday that they will announce the name of its candidate against Banerjee in a couple of days.Also Read | TMC officially fields Mamata from Bhabanipur home turf"The Election Commission has decided to hold by-elections on September 30. We had the idea that it would be held sometime later. But we must obey the EC order. We don't oppose independent constitutional bodies like the EC, unlike the TMC," Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh said. What is Banerjee’s record in Bhabanipur?Banerjee is herself a resident of Bhabanipur, and has won twice in the previous two assembly polls. She has been contesting from the seat ever since TMC came into power in Bengal by routing the Left Front after its 34-year rule.It was for the first time this year that Banerjee decided to contest from the Nandigram seat in what seemed to be a power tussle between her and Adhikari, who left the TMC to join the BJP a few months before the assembly polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bhabanipur-by-polls-mamata-s-plans-to-ensure-she-remains-the-cm-of-bengal-101631039639064.html
08-09-2021||Other||Dengue control on lines of Covid-19 management: Varanasi DM||Dengue Control management will be done on the lines of Covid-19 control management, said Varanasi district magistrate Kausharaj Sharma. “We will have a set up to check the spread of Dengue similar to the one we had for Covid-19 management,” Sharma said during meeting with officials of the health department on Tuesday. “A dengue control room has been set up here. Daily supervision and necessary arrangements for hospitalisation, medicine distribution, ambulance service, testing, fogging, anti-larva spraying, monitoring of patient’s treatment and recovery, mobilisation of rapid response teams (RRTs), admission in government or private hospitals will be monitored from this control room,” Sharma said. “Daily attendance of doctors at community and primary health centers will be checked from 8:15 am from the central control room and control rooms working in various departments and attendance of officers and employees at tehsils and blocks at 10 am and 6 pm will also be monitored,” Sharma said. He said a special campaign from September 7 to 16 to track, trace and treat people suffering from fever of various types like dengue, typhoid, malaria, kala azar. A sanitisation campaign would also be undertaken, and waterlogged areas would be cleaned up and disinfected, he said. “Health checkup of children of all the schools and anganvadi centres of 61 dengue-affected villages will be done and medicines will be provided as per requirement in two days. For these 16 health teams have been engaged,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dengue-control-on-lines-of-covid-19-management-varanasi-dm-101631040298145.html
08-09-2021||Other||Tripura police arrest 4 suspects in clashes targeting leader of opposition’s programme||Nearly 24 hours after two incidents of clashes were reported at Sonamura sub-division in Tripura’s Sepahijala district, centring former chief minister and leader of opposition Manik Sarkar’s political programme, state police on Tuesday arrested four suspects, officials said. At least six persons, including four from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) were injured in the clashes which occurred with the CPM at two separate places in the district on Monday. Soon after the arrest, the CPM alleged that the arrest was illegal and demanded they be released soon. Sonamura sub-divisional police officer Banoj Biplab Das said that four cases were lodged regarding the clash incident, including one suo moto case, by the police as few of them received minor injuries and their clothes were torn. “We didn’t arrest anyone illegally. The four were arrested today in relation to the clashes targeting Manik Sarkar’s programme. Currently, they are in judicial custody till September 10,” said Das. The CPM also alleged that one of their party members, identified as Subhash Deb, was assaulted by a group of BJP-backed cadres and was taken to a local hospital from where he was referred to Govind Ballabh Pant (GBP) hospital in Agartala. The police said that they didn’t receive any complaint regarding this. “We rescued him after getting the information and took him to the hospital. The incident has no relation with Manik Sarkar’s programme,” said Banoj Biplab Das. The BJP refuted the allegation of attacking any CPM supporter. “The CPM believes in violent politics. They attacked and injured our activists. We didn’t attack any of them,” said BJP spokesperson Nabendu Bhattacharya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tripura-police-arrest-4-suspects-in-clashes-targeting-leader-of-opposition-s-programme-101631040176177.html
08-09-2021||Noida||Indirapuram residents seek resolution for civic infra issues||Ghaziabad: The Ghaziabad development authority (GDA) will try to fix several civic infrastructure issues faced by the residents within this month, said officials on Tuesday. This came after a delegation of Indirapuram residents met the GDA vice-chairperson, Krishna Karunesh, on Tuesday and urged him to look into the matter at the earliest.Members of the federation of Association of Apartment Owners (AOA), including women members from Ahimsa Khand II, raised issues like dilapidated roads, inadequate sewerage and drainage systems, and demanded a height barrier to stop movement of commercial vehicles in the area. “The condition of the roads has worsened, and we cannot even remember when these were repaired the last time. The silt cleaned from the drain is dumped on roads, which leads to clogging and overflowing. Bad roads and waterlogging during the monsoon affect the residents badly,” said Alok Kumar, founding member of the association.Ahimsa Khand II comprises 22 high-rise residential buildings, and it is located next to the Kanawani village in Ghaziabad. It is estimated to have a population of nearly 50,000 people. “The drains have also been encroached and must be removed. We also raised the issue of provision of public toilets in Indirapuram which is non-existent. Indirapuram is expected to have a population of four lakhs, and public convenience is much-needed here,” Kumar added.“We have been demanding a height barrier since 2015 as commercial vehicles freely move in our areas, posing risks to the residents, especially the children. They also damage the roads... The GDA vice-chairperson has promised to resolve the issues at the earliest,” said Shaili Singh, member of the association’s women wing.Karunesh said, “The residents raised all the issues faced by them, and we try to resolve those within September itself. Some issues are related to infrastructure, but the generic issues can be resolved if coordinated in a better manner. We will first consider land usage, and then construct public toilets...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/indirapuram-residents-seek-resolution-for-civic-infra-issues-101631039703263.html
08-09-2021||Noida||Okhla Bird Sanctuary improving habitat ahead of arrival of migratory birds||Noida: The forest department is improving the habitat in Okhla Bird Sanctuary (OBS) by making mounts, platforms and barriers in the wetland and removing hyacinth to welcome migratory birds there, officials said on Tuesday.The annual exercise of “habitat improvement” often takes around two months, they said. “Before the migratory bird species start arriving here, we work on the maintenance of the sanctuary to make it more welcoming to flocks, so that they stay here for a longer period of time. For this, the most gruesome task is to remove hyacinth which spreads across the lake by the end of monsoon, to such an extent that one cannot even see the water. Removal of hyacinth is important because migratory birds are mostly waterbirds... We will also tie up 20 mounts of hyacinth and as many bamboo platforms over the lake for roosting birds,” said Arvind Mishra, range forest officer, Okhla Bird Sanctuary.Several barriers will be made as 70% of the sanctuary is covered by water, Mishra said, adding, “Hyacinth is one of the major issues here. The water in the wetland has a flow and thus hyacinth is being carried in by the Yamuna river. So, during the birding season, we build several bamboo barriers to stop this from entering the vicinity of the sanctuary. Sometimes, when the water plants cover over 100-metre radius, the barriers break and need to be repaired again. We cannot put nets because that’s harmful for aquatic animals like turtles as they get stuck. Also, snets are banned under the wildlife Act... This annual task costs between ₹30 and ₹40 lakh.”Meanwhile, several patches along the sanctuary fell into the river on Tuesday, making huge craters. These are being repaired, said the officials.The OBS, spread over 400 hectares, is home to nearly 350 species of birds and attracts many migratory birds during the winters, and passage migrants during the summers. Migratory birds start arriving in the sanctuary in October and the maximum number of birds are seen around December. According to the Asian Waterbird Census (AWC) 2021, held by the Wetlands International South Asia (WISA) and the Gautam Budh Nagar forest department in January, 8,068 birds of 73 species -- 27 local migratory species and 46 migratory species -- were counted in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/okhla-bird-sanctuary-improving-habitat-ahead-of-arrival-of-migratory-birds-101631039577000.html
08-09-2021||Lucknow||Deepotsav: Ayodhya aims for new Guinness record of 7.5 lakh diyas this Diwali||The Ayodhya administration will attempt a new Guinness World record in this deepotsav by lighting 7.5 lakh diyas (earthen lamps) at Ram Ki Paidi ghat on the banks of river Saryu on Diwali eve in November. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath, whose government has been celebrating deepotsav on Diwali eve regularly since coming to power in UP in March 2017, will be the chief guest at the event, officials said. This will be the fifth deepotsav in Ayodhya and the Ayodhya administration has started making preparations for the mega event. “Around 7000 volunteers will be engaged by the Ayodhya administration for the occasion. Most of them will be students of the Ram Manohar Lohia Awadh University, Ayodhya,” officials said. Before the event, three trial runs will also be carried out by the Ayodhya administration to make sure final event goes off smoothly. Apart from lighting of diyas, deepotsav marks day long events at Ram Ki Paidi and laser show in the night. A team from the Guinness World Record will also be present in Ayodhya on deepotsav to judge the event. “This year we will go for new Guinness World Record of lighting 7.5 lakh diyas in Ayodhya. Elaborate arrangements are being made for the event at Ram Ki Paidi,” said Ved Prakash Gupta, the Bharatiya Janata Party MLA from Ayodhya Sadar assembly constituency. In 2019, a record 4,10,000 diyas were lit and in 2020, the Ayodhya administration bettered the Guinness world record by lighting 6,06,569 earthen lamps at the Ram Ki Paidi ghat as well as few other ghats during the fourth deepotsav. Due to Covid-19 pandemic concerns, only locals were permitted for deepotsav celebrations in 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/deepotsav-ayodhya-aims-for-new-guinness-record-of-7-5-lakh-diyas-this-diwali-101631039576439.html
08-09-2021||Noida||GB Nagar advocates protest at police commissioner’s office alleging harassment by cops||A group of around 200 advocates on Tuesday staged a protest outside the police commissioner’s office in Sector 108, alleging illegal detention and harassment of a 38-year-old colleague by some officers in Phase 2 police station last week.According to Gautam Budh Nagar Bar Association president Manoj Bhati, advocate Mahesh Nagar was returning home at Kachera village in Badalpur from Noida in his car around 10pm on September 1. “Nagar was stopped by some police personnel near a check post, who later brought him to Phase 2 police station. In the police station, SHO Sujeet Upadhyaya seized his mobile phone while a sub-inspector slapped him. The advocate was illegally detained for three hours. He was released after we intervened,” he said.The lawyers protested for about five hours from 11am-4pm. Later, a delegation of advocates met additional commissioner of police (law and order) Love Kumar and demanded suspension of the two police officers. Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, Noida, said that the advocates’ delegation demanded an FIR against the police personnel and their suspension. “We offered to form a committee to investigate the matter. But the delegation did not agree to this,” he said.SHO Upadhyaya said a police team was conducting checks on September 1. “A barricade was placed on the road. Nagar stopped the car near the barricade. He was heavily drunk and was not able to remove his car. Then the personnel brought him to the police station. The advocate also refused to undergo a medical examination. We made a general diary entry and later released him,” he said. When contacted, Nagar refused to comment, saying that the GB Nagar Bar Association is handling his case. Despite repeated attempts, additional police commissioner Kumar could not be contacted for a comment.Meanwhile, the Bar Association has called a meeting on Wednesday to discuss further course of action in the case, Bhati said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gb-nagar-advocates-protest-at-police-commissioner-s-office-alleging-harassment-by-cops-101631039575002.html
08-09-2021||Noida||DME accident: Kin of victims blame truck driver, authorities for loss||Family members of the five victims of the Delhi-Meerut Expressway (DME) incident said that the “truck driver was primarily responsible for the accident. They also blamed authorities as the truck was being driven on the wrong side of the expressway.“The driver was driving the truck in a negligent manner on the wrong side, and we lost five members of our family. The driver is primarily responsible. But somehow, the authorities are also responsible as they did not notice the traffic violation,” said Pappu Kumar, brother of one of the victims, Sonu Kumar.NHAI, traffic cops cluelessMudit Garg, project director, National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), said on Tuesday, “Checking traffic violations is the responsibility of the traffic police, and they must take action against drivers taking the wrong side or over speeding vehicles... It could be possible that the driver had taken a U-turn midway, along the expressway, to take the wrong side. We have 38 CCTV cameras along the expressway (from Phase 4 in Dasna to Meerut) and those are connected to our control room at Kashi toll plaza. We will check the CCTV footage to understand what had actually happened.”“We provide the traffic violation data to the Ghaziabad traffic police, but they have not been able to establish links with our systems,” Garg said, adding that Phase 2 (from UP-Gate to Dasna) along the DME has 40 CCTVs which are connected to the Dasna control room, but the link for data transfer is yet to be established between the NHAI and the Ghaziabad traffic police systems.Ramanand Kushwaha, superintendent of police (traffic), said, “We have checked footage from four CCTV cameras, but could not spot the driver entering the expressway via the wrong side... An investigation is underway,” said Ramanand Kushwaha, superintendent of police (traffic).“Almost 99% of the work to establish a link with the NHAI system is complete, and it will be operational within a couple of days. Once this is done, we will be able to issue challans to violators along the DME on the basis of traffic data provided by the NHAI,” Kushwaha said on Tuesday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/dme-accident-kin-of-victims-blame-truck-driver-authorities-for-loss-101631039454962.html
08-09-2021||Other||Odisha CM warns of lockdown after over 30 school kids test positive for Covid-19||Warning of a possible return of lockdown, Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Tuesday said people have to follow Covid-19 guidelines as the children are still unvaccinated. The chief minister’s statement came after over thirty children in three schools of the state tested positive for Covid-19.While reviewing the Covid-19 situation of the state, Patnaik said that from America to Kerala the Covid-19 cases are increasing in different places, therefore there is a need to follow the Covid guideline strictly.“As the children have not been vaccinated yet, we have to be careful for them,” he said, adding that the educational institutions would be held responsible if reports of negligence come to the fore. He also directed the local administration to form special teams to inspect the educational institutions regularly.Patnaik’s warnings came on the day when about thirty four school students from three different schools in Dhenkanal, Bargarh and Angul were detected with Covid-19. Kanapura High School in Kamakhyanagar area of Dhenkanal district was closed for a week days after twenty people, including fourteen students, tested positive. In a private school in Bargarh district, 14 students tested positive in the last two days while in Angul district two students were found infected with the virus.Odisha school and mass education minister Samir Dash said the investigation is on to find out how did the school students get infected. “After receiving the reports, we have launched a probe into the matter. We are in touch with the CDMOs and we will take immediate action as necessary. We are following the COVID guidelines strictly and if required, we will shut the schools where cases have been detected,” said Dash.Odisha had allowed the opening of schools for classes of 10 and 12 from July 26 and classes 9 and 11 from August 16 with adherence to Covid guidelines. However, attendance has not been made mandatory in these classes and schools have been asked to continue with online classes for those who don’t want to attend.The internal assessments for students of classes 9, 10, 11 and 12 in academic session 2021-22 will be done in the form of formative assessments which will be held in the first week of September, November, January and March (second week).On Monday, around 20 per cent of the total Covid cases in Odisha were reported in children below 18 years of age. However, the numbers came down to 14.5 per cent on Tuesday.Odisha director of medical education and training Dr CBK Mohanty said parents need to ensure that their children do not contract Covid-19 infection. “If their children have symptoms like cold, cough or fever, they should consult doctors without hesitation, else the situation may turn dangerous,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-cm-warns-of-lockdown-after-over-30-school-kids-test-positive-for-covid19-101631038736830.html
08-09-2021||Delhi||Pakistani spy’s dead wife’s life was a mystery like her death, say neigbhours||New Delhi: Until Saturday morning, when the decomposed body of a 51-year-old woman in the Chandni Mahal area was found inside her house, not many in this busy Walled City neighbourhood knew who she really was. For most residents, Mumtaz Parveen was a temperamental woman who lived alone and kept to herself, fed cats regularly, and fought with neighbours over trivial issues. It was only after her mysterious death last week that people got to know that she was a Pakistani national who was once arrested for spying, circulating counterfeit currency, and helping operatives of Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence. She was also convicted in related charges in 2007, but was released from the jail a year later on health grounds. A little after midnight on Saturday, Delhi Police broke open house number 480 in Chatta Lal Miyan bylane where Mumtaz lived and found her decomposed body inside. The nature of the injuries on her body suggested that she was murdered. Police have registered a case of murder but are yet to arrest anyone. Locals are curious as to how nobody knew that a convicted prisoner with links to Pakistani intelligence lived in their midst, and who murdered her and why. “I have seen her for 10-15 years but knew nothing about her past, especially her Pakistan connection. She lived alone and did not interact with anyone. We always saw her feeding cats. She would buy meat from a butcher here nearby and feed cats outside. Her kids lived in Meerut but did not visit her. This was also strange,” Fahim (45), who goes by a single name, said on Tuesday afternoon. Other neighbours said Mumtaz fought over trivial issues like water flowing outside her house or people dumping garbage outside her house. “Maybe our elders knew about her past but no one viewed her with suspicion. She appeared harmless,” said another neighbour, requesting anonymity. A copy of Parveen’s 2000 interrogation report after her arrest by Delhi Police’s Special Cell said she was born in Meerut and studied up to Class 5. She reportedly told the police that she dropped out and started doing daily chores “because of financial constraints”. At 15, she married a man named Sultan from Meerut and had three children with him. But by 1989, they had separated. “She was divorced by her husband because he did not like her hi-fi lifestyle,” the interrogation report said. The report said Parveen first visited Pakistan with her mother around 1990 to meet her maternal aunt in Karachi. There she married a man named Abdul Wahab Khan, a senior leader of the Muhajir Qaumi Movement-Haqiqi. In 1993, she got Pakistani citizenship. But that marriage also lasted only six years because she was unable to have a child. In 1996, while visiting India, Parveen met Kamran Gawhar, an ISI spy deported twice from India, onboard the Samjhauta Express. The police report says Gawhar, during this trip, convinced her to stay with him. When she returned to Pakistan, she filed for divorce and Khan paid her a sum of ₹10 lakh as alimony. She later confessed to the police about helping Gawhar pass off as an Indian national and circulate fake currency. On January 24, 2000, when she was arrested with Gawhar, police had also found fake currency of the face value of ₹8,000 on her. Police records show that Gawhar had entered India in 1994 and was deported in April 1999. He re-entered India under a false name in July 1999 and was deported in late 2000. “They were arrested by the Special Cell. She was a key operative of the ISI. She was even convicted by a court. We had all forgotten about this woman until Sunday when we heard the news of her murder. The murder is certainly not connected to terrorism. For Pakistan, she was of no use,” said an officer, who asked not to be named. While most of her neighbours said they knew nothing about Parveen’s past, Mohammed Ahmed Saifi (age), a social worker and resident of the area, claimed she had once divulged details of her past. “Maybe there are a few like me, who knew she was a Pakistan national. She treated me like her own brother. Maybe she wanted to share her life story,” said Saifi who knew her for the past 15 years. He also recalled her telling him once that Khan was a “high-ranking officer” in Pakistan. “They separated when he found out that Mumtaz had undergone tubectomy after having three children at a young age. I also have faint memories of Gawhar, who lived with her, in another house nearby. She was not always a Pakistan national but she died as one,” Saifi said. While police are yet to arrest anyone for her murder, Saifi suspected that the murder could be the result of a property dispute or enmity. “I spoke to her during the lockdown. There was a man named Wakil Ahmed who visited her. She had told me that Ahmed was murdered earlier this year and that her life is also in danger. But she also told some other neighbours that the man died of Covid-19. She was mysterious all her life. Her death is also one,” Saifi said. According to police, Gawhar was deported around nine years ago after completing his sentence. They said Gawhar and Mumtaz were married and initially lived in Karol Bagh area.Pakistan High Commission officials said they have not been informed of the reported case. “ Once they inform us about the case, we will ascertain if the deceased was indeed a Pakistan national or not,” an official, who asked not to be named, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/pakistani-spy-s-dead-wife-s-life-was-a-mystery-like-her-death-say-neigbhours-in-delhi-s-chandni-mahal-101631038615569.html
08-09-2021||Delhi||Why two charge sheets on same Delhi riots complaint, court asks Delhi Police||The court trying cases pertaining to the 2020 north-east Delhi riots has sought a report from the Delhi Police for including the same complaint in two charge sheets, asking the prosecution on whether it would amount to “double jeopardy” – the legal principle that a person cannot be tried for the same crime twice in the same jurisdiction.The two charge sheets relate to cases of rioting and destruction of property. The court was conducting proceedings related to a case filed by a person named Zeeshan and seven others, registered under FIR number 117/2020. Zeeshan’s same complaint was also included with 16 others in a separate case, filed under 109/2020.The court had discharged three people in that case on September 2.“On September 2, this court had discharged the accused persons in FIR No.109/2020, PS Dayalpur. In the said case, one of the complaints tagged along with the main complaint was of Zeeshan’s. The matter was investigated...as well and charge sheet in the matter was filed. The said matter now stands disposed of…“In this case (117/2020), FIR was registered on the very same complaint by Zeeshan. The matter was again investigated and charge sheet filed. The learned special public prosecutor was asked a specific question as to how the present charge sheet is sustainable,” said additional sessions judge Vinod Yadav said.The question of law here, essentially, becomes of how the proceedings against the accused in the second case can continue when they have been discharged in the first one, for the same sections of the crime in the same jurisdiction, justice Yadav said.Special public prosecutor (SPP) DK Bhatia sought time to take instructions, following which the matter was posted to September 9 for further hearing.On September 2, the court while dropping all charges against Shah Alam (26), Rashid Saifi (23) and Shadab (26), had come down heavily on the police for their failure to conduct a proper investigation in the north-east Delhi riots.In another riots case, the judge had asked the prosecution if it was permissible under law to club complaints pertaining to two incidents on two different dates under one FIR.The case filed under FIR 117/2020 involves suspended municipal councillor Tahir Hussain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/why-two-charge-sheets-on-same-delhi-riots-complaint-hc-asks-delhi-police-101631038255577.html
08-09-2021||Delhi||Afghans no longer protesting outside UNHCR office, police inform Delhi HC||The city police on Tuesday informed the Delhi high court that there are now no protests by Afghan nationals seeking refugee status, outside the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) office in Vasant Vihar.“The protest by Afghan nationals has been withdrawn from UNHCR Office,” the police said in its status report filed before the high court.The court has been hearing a petition filed by the Vasant Vihar residents’ welfare association, seeking the removal of protesters from outside the UNHCR office, citing inconveniences in moving about the area and fears of another Covid-19 outbreak.Advocate Shahrukh Ejaz, appearing for the association also told justice Rekha Palli that there is no protest in the area now.“Yesterday evening, I received a status report. There are no protests (at Vasant Vihar) and nothing remains,” he submitted.In view of the change in circumstances, the judge closed the proceedings initiated by the association while refusing to pass any order in relation to the formulation of a policy on “congregation of foreign nationals/asylum seekers/refugees”.Ejaz submitted that “last time also, there was a Rohingya crisis and people started gathering”. “It has become a routine now for people to gather and protest (outside UNHCR),” he said.Additional standing counsel Satyakam, appearing for the Delhi Police, said “a small nudge goes a long way” and “nothing remained” in the petition in the absence of any protest at the site.Taking note of the submissions, justice Palli said “nothing survives (in the petition). I’m not inclined at this stage.” She declared the petition “dismissed as withdrawn” and gave liberty to the petitioner to approach again if the need arises.On September 3, the high court had directed the Delhi government and the police to ensure that number of Afghan nationals, protesting outside the UNHCR office, is reduced and that they strictly follow all Covid-19 protocols.The high court said that the law was the same for everybody and questioned the authorities as to how 500 persons could gather for a protest when the guidelines did not permit it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/afghans-no-longer-protesting-outside-unhcr-office-police-inform-delhi-high-court-101631037655432.html
08-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi gets light rain, IMD says more showers likely this week||New Delhi: Parts of the national capital received light rain even as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast light to moderate rain in the city over the next few days. Light rains were reported on Tuesday evening in south Delhi areas such as Connaught Place, East of Kailash and Lajpat Nagar, and in east Delhi’s Shahdara and Laxmi Nagar areas.Last week, IMD officials predicted an intense spell of rain between September 6 and 10. “A low pressure area has formed over the Bay of Bengal and is gradually treading towards north and central India. The thundershowers may be followed by light to moderate rainfall, and a heavy spell may occur around September 9,” said a senior IMD official. Scientists and weather experts had said that this could be the one of the wettest monsoons for the city in at least over the past decade.Compared to the normal monsoon rain of 572.9mm till this time of the year, Delhi has already had a 74% surplus -- 994.6 mm -- rain so far, shows IMD data.Monsoon in Delhi is officially considered between June 1 and September 30. Between August 31 and September 2, Delhi received 230 mm rain. With 112.1mm 24-hour rainfall on September 1, Delhi received the highest single-day rainfall for the month in the past 19 years, as per IMD data. “The intense spell in the beginning of the month was followed by light rain on and off in parts of the city. This month so far has not seen a completely dry phase. Also, with the rain forecast over the next few days, it may end up being one of the wettest monsoons over the past 10 years,” the official said. IMD data shows that it was in 2010 that Delhi had received the maximum rainfall --- 1031.5 mm --- over the past decade. Mahesh Palawat, vice-president, skymet, a private forecaster said that unlike July and August that saw dry phases in between heavy spells, September will see light rain activity on and off. “Delhi could receive good rainfall between September 9-10. Then, another system is likely to form over the Bay of Bengal around mid-september, which too could bring good rainfall in Delhi and surrounding region,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-gets-light-rain-imd-says-more-showers-likely-this-week-101631037595643.html
08-09-2021||Delhi||1,416 families of Covid victims given financial aid of ₹50,000: Delhi govt||New Delhi: The Delhi government has disbursed one-time financial assistance of ₹50,000 for Covid-19 deaths to 1,416 families so far against total 6,236 applications received under a government scheme that was notified in June, the government said on Tuesday in a press statement.Also, 1,041 more applications are being processed after being approved. The rest are yet to get approval, the statement said.The disbursal of the one-time financial assistance amount of ₹50,000 began on September 1. Till Sunday, only 660 had received the money against a total of 6,036 applications, HT reported on Tuesday.A senior government official in the social welfare department said that the amounts were disbursed to 756 more families over Monday and Tuesday.Delhi’s social welfare minister Rajendra Pal Gautam said, “Officials will provide immediate financial assistance to beneficiaries under Mukhyamantri Covid-19 Parivaar Aarthik Sahayata Yojana. As directed by CM Arvind Kejriwal, the application process is being made hassle-free so that people do not have to go around the offices. Instructions to officials conducting the on-the-spot inspection of house to help applicants facing a shortage of required documents.”Similarly, the government said it has received 3,763 applications for monthly financial assistance of ₹2,500 to families which lost sole breadwinner to Covid-19, of which 1,257 have been approved till Tuesday, said the press statement.However, disbursal of monthly assistance amounts is likely to begin from next month, said a senior official in the government’s social welfare department who did not wish to be identified.Delhi has so far recorded 25,083 total Covid-19 deaths. The financial assistance scheme was notified by the government on June 23 which includes an ex-gratia assistance of ₹50,000 for each death, and monthly assistance of ₹2500 for families losing sole breadwinner and children orphaned by the viral disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/1416-families-of-covid-victims-given-one-time-financial-aid-of-rs-50-000-delhi-govt-101631036830086.html
08-09-2021||Mumbai||BMC bans gatherings, darshan in Ganesh pandals amid 3rd Covid wave fear in Mumbai||Amid fear of a third Covid-19 wave, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has banned any type of procession or gathering and physical darshan of devotees inside Ganesh pandals. The civic body has instead asked the mandals to arrange for online darshan.The BMC has limited the gathering of people during immersion of the idol to not more than 10 people in the case of Ganesh mandals and not more than five people for those who are taking the idol home.The BMC has ruled that those residing in sealed buildings have to make their own arrangement for immersion inside their house and those mandals inside containment zones have to arrange for immersion inside the pandals or postpone the immersion.The civic body has appealed that those who take part in immersion should preferably be fully vaccinated. The same cap is kept for the arrival procession of the Ganesh festival on Friday. The BMC has also appealed that environment-friendly Ganesh idols at home should be immersed in a bucket or drum, if possible. The BMC has also appealed to citizens to use artificial ponds for immersion and to perform aarti before reaching the site of immersion. The BMC in a statement said, “Instead of the traditional method of performing aarti at the site of immersion, the aarti should be performed from the start point at mandals or inside the home to ensure minimum time taken at immersion site.” The BMC has also appealed to citizens to follow all Covid-19 protocols like maintaining social distance, wearing a mask etc.”Further, the civic body has also asked Ganesh mandals to not stop their vehicle anywhere during immersion and to drop the idol at collection centres of BMC. The officials will do immersion in the sea.An appeal is also made to Ganesh mandals to give priority to the immersion of idols at the nearest artificial immersion site, rather than going to the sea.The BMC further said, “Ganesh mandals should not take the vehicle carrying the idol from the mandap to the immersion site at a very slow speed like a procession but should take the vehicle to the immersion site at a normal speed so as not to injure the idol in the vehicle. It is strictly forbidden to stop the vehicle during immersion and allow devotees to take darshan/ worship of Ganesha idol on the roads.”Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar on Tuesday appealed that citizen should adopt the concept of ‘My house, My Bappa’ wherein one celebrates the Ganesh festival inside their homes only. Pednekar told news agency ANI, “Citizens should celebrate festivals at their home only and even mandals should ensure that they do not gather inside the pandal. We also need to take all precautions considering third wave is not going to come but it is already there.” The BMC has maintained that the third wave has not yet arrived, and the next 30 days will be crucial.Further, children and senior citizens have been advised to stay away from the immersion site.Meanwhile, there are a total of 73 natural immersion sites in Mumbai and further 173 artificial sites at 173 locations. The BMC will also set up an immersion desk where citizens can keep their idols at artificial ponds. Every year, over 10,000 Ganesh mandals celebrate the festival and over 150,000 lakh homes take the idols to their home. However, since the past two years, the celebrations have been toned down owing to the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/3rd-covid-wave-fear-in-mumbai-bmc-bans-gatherings-darshan-in-ganesh-mandals-101631036703213.html
08-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police sub-inspector robbed of ₹40,000 in RK Puram||A 31-year-old Delhi Police sub-inspector was waylaid, assaulted, and robbed of ₹40,000 and documents by three unidentified bike-borne assailants when he was returning home on his bike in south Delhi’s RK Puram, police said on Tuesday. A case of robbery and common intention was registered at the Vasant Vihar police station. No arrest was made till Tuesday evening.Deputy commissioner of police (southwest) Ingit Pratap Singh said the sub-inspector, Kunal Kumar, is posted at Bindapur police station. He lives with his family in Munirka. The officer was returning home from the police station when the crime took place on Saturday night, the DCP said.Police said the sub-inspector, in his complaint, said he left the police station after work on his motorcycle and was not in his uniform. Around 10.30pm, near the Swami Malai Mandir in RK Puram’s Sector-7, three men on a bike waylaid him, forcing him to stop. The alleged assailants began attacking him with their helmets and stones. Since the police officer was also wearing a helmet, he did not receive any head injury. They also damaged his motorcycle before robbing him of his wallet and a packet that contained money and documents, the police said.“We have registered a case under Indian Penal Code’s sections 392 (robbery) and 34 (common intention) on the sub-inspector’s complaint and are looking for the suspects,” said DCP Singh.The police are scanning the CCTV cameras installed on the routes that the suspects took after the crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-sub-inspector-robbed-of-40-000-in-rk-puram-101631036275155.html
08-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai to Ahmedabad bullet train project may miss 2023 deadline||The Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train project may miss its 2023 deadline. The construction work for India’s first high-speed train corridor has gained momentum in Gujarat, but is stuck in Maharashtra due to opposition to land acquisition.With 30% land acquisition in Maharashtra by the National High Speed Rail Corporation Limited (NHSRCL), the body that will undertake the construction of the corridor, the deadline of the project is likely to be extended. To speed up the land acquisition work in Maharashtra, minister of state for railways Raosaheb Danve will meet NHSRCL, Western Railway and collectors of Thane, Palghar and Raigad districts in Mumbai on Wednesday. “I will be discussing the bullet train project at length on Wednesday with all officials. All concerns will be discussed,” said Danve on Tuesday. Of the 508.17km of the project, 155.76km is in Maharashtra, 384.04km in Gujarat and 4.3km in Dadra and Nagar Haveli. The estimated cost of the Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train project is ₹110,000 crore, of which ₹88,000 crore will be funding from Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA). The project has a completion deadline of 2023. As per NHSRCL, overall 75% of the land required for the corridor has been acquired for the project, of which 28% is in Maharashtra. At least 97% of land acquisition has been done in Gujarat and 100% in Dadra and Nagar Haveli. The body recently invited tenders for design and construction of track for double high-speed railway line between Vadodara and Sabarmati depot in Gujarat and has started on-ground construction work in the state. Civil work contracts for the construction of five railway stations, Sabarmati terminal, construction of 28 steel bridges crossing over railway lines, rivers, highways and road structures have been awarded. “In Gujarat, nearly 90% of the land has been handed over to the contractors for the construction work and the work is going on in full swing,” said a senior NHSRCL official. In Maharashtra, the body has invited bids for the construction of the underground railway station at BKC. The last submission date for the bid is in December and the construction is likely to start mid-2023. “Construction work can only begin once we have 90% of the land in our possession. Efforts are on to get the required land before construction-related contracts can be awarded in Maharashtra,” added the NHSRCL official. After taking charge as the railway minister in July, Ashwini Vaishnaw conducted a detailed review meeting of the high speed corridor project and directed the NHSRCL officials to speed up work and take steps to increase land acquisition in Maharashtra. “We are in constant discussions with the Maharashtra government regarding land acquisition and are working to acquire the land required in the state,” said the official. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had earlier questioned if the bullet train project was of any benefit to the state and the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) appeared non- committal on the project after coming to power. Danve said, “The bullet train project is targeted to improve development in the area and it will help the state.” Further, the railway ministry is looking into completion of the bullet train corridor project in Gujarat by 2023. Passenger associations have asked for keeping the politics aside and focus on the development that will be done after the bullet train corridor becomes operational. “Initially, when Rajdhani Express between Mumbai and Delhi was supposed to start, people thought it would not be profitable and there was hesitancy. The train is now the most popular train on the route. Politics over bullet train should be kept aside by the state and central government and the focus should be overall development of both the commercial hubs and the country. Construction work in Maharashtra should be started soon,” said Subhash Gupta, president, Rail Yatri Parishad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-to-ahmedabad-bullet-train-project-may-miss-2023-deadline-101631036215411.html
08-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt to discuss reopening school for classes 6-8 at next DDMA meeting||New Delhi: The Delhi government is planning to discuss the reopening of schools for students of classes 6 to 8 in the upcoming Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) meeting as per the graded response advised by the expert committee, officials in the education department said on Tuesday.“Since the current DDMA order is valid till September 15, the discussions on the next step will happen before that. The expert committee constituted by DDMA called for a graded response, meaning schools will first reopen for classes 9 to 12 followed by 6 to 8, and then primary classes if the situation remained conducive. Now that schools have started functioning and we haven’t seen the spread of the coronavirus in schools or violation of Covid-19 protocols, we propose to discuss reopening of classes 6 to 8 in the next phase,” a senior official of the education department said, requesting anonymity.In August, DDMA set up a committee of experts that included officials of education and health departments to work on a strategy for re-opening schools and educational institutes in Delhi. The committee submitted its suggestions on August 25, recommending graded reopening for schools beginning with students of classes 9 to 12 followed by junior classes.Schools in the national capital were allowed to reopen for classes 9 to 12 from September 1. The DDMA order issued on August 30 asked schools to follow all SOPs on Covid-appropriate behaviour and rope in parents while planning the measures to be undertaken by schools to ensure safety. Several private schools have expressed confidence over reopening schools for junior classes.Malini Narayanan, chairperson of the National Progressive Schools’ Conference which has 122 Delhi schools under its umbrella, said that private schools were mostly keen on having younger students back to school.“Studies have shown that younger children are more resilient than older ones and students in the age group for classes 6 to 8 are have also learned how to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour. Though there are some apprehensions, parents and children across schools are mostly keen about the resumption of in-person classes. If schools reopen for classes 6 to 8, more students will be coming to school which might help schools start transport and school bus services. That will be a big factor in getting more students back to school as lack of bus facilities is a major problem for parents.”Several health experts also recommend reopening schools for all age groups as there is no evidence that it would lead to a greater infection risk among children. The Indian Association of Preventive and Social Medicine also came out with an advisory report on Sunday pointing out that keeping children at home further may lead to lasting social and developmental impairment along with increasing inequality among privileged and underprivileged children.“School closures not only exposed the socio-economic educational inequality but also exacerbated it as it relied heavily on family support and resources available both in the home and at the school. The closure of schools has not only differentially interrupted the learning of students but also restricted their opportunity for overall physical, social and emotional development in a way that could have lasting repercussions,” the report stated.However, government school principals have expressed concerns over the reopening of junior classes. Government school principal Sukhbir Singh Yadav, president of Vice and Principals’ Association of Delhi, said, “Our staff has been engaged in Covid-19 duties including those at the airport, working at vaccination centres at schools and hospitals. Even available trained graduate teachers (TGTs) are busy with classes 9 and 10 because the students have been split into multiple groups to follow physical distancing. There is also a space crunch in several schools. Besides, the festive season is coming and in such a scenario, it would be prudent to wait a few weeks till taking a call on the matter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/at-next-ddma-meeting-delhi-govt-to-discuss-reopening-school-for-classes-68-101631036035374.html
08-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi: DTC signs deal to build seven charging stations in its properties||Delhi will soon get dedicated charging and battery swapping stations for electric vehicles (EVs) at seven properties, including bus depots,owned by the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC), transport minister Kailash Gahlot said on Tuesday, after signing an Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with a private firm for setting up the infrastructure.The charging stations, which will come up at Dwarka sector-8, Dwarka sector 2 depot, Mehrauli terminal, Nehru Place terminal, Okhla CW-II, Sukhdev Vihar depot and Kalkaji depot, will be built by Convergence Energy Services Limited (CESL) in collaboration with the DTC.Once commissioned, EV owners will be able to track the availability of slots at the charging stations even on the Delhi government’s One Delhi mobile application, said the minister.“Each location will have a total of six charging points -- three for two- and three-wheelers, and three for four-wheelers. Once installed, these locations, the real-time availability of charging points will also be shown on the One Delhi mobile app of the Delhi government,” said Gahlot.Further, CESL will, wherever feasible, integrate solar rooftops and connect it to battery storage systems (BSS), thereby using renewable energy to power the charging stations, he said.According to the MoU, Energy Efficiency Services Limited, through its subsidiary organisation CESL, will procure, install, operate and maintain charging units and related infrastructure at the location of the DTC area, at its own cost. It will also pay DTC a monthly amount of ₹1 per kWh of energy dispensed.If the space required by the concessionaire is more than three ECS (equivalent car space), then DTC will levy a further ₹2,000 extra per ECS per month.CESL will start work immediately and set up the charging stations in four months, the government later said in a statement.On August 7, 2020, the AAP government notified the Delhi EV Policy 2020 -- unveiled in December 2019 by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal -- with an aim to reduce air pollution and to kickstart the economy by spurring demand. It envisages that 25% of all new vehicle registrations should be battery electric vehicles (BEVs) by 2024. The policy offers subsidies, and road tax and registration free waivers, for electric vehicles bought in the Capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhidtcsignsdeal-to-build-seven-charging-stations-in-its-properties-101631035556549.html
08-09-2021||Delhi||Lack of infra delays rollout of e-buses, says transport dept||The roll-out of the first batch of electric buses in Delhi, scheduled for November this year, has been delayed by about two months, senior officials privy to the matter said on Tuesday. Now, Delhi is likely to get its first set of e-buses only by January 2022. Officials said the launch was delayed because the charging infrastructure for these buses is still not ready and is likely to take at least another three more months to be commissioned. Also, the two manufacturing companies that are to provide the e-buses are yet to show their final prototypes to the Delhi government, which is another reason for the launch being pushed to January.A total of 300 e-buses are being procured by the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC), a first in the national capital. Of these 300 e-buses, 200 are to be provided by JBM while the remaining 100 will be manufactured by Tata Motors. “The induction of 300 electric buses by the DTC at one go will be the largest engagement of its type by any state transporter in the country. There will be a slight delay of about two months because the depots are still undergoing all refurbishments. The power department and discoms have sought more time as setting up the charging infrastructure involves the laying of heavy duty lines,” said a senior DTC official, on condition of anonymity. In March this year, the DTC approved bids for procuring the 300 air-conditioned, low floor e-buses. These buses were to start arriving by October and the entire fleet was to be inducted by February 2022. However, the brutal second wave of Covid-19 slowed down the project as all non-Covid projects were put on hold by the government. The induction of these buses was then pushed to November. Now, officials said the roll-out of the first batch of buses is likely only by January 2022. The depots that are being readied with the adequate charging infrastructure include the Subhash Place depot, Mayapuri depot, Rohini-2 depot, Rajghat-2 depot and Mundela Kalan depot. Under the scheme, the buses will operate a minimum of 140km in a single charge. The operator will provide the driver and the DTC will depute its conductor on these buses. The operator will also be responsible for maintaining buses/batteries throughout the concessionary period of 10 years. The cost of electricity consumption will be borne by the DTC, officials said. Apart from that, last month, the Delhi government gave its go-ahead for procurement of another 465 e-buses under the cluster scheme — buses are run by private operators — and tenders are expected to be floated soon, a senior transport department officer said. The Delhi government intends to procure at least 1,000 e-buses under the cluster scheme and 300 under the DTC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/lack-of-infra-delays-rollout-of-electric-buses-likely-only-by-jan-2022-says-transport-dept-101631035316027.html
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||Politicians, drug smugglers complement each other, nexus difficult to break: HC||Chandigarh The high court has lamented that the politician-smuggler nexus is very difficult to break in drugs cases because they complement each other. “…politicians require easy money and muscle power for their political aims, which the drug smugglers are more than willing to provide. In return, they seek political patronage so that their nefarious activities go unchecked and without hindrance,” the bench of justice HS Madaan observed, adding that the political patronage provided to drug traffickers meant that the law enforcement agencies of the region would be under pressure from political bosses and turn a blind eye to activities of drug smugglers. The bench was dealing with bail pleas in a 2019 FIR registered in Sangrur. The allegations were that during elections, one of the accused had got 2 quintals of poppy husk from a person in Tohana area of Haryana. Those accused in Haryana were named by the main accused in his disclosure statements. They were before court seeking anticipatory bail and arguing that on merely basis of disclosure statements, they can’t be arrested. The issue of right to equality too was raised before the bench. The court observed that the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985, has met with limited success in checking drug trafficking and drug abuse and the main reason for it is laxity in the implementation. “It is a lucrative business; many a times smugglers are having political patronage in running the racket and police too have been found hand in glove in some cases. The end result is that drug peddling is flourishing day by day instead of being brought under control,” the court said further adding that faulty probes and failure to implement provisions of the law are another reason for the menace. The bench also criticised the role of judiciary stating that at times some courts do show misplaced sympathy for the accused, which rather proves to be counter-productive. On fundamental rights of a person under the constitution, the high court observed that “for enjoying such right and protection, the act and conduct of a person should be clear and clean and not shady and doubtful”. The court added that while deciding on bail pleas, courts have to keep in view the ground reality that police of the region is not much trained in scientific investigation and necessary resources and infrastructure for collecting other evidence are limited. “The custodial interrogation is much more effective and productive since no person of average intelligence, who is under the protective umbrella of pre-arrest bail, would utter even a single word, which may be read against him subsequently, and if custodial interrogation is denied, that would hamper the investigation,” it said, adding that while deciding on bails, petitioners’ past involvement in criminal cases too can be taken into consideration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/politicians-drug-smugglers-complement-each-other-nexus-difficult-to-break-hc-101631034776940.html
08-09-2021||Delhi||2 Delhi Police constables arrested for running extortion racket||Two Delhi Police constables have been arrested for allegedly running an extortion racket with the help of a civilian, who is still absconding, senior police officers said on Tuesday. Two cases of kidnapping and extortion, filed on the separate complaints of two businessmen from central Delhi, have been solved with their arrest, police said.The constables, identified by their first names, Sumit and Pramod, were posted in the first battalion of Delhi Armed Police (DAP). Both of them were suspended and the procedure to dismiss them has been initiated, senior officers said. Searches are being conducted to nab the third suspect, identified as Manjeet. All three are from two villages near Kanjhawala in outer Delhi, said a senior police officer, who asked not to be named.Explaining the modus operandi of the three men, the officer said they impersonated officials of the copyright and trademarks division and conducted fake searches at business establishments, factories and shops in central Delhi’s Karol Bagh.“They used to apprehend the owner of the business establishment and make him sit in their car on the pretext that they were taking him to their office for further interrogation and investigation. After driving around the city for a while with the businessman, they would demand money to “settle the matter”. They would force the businessman to call him family and arrange the money for his release,” said the officer.On August 27, a second police officer said the trio went to the shop of a jeans manufacturer, Ashok Kumar, on Tank Road near Karol Bagh, and identified themselves as officials from the trademarks division. They accused Kumar of manufacturing duplicate jeans of a prominent brand and told him that they had come to conduct a search after receiving a complaint. They then put Kumar in their i10 car.“Inside the car, they demanded Kumar to give them ₹5 lakh to settle the matter and release him. After negotiations, they agreed to release him for ₹3 lakh. Kumar’s family members paid the amount after which they released him. Kumar later approached the Prasad Nagar police and filed a complaint. A case of kidnapping and extortion was registered and investigations were started,” the second officer said.While the Prasad Nagar police were making efforts to identify and nab the suspects, a similar crime was reported at the Desh Bandhu Gupta (DBG) Road police station on September 3 by the owner of an automobile spare parts shop in Karol Bagh. The suspects extorted ₹4 lakh from the businessman’s family to release him.Investigators said they scanned CCTV cameras installed at the shops and the routes that the suspects took. One footage helped the police spot the registration number of the i10 car that was used in the crimes. The car was found registered in the name of constable Sumit’s wife.“We interrogated Sumit after the victims identified him as of one the suspects. After being confronted with the evidence, he admitted to the crime and led us to the other constable, Pramod,” the first officer said, adding that they are trying to find out if the suspects were involved in more such extortions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/two-delhi-police-constables-arrested-for-running-extortion-racket-duping-2-businessmen-of-money-101631034655141.html
08-09-2021||Delhi||AAP slams UP, Haryana, Punjab Rajasthan for ‘failing to control stubble burning’||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government in Uttar Pradesh and Haryana and Congress-led governments in Punjab and Rajasthan of failing to control cases of crop residue burning, one of the major contributors to air pollution in the Capital during winters.“The Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) has found that the Congress-ruled states Punjab and Rajasthan, and BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh and Haryana have done nothing to prevent stubble burning. The governments in all these states have failed to subside and provide machinery to farmers to prevent stubble burning,” said AAP’s chief spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj in a press conference at the party head office in central Delhi.He further said, “The Commission for Air Quality Management has rejected plans submitted by Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan for controlling stubble burning and taken note of the absence of any groundwork on part of the governments in these states. The Commission has warned that if the third wave of Covid-19 coincides with stubble burning pollution, then it may prove fatal.”Uttar Pradesh and Punjab are going to the assembly polls early next year and the AAP is contesting in both states. On August 25, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath announced that police cases registered against farmers for stubble burning will be withdrawn by the government.Ahead of the harvesting season, CAQM on August 22 asked Delhi and neighbouring states to ensure the adoption and application of a standard protocol developed by ISRO for estimation of crop residue burning events using satellite data.The commission, mandated to devise and execute plans to prevent and control air pollution in the national capital region and adjoining areas, has also asked Delhi, Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan to develop a time-bound comprehensive action plan, in consultation with stakeholder agencies responsible for monitoring and reporting of crop residue burning events, based on the protocol.Meanwhile, Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “Bhardwaj’s comments on pollution due to stubble burning in neighbouring states is an excuse to ultimately evade responsibility of stopping stubble burning in Delhi. It is surprising to see Bhardwaj blaming the four neighbouring states but remaining silent on what the Delhi government is doing to help them curb pollution due to stubble burning. Farmers there are forced to burn stubble as it is economically not possible for them to get it removed from their lands. Delhi has crores of rupees of surplus environment fund, then why doesn’t it extend a financial package to neighbouring states to help their farmers remove stubble instead of burning it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-slams-up-haryana-punjab-and-rajasthan-for-failing-to-control-stubble-burning-101631034475813.html
08-09-2021||Delhi||34% EWS seats in Delhi’s private schools still vacant||Despite numerous interventions, 34% of seats reserved for the economically weaker section (EWS) students in entry-level classes in private schools this year are still vacant. “Of the around 33,000 seats allotted to EWS children this year, around 21,850 (66%) have been filled. The remaining could not be filled because the pandemic affected the general category admissions this year,” said a senior directorate of education (DOE) official, asking not to be named.Private schools have been admitting one EWS student from the government’s list for every three admissions under the general category in entry-level classes (nursery, kindergarten, and class 1) every year. This is done to ensure that the minimum 25% reservation, guaranteed to EWS/disadvantaged group (DG) students in entry-level classes under the Right to Education Act, is maintained.Of the 33,000 seats, 29,900 are in DoE-affiliated schools and the remaining are in schools recognised by municipal corporations. The seats have remained vacant despite multiple interventions by the education department in EWS admissions this year. Acting on complaints by parents, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia announced in June that all EWS children allotted seats in private schools will be given admission, regardless of general category admissions. However, in a circular released in July, DOE allowed private schools to seek exemption from admitting all EWS students on the grounds of low general category admissions.“According to a Delhi high court order, EWS admissions and general category admissions have to be in the category of 1:3. So, the department allowed schools to file for exemption only if they had taken all necessary steps to fill general category seats. We received applications from several schools and those that did not show adequate efforts to fill their seats were not given the exemption. The department is still coordinating with all district education department officials to ensure that the remaining students are not left out of the loop,” DOE official said.On July 24, HT reported that an association of private schools in the capital said they will not be following the state education department’s orders on granting admission to all allotted EWS students as it violates the RTE Act and the 2013 Delhi high court order in a similar case.SK Bhattacharya, president of Action Committee of Unaided Recognised Private Schools, said if a school declares 140 seats and is able to admit only 100 students under the general category, the EWS admissions should be on the basis of those 100 seats where actual admissions took place and not as per the declared seats to ensure that the 75:25 ratio between general and EWS admissions is maintained. Experts pointed that the DOE order resulted in many schools filing for exemption and leaving EWS students at a disadvantage yet again. Ekramul Haque, who runs NGO Mission Taleem that works with underprivileged children, said, “Despite the deputy CM’s announcement, there are blatant violations taking place using the exemption. We have flagged multiple such cases to the education department from Bawana, Mehrauli, Yamuna Vihar, and several parts of Delhi but there has been no response. Parents are worried that if the child’s age crosses the age limit of seven years, they will not be eligible for entry-level classes next year.”Shakurpur resident Nasreen Begum, mother of a six-year-old girl who was allotted a seat in a private school in Pitampura, said, “I have been trying to get my daughter admitted for the past two years. Coincidentally, my child’s name was allotted to the same school in the past as well, but the school did not even meet me. I am worried that my child’s future is at stake.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/34-ews-seats-in-delhi-s-private-schools-still-vacant-schools-blame-low-general-category-admissions-101631034416079.html
08-09-2021||Pune||IMD’s ‘vulnerability atlas’ to map districts prone to extreme weather in Maha||PUNE The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Tuesday announced the development of a “vulnerability atlas”, to highlight areas prone to natural disasters and issue warnings for the same in a detailed manner. Pulak Guhathakurta, head, Climate Research Division, IMD Pune, said that the vulnerability atlas will cover 13 major disasters.“It is a district-level vulnerability initiative for extreme conditions like heat-wave, cold-wave, and thunderstorms. The atlas will inform national disaster management teams and risk assessment will be based on information collected for years, which will help authorities to assess extreme climate conditions,” said Guhathakurta.DS Pai, scientist and head of climate research and services at IMD Pune, said that the vulnerability atlas will focus on an impact-based forecast for each district. “With 13 weather hazards in the entire country, districts which are more vulnerable will be identified and an impact-based forecast will be issued. Climate information will be used to inform and alert citizens,” said Pai.K S Hosalikar, head of surface instrument division (SID) at the Climate Research and Services, added that along with the already functional radar in Mumbai work on another radar in Goregaon is 90 per cent complete. “In June, the Mumbai radar was defunct which affected the forecasts. However, IMD is now increasing the radar coverage thus improving the forecast,” said Hoslikar.“Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Calcutta, and Ahmedabad will soon have apps dedicated to the weather forecasting. IMD cannot develop such apps singlehandedly. We are trying to deliver such apps for mega cities in the country,” said Hoslikar.As per the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), India has witnessed a temperature increase of 0.7 degree Celsius in the last decade. “With the increase in average day temperature, it means that there is more capacity in the air to hold water, which has increased extreme rainfall events. There is a chance of an increase in extreme rainfall events,” said Hoslikar.“Many studies are indicating extreme events are increasing. Total seasonal rainfall will increase and extreme rainfall will also increase,” said Pai.Monsoon, this seasonPai further added that this year the southwest monsoon trough did not move much.“The Arabian Sea side was close to normal, but the Bay of Bengal side was not good. Not many weather systems helped the monsoon this season resulting in low rainfall,” said Pai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/imds-vulnerability-atlas-to-map-districts-prone-to-extreme-weather-in-maha-101631034174443.html
08-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt to showcase 100 best entrepreneurship projects at business carnival||Launching the Delhi government’s seed money scheme, wherein each student of class 11 and 12 will be given an amount of ₹2,000 for developing a business idea/project of theirs, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday said the top 100 projects under the scheme will be displayed at a “business carnival” and 10 students with the best projects will get direct admissions to state universities.Students will be receiving the seed money as a part of the government’s entrepreneurship mindset curriculum (EMC), launched in 2019 for students of classes 9 to 12. Explaining the “business blasters” component of EMC, Sisodia said, “The objective of this project is to prepare children to make investments, eliminate fears of starting a business from their minds and to teach them to earn profit. Most importantly, even if they do not make a profit, they should learn to face failure.”Sisodia also said a business carnival will be organised, where the 100 best projects, at zonal and district level, will be showcased. “These projects will be rated by renowned entrepreneurs and universities. And the children involved in the top 10 projects will be directly admitted to the BBA (Bachelors in Business Administration) course in NSUT (Netaji Subhas University of Technology) and DTU (Delhi Technological University),” he said.In January, the Delhi government distributed seed money of ₹1,000 each to 41 students of the School of Excellence in Khichripur as a pilot programme. After nine groups of students emerged successful in developing their business ideas and earning a small profit, the government decided to roll out the programme for class 11 and 12 students on Tuesday.Students whose projects will be approved by schools will receive the increased seed money of ₹2,000 which was announced in the budget earlier this year.The announcement was made at an event on Tuesday to roll out the business blasters component of the programme at Thyagraj Stadium. “The biggest drawback of the education system is that we are imparting knowledge to our children but we have not inculcated an entrepreneurial mindset in them. We are teaching them to work hard, making them talented but have failed to instil in them the courage to become an entrepreneur,” Sisodia said while explaining the need behind EMC.“Through these programmes, instead of an army of job seekers emerging from our schools and colleges, we will have entrepreneurs who give jobs to the youth of the country,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-to-showcase-100-best-entrepreneurship-projects-at-business-carnivalsisodia-101631034056668.html
08-09-2021||Pune||Ganesh festival: Traders claim business down by 50% as compared to last year||PUNE From September 10, the 10-day Ganpati festival will begin, but this year too, due to Covid restrictions, there will be simple celebrations in Pune. While preparations have already started, a rush is seen at city markets, mainly in Raviwar peth, Tulshibaug and Bohri Aali. Despite this, traders and shop owners claim that business this year is down by almost 50 per cent as compared to last year. Nitin Pandit, president of the Tulshibaug market shop owners association said, “People are happy to celebrate the Ganpati festival, but in a small way this year. Everyone is struggling financially and most of them have avoided spending for celebrations. This has impacted our business majorly. Business is down by around 50 per cent as compared to last year and I think it will take Diwali to gain the momentum back,”“Over the last 10 days people have started coming to purchase decorations and other household items for the Ganpati festival, but it is only on the weekend. Rest of the week the number is low. We are already suffering financially due to the lockdown and now there are fewer customers,” said Pankaj Kendre a shop owner in Raviwar peth. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has deployed squads to take action against violators not wearing face masks or at shops where social distancing is not followed.Since September 1 the PMC’s Bhavani peth ward office, under which several markets fall, has taken action against 800 violators and fined them. “Our vigilance and continuous action is taken at the market places, but as it is the festive time we also go slow on the action. People from all around the district and even outside Pune come to the city markets for Ganpati shopping,” said a PMC squad officer on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ganesh-festival-traders-claim-business-down-by-50-as-compared-to-last-year-101631033214437.html
08-09-2021||Pune||ED actions against Maha leaders bid to subdue state govt: Sharad Pawar||PUNE NCP chief Sharad Pawar, on Tuesday, claimed that the Enforcement Directorate’s actions against various Maharashtra leaders are an attempt to encroach on the state government’s rights and meant to discourage political opponents.The central agency is currently conducting a probe into separate money laundering cases against former state home minister Anil Deshmukh and NCP leader Eknath Khadse. The central agency last week also conducted searches at multiple premises in Maharashtra linked to Shiv Sena MP Bhavana Gawali, also in connection with a money laundering case.“Never heard of so many ED actions in Maharashtra in the past. One action is going on against Khadse, another against Anil Deshmukh, also against Bhavna Gawali. There is an attempt to encroach upon the state government’s rights and discourage opponents by using these agencies as tools,” said the NCP chief, who was an architect in forming the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra, stitching together an alliance between the NCP, Congress and Shiv Sena.To a question on the ED’s raids at premises linked to Bhavana Gawali, Pawar said the issue is about educational institutions.“When there are allegations against these kind of institutions, the complaints can be lodged before the charity commissioner. If not the charity commissioner, then there are state government agencies, but here directly the ED was involved,” the former Union minister said.Pawar also opposed the Reserve Bank of India’s interference in the co-operative sector and the appointing of an independent representative to the co-operative sector. Pawar alleged that with the help of RBI, the union government is “planning to end the co-operative sector.”“RBI is planning to appoint an independent representative to co-operative banks and institutes though it has no power to do so. This is an indirect step to take control of co-operative institutes. RBI’s approach towards co-operative banks is not good,” said the NCP chief.While earlier there was greater autonomy to select a cooperative bank’s chairman, now these institutions will have to go to the RBI for the same.Pawar said, “In the co-operative sector, members have a right to choose directors for their banks or institutes. If they do not like any director, they defeat them in the next election. This RBI decision intends to hand over these sectors to a few people.”The former union minister said he will discuss this issue with the Prime Minister and home minister in Delhi.“I will be going to discuss this issue with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home and co-operative minister Amit Shah. Their approach towards co-operatives is better and I am hoping that they will be convinced.”Pawar to stay away from all major eventsOn the issue of crowds at programmes being attended by leaders, when there’s possibility of a third Covid-19 wave, Pawar said, “I have seen many events happening where the (Covid-19 prevention) protocols are not being followed.”Pawar said since Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has asked political parties to immediately stop agitations, meetings and other events to avoid crowds he himself will not attend any programmes involving large gatherings“I will only attend programmes organised indoors with a limited number of people,” Pawar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ed-actions-against-maha-leaders-bid-to-subdue-state-govt-sharad-pawar-101631032323480.html
08-09-2021||Pune||Dabholkar murder case: Framing of charges deferred by special court in Pune||PUNE: A special court in Pune on Tuesday passed an order to frame charges against five accused of the murder of rationalist Dr Narendra Dabholkar. However the framing of charges was deferred to September 15 after one of the accused, Virendra Tawade, insisted on meeting his family and lawyer in person before charges could be framed. The order was passed by special judge S R Navander with special public prosecutor (SPP) Prakash Suryavanshi and defence lawyer, advocate Virendra Ichalkaranjikar.Tawade who is accused of plotting the murder said, “The contact with the outside world is completely broken due to the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown. I request the court to allow me to meet my family, whom I have not met for a very long time, and my lawyer, before charges are framed.”Judge Navander said that framing of charges is procedural and that the accused’s demands could be met even after the framing was completed. “On one hand you say that the trial has been long pending and on the other hand, you are asking for extension. Why not let the trial begin and then you can communicate with your family,” he said.However, Tawade did not budge from his stance and judge Navander asked advocate Ichalkaranjikar to file an application for the said demand while assuring his approval.SPP Suryavanshi said, “The court has taken up all the charges brought by us. We will communicate to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) about the charges against advocate Sanjeev Punalekar (another accused). The framing will be deferred to September 15. We are not going to challenge this order.”Only four out of the five accused were present for the hearing. Vikram Bhave was present in person; advocate Punalekar joined through video conference; Tawade joined through video conference from Yerawada central jail; and Sachin Andure, one of the two accused shooters, joined through video conference from Taloja jail. Sharad Kalaskar, accused of shooting Dr Dabholkar at around 7.30am on August 20, 2013 atop Omkareshwar bridge, was not present for the hearing. Arthur Road jail, where he is lodged, did not respond to calls for video conferencing with the court. Members of Dr Dabholkar’s organisation, Andhashraddha Nirmoolan Samiti, were also present in court.Tawade, Kalaskar, Andure and Bhave are facing charges of murder, criminal conspiracy and terror while Punalekar is facing charges of destruction of evidence. Tawade was arrested in 2016; Kalaskar and Andure were arrested in August 2018; and Punalekar and Bhave were arrested in May 2019. Chargesheets have been filed against all five accused by the CBI at different times. While the accused will be allowed to meet their family members and lawyers as per protocol of their respective jail, the court is expecting to frame charges on September 15.Once charges are framed, Tawade, Kalaskar, Andure and Bhave will face charges under sections 302 with 120(b), 302 with 34, and 302 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC); along with sections 3(25), 27(1), and 27(3) of the Arms Act; and section 16 of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act. Punalekar will face charges under section 201 of the IPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/dabholkar-murder-case-framing-of-charges-deferred-by-special-court-in-pune-101631031774366.html
08-09-2021||Pune||Gang-rape of minor: 6 more, including girl’s friend, held in Pune||PUNE Six more people were arrested by the Pune police on Monday night, in a case of kidnapping and gang-rape of a minor, registered at Wanowrie police station. Among the six is a male friend of the girl whom she had come to meet at the railway station, when she was kidnapped, according to police officials. Police officials refused to reveal names of the accused citing a pending identification parade. The other five arrested, as per officials, are friends of the main accused, Mashak Abdulmajid Kanyal, who kidnapped and assaulted the girl. The police had earlier arrested eight and the latest arrests have brought the tally of accused to 14. All men have been remanded to police custody till September 16 by a local court. While the friend was not among the men who kidnapped and raped her, he was found with her in Chandigarh and had made no effort to report the incident to the police. The girl’s parents are in an economically humble condition - a bed-ridden mother and labourer father. In a harrowing account, the girl has told the police that she was deprived of sleep, clothes, her phone, and even food while she was captive. She was only given clothes while travelling from one place to another. Kanyal (27), a resident of New Mhada Building in Vaiduwadi area of Hadapsar, was the first one to kidnap and assault the girl with his friend whom he invited, as he led the girl astray in his autorickshaw from the Pune railway station. “They kidnapped her on the night of August 31 and took her phone away. On September 2, they put her in a bus to Mumbai and told her to never return to Pune and gave her the phone. She called her friend to Mumbai and further went to Chandigarh from there with him where we found her,” said Namrata Patil, deputy commissioner of police, Zone 5 of Pune police. The girl was taken to six different locations in the city by the ones who assaulted her. The 13 men are suspected to have all assaulted her in one way or the other within the two days during which she was captive. “We have formed five teams in total to check physical evidence, technical analysis, forensic work. As of today (Tuesday), all the accused have been arrested and the girl is undergoing a thorough examination,” said Patil. Reacting to the incident, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said that justice will be done ensuring the strictest punishment to the accused. “The kidnapping and rape of the minor girl is shameful and frustrating and most of the accused are in custody. The state government will ensure that the accused get the severest form of punishment for their crime. Acknowledging the involvement of some railway workers, the state minister of railways will also be asked to work on putting a stop to such a mentality,” read a statement issued by Pawar. A case has been registered under Sections 363 (kidnapping), 376(d)(a), 377 (unnatural sex), and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code along with Sections 4(2), 5(g), 6, 8, and 12 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence Act at Wanowrie police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/gangrape-of-minor-6-more-including-girl-s-friend-held-in-pune-101631031174284.html
08-09-2021||Mumbai||Railways to build deck connecting CSMT to Crawford Market in Mumbai||Passengers de-boarding at Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) in the future will directly be able to go to Crawford Market. This would be made possible as the Indian Railway Stations Development Corporation (IRSDC) will construct a passenger deck connecting the suburban platforms towards Crawford Market and outstation train platforms of the terminus.Currently, passengers have to de-board at CSMT and walk to the market or get down at Masjid Bunder railway station and take a cab. The plan is a part of CSMT’s redevelopment project that is being undertaken by IRSDC. Minister of State for Railways Raosaheb Danve held a review meeting of officials from Central Railway (CR), IRSDC, Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) and Mumbai Port Trust on Tuesday.“The meeting was positive and all the agencies involved have agreed to plan and work on the redevelopment of the terminus,” said Danve.Further, a multi-model hub for interchange at metro and harbour railway at P D’Mello entrance of the station and extension of the eastern freeway is also being planned.“An interchange hub of metro, harbour railway and eastern freeway is being planned and the discussions regarding the same took place with multiple agencies,” said Anil Kumar Lahori, general manager, CR. Danve has asked all the authorities to coordinate and arrive at a consensus in a month on the development work of the project. CSMT’s redevelopment will be undertaken through the public private partnership (PPP) model at a cost of ₹1,642 crore. It is likely to start from December and is expected to be completed by 2025.The redevelopment plan will involve construction of commercial spaces, including restaurants and cafes, along with vehicular parking for passengers, inside the terminus.Segregation of outstation and local train passenger movements with the help of interconnecting decks has also been planned. Shifting of harbour railway platforms to P D’Mello entrance of the terminus will be undertaken as part of the redevelopment.Meanwhile, Danve travelled by a local train on Tuesday between CSMT and Dadar and inspected passenger amenities at Dadar and Matunga railway stations.At Dadar railway station, Danve flagged off a Konkan bound train that was booked on Full Tariff Rate (FTR).Min on Pawar’s charges“During Lalu Prasad Yadav’s reign, we didn’t have a government. CBI had put him behind the bars. Suresh Kalmadi was also probed by CBI during the Congress regime. ED and CBI have been established by them. I feel if we haven’t done anything, then we don’t need to be scared, said Danve in response to Sharad Pawar’s charges that BJP was using central agencies to target Opposition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/railways-to-build-deck-connecting-csmt-to-crawford-market-in-mumbai-101631029075246.html
08-09-2021||Pune||Dabholkar murder: Framing of charges deferred by special Pune court||A special court in Pune ordered on Tuesday that charges against five accused in the 2013 murder of rationalist Narendra Dabholkar be framed but the process was interrupted by one of the suspects who insisted on meeting his family and lawyers beforehand.Dabholkar, who led the Maharashtra Andhashraddha Nirmoolan Samiti, was shot dead in Pune on August 20, 2013, allegedly by members of a right-wing extremist group. A criminal trial starts after charges are framed.Special judge SR Navander said charges will be framed against Virendra Sinh Tawde, Sachin Andure, Sharad Kalaskar, Vikram Bhave and Sanjiv Punalekar.“The court has taken up all the charges brought by us. We will communicate the charges to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The framing will be deferred to September 15. We are not going to challenge this order,” said special public prosecutor Prakash Suryavanshi.But Tawade requested to meet his family.“My contact with outside world has been completely broken due to the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown. I request the court to allow me to meet my family, whom I have not met for a very long time, and my lawyer before charges are framed,” said Dr Virendra Tawade, who is accused of plotting the murder.While the judge insisted that the framing of charges was procedural and that Tawade’s demands could be met even after the framing was complete, Tawade insisted on meeting his family and lawyer.“On one hand you say that the trial has been long pending and on the other hand you are asking for extension. Why not let the trial begin and then you can communicate with your family,” said judge Navander.The judge then asked the defence lawyer to file an application in this regard. While the accused will be allowed to meet with family members and lawyers as per jail protocols, the court is expected to frame the charges on September 15.Kalaskar, who is accused of being one of the two people who shot Dabholkar on a bridge, was not present in the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/dabholkar-murder-framing-of-charges-deferred-by-special-pune-court-101631010533213.html
08-09-2021||World||Antony Blinken warns US getting 'closer' to giving up on Iran nuclear deal||US Secretary of State Antony Blinken warned Wednesday that time was running out for Iran to return to a nuclear deal after a scathing report by the UN atomic watchdog and Tehran's signals that it would take a while to return to talks.The IAEA released a strongly-worded report Tuesday saying monitoring tasks in Iran have been "seriously undermined" after Tehran suspended some of the UN agency's inspections of its nuclear activities.After ultraconservative Ebrahim Raisi took over as new president of the country, Iran had also suggested that talks aimed at reviving the stalled JCPOA were unlikely to resume for two to three months."I'm not going to put a date on it but we are getting closer to the point at which a strict return to compliance with the JCPOA does not reproduce the benefits that that agreement achieved," Blinken told reporters in Germany in response to a question on the point at which it would no longer be possible to return to a deal.Germany found the delay signalled by Tehran "far too long", Foreign Minister Heiko Maas said.The German minister said he had telephoned his new counterpart in Tehran to get him to "return more swiftly to the negotiating table".Nevertheless, Maas said Berlin still expects the new Iranian government to continue to support results from negotiations that had taken place so far.Raisi became Iran's president in early August, taking over from moderate Hassan Rouhani, the principal architect on the Iranian side of the 2015 agreement.The 2015 deal offered Iran an easing of Western and UN sanctions in return for tight controls on its nuclear programme, monitored by the UN.In retaliation for former US President Donald Trump's withdrawal three years ago and his subsequent imposition of swingeing sanctions, Iran in effect abandoned most of its commitments under the deal.But Trump's successor President Joe Biden wants to bring Washington back into the agreement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/antony-blinken-warns-us-getting-closer-to-giving-up-on-iran-nuclear-deal-101631122717105.html
08-09-2021||World||‘Won’t stay silent’: WHO chief reiterates moratorium on Covid-19 booster shots||The World Health Organization (WHO) has reiterated its call for a moratorium on Covid-19 vaccine booster shots, even as several countries, including the United States, emphasise their need and importance.“I will not stay silent when companies and countries that control the global supply of vaccines think the world’s poor should be satisfied with leftovers,” WHO director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus was quoted as saying by The Associated Press.He added that he was “appalled” at remarks made by pharmaceutical manufacturers, who said that coronavirus vaccine supplies are high enough to enable both booster shots as well as provide for normal vaccinations in nations facing shortages.The WHO chief had in August called for a moratorium on booster jabs until September end. Addressing a press briefing, Tedros said that 80 per cent of the Covid-19 vaccine doses have gone to the high-and-upper-middle-income nations, while the low-and-lower-middle-income countries are struggling to administer doses to even their high-risk groups and healthcare employees.“I understand the concern of all governments to protect their people from the Delta variant. But we cannot accept countries that have already used most of the global supply of vaccines using even more of it, while the Earth globe Europe-Africa's most vulnerable people remain unprotected,” the WHO chief had said.Also Read | These countries to ignore WHO's call for moratorium on Covid booster shotsNevertheless, US President Joe Biden announced last week that the country will commence delivering Pfizer and Moderna’s Covid-19 vaccine jabs to its citizens starting September 20. The US authorities said that people who had been inoculated with the vaccine shots would need a booster jab eight months after the second dose.The US health officials had said that the efficacy of the coronavirus vaccines against the infection wears off over time, based on findings by recent studies.White House chief medical advisor Dr Anthony Fauci also said last week that the three-dose Covid-19 vaccine may become the standard regimen for most people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/wont-stay-silent-who-chief-reiterates-moratorium-on-covid-19-booster-shots-101631123677602.html
08-09-2021||World||Canadian federal polls: What has happened and what is at at stake||Canadians go to the polls on Sept. 20 in an election that Prime Minister Justin Trudeau called two years early, seeking to turn public approval for his handling of the Covid-19 pandemic into a fresh, four-year mandate.Why now?Since 2019, Trudeau has only commanded a minority in parliament, leaving him dependent on other parties to govern. Trudeau argues the pandemic has changed Canada like World War Two did and Canadians should now choose who they want to make important decisions for decades to come.What has happened?Trudeau has struggled to explain why an early election during a worsening fourth wave of Covid-19 was a good idea. Conservative leader Erin O'Toole consistently accuses the Liberal leader of putting Canadians in harm's way for personal ambition. People also seem to be tiring of Trudeau, who carries the baggage of having governed for six years.Since Trudeau called the election, his hefty opinion poll lead has vanished: surveys point to a tight race in which he could lose to the opposition Conservatives. But steady Conservative gains during the first three weeks seemed to have stopped as Trudeau attacked O'Toole for his opposition to vaccine mandates and his promise - now reversed to legalize some assault weapons the Liberals had banned.What are the main issues?To tackle the pandemic the Liberals ran up a record national debt of C$1 trillion ($785.7 billion) and pushed budget deficits to highs not seen since World War Two. In the campaign they promised another C$78 billion in new spending over five years.O'Toole says he will balance the books within a decade without making cuts.Analysts say financial markets do not appear overly worried about the fiscal implications of either promise although the stocks of bank and insurance firm could suffer after Trudeau promised a new windfall tax on their profits.Vaccine mandatesThe Liberal government has introduced Covid-19 vaccine mandates. During the campaign, Trudeau has been abused and heckled by people opposing the move and says his Conservative rival is taking his cues from the crowds. O'Toole opposes vaccine mandates, including for his own candidates, and says he prefers frequent testing.ChildcareEmployment of women has plummeted thanks to Covid-19. The Liberals are promising to spend up to C$30 billion over five years to set up a long-promised C$10 a day national childcare program. The Conservatives say they will cancel those deals and instead offer tax credits of up to C$6,000 a year to help pay for daycare.Housing affordability Housing prices have soared about 70% since Trudeau took office. He is promising  to build, preserve, or repair 1.4 million homes over the next four years, among other measures. The Conservatives would boost supply by building a million homes over three years and loosening some mortgage requirements.Climate changeForest fires in western Canada and a drought in crop-growing areas are focusing attention on climate change. The Liberals promise more aggressive emissions cuts than the Conservatives, who are major advocates of the oil and gas industry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canadian-federal-polls-what-has-happened-and-what-is-at-at-stake-101631122834951.html
08-09-2021||World||Any international legitimacy, support will have to be earned: US warns Taliban||A day after the Taliban announced the interim government of Afghanistan, the United States on Wednesday said that the outfit would have to work for the right to be regarded by the international community as a legitimate government.The remarks were made by US secretary of state Antony Blinken after holding bilateral talks with German counterpart Heiko Mass at the Ramstein Air Base in western Germany. After bilateral talks, the two leaders also had a virtual meeting with foreign ministers of several countries and NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg."The Taliban seek international legitimacy. Any legitimacy -- any support -- will have to be earned," Blinken said, after the meeting.Blinken told reporters that he discussed with partners how to hold the Taliban to their commitments, DW reported.He also responded to criticism that the US administration was not making enough effort to facilitate further evacuations, vowing to put pressure on the Taliban to start charter flights out of Afghanistan."We are working to do everything in our power to support those flights and to get them off the ground," he said.Also Read | US working with Taliban to enable charter flight ops from Kabul, says BlinkenBlinken said the group was preventing some flights from leaving because some people wanting to fly out did not have the correct documentation.Taliban on Tuesday announced the caretaker government of the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan, naming Mullah Mohammad Hassan Akhund as interim prime minister and Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, a co-founder of the group, as his deputy.Mullah Yaqoob, one of the deputy leaders of the Taliban since 2016 and the son of Taliban founder Mullah Omar, will act as caretaker Defence Minister. Abdul Salam Hanafi has been made the second deputy to Prime Minister Akhund.No non-Taliban figures were immediately announced- an indication that the outfit had not bowed down to domestic and international pressure to create an inclusive regime.Also Read | Inside look at Taliban all-male cabinet: Minister wanted by FBI, with a bounty on his headMaas, in his turn, said the non-inclusive interim government announced by the Taliban was "not the signal for more international cooperation and stability in the country.""We hope that in the further formation of a government, which has not been completed, the necessary signals for this will be sent," he addedMaas had said previously that the goal of Wednesday's meeting was "to clarify what a joint approach toward the Taliban can look like."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/any-international-legitimacy-support-will-have-to-be-earned-us-warns-taliban-101631122745758.html
08-09-2021||World||Pak support to Taliban could endanger trade ties with EU: Report||The European Parliament earlier this year called for an ‘immediate reassessment’ of the trade regime between the European Union and Pakistan, according to a report by news agency EUToday. The report said that there were demands for the temporary withdrawal of the generalised system of preferences-Plus (GSP+) status which the European Union granted to Pakistan in 2014. Pakistan in return agreed to implement 27 internationally recognised conventions.During the 3rd biennial assessment of the GSP which was published last year, the report highlighted that Pakistan failed to make meaningful advances in protecting human rights. The report pointed out that this was seen with respect to the nation’s strict blasphemy laws where incarceration rates are high if punished and even if the accused are acquitted most of them are murdered.Pakistan also reconstituted the death penalty which is applicable to cases of blasphemy against Prophet Muhammad or any other religious figure. Earlier this year, an eight-year-old was charged under this law.The GSP+ status allows products to enter the EU market from developing nations without any import duties. This allowed Pakistan’s export to the EU to increase from 4.538 billion euros to 7.492 billion euros, registering an increase of 65%.It also led to Pakistan becoming the second-most important trading partner of the European Union. It also accounted for 14.3% of the total trade Pakistan conducted in 2020 and also of 28% of Pakistan’s total exports.Pakistan’s GSP+ status is also under scrutiny due to its support to the Taliban. Former Afghanistan president Ashraf Ghani accused Pakistan of aiding the terrorist group with logistics and ammunition which he said led to the quick downfall of the democratically elected government. Earlier on Wednesday, Pakistan foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi proposed that the Taliban leaders who announced an interim government on Tuesday be invited for regional multilateral forums. Qureshi chaired a meet where foreign ministers of China, Uzbekistan, Iran, Tajikistan and Turkmenistan - all neighbours of Afghanistan - convened to discuss the latest developments in the country.The European Union also shot a warning to the Taliban rulers of Afghanistan saying that the interim government it announced lacks inclusivity and representation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pak-support-to-taliban-could-endanger-trade-ties-with-eu-report-101631122712316.html
08-09-2021||World||‘Ilegitimate’: Ashraf Ghani’s foreign ministry speaks out against Taliban regime||NEW DELHI: The foreign ministry under Afghanistan’s erstwhile government led by Ashraf Ghani on Wednesday described the Taliban’s interim cabinet as “illegitimate” and said all Afghan foreign missions around the world would continue their duties based on the constitution. The statement, issued in the name of the foreign ministry of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, contended the “so-called Taliban cabinet will result in undermining Afghanistan’s political, ethnic and social diversity, lead to increased tensions and also undermine the prospect of a comprehensive and lasting peace in the country”. In a separate statement, Ghani, who fled Afghanistan after Taliban forces marched into the capital on August 15, explained the reasons for his abrupt departure and sought to dismiss allegations that he had left the country with millions of dollars and other assets. Also Read: ‘Night before Ashraf Ghani fled..’: Blinken reveals his last call with GhaniGhani, who has faced widespread criticism from Afghans and segments of the international community for not standing up to the Taliban, said: “I left at the urging of the palace security who advised me that to remain risked setting off the same horrific street-to-street fighting the city had suffered during the Civil War of the 1990s.” He added, “Leaving Kabul was the most difficult decision of my life, but I believed it was the only way to keep the guns silent and save Kabul and her 6 million citizens. I have devoted 20 years of my life to helping the Afghan people work toward building a democratic, prosperous, and sovereign state – it was never my intent to abandon the people or that vision.” Describing accusations that he fled Afghanistan with a large sum of money as “categorically false”, Ghani said corruption was a “plague” that crippled Afghanistan for decades. “I have publicly declared all of my assets. My wife’s family inheritance has also been disclosed and remains listed in her home country of Lebanon. I welcome an official audit or financial investigation under UN auspices or any other appropriate independent body to prove the veracity of my statements here,” he said. The statement from the Afghan foreign ministry said the Taliban’s interim cabinet “goes against the will of the absolute majority of the people of Afghanistan, international agreements, relevant United Nations Security Council and United Nations Human Rights Council resolutions” and undermines national interests. The Taliban, it said, had “reaffirmed their blatant disregard and violation of the fundamental rights and important role of Afghan women and other segments of the society”. The Islamic Republic of Afghanistan’s tri-coloured is “flying at all Afghan diplomatic missions, and the constitution is main source of legitimacy for upholding national interests, territorial integrity, sovereignty, Islamic values and independence of Afghanistan, it added. Meanwhile, the National Resistance Front (NRF) of Afghanistan, which is led by leaders from Panjshir such as Ahmad Massoud, said in a statement issued on Tuesday that the Taliban’s caretaker cabinet was “illegal and a clear sign of the group’s enmity with the Afghan people”. It added, “We call on all Afghan citizens to continue their resistance against the occupation by the Taliban and its terrorist allies.” The NRD contended the “illegitimate regime in Kabul is a threat to stability and security of Afghanistan, the region and the world”. It called on the UN, European Union, Shanghai Cooperation Organisation, South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation, the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation and countries to “hold off recognition of and refrain from diplomatic ties with the Taliban’s regime”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ilegitimate-ashraf-ghani-s-foreign-ministry-speaks-out-against-taliban-regime-101631122842492.html
08-09-2021||World||No water, milk in London: Grocery shelves go empty, Covid is one of the reasons||The British economy has plunged into a major supply chain crisis, with a wide range of businesses suffering shortages for several months in the UK now. The worst hit by this are the grocery stores which are seeing empty shelves for things as basic as water and milk, multiple news agencies have reported. "Last week I ran out of Coca-Cola. I haven't had large bottles of Evian for three weeks," the news agency quoted Satyan Patel, owner of a convenience store, as saying."We had already decided to reduce our stock because of Covid... but now we're finding it hard to get some products as well because they're just not available," Patel said.The coronavirus pandemic severely disrupted the global supply chain, but Britain's exit from the European Union late last year has further exacerbated the problems. The UK withdrew from the European Union in January 2020 after 47 years of having been a member state of the EU and its predecessor, the European Communities (EC).Following the exit, shops in the UK are not getting products delivered to them, as the deal between the country and EU has made it harder to hire EU citizens. This has led to a drastic shortage of lorry drivers. Meanwhile, many people have not yet returned to the UK after going back to their home countries during the Covid-induced lockdown last year.Co-op, a cooperative supermarket group, said it was "impacted by some patchy distribution" to its deliveries but it was working with suppliers to re-stock quickly. The group said it was recruiting 3,000 temporary workers "to keep depots working to capacity and stores stocked as quickly as possible". At another major supermarket in southeast London, water bottles were sparse and milk was missing from shelves.According to recent estimates, the UK currently faces a shortage of about 100,000 lorry drivers, AFP has reported.(With AFP inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/no-water-milk-in-london-grocery-shelves-go-empty-covid-is-one-of-the-reasons-101631121268301.html
08-09-2021||World||Animals 'shape-shifting' as climate warms: Study||Some animals are "shape-shifting" and have developed bigger tails, beaks and ears to regulate their body temperatures as the planet warms, according to a new study.From Australian parrots to European rabbits, researchers found evidence that a host of warm-blooded animals have evolved bigger body parts, which could allow them to lose body heat more effectively.Climate change is heaping "a whole lot of pressure" on animals, said Sara Ryding of Deakin University in Australia, who led the study, in a press release."It's high time we recognised that animals also have to adapt to these changes, but this is occurring over a far shorter timescale than would have occurred through most of evolutionary time," she said.The study, published on Tuesday in the journal Trends in Ecology and Evolution, reviewed previous research "where climatic warming is a potential hidden explanatory variable for the occurrence of shape-shifting" and found trends particularly noticeable in birds.The Australian parrot, for example, had shown an average 4-10 percent increase in the size of its bill since 1871 and the authors said this positively correlated with the summer temperature each year.Other birds, like North American dark-eyed juncos, thrushes and Galapagos finches also saw bill size increases.Meanwhile, the wings of the great roundleaf bat grew, the European rabbit developed bigger ears, while the tails and legs of masked shrews were found to be larger."Shape-shifting does not mean that animals are coping with climate change and that all is 'fine'," said Ryding."It just means they are evolving to survive it -- but we're not sure what the other ecological consequences of these changes are, or indeed that all species are capable of changing and surviving."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/animals-shape-shifting-as-climate-warms-study-101631120838621.html
08-09-2021||World||Taliban ‘cabinet’ sends first message to world. What it says, what it doesn’t||New Delhi: The new Taliban setup in Kabul has said it desires healthy relations with all neighbours of Afghanistan based on mutual respect, even while assuring that Afghan soil will not be used against the security of any nation.A statement by the Taliban’s leadership office outlining the policies of the new so-called cabinet announced on Tuesday further said the new regime is “committed to all international laws and treaties, resolutions and commitments that are not in conflict with Islamic law” and Afghanistan’s national values.The statement was signed by the Taliban’s reclusive chief Haibatullah Akhundzada, who has been named the supreme leader with the final control over religious, political and security affairs.“We want strong and healthy relations with our neighbours and all other countries based on mutual respect and interaction. Our relations with those countries will be based on the highest interests and benefits of Afghanistan,” the statement said.Also Read: As it forms the Afghan government, the Taliban relies on old guard, Pashtuns“Our message to our neighbours, the region and the world is that Afghanistan’s soil will not be used against the security of any other country. We assure all that there is no concern from Afghanistan and we expect from them the same,” it added.The statement further assured foreign diplomats, embassies, consulates, humanitarian organisations and investors in Afghanistan that they “will not face any problem”, and that the Taliban was “doing its best for their complete security and safety”.“Their presence is [the] need of our country, so they should carry out their work with a peace of mind,” the statement said.The Taliban setup said it is “committed to all international laws and treaties, resolutions and commitments that are not in conflict with Islamic law and the country’s national values”. It also called on all countries to “value building strong and cordial political, diplomatic and good relations with us and to also cooperate with us”.“We do not want enmity with anyone. Afghanistan is the common home of all. We will respect all their rights and legitimate aspirations and use their potential to rebuild the country,” the statement said.Silent on terror, women rightsExperts, however, noted the statement was silent on an important condition in the peace deal signed by the Taliban and the US in February 2020 – the need for the group to sever its ties with al-Qaeda and other foreign terrorist groups. Many of the 33 members of the interim setup, including Akhund, Abdul Ghani Baradar and Sirajuddin Haqqani, are subject to UN sanctions for their links to terrorism.The experts also noted that the statement was largely silent on protecting the rights of women and children and preserving the gains of the past two decades –key demands of the international community.The statement only said the Taliban “will take serious and effective steps towards protecting human rights, the rights of minorities as well as the rights of the underprivileged groups within the framework of the demands of the sacred religion of Islam”.Describing the media as an “important element of the country”, the statement said the Taliban will “work for the freedom, functioning and improvement of the media quality”. It added, “We consider it our duty to take into account the sacred precepts of Islam, the national interests of the country and impartiality in our broadcasts.”The caretaker cabinet will work to uphold Islamic rules and Sharia law while securing Afghanistan’s borders and ensuring lasting peace and development. The statement described education as “one of the most important requirements of the country”, and said the setup will “provide a healthy and safe environment for religious and modem sciences to all countrymen within the framework of Sharia”.In the economic field, the Taliban said it will manage domestic revenues transparently, provide special opportunities to international investment and different sectors of trade, and fight unemployment effectively.The statement said the Taliban values all talented and professional people, such as scholars, doctors, scientists and engineers, and called on people not to leave the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-cabinet-in-afghanistan-sends-first-message-to-world-what-it-says-what-it-doesnt-101631120742270.html
08-09-2021||World||Covax cuts supply forecast for 2021, says enough doses available to protect 20% population in low-income economies||Covax, the global Covid-19 vaccine sharing programme, on Wednesday reduced its vaccine supply forecast for the year 2021 to 1.425 billion doses, much lesser from the 1.9 billion doses it expected to have by the end of this year.“According to its latest Supply Forecast, COVAX expects to have access to 1.425 billion doses of vaccine in 2021, in the most likely scenario and in the absence of urgent action by producers and high-coverage countries to prioritize COVAX. Of these doses, approximately 1.2 billion will be available for the lower income economies participating in the COVAX Advance Market Commitment (AMC),” Gavi, the vaccine alliance, said in a statement on Wednesday.Also read | Study: Antibodies less effective against Delta variant of coronavirusThe body also said that the 1.4 billion doses would be enough to protect 20% of the population, or 40% of all adults, in 92 AMC countries except India. Gavi describes AMC as “the innovative financing instrument that will support the participation of 92 low- and middle-income economies in the COVAX Facility – enabling access to donor-funded doses of safe and effective COVID-19 vaccines.”Further, it also pushed the key milestone of two billion doses released for delivery to the first quarter of 2022. It was earlier expected to achieve this milestone by the end of the current year.So far, $10 billion have been raised by the Covax programme and has legal binding commitments for upto 4.5 billion doses of the vaccine. Also, 240 million doses have been delivered via the programme to 139 countries in six months, a statement from Gavi said. However, it also noted that only 20% of the people in low- and middle-income countries have been immunised against Covid-19 in comparison with the 80% population in countries with higher incomes.“Today, COVAX’s ability to protect the most vulnerable people in the world continues to be hampered by export bans, the prioritisation of bilateral deals by manufacturers and countries, ongoing challenges in scaling up production by some key producers, and delays in filing for regulatory approval,” it said, listing the factors affecting the delivery of vaccines across the world.On Wednesday, director-general of the World Health Organization Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus also expressed his concerns about equal distribution of vaccines globally. Earlier the WHO chief called on countries providing booster doses to halt their programme at least until the end of September, now renewing that call until the year end to enable every country to vaccinate at least 40% of its population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covax-cuts-supply-forecast-for-2021-says-enough-doses-available-to-protect-20-population-in-low-income-economies-101631117114068.html
08-09-2021||World||China announces $31mn aid for Taliban-ruled Afghanistan||China announced on Wednesday that it would donate 200 million yuan (US$31 million) worth of aid, including grains, winter supplies and coronavirus vaccines to Afghanistan, a day after the Taliban announced the formation of an interim government in Kabul.State councillor and foreign minister Wang Yi announced the donation in a meeting held by video link with counterparts and senior diplomats from Pakistan, Iran, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan.“China has decided to urgently provide 200 million yuan ($30.96 million) worth of grains, winter supplies, vaccines, and medicines to Afghanistan according to the needs of the Afghan people,” according to the official news agency, Xinhua.Wang Yi said China has decided to donate 3 million vaccine doses to the Afghan people in the first batch. China is also ready to provide more anti-epidemic and emergency materials to Afghanistan under the China-South Asian Countries Emergency Supplies Reserve, the Xinhua reported.Wang Yi said the “interim” nature of the Taliban government shows that the future of Afghanistan is still faced with uncertainties.He said as neighbours, China and the other five countries have witnessed the consequences of the decades of war on the Afghan people, and have also directly endured the negative influence of the spillover. “No country is more unwilling than we are to see Afghanistan return to war or disaster, and no country is more eager than we are to see it return to peace and development,” Wang Yi said.Noting the situation in Afghanistan is moving from chaos to governance, Wang Yi called on the neighbours to seize the key opportunity, boost communication and coordination, focus on common concerns, and exert more positive influence on the development of the situation while respecting Afghanistan’s sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity, Xinhua reported.Wang Yi said, as initiators of the problems, the US and its allies should learn the lesson and assume their due responsibility. “They have more of a duty to supply economic, livelihood and humanitarian assistance to the Afghan people than any other country,” he said, adding that they are obliged to help Afghanistan maintain stability and move towards positive development while respecting its sovereignty and independence.The announcement came soon after Xinhua, ran a story headlined, “China welcomes Taliban’s announcement of caretaker government”, quoting foreign ministry spokesperson, Wang Wenbin.While not directly using the term “welcome”, spokesperson Wang Wenbin had said China attaches importance to the Taliban’s announcement of the formation of a caretaker government in Afghanistan together with some important personnel arrangements. “This has ended the more than three weeks of anarchy in Afghanistan and is a necessary step towards Afghanistan’s restoration of order and post-war reconstruction,” Wang Wenbin said on Wednesday.Speaking at the online meeting, foreign minister Wang Yi said the US and its allies have more of a duty to supply economic and humanitarian aid to Afghanistan than any other country.They should help Afghanistan’s positive development while respecting its sovereignty and independence, he said.Wang Yi called on the Taliban to cut ties with all extreme terrorist forces and take measures to crack down on them.“All parties should strengthen intelligence sharing and border control cooperation to catch and eliminate terrorist groups that have sneaked in from Afghanistan,” in order to ensure regional security and stability, Wang Yi was quoted as saying.Wang Yi said that Afghanistan today stands at a crossroads in history and as a neighbour, no country is more reluctant than China to see Afghanistan return to war and disaster. “No country expects peace and development in Afghanistan more than we do,” Wang Yi said.The Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin was quoted by China’s national broadcaster, CCTV’s English channel, CGTN as saying that the situation in Afghanistan is moving from chaos to governance.Wang Wenbin called on the neighbours to seize the key opportunity, boost communication and coordination, focus on common concerns, and exert more positive influence on the development of the situation while respecting Afghanistan’s sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-announces-31mn-aid-for-taliban-ruled-afghanistan-101631116062290.html
08-09-2021||World||Where are Afghanistan's soldiers now? Reports say many joined Taliban||Analysing recent images of the Taliban fighters, the UK army has deciphered that some of the techniques that they are using are advanced, mostly used in the UK or the US. This analysis has made them believe that Afghan soldiers, previously trained by the US and the UK are now fighting for the Taliban, at least some of them, reports said, quoting The Times.'An untrained force would normally hold the weapon randomly, but if your hand is behind the pistol grip and your finger is over the trigger guard, then you're not going to have a negligent discharge and no one else is going to fire it either," a UK defence official said to The Times. However, many think that this is wide speculation as the Taliban are also fighters and they must have taught their soldiers how to handle the weapons. The UK ministry of defence said they do not have any evidence to claim that Afghan soldiers have actually joined the Taliban.Not only PM; at least 14 members of Taliban govt are blacklisted by UN: ReportBut even if this is the case, it won't be surprising, analysts told The Times as many of them might have previous ties to the Taliban when the Taliban were in power between 1996 and 2001. Plus, there are concerns of safety for family members which might drive them to join the Taliban.Barbara Kelemen, an intelligence analyst, said they had assessed 'reasonable probability' some Afghan soldiers had defected and switched to the Taliban. "Among reasons that would prompt some soldiers to join the Taliban are their previous ties to the group, economic incentives and even personal or familial safety if they perceived defeat for government forces was likely," she said.Many soldiers are believed to have left the country fearing persecution by the Taliban though they announced amnesty. Many went to Panjshir to join the Resistance Front. Announcing amnesty for all those who had fought against the Taliban, the group had welcomed soldiers, pilots, soon after it captured Kabul. After the withdrawal of foreign troops came to a close and the countries concluded their evacuation process, Taliban fighters were seen taking control of the entire security of the country. The interim government has also been announced by the Taliban on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/where-are-afghanistan-s-soldiers-now-reports-say-many-joined-taliban-101631113259724.html
08-09-2021||World||‘Old wine in new bottle': Experts remain wary as Taliban unveils new caretaking government in Afghanistan||The observers of international affairs remained sceptical as the Taliban in Afghanistan unveiled its "caretaker" government, days after taking over the country in a military offensive.On Wednesday, former Indian diplomat Meera Shankar dubbed the new cabinet, to be led by Mullah Mohammad Hassan, the little-known head of the Taliban’s leadership council, an "old wine in a new bottle" due to its leadership comprising exclusively from loyalist ranks, according to a report by PTI."It does not appear promising and indeed there is cause for concern because it seems to be old wine in a new bottle because many of the players who have been appointed are the same (that were there in the previous Taliban regime)," the news agency PTI quoted Shankar as saying. She has served as India's Ambassador to the United States between 2009 and 2011.
08-09-2021||World||Russian minister dies trying to save filmmaker during Arctic exercise||A Russian government minister, who once served in President Vladimir Putin's security detail, died during exercises in the Arctic on Wednesday while trying to save the life of a documentary film director, his ministry said.Yevgeny Zinichev, 55, who headed the high-profile emergencies ministry since 2018, was in the remote city of Norilsk to oversee large-scale drills in the region.The ministry said in a statement he died while trying to save Alexander Melnik who had travelled to Norilsk to make a documentary about the Arctic and the Northern Sea Route.It said Melnik had slipped on a wet rock and fallen."Yevgeny tried to grab Alexander and jumped after him, but unfortunately, they both died after falling from a high cliff into a mountainous river," it said.Margarita Simonyan, editor-in-chief of Russia's RT television channel, commented separately on Twitter."There were a fair number of witnesses - no one even had time to think about what had happened when Zinichev threw himself into the water for the fallen person and crashed into a protruding rock," she said.The ministry had said in a statement earlier on Wednesday that Zinichev visited the construction site of a new fire station in Norilsk, as well as a search and rescue team in the region.A biography carried by state-run media said Zinichev was born in St Petersburg and served in the state security services from 1987 to 2015 and was also involved in security for Putin.He served as a bodyguard and personal aide to Putin, according to the RBC news site. Multiple photographs of Putin at public events dating over several years show Zinichev standing at Putin's shoulder.Zinichev later became deputy head of the Federal Security Service and served briefly as acting regional governor of Kaliningrad. The Kremlin said Putin had offered his condolences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russian-minister-dies-trying-to-save-filmmaker-during-arctic-exercise-101631108814695.html
08-09-2021||World||‘Completely false': Afghan ex-prez Ashraf Ghani junks corruption allegations||Former Afghanistan President Ashraf Ghani issued a statement on Wednesday to refute the allegations of corruption and swindling of money levelled against him.Taking to Twitter from his official handle @ashrafghani, the former President of the war-torn nation — now ruled by Islamist militant group Taliban — posted a long statement, calling the allegations “baseless." “These charges are completely and categorically false. Corruption is a plague that has crippled our country for decades and fighting corruption has been a central focus of my efforts as president. I inherited a monster that could not easily or quickly be defeated,” Ashraf Ghani said in the statement.Ghani left the presidential palace in Afghanistan's capital sometime around August 15, when the Taliban fighters were at the gates of Kabul, waiting to lay siege on the city. His whereabouts were unknown till August 18, when the United Arab Emirates released an official statement to announce that it was hosting Ghani and his family on “humanitarian grounds.”ALSO READ | How Afghanistan's president went from hero to villain-in-hidingMedia reports claimed Ghani had left Kabul "with four cars and a helicopter full of cash" and was spotted "everywhere from Tajikistan to Oman to Abu Dhabi."Reacting to the allegations, Ghani said he is open to an official audit or financial investigation under “UN auspices or any other appropriate independent body" to prove the veracity of his statements.“My close aides are ready to submit their finances to public audit, and I would encourage and urge other former senior officials and political figures to do the same," Ghani said.Immediately after Ghani left the country, the Afghan embassy in Tajikistan requested the Interpol to detain the former president Ashraf Ghani for allegedly stealing public wealth. After leaving, Ghani posted on Facebook that he exited the country to avoid bloodshed. However, his escape irked the people of Afghanistan, including his cabinet colleagues, many of whom called it "treason".He said at that time that he was “expelled from Afghanistan” in such a way that he didn't even get the chance to take his “slippers off” his feet and pull on his boots.Ghani said in the latest statement that leaving Kabul was the most difficult decision of his life. “…but I believed it was the only way to keep the guns silent and save Kabul and her 6 million citizens,” Ghani wrote.ALSO READ | Why Ashraf Ghani, Afghanistan's best academic, failed“I have devoted 20 years of my life to helping the Afghan people work towards building a democratic, prosperous, and sovereign state — it was never my intent to abandon the people or that vision,” he further said.A Fulbright Scholar with a doctorate from Columbia University, the 72-year-old economist assumed the presidency of Afghanistan in September 2014, after taking over from Hamid Karzai, who led Afghanistan after the US-led invasion in 2001.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ashraf-ghani-afghanistan-president-taliban-corruption-allegation-kabul-101631107628412.html
08-09-2021||World||Not only PM; at least 14 members of Taliban govt are blacklisted by UN: Report||As the international community is raising concerns over the track record of the members inducted into Afghanistan's new 33-member cabinet headed by Mullah Mohammad Hasan Akhund, it has been found out that at least 14 members of this cabinet are blacklisted, a BBC report said.Prime Minister Mullah Mohammad Hasan Akhund and his deputies, raising concern of the international community over the composition of the new Cabinet in Afghanistan. Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, Molvi Abdul Salam Hanafi are two of his deputies are on the UN Security Council's terrorism blacklist, reports said. Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar was arrested by Pakistani ISI in 2010 and was supposed to head the Taliban interim government before the Taliban made their final announcement on Tuesday. Sirajuddin Haqqani is a specially designated global terrorist, who carries a reward of USD 10 million US bounty on his head. He is the acting interior minister while his uncle - Khalil Haqqani – has been named as acting minister for refugees. Sirajuddin, the son of the famous anti-Soviet warlord Jalaluddin Haqqani and chief of the notorious Haqqani Network, is wanted by the FBI for questioning in connection with the January 2008 attack on a hotel in Kabul that killed six people, including an American citizen. He is believed to have coordinated and participated in cross-border attacks against the US and coalition forces in Afghanistan, reports said.Acting defence minister Mullah Yaqoob, acting foreign minister Mullah Ameer Khan Muttaqi and his deputy Sher Mohammad Abbas Stanikzai are all listed under the UNSC 1988 Sanctions Committee, also known as the Taliban Sanctions Committee.What is Taliban Five? The Taliban Five were long-term Afghan detainees at Guantanamo Bay. All these people held high ranks in the former Taliban government. The "Taliban Five" leaders were released from Guantanamo Bay prison by the Obama administration in 2014 in exchange for US Army deserter Bowe Bergdahl.They include Mullah Mohammad Fazil (deputy defence minister), Khairullah Khairkhwa (information and culture minister), Mullah Noorullah Noori (Borders and Tribal Affairs minister) and Mullah Abdul Haq Wasiq (Director of Intelligence). The fifth member of the group, Mohammad Nabi Omari, is also in administration as he has been appointed as governor of eastern Khost Province recently.Qari Din Hanif, acting minister of economy, and Maulvi Noor Jalal, deputy interior minister, are other members of the Cabinet who are on the UN blacklist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/not-only-pm-at-least-14-members-of-taliban-govt-are-blacklisted-by-un-report-101631104160513.html
08-09-2021||World||‘Provisional govt falls short of promises’: EU warns Taliban||The European Union voiced disapproval on Wednesday of the Taliban's provisional government in Afghanistan after the Islamist militants named several leaders, saying they had not kept a promise to include women and other religious groups."It does not look like the inclusive and representative formation in terms of the rich ethnic and religious diversity of Afghanistan we hoped to see and that the Taliban were promising over the past weeks," said Peter Stano, spokesperson for the EU's foreign policy service."Such inclusivity and representation is expected in the composition of a future transitional government, and as result of negotiations," he said in a statement.A senior EU executive official also expressed wariness about the Taliban's provisional government, which includes people under United Nations sanctions and wanted by the United States, even as the bloc tries to show openness to the militants."The European Union is ready to continue to offer humanitarian assistance," European Commission Vice-President Maros Sefcovic said, adding however that longer-term donor money depended on the Taliban upholding basic freedoms."We are looking very, very carefully at how the new government is behaving before engaging," he told a news conference following a meeting of EU commissioners.Afghanistan faces the collapse of basic services and food and other aid is about to run out, the United Nations said on Tuesday, after the Taliban took control of the country on Aug. 15 and the United States and Western powers withdrew. (Reporting by Jan Strupczewski and Robin Emmott, Editing by John Chalmers and Angus MacSwan)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/provisional-govt-falls-short-of-promises-eu-warns-taliban-101631108154379.html
08-09-2021||World||Pak wants Taliban-led Afghanistan to be invited to future regional gatherings||Pakistan foreign minister Shah Mohammed Qureshi on Wednesday proposed the idea of inviting Taliban leaders in future regional meetings during a virtual gathering of foreign ministers of nations which are neighbours of Afghanistan, news agency Reuters reported.Pakistan foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi chaired the meeting of foreign ministers of China, Iran, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan all of whom are neighbouring countries of Afghanistan.“I also suggest that we may give consideration to the idea of inviting Afghanistan in future. Participation of Afghanistan will augment this forum's effectiveness in pursuing our shared objectives for lasting peace and stability in Afghanistan,” Qureshi was quoted as saying by news agency Reuters.Qureshi also told his counterparts present in the meeting that it is important to take steps to prevent an economic meltdown in Afghanistan. The meeting on developments in Afghanistan was held at Pakistan’s invitation. It built on discussions held during a meeting on September 5 when discussions were held at the special representatives and envoys level.The meeting comes a day after the Taliban announced an interim government for Afghanistan. The attendees of the meeting may also discuss the issue of recognising the interim government.Last week, Pakistan spy agency chief Lieutenant General Faiz Hameed visited Taliban leader Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar. On Wednesday, the Chinese foreign ministry said it will continue to communicate with the Taliban.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-wants-taliban-led-afghanistan-to-be-invited-to-future-regional-gatherin-101631106486973.html
08-09-2021||World||Where are Massoud, Amrullah Saleh? NRF says it will declare parallel govt in Afghanistan||A day after the Taliban announced their 33-member cabinet, the anti-Taliban force in Afghanistan said on Wednesday that they will announce a parallel rule against the illegitimate government of the Taliban, Afghanistan's Khaama Press reported. “The resistance front acknowledged that they will establish a transitional democratic and legitimate government which is forged based on the votes of people and is acceptable to the international community," the Resistance Front said in a statement, asking international bodies like the Un, UNHRC, OIC etc to not cooperate with the Taliban."The narrative of a modern Taliban is over... there is no Taliban in favour of an inclusive government. This is going to become a pariah government, an illegitimate government... just look at the number of terrorists in this cabinet. And we expect they are going to reform?" Resistance Front's spokesperson Ali Maisam Nazary said, even as they are losing control of the Panjshir valley. Reports have confirmed that Fahim Dashty, one spokesperson of the Resistance has been killed on Sunday triggering speculations that Panjshir leaders Massoud and Amrullah Saleh have left the country. However, Nazary said to AFP that both of them are in the country and are safe. "The Taliban might control more geography but they lack the legitimacy that the National Resistance Front has. There's a nationwide resistance that is forming," Nazary said.The Taliban now face the critical issue of acknowledgement from other countries. The United States issued a state department expressing concern over the non-inclusive nature of the Cabinet and also the past record of most of the Cabinet members. Most countries are buying time to deliberate the issue. The Taliban are facing a massive uproar from inside the country for leaving out many groups in the cabinet. Taliban spokesperson has said that this is just an interim set-up and more representation will be accommodated in the cabinet, though he has not spoken anything about women representation.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/where-are-massoud-amrullah-saleh-nrf-says-it-will-declare-parallel-govt-101631103530131.html
08-09-2021||World||German artists call for support of Afghan colleagues||In an open letter, prominent figures from the culture sector asked the government to pledge action. Germany's Commissioner for Culture reacted.Over 80 prominent figures from the culture sector in Germany signed an open letter to Germany's Federal Commissioner for Culture and the Media, Monika Grütters, calling on her to personally support colleagues in Afghanistan — with more than just words."Thousands of Afghan activists, journalists and cultural workers, among them filmmakers, photographers, authors, artists and theater workers have contributed to building Afghan civil society over the past 20 years," the signatories write. "We can't let them down!"In some cases, Afghans have been trained and supported by Western institutions, the letter reads. "Now, after the withdrawal of Western troops and the takeover of the Taliban, the lives of these women and men are in acute danger and are threatened by Islamist repression and terror," reads the letter, which appeared as an advertisement in Tuesday's edition of German newspaper Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung (FAZ). "Dear Ms Grütters! Make it your business to issue a German protection pledge for this group of people, as well."Support from big namesThe open letter was signed by a number of prominent cultural workers in Germany, including conductor Daniel Barenboim, Berlinale film festival directors Carlo Chatrian and Mariette Rissenbeek, filmmakers Volker Schlöndorff and Wim Wenders, and photographer Wolfgang Tillmans, among others.On Tuesday, the Taliban announced a caretaker government consisting entirely of Taliban members. It also reportedly disbanded the Ministry for Women's Affairs, days after violently clamping down on women-led protests against curbs to their freedom under Taliban rule.Minister of State for Culture Grütters reacted to the letter and the latest developments, stating that the situation in Afghanistan "continues to be dramatic, and the plight of the people is great," as reported by German news agency dpa. She added that the German government is attempting to rescue people by land, in evacuation measures led by the Federal Foreign Office, and the Ministry of Culture is in close contact with its Foreign Office colleagues.Expanding assistanceThe Federal Government is determined to continue evacuating people in need of protection, Grütters said. "After their arrival in Germany, I will personally do my utmost to provide adequate support for the people who have fled," she announced. "To this end, we are making additional financial resources available in order to even more strongly expand assistance offers for refugees in the cultural and media sector, such as Writers in Exile here."Writers in Exile is a program funded by the German government that provides grants and temporary housing to writers who face persecution in their home countries.The letter is hardly the first public call to assist Afghans working in the cultural sphere. At the Venice Film Festival this week, Afghan directors asked the film community for support.Filmmaker Sahraa Karimi, the first female president of the Afghan Film Organization, called on international film organizations, including the European Film Academy, to pressure national governments to create humanitarian corridors to help get artists and others who want to leave out of the country, as well as a guarantee that they will be granted the status of political refugees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/german-artists-call-for-support-of-afghan-colleagues-101631100391738.html
08-09-2021||World||BRICS Countries adopt counter-terrorism action plan ahead of summit||The ministry of external affairs on Wednesday said that the foreign ministers of the BRICS nations adopted an agreement on ‘strengthening and reforming the multilateral system’ while the national security advisors adopted a BRICS counter-terrorism action plan ahead of the summit which will begin on September 9, the Union ministry of external affairs said in a tweet.Earlier on Tuesday, the Sherpas of BRICS (Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa) reviewed preparations ahead of the annual summit of the five-nation summit. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will chair the annual summit this year and it is expected that the focus will be on issues related to Afghanistan. Chinese president Xi Jinping, Russian president Vladimir Putin, Brazilian president Jair Bolsonaro and South African president Cyril Ramaphosa will attend the meet. It is the second time PM Modi is chairing the BRICS summit, he chaired the BRICS summit in Goa in 2016.Tuesday also saw the meeting of India’s national security advisor Ajit Doval and Russia’s secretary of security council Nikolai Patrushev ahead of the BRICS meet. Both of them discussed bilateral cooperation between the two countries in a bid to curb terrorism, drug trade and illegal migration. They also discussed the need of building a state structure in Afghanistan by the people of Afghanistan themselves and the need to check any escalation of violence in the war-torn country. The BRICS summit is likely to see Afghanistan feature prominently as India, Russia and China are major stakeholders in the region.This is the 13th summit held between the BRICS nations. These five nations together represent 41% of the global population, 24% of the global GDP and 16% of the global trade. This is also the 15th anniversary of the BRICS and the theme of the summit is “'BRICS@15: Intra-BRICS cooperation for continuity, consolidation and consensus”.(with inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brics-countries-adopt-counter-terrorism-action-plan-ahead-of-summit-101631099317921.html
08-09-2021||World||‘End of anarchy’: Why is China warming up to the Taliban? What experts say||China, the Taliban's most important partner, has said it sees the setting up of the new government in Afghanistan by the Taliban as an end to the anarchy that has been going on in the country for the past two weeks. China also said it is ready to keep the communication channel with the Taliban open. This warming up comes though China is wary of the Taliban providing support to Uyghur separatists.Taliban, on the other hand, said that they are very appreciative of China's aid and projects. The Taliban consider China as the most important partner, a Taliban spokesperson said.Experts have started reading between the lines and breaking down the driving factors between the Taliban and China being warm to each other from day one.'China's interest in Beld and Road'China does not want any reforms in Afghanistan. Neither do issues like human rights and women's rights are ever China's priority, Chinese dissident Jianli Yang wrote in an opinion piece in the Washington Times. "China's own interests must be the starting point for Beijing's review of the ever-changing situation in Afghanistan. China has no interest in reforming Afghanistan, nor does it have the strength to do so," he wrote.China wants to deploy military Bagram airbaseChina is looking to expand its influence in the region by deploying military personnel at Bagram airfield, Paul D Shinkman, writing in US News said. The Chinese military is currently conducting a feasibility study about the effect of sending workers, soldiers and other staff related to its foreign economic investment program known as the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) in the coming years to Bagram, according to a source briefed on the study by Chinese military officials, who spoke to US News on the condition of anonymity, said Shinkman.China can also do this through Pakistan. "But if feasible, I am sure they would like to cut out the middleman," Yun Sun, director of the China Program at the Stimson Center think tank, said.What China did in Cambodia and MyanmarThe US News analysis draws a parallel to what China did in other countries as well. "Earlier also China's military, the People's Liberation Army (PLA) reportedly secured exclusive rights to roughly a third of the Ream Naval Base in Cambodia in recent years through an expansion there it's backed," the report said. Similarly in Myanmar, China radar and other military equipment to the local junta on the Coco Islands, where China reportedly held leasing rights for the last three decades."It has employed similar tactics in neighbouring Pakistan, with which it has bolstered new security and intelligence-sharing arrangement in recent years," the analysis said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/why-is-china-warming-up-to-the-taliban-what-experts-say-101631098719280.html
08-09-2021||World||China says it will maintain communication with Taliban-led Afghanistan govt||China on Wednesday said the formation of a provisional Taliban government in Afghanistan was a “necessary step” in pursuing a post-war reconstruction, adding that it is ready to maintain communication with the new leaders.It is a “necessary step for Afghanistan to restore domestic order and pursue post-war reconstruction”, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson, Wang Wenbin told state English broadcaster, CGTN, in an interview.Wang Wenbin made the same comment when asked to respond to a query on whether Beijing will recognise the new government in Kabul at the regular ministry briefing on Wednesday.“We hope the new Afghanistan authorities will listen broadly to people of all races and factions, so as to meet the aspirations of its own peoples and the expectations of the international community,” Wang Wenbin said.China attaches importance to the Taliban’s announcement of formation of a caretaker government in Afghanistan and some important personnel arrangements, Wang Wenbin added. China is ready to maintain communication with the leaders of the new government, he added.Asked to comment on the Afghanistan situation during the interview with CGTN, Wang Wenbin reiterated that China, as a responsible major power and a neighbouring country of Afghanistan, has a clear and consistent stance on the issue. “We respect the sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of Afghanistan and uphold the principle of non-interference in the country’s internal affairs.”On questions that the new government officials are all from the Taliban, Wang Wenbin called on the Taliban to consult with all ethnicities and sides to meet the expectations of the Afghan people and the international community. “We have also noted the Afghan Taliban’s promise of ensuring all people benefit from the new government.”After the Taliban took power in August, China had called for an “open and inclusive” government to be established.Elaborating on what China wants from a new Afghanistan under the Taliban, Wang Wenbin said Beijing supports the Afghan people to choose a national development path based on the country’s situation.China, he said, hopes the Taliban-led Afghanistan will build an inclusive political structure, stay committed to a moderate domestic and foreign policy, resolutely crack down on all forms of terrorist forces and get along with other countries, especially its neighbours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-says-it-will-maintain-communication-with-taliban-led-afghanistan-govt-101631098702795.html
08-09-2021||World||Taliban arrests five journalists working with Kabul daily: Report||As many as five journalists from Etilaatroz, a daily newspaper in Kabul, have been arrested by the Taliban, said ToloNews, Afghanistan's biggest independent TV network. It further said the information was shared by Zaki Daryabi, the editor-in-chief of the newspaper, on Wednesday.Five journalists from Etilaatroz, a daily newspaper in Kabul, have been arrested by Taliban, Zaki Daryabi, the editor in chief of the newspaper, said today.#TOLOnews pic.twitter.com/TdyxCPyWhOFears of repression have been rising among media houses and personnel ever since the Islamic militant group took over the war-torn country in mid-August after the fall of the Western-backed elected government, led by Ashraf Ghani.The Taliban leadership has asked Afghan media to operate as usual, besides their apparent softening stance on women. It has said media will be allowed to criticise anyone, but they should not indulge in character assassination, the spokesperson said.One official even sat down for an interview with a woman host on Tolo News, keen to convince people that the Taliban will be softer this time around. But many Afghans, including in the media, are not convinced.Also read | Wary of Taliban diktats, Afghan media test limits of press freedomThe group had killed and threatened journalists throughout its 20-year insurgency. During their 1996-2001 regime, TV and most entertainment were banned, and there was no media to speak of.The woman who had interviewed the Taliban official later told The Associated Press that she was nervous when she saw him enter the studio, but his behavior and how he answered questions helped put her at ease a bit.She, however, fled the country after the interview, unwilling to take any chances about the Taliban's promises of greater openness and living temporarily in a compound in Qatar for Afghan refugees.Also read | ‘Don’t be scared’: Afghan TV anchor relays Taliban message surrounded by armed fightersThe Taliban victory has plunged Afghanistan's independent media into crisis.About 100 privately owned outlets have suspended operations, according to watchdog Reporters Without Borders (RSF).(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-arrests-five-journalists-working-with-kabul-daily-101631092871502.html
08-09-2021||World||No women: US ‘concerned’ over Taliban govt led by UN-blacklisted Akhundzada||The United States is concerned over the track record of some of the cabinet members who will now govern Afghanistan under the new Taliban rule. A state department spokesperson explained that the concerns are mainly because of two reasons. One, the past and the affiliations of some of the individuals and second, the overall nature of the cabinet as it is not inclusive at all. The cabinet also includes no women members."We note the announced list of names consists exclusively of individuals who are members of the Taliban or their close associates and no women. We also are concerned by the affiliations and track records of some of the individuals," the statement issued by the US state department said.Also Read | Inside look at Taliban all-male cabinet: Minister wanted by FBI, with a bounty on his headReiterating that the US will judge the Taliban by their action and not words, the US said that the world is watching closely. "We also reiterate our clear expectation that the Taliban ensure that Afghan soil is not used to threaten any other countries," the statement said.Track record of Akhundzada and Sirajuddin HaqqaniAkhundzada, who will head the interim government in Afghanistan, is on the blacklist. Afghanistan's interior minister Sirajuddin Haqqani is wanted by the FBI. The cabinet was announced by the Taliban on Tuesday after the announcement was delayed on previous occasions owing to some ongoing negotiation between the Taliban and the Haqqani network, believed to be mediated by the Pakistan ISI chief.New government begins workMany protests are going on in several cities of the country as the cabinet is not an inclusive one. Hundreds protested on Tuesday, both in the capital and in the city of Herat, where two people at the demonstration site were shot dead. "We will try to take people from other parts of the country," spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid said, adding that it was an interim government. However, there was no promise to include women. Akhundzada has released a statement saying that the new government would "work hard towards upholding Islamic rules and sharia law".Even Qatar buys time to recognise Taliban government in Afghanistan"They have shown a great deal of pragmatism. Let's seize the opportunities there... and look at their public actions," said Qatari Assistant Foreign Minister Khater, who stopped short of announcing formal recognition of Afghanistan's new rulers.(With agency inputs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/no-women-us-concerned-over-taliban-govt-led-by-un-blacklisted-akhundzada-101631092583616.html
08-09-2021||World||Hasan Akhund, leader of new Afghanistan govt, is a surprise choice||The Taliban announced on Sept 7, 2021, that Mullah Hasan Akhund has been appointed interim prime minister of Afghanistan. The decision comes more than two weeks after the militant Islamist group seized control of much of the country, including the capital, Kabul. The Conversation asked Ali A Olomi, a historian of the Middle East and Islam at Penn State University, to explain who Mullah Akhund is, and what his appointment may portend for Afghanistan amid concern over human rights in the war-ravaged nation.Who is Mullah Hasan Akhund? Mullah Akhund is a fascinating but relatively enigmatic figure in the Taliban. He has been an influential figure in Afghanistan since the inception of the militant group in the 1990s.But unlike other Taliban leaders from that period, he was not involved in the Soviet-Afghan war of the 1980s. While Taliban founder Mullah Mohammad Omar and his deputies fought with the mujahedeen – a loose network of anti-Soviet Afghan fighters – Akhund did not.Instead, he is seen much more as a religious influence in the Taliban. He served on the Taliban’s shura councils, the traditional decision-making body made up of religious scholars and mullahs – an honorific given to those trained in Islamic theology. Akhund is probably best known as one of the architects of the destruction of the Buddhas of Bamiyan, the giant cliff statues destroyed by the Taliban in 2001.Initially, Omar had no intention of destroying the statues. But the Taliban founder was angered at seeing conservation money being made available for the UNESCO world heritage site while failing to secure humanitarian aid from the United Nations for Afghanistan. As such, Omar sought out the advice of his shura, and Akhund was part of the council that ordered the destruction of the sixth-century statues.Akhund held a political role in the Taliban government of the 1990s, serving as foreign minister; however, his importance lies more in the development of the group’s religious identity. He, like Mullah Omar, was schooled in a brand of strict Islamist ideology, known as Deobandism.After the Taliban was ousted from Afghanistan in 2001, Akhund remained an influential presence, operating mostly from exile in Pakistan. From there he would give spiritual and religious guidance to the Taliban throughout the 2000s and 2010s. In this role, he provided the ideological justification for the ongoing insurgency against the United States and the U.S.-backed Afghan government.Today, there are broadly two factions in the Taliban – a military wing that carries out the day-to-day campaigns, and a conservative religious elite grounded in Deobandism that acts as its political wing. Mullah Akhund aligns very much with the religious faction of the Taliban.What does his appointment tell us about the Taliban? There appears to be a power struggle behind Akhund’s appointment. Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, who served as deputy to Omar during the early years of the Taliban before assuming the position of de facto leader after Omar’s death, had been seen by many experts on Afghanistan as a potential head of state. But there is political tension between Baradar and the powerful Haqqani network – a family-based Islamist group that has become the Taliban’s de facto diplomatic arm in recent years and has been successful in gaining support for the group among other local groups.The Haqqanis are among the most militant factions of the Taliban. And recent conciliatory language from Baradar on issues such as women’s rights, working with the international community and amnesty for members of the former government runs counter to the ideology of the Haqqani network.Akhund seems to be a compromise candidate between supporters of Baradar and the Haqqani network. The delay in his appointment – the Taliban repeatedly put off making an announcement – could be an indicator of internal divisions in the Taliban. When the announcement came, it was accompanied by news that Baradar would be his deputy, while two members of the Haqqani network would also serve in the Afghan government.Whether this arrangement is permanent or temporary remains to be seen, but the compromise could be a testing of the waters of the Taliban – to see how effective Akhund is as a unifying figure for the group.What does Akhund’s appointment mean for Afghanistan? Akhund is a conservative, religious scholar whose beliefs include restrictions on women and the denial of civil rights for ethic and religious minorities.His edicts in the 1990s, adopted by the Taliban, included the banning of women’s education, enforcing gender segregation and the adoption of strict religious garb. This could all be an indicator of what is to come. Despite the conciliatory language of the Taliban of late, I believe it is likely that we might see a return to some of the rules in place when the Taliban previously held power, including a ban on women’s education.We have already seen on Sept 5 the Taliban order female university students to wear the abaya. The abaya is similar to a burka, but it differs in that the coverings are nearly always black. The abaya is not Afghan, but a style of dress more common in the Gulf states of Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates and Qatar.With this order, I see the Taliban signaling its intention to place Afghanistan within a wider Islamist movement. In the 1990s, the Taliban were very much an insular, nationalist group with the aim of bringing its brand of Islamist rule to Afghanistan. Now, Akhund seems to be looking to position the Taliban alongside international partners – an ambition that can also be seen in the Taliban’s recent diplomatic outreach with the governments of Qatar, the UAE and Pakistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/as-it-forms-the-afghan-government-the-taliban-relies-on-old-guard-pashtuns-101631090781955.html
08-09-2021||World||Taliban's new education minister says PhD, Master's degrees ‘not valuable’||The Taliban regime, which unveiled a caretaker government in Afghanistan on Tuesday, is doing exactly what the people of the country and the world feared. Shortly after being named as Afghanistan's education minister, Taliban leader Sheikh Molvi Noorullah Munir questioned the relevance of higher education.Also Read: Afghan woman stands face to face against Taliban armed manIn a video widely circulated on social media, the minister is heard saying, "No PhD degree, Master's degree is valuable today. You see that the mullahs and Taliban that are in the power, have no PhD, MA or even a high school degree, but are the greatest of all."This is the Minister of Higher Education of the Taliban -- says No Phd degree, master's degree is valuable today. You see that the Mullahs & Taliban that are in the power, have no Phd, MA or even a high school degree, but are the greatest of all. pic.twitter.com/gr3UqOCX1bMunir is one of the 33 members of the government announced by Taliban on Tuesday. While Mullah Mohammad Hassan has been named as the prime minister, "specially designated global terrorist" Sirajuddin Haqqani - the leader of the feared Haqqani network - has been named the interior minister.All the top positions in the cabinet were handed to key leaders from the movement and the Haqqani network - the most violent faction of the Taliban known for devastating attacks.Mullah Yaqoob, the son of the Taliban founder and late supreme leader Mullah Omar, was named the defence minister.Co-founder Abdul Ghani Baradar, who oversaw the signing of the US withdrawal agreement in 2020, was appointed deputy prime minister.None of the government appointees were women.Also Read: US lawmakers say there's nothing ‘more moderate’ about the new Taliban regimeHibatullah Akhundzada, the secretive supreme leader of the Taliban, released a statement saying that the new government would "work hard towards upholding Islamic rules and sharia law".However, analysts said the new lineup indicated little had in fact changed."The new Taliban, same as the old Taliban," tweeted Bill Roggio, managing editor of the US-based Long War Journal."It's not at all inclusive, and that's no surprise whatsoever," said Michael Kugelman, a South Asia expert at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars.The announcement of the cabinet came more than two weeks after the Taliban ousted the civilian government headed by Ashraf Ghani and seized power by force in Afghanistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/talibans-new-education-minister-says-phd-master-s-degree-not-valuable-101631085275474.html
08-09-2021||World||China lashes out after US warship sails past Mischief Reef in South China Sea||China on Wednesday deployed fighter jets and lashed out at the US, calling it the “biggest destroyer of peace” after a frontline American warship sailed past a reef close to the disputed Spratly Islands in the South China Sea (SCS), one of the world’s busiest maritime trade lanes.The US navy’s destroyer USS Benfold sailed past the Mischief Reef, located close to Spratly Islands, known as Nansha in China, on Wednesday, saying it was part of FONOP (Freedom of Navigation Operation).Beijing claims nearly the entire SCS including the Spratly Islands but several of its maritime neighbours including The Philippines, Vietnam, Malaysia, and Brunei have competing claims over the islands and reefs.In July, 2016, an international tribunal in The Hague rejected China’s “nine-dash line” claim in the South China Sea. The tribunal concluded that there was no legal basis for China to claim historic rights to resources within the sea areas falling within the “nine-dash line”.The ring-shaped Mischief Reef is located some 250km from The Philippines coast.It was reported in 2017 that China had built several military installations on the Spratly Islands including on the Mischief Reef to effectively bolster its claim.Warships from the US navy frequently sail near the disputed islands, triggering sharp criticism from China.“On September 8, USS Benfold (DDG 65) asserted navigational rights and freedoms in the Spratly Islands, consistent with international law. This FONOP upheld the rights, freedoms, and lawful uses of the sea. USS Benfold demonstrated that Mischief Reef, a low-tide elevation in its natural state, is not entitled to a territorial sea under international law,” Lt Mark Langford, deputy public affairs officer of US 7th Fleet said in a statement.“The US engaged in ‘normal operations’ within 12 nautical miles of Mischief Reef. Under international law as reflected in the Law of the Sea Convention, features like Mischief Reef that are submerged at high tide in their naturally formed state are not entitled to a territorial sea. The land reclamation efforts, installations, and structures built on Mischief Reef do not change this characterisation under international law,” it said.By engaging in normal operations within 12 nautical miles of Mischief Reef, the United States demonstrated that vessels may lawfully exercise high-seas freedoms in those areas, Lt Langford’s statement added.“These missions are rule-of-law based and demonstrate our commitment to upholding the rights, freedoms, and lawful uses of the sea and airspace guaranteed to all nations.”“Freedom of navigation operations in the South China Sea are a part of daily operations of US military forces throughout the region,” the statement said.China’s People’s Liberation Army’s (PLA) southern theatre command (STC) issued a strong statement against the US warship’s movements in the SCS.The command’s spokesperson, Tian Junli, said the operation was carried out without the approval of the Chinese government.The PLA airforce carried out follow-up surveillance and issued a warning to warship, he said. “The US’s serious violation of China’s sovereignty and security is another ironclad evidence of its aggressive navigation hegemony and militarisation of the South China Sea,” Tian Junli said.He added that facts have repeatedly proved that the US is an out-and-out “South China Sea security risk maker” and the “biggest destroyer” of peace and stability in the SCS.The theater command will “remain on high alert, and take all necessary measures to fulfill its duty of protecting national sovereignty and security, as well as peace and stability in the region,” Tian Junli said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-lashes-out-after-us-warship-sails-past-mischief-reef-in-south-china-sea-101631081781064.html
08-09-2021||World||Afghan woman stands face to face against Taliban armed man, image called ‘iconic’||The Taliban takeover of Afghanistan in a lightning-fast blitzkrieg and the subsequent protests by a citizenry opposed to a hardline regime are already being regarded by many political commentators as one of the defining moments of 21st-century geopolitics. As such, a photo that has emerged from one such protest in Kabul – portraying the candid spirit of defiance – has now awed the world, with several calling it an ‘iconic’ photograph that will go down in history.Also Read | Inside look at Taliban all-male cabinet: Minister wanted by FBI, with a bounty on his headThe photograph, clicked by the Reuters news agency, was shared by Afghan journalist Zahra Rahimi, a correspondent for Tolo News. Hailing the unidentified Afghan woman for “fearlessly” standing face-to-face against a Taliban armed man who pointed a gun to her chest, Rahimi shared the photograph from her official handle on Twitter on Tuesday.An Afghan woman fearlessly stands face to face with a Taliban armed man who pointed his gun to her chest. Photo: @Reuters pic.twitter.com/8VGTnMKsihSeveral netizens commenting below the photograph saluted the woman for her "bravery", but also expressed concern over the fact that any attempts at identifying the woman might lead to potential retribution from the Taliban.The Taliban announced the constitution of its new regime in the war-torn nation of Afghanistan on Tuesday, a cabinet from which women were conveniently left out, despite earlier promises from the group that will play a "prominent role" in the new Afghan society. There was no mention of a ministry for women either, and Taliban spokespersons only said that the matter is under further consideration.Also Read | India, Russia on the same page on Taliban-ruled KabulMeanwhile, as the Taliban transition from militant force to governing power, they face a growing number of protests against their rule, that have emerged across the country over the past week with many Afghans fearful of a repeat of the Taliban's previous brutal and oppressive reign from 1996 to 2001.Hundreds gathered at several rallies in Kabul on Tuesday, where Taliban guards fired shots to disperse the crowds.In Herat, hundreds marched, unfurling banners and waving the Afghan flag - a black, red, and green vertical tricolour with the national emblem overlaid in white - with some chanting "freedom". Later, two bodies were brought to the city's central hospital from the site of the protest, a doctor in Herat told AFP on condition of anonymity for fear of reprisals."They all have bullet wounds," he said.Demonstrations have also been held in smaller cities in recent days, where women have demanded to be part of a new government.The Taliban, on its part, has warned the public against taking to the streets, adding that journalists should not cover any demonstrations. The group - which executed people in stadiums and chopped the hands of thieves in the 1990s - has said it would not stand for any resistance against its rule. (With inputs from the AFP news agency)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghan-woman-stands-face-to-face-against-taliban-armed-man-image-called-iconic-101631076002179.html
08-09-2021||World||Joe Biden warns of ‘code red’ moment on climate change||US President Joe Biden on Tuesday warned of a “code red” moment on climate change referring to parts of the country affected by extreme weather in recent days; from New York, New Jersey and Louisiana that were devastated by Hurricane Ida to California which is dealing with raging wildfires.Joe Biden toured New Jersey and New York areas hit recently by Hurricane Ida. Last week, he surveyed affected areas of Louisiana, which bore the brunt of the hurricane and he is scheduled to visit California next week.“We got to listen to the scientists and the economists and the national security experts. They all tell us this is code red; the nation and the world are in peril,” Joe Biden said in Queens, New York, where 8 people had died because of flooding in their basement residences.“They’ve been warning us the extreme weather would get more extreme over the decade, and we’re living it in real time now,” Joe Biden added.As Joe Biden went to point out American communities with 100 million people have been struck by extreme weather conditions - that is one in every three Americans.“I mean, every part of the country - every part of the country is getting hit by extreme weather,” he said at a briefing in New Jersey. “And we’re now living in real time what the country is going to look like. And if we don’t do something - we can’t turn it back very much, but we can prevent it from getting worse.”Hurricane Ida, which struck the US a week ago, has killed at least 60 people in New York, New Jersey and Louisiana and left more than half a million people without electricity in Louisiana. And, over 2 million acres have burnt in California wildfires so far, with more fires in the forecast.“Folks, the evidence is clear: Climate change poses an existential threat to our lives, to our economy, and the threat is here. It’s not going to get any better,” Joe Biden said. “The question - can it get worse? We can stop it from getting worse.”The Biden administration has proposed several measures to combat warming in the $2.5 trillion rebuilding plan working it ways through US congress, as part of his “Build Back Better” agenda. His Build Back Better plan, with key investments into fighting climate change and cutting emissions will make “things more resilient”, he said.The US president spoke also of the upcoming UN conference on climate change being held in Glasgow, Scotland in October-November, which he is scheduled to attend as is Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The goal is to accelerate action towards achieving targets determined in the Paris Agreement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-warns-of-code-red-moment-on-climate-101631076020054.html
08-09-2021||World||Mighty earthquake hits Pacific town of Acapulco, Mexico City feels the tremors||A powerful earthquake struck near the Pacific resort city of Acapulco on Tuesday night, causing buildings to rock and sway in Mexico City nearly 200 miles away, but officials said there were no early reports of serious damage or injuries. The US Geological Survey said the quake had a preliminary magnitude of 7.0 and was centered 17 kilometers (about 10 miles) northeast of Acapulco.“We heard a loud noise from the building, noise from the windows, things fell inside the house, the power went out,” said Sergio Flores, an Acapulco resident reached by phone. “We heard leaking water, the water went out of the pool and you heard people screaming, very nervous people.”All he could do when it started shaking was hug his wife, Flores said. He saw people leaving hotels around the bay and some running into parking decks to remove their cars, fearing a collapse.“We were all worried about some change in the sea, but so far authorities have not said anything about a tsunami alert,” he said.The mayor of Acapulco, Adela Román, said in astatement to the television news outlet Milenio that “there is no really serious situation” so far and no reports of casualties.“There are nervous breakdowns, people are worried because there have been aftershocks,” she said, adding that there are "many gas leaks in many places” as well as some landslides and fallen walls.President Andrés Manuel López Obrador said via Twitter that authorities in the four states that most felt the earthquake told him there were no victims or serious damage beyond some collapsed walls and falling rocks.“Fortunately there is no serious damage,” he said. “Fortunately, so far we don’t have information about the loss of any lives.”Mexico’s National Civil Defense said it was conducting reviews in 10 states, but had not received reports of victims nor serious damage.In Mexico City, the ground shook for nearly a minute in some parts of the capital, but the quake was less evident in other parts. Some people evacuated their buildings briefly, but most quickly went back inside on a rainy night.Mexico City authorities said there were no early reports of significant damage in the city, though they said electricity was knocked out in some neighborhoods.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mighty-earthquake-hits-pacific-town-of-acapulco-mexico-city-feels-the-tremors-101631075504943.html
08-09-2021||World||Taliban’s new deputy intelligence chief ran suicide attack network||Taj Mir Jawad, the man named as the deputy intelligence chief in the new Taliban setup in Afghanistan, has been described by security and intelligence officials of several countries as the head of a network of suicide bombers responsible for deadly attacks on Kabul.
08-09-2021||World||US lawmakers say there's nothing ‘more moderate’ about the new Taliban regime||Top American lawmakers from the opposition Republican Party on Tuesday hit out at the Taliban over their announcement of an interim government in Afghanistan that includes a specially designated global terrorist."Don't be fooled. There is nothing more moderate about the revived Taliban government. This is a government of terrorists, by the terrorists, and for the terrorists," said the Republican Study Committee, which is the largest conservative caucus in the House of Representatives and chaired by Congressman Jim Banks.Also watch | Taliban announce interim govt: Terrorists Mullah Hasan Akhund PM, Sirajuddin Haqqani home minister
08-09-2021||World||Joe Biden was asked about the China-Taliban finance link. Here's what he said||Joe Biden, president of the United States of America, said on Tuesday (local time) that China has a “real problem” with the Taliban, and thus he has reason to believe that Beijing will work out “some arrangement” with the new rulers in Afghanistan. When asked about the Taliban getting funding from China, Biden responded by saying that China, not unlike Pakistan, Russia, and Iran, is just trying to “figure out” how best to react to the new government that the militants announced a day ago.“China has a real problem with the Taliban,” Biden told reporters at a press conference held in the White House. “So they're going to try to work out some arrangement with the Taliban, I'm sure. As does Pakistan, as does Russia, as does Iran. They're all trying to figure out what do they do now.”Also Read | Taliban and its potential international partners: What’s in it for them?The statement from the US president came on the day that the Taliban announced a new interim government in Afghanistan after weeks of deliberation, unveiling an all-male cabinet that also includes a top official who is on the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI)'s ‘most wanted’ list, with a bounty of up to $10 million on his head. Although the United States remains reasonably concerned about the make-up of the new cabinet, it is now known that China is preparing to pitch the new Taliban regime as one of its allies.China, before the fall of Kabul, had already prepared to recognise the Taliban as the legitimate ruler of the war-torn nation. Moreover, just a few weeks before the Ashraf Ghani regime fell, Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi met the Afghan Taliban political commission Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar in a bid to develop 'friendly relations' with the group.Further compounding things, Wang Yi held a phone call with US Secretary of State Anthony Blinken on August 29, where the former said that the international community should engage with the Taliban and "positively guide" them.Also Read | Inside look at Taliban all-male cabinet: Minister wanted by FBI, with a bounty on his headFor its part, the United States has, along with its Group of Seven allies, agreed to coordinate its response to the Taliban. The White House said that the Biden administration has no current plans to release billions in Afghan gold, investments, and foreign currency reserves held by the New York Federal Reserve, which it froze after the Taliban takeover. Western powers say formal recognition of the Taliban government and a resulting flow of economic aid will depend on action to safeguard human rights, the rule of law, and the media.However, political experts say that much of this economic leverage will be lost if China, Russia, or any other nation continues to provide funds to the Taliban. It has been reported that Beijing may take some time to invest and shall focus on the Afghanistan situation as it evolves.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-was-asked-about-the-china-taliban-finance-link-here-s-what-he-said-101631067322903.html
08-09-2021||World||Taliban forms 33-member cabinet in Afghanistan: Full list||The Taliban on Tuesday announced a caretaker government to run the affairs in Afghanistan, where they have returned to power after two decades. The group drew from its inner high echelons to fill top posts, including an associate of Taliban founder as premier and a wanted man on a US terrorism list as interior minister.The United States said it was concerned by the track records of some of the Cabinet members and noted that no women had been included. "The world is watching closely," a US State Department spokesperson said.Also Read | Inside look at Taliban all-male cabinet: Minister wanted by FBI, with a bounty on his headWhile Mullah Hassan Akhund has been named as the prime minister in the 33-member government, Sirajuddin Haqqani, the son of the founder of the Haqqani network, has been named as the new interior minister. He is one of the FBI's most wanted men due to his involvement in suicide attacks and ties with al Qaeda.Here is a list of all the 33 members who are likely to be a part of the new Taliban government in Afghanistan. The list has been collated from various sources, but hindustantimes.com has not independently verified it.Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid said at a news conference that an acting cabinet has been formed to respond to the Afghan people's primary needs.He said some ministries remained to be filled pending a hunt for qualified people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-forms-33-member-cabinet-in-afghanistan-full-list-101631066722518.html
08-09-2021||World||Nepal's federal parliament to begin its new session today||Nepal's parliament session is scheduled to convene on Wednesday, as summoned by the country's president Bidya Devi Bhandari, who, according to a notice issued by her office last week, had called for the next session of the House of Representatives to be held at 4pm on September 8. The recommendation was made after a cabinet meeting, following discussions among Nepal prime minister Sher Bahadur Deuba, Speaker of House of Representatives Agni Sapkota, CPN (Maoist Center) chairman Pushpa Kamal Dahal, and CPN (Unified Socialist) chairman Madhav Kumar Nepal.Nepal's energy minister Pampha Bhusal, as cited by a news outlet, had said that the cabinet decision recommended to the president that both houses of the federal parliament be summoned at 4 pm on September 8.The last session of the Nepal parliament was prorogued to August 17, a day after which the Deuba government introduced an ordinance to amend the Political Parties Act, easing party splits and registration of new parties. With the help of this ordinance, the Madhav Kumar Nepal group had split from the CPN-UML and the Mahhanth Thakur faction had broken away from the Janata Samajbadi Party.Madhav Nepal has registered CPN (Unified Socialist) while Thakur has registered Loktantrik Samajbadi Party.The Election Commission has given until September 7 to those who were elected to provincial and local levels under the UML and the Janata Samajbadi to choose sides–whether they want to stay in the mother parties or the newly registered outfits, the report said.Madhav Nepal, a former prime minister, had gone against the party and supported the then Opposition alliance in its bid to topple the government led by former prime minister K P Sharma Oli. His faction has already made a decision to join the Deuba-led coalition government.The recognition of the Madhav Nepal-led party brings to end a long-standing feud between him and former prime minister Oli in the UML.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nepals-federal-parliament-to-begin-its-new-session-today-101631065082128.html
08-09-2021||World||9/11-related illnesses claimed more victims than attack on New York, Washington: Report||More people are believed to have died from illnesses related to 9/11 than were killed on the actual day of the Al-Qaeda attacks on New York and Washington, according to a report published on Tuesday.The September 11 Victim Compensation Fund (VCF) has received more than 67,000 claims since it reopened in 2011.Nearly 3,900 of those claims were filed on behalf of someone who is alleged to have died of a 9/11-related illness, the VCF said in a report."That means that the number of people believed to have died of a 9/11-related illness subsequent to 9/11 has now exceeded the number of people who died on 9/11," said Rupa Bhattacharyya, the "special master" who administers the fund."More people are now believed to have died of 9/11-related illnesses than were lost on September 11, 2001," she said.Nearly 50 percent of those filing claims in recent years have cancer.Nearly 3,000 people were killed when Al-Qaeda hijackers flew planes into the World Trade Center towers in New York and the Pentagon in Washington. Another plane crashed into a field in Pennsylvania.A compensation fund was created immediately following the attacks for the families of victims.In 2011, another fund was created for first responders and others suffering from chronic health conditions arising from the 9/11 attacks.The VCF has issued compensation of more than $8.95 billion to more than 40,000 individuals.President Joe Biden is to visit the sites of the 9/11 attacks on Saturday to mark the 20th anniversary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/911related-illnesses-claimed-more-victims-than-attack-on-new-york-washington-101631063166136.html
08-09-2021||World||US CDC warns against travel to Sri Lanka, Jamaica, Brunei due to rising Covid-19 infections||The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention on Tuesday warned against travel to Sri Lanka, Jamaica and Brunei because of the rising number of Covid-19 cases.The CDC raised its travel advisory to "Level 4: Very High" for those countries, telling Americans they should avoid travel there.The CDC also eased its ratings for the Netherlands, Malta, Guinea-Bissau and United Arab Emirates from "Level 4: Very High" to "Level 3: High," which urges unvaccinated Americans to avoid travel to those destinations.The CDC also raised Australia from "Leve1 1: Low" to "Level 2: Moderate."In addition, the CDC raised its advisory level for Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Benin, Ghana, Grenada, Turks and Caicos Islands to "Level 3."The CDC issues travel recommendations by countries and for US territories but does not list recommendations for individual US states. It currently lists about 80 destinations out of around 200 ranked as "Level 4," including some US territories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-cdc-warns-against-travel-to-sri-lanka-jamaica-brunei-due-to-rising-covid-19-infections-101631062872033.html
08-09-2021||World||Inside look at Taliban all-male cabinet: Minister wanted by FBI, with a bounty on his head||The Taliban on Tuesday announced a hardline government in Afghanistan after weeks of deliberation, revealing an all-male cabinet that also includes a top official who is on the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI)'s ‘most wanted’ list, with a bounty of up to $10 million on his head. Sirajuddin Haqqani, who has been named the interior minister of the new interim government, has reportedly been a senior leader of the Taliban since 2016. The United States terms him as a “specially designated global terrorist” with close ties to al Qaeda, and with the man now being named to one of the seniormost posts in the Afghan state machinery, experts believe that the United States has cause to worry.Also Read | In Mohammad Akhund-led Taliban govt, several key faces from Haqqani NetworkAccording to the FBI page for Haqqani, the man is known by several aliases – including Siraj, Khalifa, Mohammad Siraj, Sarajadin, Cirodjiddin, Seraj, Arkani, and Khalifa Shahib. The 'rewards for justice' programme under the United States department of state is offering a reward of up to $10 million for information leading directly to the arrest of Sirajuddin Haqqani.Also watch | Taliban announce interim govt: Terrorists Mullah Hasan Akhund PM, Sirajuddin Haqqani home minister Sirajuddin Haqqani is wanted for questioning in connection with the January 2008 attack on a hotel in the Afghan capital of Kabul. The attack, which killed six people including an American citizen, is believed to have been coordinated by Haqqani himself, who has had a history of cross-border attacks against the United States and coalition forces in Afghanistan. As per the FBI, Haqqani was also allegedly involved in planning the assassination attempt on former Afghan president Hamid Karzai in 2008.Also Read | Taliban forms 33-member cabinet in Afghanistan: Full listMeanwhile, the United States said late on Tuesday that it is concerned about the "affiliations and track records" of some of the people named by the Taliban to fill top posts in Afghanistan's new government. A spokesperson for the US state department released a statement reiterating the expectation that the Taliban “ensure that Afghan soil is not used to threaten any other countries and allow humanitarian access in support of the Afghan people”.The Taliban government is made up of leadership drawn entirely from its ranks, it was revealed on Tuesday, despite the group's erstwhile promises to form an “inclusive cabinet”. Women, who the Taliban promised will play a ‘prominent role’ in the new Afghan society, were conveniently omitted from the new caretaker government; there was no mention of a ministry for women. Many of the senior members of the Taliban cabinet have also been sanctioned by the United Nations, which is more than likely to muddy the waters further for international recognition and diplomacy.WATCH: 'Taliban haven’t taken Panjshir': Ahmad Massoud’s uncle seeks support from WestMullah Mohammad Hassan Akhund, one of the founding members of the Taliban influential on the religious side of things was named the prime minister, while the group's chief Hibatullah Akhundzada will be declared the ‘supreme leader’. Mullah Yaqoob, the son of Taliban leader Mullah Mohammed Omar, has been named the defence minister while Haqqani, as mentioned earlier, will be the acting interior minister.As was the case under the previous Taliban regime in the 1990s, the new regime in Afghanistan will also see the resurgence of the notorious ministry for ‘promotion of virtue and prevention of vice’, responsible for policing and enforcing the Taliban's extreme interpretation of Islamic law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/inside-look-at-taliban-all-male-cabinet-minister-wanted-by-fbi-with-a-bounty-on-his-head-101631057944083.html
08-09-2021||World||Fans hold huge rally as Brazil president escalates tussle with SC||Brazil’s President Jair Bolsonaro got a rousing reception from tens of thousands of people gathered in the capital on Tuesday in a show of support for the country’s leader who is embroiled in a fierce fight with the Supreme Court.“We will no longer accept that any authority, using force, goes above the constitution,” Bolsonaro said in a speech before thousands of supporters in Brasilia. “The Supreme Court lost the minimum conditions to continue within that tribunal.”He has been ratcheting up his rhetoric in recent months, sparring with the country’s top court over what he says are rulings beyond the justice’s authority.He’s been targeted by investigations authorised by the top court for spreading falsehoods and he faces a Senate probe for alleged irregularities in the procurement of Covid-19 vaccines.Social media targetedBolsonaro issued a decree on Monday that changes the rules of content moderation on social media, a move that critics argue could hinder the fight against disinformation.The controversial decree goes into effect immediately, but it must also be ratified by Congress in order to become law. It aims to combat “the arbitrary and unjust deletion of accounts, profiles and content by providers,” the federal communications secretariat said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/fans-hold-huge-rally-as-brazil-president-escalates-tussle-with-sc-101631051265234.html
08-09-2021||World||Cuba first in the world to give jabs to 2-yr-olds||Cuba on Monday became the first country in the world to vaccinate children from the age of two against Covid-19, using home-grown jabs that are yet to be recognized by the World Health Organization.The island of 11.2 million people aims to inoculate all its children before reopening schools that have been closed for the most part since March 2020.The new school year started on Monday, but from home via TV programmes, as most Cuban homes do not have internet access. Having completed clinical trials on minors with its Abdala and Soberana vaccines, Cuba kicked off its inoculation campaign for children on Friday, starting with those 12 and older.On Monday, it started distributing jabs in the 2-11 age group in the central province of Cienfuegos. Several other countries in the world are vaccinating children from the age of 12, and some are conducting trials in younger kids.Japan: Third man dies after contaminated shotJapan’s health ministry said that a third person, a man in his 40s, has died after receiving the Moderna Covid-19 vaccine from production lots that are being recalled due to possible contamination, public broadcaster NHK reported. The cause of death hasn’t been determined and experts will examine whether there’s any link between the administration and the death.Africa’s Covid death toll tops 200,000: AFP tallyMore than 200,000 people have died from Covid-19 in Africa since the start of the pandemic, according to an AFP tally compiled from official records. A total of 200,254 fatalities have been registered on the continent, home to over 1.3 billion people.In Australia, PM Scott Morrison faced a backlash over a trip that he took on Sunday, the BBC has reported, while over half of the country’s population is under a lockdown. The report says Morrison, ostensibly in the capacity of an”essential worker”, was granted permission to fly from Canberra to Sydney on a private jet to join his children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/cuba-first-in-the-world-to-give-jabs-to-2yrolds-101631051024965.html
08-09-2021||World||Taliban disperse protesters in Kabul; two killed in Herat||he Taliban fired into the air on Tuesday in Kabul to disperse protesters and arrested several journalists, while two people were reportedly shot dead and eight wounded in a protest in the western Afghan city of Herat.In the shooting incident in Herat, the bodies were brought to the city’s central hospital from the site of the protest, a doctor, who asked not to be named out of fear of reprisals, told AFP. “They all have bullet wounds,” he said.In Kabul, demonstrators gathered outside the Pakistan embassy to protest over Islamabad allegedly aiding the Taliban’s assault on Panjshir province. Dozens of women were among the protesters on Tuesday. Some of them carried signs lamenting the killing of youngsters by Taliban fighters who they say were aided by Pakistan.Blinken to testify in US Senate on AfghanistanUS secretary of state Antony Blinken will testify before the US Senate foreign relations committee in a hearing examining the country’s withdrawal from Afghanistan, the committee said in an announcement on its website on Tuesday.Earlier, Blinken said the Taliban has committed to letting Afghans freely leave the country, as he held talks in Qatar aimed at speeding up evacuations.The US is facing mounting pressure as activists say several hundred people, also including Americans, are being prevented from flying out of an airport in the northern city of Mazar-i-Sharif. But Blinken said the US was in touch with the Taliban and believes they are cooperating.“We are not aware of anyone being held on an aircraft or any hostage-like situation,” Blinken said in Doha where he and defence secretary Lloyd Austin met their Qatari counterparts.Taliban regime keen to join CPEC projectsTaliban spokesperson Zabiullah Mujahid has expressed the group’s “desire” to join the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), according to ANI. He also said the Taliban will address Islamabad’s concerns about Pakistan-based terror group TTP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-disperse-protesters-in-kabul-two-killed-in-herat-101631050885067.html
08-09-2021||World||Xi Jinping picks new general to head PLA command overseeing India-China border||Chinese President Xi Jinping has promoted Wang Haijiang, a senior People’s Liberation Army (PLA) officer in-charge of the Xinjiang military region, as a general and head of the crucial Western Theatre Command (WTC), which oversees the disputed India-China border.Xi Jinping, who is also the chairperson of the Central Military Commission (CMC), promoted five officers to the rank of general at a function in Beijing.“Xi Jinping, chairman of the CMC, on Monday presented five military officers of the Chinese PLA with certificates of order promoting them to the military rank of general, the highest rank for officers in active service in China,” the military said in a statement.“The promoted officers are Commander of the PLA WTC Wang Haijiang, Commander of the PLA Central Theatre Command Lin Xiangyang, Commander of the PLA Navy Dong Jun and Commander of the PLA Air Force Chang Dingqiu and President of PLA National Defence University Xu Xueqiang,” the statement said.General Xu Qiliang, vice chairman of the CMC, announced the orders of promotion signed by Xi, and General Zhang Youxia, also CMC vice chairman, presided over the ceremony.General Wei Fenghe, General Li Zuocheng, Admiral Miao Hua, and General Zhang Shengmin, who are members of the CMC, also attended the ceremony in the capital city of China, the statement said.The status of General Xu Qiling, who was promoted as WTC chief in July, wasn’t immediately clear.For newly promoted general Wang Haijiang, the rise through the ranks in China’s military has been rapid.In August, he was appointed as military commander to oversee the troubled Xinjiang region, which is also under heightened security amid a crackdown that Beijing says is needed to prevent terrorism.General Wang of China visited India in 2016, heading a PLA contingent for a hand-in-hand anti-terrorism exercise.From all accounts in Chinese official media, he is now likely the fourth head of the vital WTC since last year when the India-China border tensions in eastern Ladakh began.Wang has also served as the head of China’s Tibet military region, which is part of the WTC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/xi-jinping-picks-new-general-to-head-pla-command-overseeing-india-china-border-101631000993687.html
08-09-2021||India||Assam: 1 dead, four missing as boats collide on Brahmaputra river||Two passenger boats collided on the Brahmaputra river in Assam on Wednesday afternoon, leaving at least one person dead and around four others missing.Officials said the head-on accident between a larger government vessel and a smaller private ferry occurred around 4pm, roughly 100m from the Nematighat bank in Jorhat district. The smaller boat, Ma Kamala, carrying roughly 70 passengers, capsized almost immediately.“Till 10 pm, six hours after the incident, we have been able to rescue 43 passengers of the capsized boat. One of the rescued persons was declared dead later at hospital,” said GD Tripathi, CEO of the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA).Initial reports had estimated more than 50 people missing amid fears of a high death toll, but as the evening progressed, officials rescued many passengers and some were able to swim to the bank because the accident happened near the jetty.“The capsized boat was carrying around 67-68 passengers. Apart from the 43 rescued, 21 other passengers have been contact traced. There’s confirmation of four persons from Majuli missing. So, there should be around 4-6 passengers who are still unaccounted for,” he added.The boats carried passengers between Kamalabari in Majuli district and Nematighat but the services are not strictly regulated. The Brahmaputra and its tributaries are in spate due to recent showers and floods and rescue efforts are being hurt due to high water levels and strong currents, officials said.“Saddened by the boat accident in Assam. All possible efforts are being made to rescue the passengers. I pray for everyone’s safety and well being,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted.Tripathi said rescuers would continue searching for survivors through the night. Directives have been issued to districts located downstream to increase patrol along the banks or keep a lookout for missing passengers.Officials said the collision occurred near the jetty when Ma Kamala, on which passengers were boarding at Nematighat, attempted to give way to the bigger boat, which belonged to the state’s inland water transport department and named Tipkai, that was coming from Kamalabari. ASDMA officials at Jorhat said the capsized boat was also carrying around two dozen two-wheelers. Ferry services between Nematighat and Kamalabari had been suspended for five days last week due to rising water levels of the Brahmaputra.Chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma expressed deep concern and directed the district administrations of Majuli and Jorhat to undertake rescue mission expeditiously with the help of the national and state disaster response forces.“I am personally supervising the rescue operations and our officials are on the ground to ensure expeditious completion. All the injured are being diligently attended to,” he tweeted.Two cabinet ministers, Chandra Mohan Patowary and Bimal Borah, rushed to the spot. Sarma said he will visit Majuli on Thursday to evaluate the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-1-dead-four-missing-as-boats-collide-on-brahmaputra-river-101631125662496.html
08-09-2021||India||Four months after Abhijit Sarkar was murdered in Kolkata, kin to receive body tomorrow||More than four months after Abhijit Sarkar, a BJP worker, was murdered in Kolkata after the results of the West Bengal Assembly elections were declared, his family members will receive his body from a hospital morgue on Thursday and would be able to perform the last rites. On May 2, hours after the election results were declared Sarkar was dragged out of his house at Narkeldanga and murdered allegedly by Trinamool Congress workers. “We had moved the lower court in Sealdah seeking that Sarkar’s body along with the post-mortem and DNA report be handed over to the family. The court has permitted it. The Central Bureau of Investigation has been directed to hand over the reports and the hospital authorities have been directed to hand over the body to the family,” said Priyanka Tiberwal, advocate and BJP leader. Earlier, his family members had refused to accept the body from the local police as after two post-mortems they could not identify the body. The family had moved court questioning the report of the first post-mortem. On July 2, the court had ordered a second autopsy. In July, a five-judge bench of the Calcutta high court ordered a DNA test of Sarkar, which needed to be matched with samples collected from his brother Biswajit, in a bid to identify the body. The Central Forensic Laboratory was directed to do the DNA matching. “The DNA report suggests that the body belongs to Abhijit Sarkar. It was then that we moved court seeking that the body should be handed over to the victim’s brother,” said Tibrewal. Biswajit is likely to receive the body on Thursday morning, which has been lying for the past few months in the morgue of the state-run NRS Medical College and Hospital. “Today I am feeling relieved. I will be able to perform the last rites of my brother. The fight, however, is not over yet, as those who murdered my brother are yet to be punished,” Biswajit told the media after receiving the court’s order. The TMC, however, said that the day on which Sarkar was murdered the law and order was under the jurisdiction of the ECI. “Some sporadic incidents had taken place till May 5 when Mamata Banerjee took oath as the chief minister. After that there has been hardly any incident of violence. Till May 5 the law and order was under the jurisdiction of the poll panel,” said Kunal Ghosh, TMC spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-months-after-abhijit-sarkar-was-murdered-in-kolkata-kin-to-receive-body-tomorrow-101631121942135.html
08-09-2021||India||PM Modi meet Russian NSA Nikolai Patrushev, discusses Afghanistan situation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi met the secretary of the Russian Security Council, Nikolai Patrushev, on Tuesday to discuss stronger coordination between India and Russia and the means to enhance regional stability. The present condition of the country was also brought up during the course of their discussion.“Was happy to meet Mr. Nikolai Patrushev, Secretary of the Security Council of Russia. His visit allowed useful discussions between both sides on important regional developments,” PM Modi said in a tweet.PM Modi and Patrushev discussed India-Russia cooperation along with several international issues, news agency ANI reported quoting Russian Embassy. “The two sides reaffirmed their intention to strengthen coordination in the field of enhancing regional stability, including the Afghan direction,” the statement said.The possibility of further developing the special and privileged strategic partnership and deepening political dialogue at the highest level was also discussed, apart from the prospects for strengthening interaction in multilateral formats, including the SCO and BRICS. Talks were held regarding cooperation in trade and the economic sphere.Earlier in the day, Patrushev met National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Union external affairs minister S Jaishankar. Doval and Patrushev held high-level consultations on the latest developments in Afghanistan. The Doval-Patrushev meet was the first detailed and extensive meeting between India and Russia regarding the Afghanistan situation following the Taliban takeover of the war-torn country. Russia and India expressed concern over developments in Afghanistan. Doval and Patrushev stressed that Afghanistan should not become a hotspot for spreading terrorism in the region.Richard Moore, the head of the UK Secret Intelligence Service or MI6 and CIA director William Burns met Doval earlier this week to discuss the latest developments in Afghanistan. India emphasised Pakistan’s links to the Taliban and expressed concern about whether the Taliban will be accountable for the pledges it made following the takeover of Afghanistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-meet-russian-nsa-nikolai-patrushev-discusses-afghanistan-situation-101631121307258.html
08-09-2021||India||India reaches vaccination milestone, inoculates 71 crore citizens||India’s cumulative Covid-19 vaccine coverage crossed the 710 million mark, the government said on Wednesday as the country vaccinated 7.3 million people till 7pm. The daily vaccination report is set to increase as more vaccination centres send their data.“India’s Covid-19 vaccination coverage crosses the 71 crore landmark milestone (71,52,54,153) today. More than 73 lakh (73,80,510) doses administered till 7 pm today. Daily vaccination tally expected to increase with compilation of final reports for the day by late tonight,” the government said.India reached the target of vaccinating more than a crore people on three occasions in the last 13 days. The government earlier this month expressed confidence that it will be able to inoculate every citizen by December. The nation commenced its vaccination drive on January 16 this year. It opened the vaccine for people above the age of 18 years from June 21.India reported 37,875 fresh cases in the last 24 hours but the Union health ministry in a press release said that the nation saw less than 50,000 cases for 73 consecutive days. India currently has 391,256 active cases of Covid-19. The recovery rate stood at 97.48% while the daily positivity rate dipped to 2.16%.“Sustained and collaborative efforts by the Centre and the states/UTs continue the trend as less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 73 consecutive days now. 37,875 new cases were reported in the last 24 hours,” the ministry said in a statement.The health ministry also said that 5.64 crore balance and unutilised remain with the health departments of states and Union Territories to be administered to citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reaches-vaccination-milestone-inoculates-71-crore-citizens-101631120706825.html
08-09-2021||India||Kerala announces Covid-19 vaccination centres for final year students, mandates 1 dose before reopening institutes||With institutes for higher education in Kerala set to reopen from October 4, state health minister Veena George on Wednesday said that Covid-19 vaccination facilities would be made available to final year students of these institutes to get immunised against the disease before entering the colleges. The health minister said that all the final year students should be inoculated with at least one dose of the vaccine before the reopening of these institutions.Earlier on Tuesday, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said higher education institutions such as technical, polytechnic and medical institutes would be allowed to operate in a bio-bubble model from October 4 for final year students of graduate and undergraduate courses. Vijayan also said that one dose of vaccine was mandatory and asked students awaiting their second doses to get it immediately.Also read | After a week’s gap, fresh Covid-19 cases cross 30,000-mark in KeralaFollowing this, the health minister said that the students would receive the vaccine doses free of cost from the government vaccination centres. Her remarks came on the same day as the daily new infections went past the 30,000-mark again after nearly a week’s gap.Meanwhile, state minister for higher education and social justice R Bindu said that classes would be held in either two shifts or on alternate days according to the arrangement that was in place last year. She said that half of the students of each class would be taught during each such shift or on alternate days.George also said that the students who had received one dose of the vaccine should receive their second dose immediately.On Wednesday, 30,196 people tested positive for the disease in the state while 181 more people succumbed to the illness. So far, 4,283,494 people have been infected while the death toll breached the 22,000-mark on the day, according to data from a state health department’s medical bulletin. As many as 239,480 active cases of the disease are present in the state, according to the latest data. The Union health ministry’s dashboard showed that 30,434,537 doses of the vaccine have been administered to eligible beneficiaries in the state as of 7am on the day.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-announces-covid-19-vaccination-centre-for-final-year-students-mandates-1-dose-before-reopening-institutes-101631120807704.html
08-09-2021||India||Supreme Court reserves order on NGT’s suo moto power||The Supreme Court on Wednesday reserved orders on a batch of petitions questioning the suo moto power of the National Green Tribunal (NGT). While arguments were made by lawyers supporting and opposing the Tribunal’s suo moto powers in the Supreme Court over the past three days, in the last leg of submissions, senior advocates Sanjay Parikh and Gopal Shankarnaraynan told the Court that in an environmental tragedy, the tribunal cannot be expected to be powerless if no individual or group approaches it to remedy the damage to the environment. Parikh said that the National Green Tribunal is the only tribunal in the country vested with power to protect the environment and wherever there is a public injury caused to the environment, the Tribunal has a duty under law to restitute the damage caused to the environment. The bench of Justices AM Khanwilkar, Hrishikesh Roy and CT Ravikumar asked Parikh whether a Tribunal can be powerless to take emergency measures in a given situation if no application is brought before it. the bench said, “Suppose an activity having environmental consequence takes place, can the Tribunal take cognizance based on the occurrence of that activity or should it wait for an application to be moved before it.” Parikh replied, “The conscience of the Tribunal is moved by the fact that damage is caused to the environment. The consequence will be that environmental conservation will then have to be remedied by the Supreme Court or High Court in exercise of their power under Article 32 and Article 226 of the Constitution.” Even in a situation where a natural calamity occurs due to an act of God, there can be intervention by the Tribunal whether the tragedy was aggravated by the inaction or wrong action by the authorities or government. he referred to the 2014 decision of the Supreme Court in the Kedarnath cloud burst event of which the Supreme Court took suo moto cognizance. Shankarnaraynan supplemented the arguments in favour of Tribunal’s suo moto powers by stating, “The jurisdiction exercised by the Tribunal is entirely Article 21-oriented jurisdiction.” He further stated that a situation cannot be envisaged that the Tribunal is told to wait for an application that will make the National Green Tribunal Act 2019 unworkable. The Centre had earlier argued that the NGT does not enjoy any suo moto powers but a letter or application could be entertained by it. It said that the Tribunal cannot be tied up in procedural law for exercising power which is amply available to it under the Act. “Once the Tribunal receives any communication, it is duty-bound to take cognizance of that,” the Centre had submitted. The Court-appointed amicus curiae (friend of Court) senior advocate Anand Grover shared the view that there is no suo moto power available under the NGT Act. The appeals being heard by the Court relate to orders passed by NGT with regard to stone quarries in Kerala where the Tribunal acted on a letter by residents to direct that no stone quarries can be permitted within 200 metres from the nearest residential house. The quarry owners and Kerala government challenged this order pointing to the law prevailing in the state that permitted quarries to operate within 50 metres from a residential building. Another set of appeals heard by the top court related to an order by NGT imposing a cost of ₹five crore on the municipal body of Greater Mumbai for not setting up sewage treatment plant for solid waste management. This order was based on a newspaper report. The municipal body argued that this matter was already under consideration before the Bombay High Court.The apex court had framed two questions - whether the Tribunal has power to take cognizance on its own of a letter or communication and whether such an action could be still taken when the matter is pending consideration before a constitutional court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-reserves-order-on-ngt-s-suo-moto-power-101631120622441.html
08-09-2021||India||'Pray for everyone’s safety, wellbeing': PM Modi after boat capsizes in Assam||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday expressed sadness over a boat accident in Assam in which dozens of people are feared to be killed. "Saddened by the boat accident in Assam. All possible efforts are being made to rescue the passengers. I pray for everyone’s safety and well-being," PM Modi wrote on Twitter.A large boat sank in the Brahmaputra river after colliding with a ferry near Nimati Ghat in Jorhat district of Assam on Wednesday. The collision occurred when the private boat 'Ma Kamala' was headed to Majuli from Nimati Ghat and the government-owned ferry 'Tripkai' was coming from Majuli. 'Ma Kamala' capsized as it reportedly carrying more than a hundred passengers."Both ferries hit each other around 4pm. State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) and National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) personnel have started rescue operations. More details are awaited," Jorhat deputy commissioner Ashok Kumar Barman said.The officials have rescued at least 41 people so far, news agency PTI reported quoting Jorhat deputy commissioner Ashok Barman. However, the body has been recovered as of yet, Barman also informed as per the PTI report. "We cannot say right now how many people have died," the news agency quoted an official of the local administration as saying.The boat was also carrying several four-wheelers and two-wheelers that went down the river.Following the tragedy, state chief minister Himanta Biswa has directed the district administrations of Majuli and Jorhat to undertake the rescue mission expeditiously with the help of NDRF and SDRF. He also asked minister Bimal Bora to rush to the site of the accident.Meanwhile, Sarma himself is scheduled to visit Nimati Ghat on Thursday (September 9) to evaluate the situation, the chief minister's office has announced. The chief minister has also asked principal secretary Samir Kumar Sinha to monitor the developments round the clock.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pray-for-everyone-s-safety-wellbeing-pm-modi-after-boat-capsizes-in-assam-101631117331754.html
08-09-2021||India||Theatre commands to be functional in 2 to 3 years for optimal use of military’s resources||The creation of theatre commands to best utilise the military’s resources could take two to three years, with senior officers from the three services being assigned key responsibilities to finalise the joint structures, people familiar with the developments said on Wednesday. “The three services have nominated C-in-C ranked officers (senior three-star officers) to finalise the organisational structure and other aspects of theatre commands. These officers will submit a detailed report with their proposals in a year after which the creation of theatre commands will begin,” said a senior official, one of the people cited above. Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday said discussions on the creation of joint commands and their implementation were progressing well and fast, indicating that differences between stakeholders on the theaterisation model are being addressed and India is on course to set up theatre commands. “Whenever a change takes place, everyone wants to understand the change and its effects,” the official said. The government had in June formed an eight-member panel under chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat to fine-tune the theaterisation plans and bring all stakeholders on board, especially the Indian Air Force, for speedy roll-out of the new joint structures. The Indian military’s theaterisation model, a long-awaited reform, will have inbuilt flexibility to fall back on the current command and control structures to deal with any contingency during the transition phase, the official said. Stabilisation of theatre commands could take up to five years, and it is critical to ensure that there is a mechanism to swiftly return to the pre-theaterisation status quo if a crisis unfolds when the restructuring is underway, HT previously reported. The armed forces currently have 17 single-service commands spread across the country. The Indian Army and the Indian Air Force have seven commands each, while the Indian Navy has three. Creating theatres would involve merging the existing commands (except the Udhampur-based Northern Command). In July, Indian Air Force chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria flagged concerns about the theaterisation model, arguing that it was critical to first get the structure right, even as General Rawat gave out details of the plan to achieve jointness and brushed aside the reservations. The current theaterisation model under consideration seeks to set up four new integrated commands for synergy in operations --- two land-centric theatres, the Air Defence Command and the Maritime Theatre Command. The Indian Army’s Northern Command is the only single-service command that will stay outside the scope of the military’s theaterisation drive because of its critical role. The Udhampur-based Northern Command is responsible for guarding the country’s borders with Pakistan and China in the north, and is the nerve centre of counterterrorism operations in Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/theatre-commands-to-be-functional-in-2-to-3-years-for-optimal-use-of-military-s-resources-101631116422190.html
08-09-2021||India||Time is precious: Railways to pay ₹30,000 to man who missed flight as Supreme Court orders||The Supreme Court has recently ordered the Railways to pay ₹30,000 to a complainant who missed a flight from Jammu to Srinagar because of the delay in the Ajmer-Jammu Express. The delay was of four hours. The order of the compensation was originally passed by District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum, Alwar and confirmed by the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, New Delhi. A bench of Justice MR Shah and Justice Aniruddha Bose upheld the order after the Nothern Western Railway appealed to the top court.The Northern Western Railway will now have to pay ₹15,000 for taxi expenses, ₹10,000 towards booking expenses and ₹5,000 for mental agony and litigation expenses, Livelaw reported.Because he missed the flight owing to the delay in the train, the complainant (the respondent in the case) had to travel to Srinagar by taxi which made him lose ₹9,000 as the airfare. He had to spend ₹15,000 for the taxi fare and complained of a loss of ₹10,000 on account of booking a boat in Dal Lake.As additional solicitor general submitted before the court that the late running of a train could not be said to be deficient in service of the part of the railways, the Supreme Court bench said that the railways were required to "lead the evidence and explain the late arrival of the train to establish and prove that the delay occurred because of the reasons beyond their control. At least the railways were required to explain the delay which the railways failed"."It can not be disputed that every passenger's time is precious and they might have booked the tickets for the further journey, like in the present case from Jammu to Srinagar and thereafter further journey," the bench said."These are the days of competition and accountability. If public transportation has to survive and compete with private players, they have to improve the system and their working culture. Citizens/passengers can not be at the mercy of the authorities/administration. Somebody has to accept the responsibility," the bench noted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/time-is-precious-railways-to-pay-rs-30-000-to-man-who-missed-flight-as-supreme-court-orders-101631115138818.html
08-09-2021||India||Taliban can set example for world if they follow real Sharia law: Mehbooba Mufti||Mehbooba Mufti, the president of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), on Wednesday said that the Taliban are a new reality and if they follow the ‘real’ Sharia Law, they can set an example for the world.“Taliban is emerging as a reality. They had an image of anti-human rights during their first rule [in the 1990s]. They have come to power again and if they want to govern Afghanistan, they should follow the real Sharia law and not their interpretation of it," the former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister said.Mufti said the Islamist militant group must follow the ‘real’ Sharia law that Islam states, and which consists of women’s and children’s rights.Also Read | Row over Mehbooba Mufti’s comments on Afghan crisis“If they follow [the real Sharia law] and govern Afghanistan accordingly, then they will be able to share business relations with other countries of the world,” she was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Mufti, however, noted that if the insurgents go back to their old regime of the 1990s, it will be trouble for the entire world and especially for Afghanistan.#WATCH | Taliban is emerging as a reality. They had an image of anti-human rights during their first rule. They can set an example for the world if they follow the real Sharia law which includes women rights,& not their interpretation of Sharia: PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti in Kulgam pic.twitter.com/00vTqNdKXQMufti’s comments come soon after National Conference (NC) chief Farooq Abdullah said that he hoped the Taliban will “deliver good governance” in Afghanistan. “I hope they (Taliban) will deliver good governance and follow Islamic principles in that country (Afghanistan) and respect human rights. They should try to develop friendly relations with every country,” he told reporters.However, he quickly came under fire for indirectly lending a supportive hand to the insurgents. Addressing this, the party tweeted on Wednesday and blamed the “channels” for “twisting words and misrepresenting the intended meaning.”The Taliban, meanwhile, announced an all-male cabinet on Tuesday – despite their earlier assurances that it will create “an inclusive” government. The ministers inducted into the cabinet – which came after weeks of wait and speculation, include terrorists Mullah Hasan Akhund and Sirajuddin Haqqani, who have been selected to be the new Prime Minister and the home minister of the Taliban government in Afghanistan.Furthermore, the interior minister Sirajuddin Haggani – who has reportedly been a senior member of the Taliban since 2016, is on the FBI’s ‘most wanted’ list with a bounty of $10 million on his head. The United States terms him as a “specially designated global terrorist” who shares close links to the terrorist group al Qaeda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/taliban-can-set-example-for-world-if-they-follow-real-sharia-mufti-101631114740404.html
08-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: US concerned about ‘track record’ of new Taliban govt and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.US expresses concern over ‘track record’ of Taliban caretaker teamThe United States has expressed concern over the lack of diversity in the composition of the caretaker government announced by the Taliban and their “affiliations and track record” and questions are being raised about Pakistan’s increasing role in support of the new dispensation in Kabul. Read more'You go through the whole line-up and think, well he's a great player: Mark Wood in awe of India's 'world-class' battingIs India currently the best Test team? While the debate and discussion on this topic continue to rage on, there is one thing that cannot be denied: Virat Kohli-led India have an enviable batting line-up. This is something that even the opposition pacer, England's Mark Wood, recognizes. Read moreAkshay Kumar attends Aanand L Rai's mother's funeral, hours after his mom Aruna Bhatia's death. See picsHours after his mother Aruna Bhatia's funeral took place, Akshay Kumar made his way to attend the funeral of director Aanand L Rai's mother. The filmmaker's mother also reportedly died on Wednesday morning. The cause of death is still unknown. Read moreFacebook smart glasses with Ray-Ban branding? Will you buy? Check teaserFacebook smart glasses are coming and they have a connection with the iconic Ray-Ban company. In fact, Facebook and Ray-Ban are all set to launch a pair of smart glasses on Thursday, with the latter posting promotional information on its website related to the product in the form of a poser with the outline of the smart glasses. Read morePak's pets, FBI Most Wanted, Sharia: Takeaways from Taliban's new Afghan govtFrom featuring in the FBI's Most Wanted list to the United Nations' terrorist directory, the new leaders of the Taliban's 'interim' government in Afghanistan prove what some members of the US House of Representatives said - 'a government of terrorists, by terrorists, and for terrorists'. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-us-concerned-about-affiliations-and-track-record-of-members-in-taliban-caretaker-govt-and-all-the-latest-news-101631114172781.html
08-09-2021||India||CCS clears C-295 purchase worth $2.5 billion to replace IAF’s Avros||India’s Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) on Wednesday cleared the much-delayed purchase of 56 C-295 medium transport aircraft to replace the Indian Air Force’s ageing fleet of Avro-748 planes, the defence ministry announced on Wednesday. The deal is expected to be worth $2.5 billion. Airbus Defence and Space and Tata Advanced Systems Limited (TASL) will jointly execute the project to equip the air force with the new transport aircraft under the Make-in-India initiative in the aerospace sector. Airbus will supply the first 16 aircraft in flyaway condition while the remaining 40 will be assembled in India by TASL. The Avro replacement project was in the works for almost a decade. “Sixteen aircraft will be delivered in flyaway condition from Spain within 48 months of signing of the contract and 40 aircraft will be manufactured in India by Tata consortium within ten years of signing of the contract. This is the first project of its kind in which a military aircraft will be manufactured in India by a private company,” the ministry said in a statement. While the C-295s are meant to replace the Avro-748 transport planes, the new aircraft will also be suitable for demanding roles that the AN-32 currently undertakes. The aircraft can operate from short, unprepared airstrips and carry out a variety of missions in all-weather conditions. “We have made good progress with the light combat aircraft and a variety of helicopters. But transport aircraft is one area where a lot needs to be done. The C-295 project will help create an ecosystem for building transport aircraft in India,” said Air Marshal Anil Chopra (retd), director general, Centre for Air Power Studies. The defence acquisition council accorded its acceptance of necessity (AoN) to replace the Avro planes with 56 new aircraft in 2012. Under India’s defence procurement rules, AoN by the council is the first step towards buying military hardware. The Avro-748 entered service in the early 1960s and has been long due for replacement. “All 56 aircraft will be installed with indigenous electronic warfare suite. The project will give a boost to aerospace ecosystem in India wherein several MSMEs spread over the country will be involved in manufacturing parts of the aircraft,” the statement said. The programme will allow the Indian private sector to enter into the technology intensive and highly competitive aviation industry and will augment domestic aviation manufacturing resulting in reduced imports and expected increase in exports, it said. “The programme will act as a catalyst in employment generation and is expected to generate 600 highly skilled jobs directly, over 3,000 indirect jobs and an additional 3,000 medium skill employment opportunities…It will involve development of specialised infrastructure in the form of hangars, buildings, aprons and taxiway,” it said. The project will involve setting up servicing facilities for the C-295 in India. “It is expected that this facility will act as a regional MRO (maintenance, repair and overhaul) hub for various variants of C-295 aircraft,” it added. The contract will also have an offset clause. India’s offset policy stipulates that in all big-ticket capital purchases, the foreign vendor has to invest at least 30% of the value of the purchase in the country to boost indigenous capabilities. “The original equipment manufacturer (Airbus) will also discharge its offset obligations through direct purchase of eligible products and services from Indian offset partners giving further boost to economy,” the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ccs-clears-c-295-purchase-worth-2-5-billion-to-replace-iaf-s-avros-101631110901583.html
08-09-2021||India||For the 1st time, Army aircraft to be manufactured by private company||The Cabinet Committee of security on Wednesday approved the procurement of 56 C-295MW transport aircraft for the Indian Air Force. The aircraft will be procured from Airbus Defence and Space S.A., Spain. About 16 of the aircraft will be delivered within 48 months of signing the contract in a flyway condition while the remaining will be manufactured in India by the TATA Consortium within ten years of the signing of the contract.  Defence ministry sources said this is the first project of its kind in which a military aircraft will be manufactured in India by a private company. All 56 aircraft will be installed with the indigenous Electronic Warfare Suite. “The project will give a boost to the aerospace ecosystem in India wherein several MSMEs spread over the country will be involved in manufacturing parts of the aircraft,” an official said.“The programme will provide a major boost to the `Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan’ as it offers a unique opportunity for the Indian private sector to enter into technology-intensive and highly competitive aviation Industry. The project will augment domestic aviation manufacturing resulting in reduced import dependence and an expected increase in exports,” the official said explaining the aim behind the project.  IAF's Avro aircraft is ageing and the new transport aircraft with arear ramp door for quick reaction and para dropping of troops and cargo will replace the Avro aircraft of the IAF.A large number of detail parts, sub-assemblies and major component assemblies of aerostructure will be manufactured in India generating 600 highly skilled jobs directly, over 3000 indirect jobs and an additional 3,000 medium skill employment opportunities, the defence ministry said."It will involve the development of specialised infrastructure in form of hangars, buildings, aprons and taxiway. During the process of manufacturing in India, it is expected that all the suppliers of TATA Consortium who will be involved in special processes will gain and maintain globally recognised National Aerospace and Defence Contractors Accreditation Program accreditation.Before completion of deliveries, 'D' Level servicing facility these new aircraft will be set up. It is expected that this facility will act as a regional MRO hub for various variants of C-295 aircraft. In addition, the OEM will also discharge its offset obligations through direct purchase of eligible products and services from Indian Offset Partners giving a further boost to the economy, an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-approves-procurement-of-56-aircraft-to-replace-iaf-s-avro-in-a-boost-to-makeinindia-101631106245517.html
08-09-2021||India||68 under isolation for Nipah virus; all are stable: Kerala health minister||In the wake of the Nipah virus outbreak in Kerala, as many as 68 people are currently under isolation at the Government Medical College in Kozhikode district, state health minister Veena George told news agency ANI on Wednesday. She added that all patients are in a stable condition. She said that of the total number of samples collected during the contact tracing process of the Nipah virus victim in the state, 30 people have tested negative so far. George informed that she has been camping in Kozhikode for the past four days since the first case of the virus was reported in the district. Notably, a 12-year-old boy was the first victim of the Nipah virus in Kerala, and on Sunday, the minor succumbed to the infection. George said that all three samples of the boy were found to have had traces of the virus by the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune. According to the latest ANI report, as many as 251 people were listed during contact-tracing, of which, 129 were health workers and 54 in the high-risk groups. Of the total contacts identified, 11 were found to be symptomatic and among the high-risk groups, 30 were health workers.Also Read | What is Nipah virus? Know its symptoms, treatment and similarities with Covid-19On Tuesday, Hindustan Times reported that eight samples taken from the boy’s close contacts, came out as negative from the NIV, Pune. “It is a great relief for us. Among the eight are the boy’s parents and medical officials. We will localise and contain the outbreak as we did in 2018,” the state health minister said. A central team, which recently visited Kerala, conducted field investigations to provide measures to the state health department for combatting and containing the virus outbreak – that in 2018 had claimed 17 lives in Kozhikode district. The Union health ministry has asked for districts such as Wayanad, Kannur and Malappuram to be put on high alert. Besides, a need for setting up 24x7 control rooms for daily reporting and information sharing has also been highlighted by the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/68-under-isolation-for-nipah-virus-all-are-stable-kerala-health-minister-101631105378768.html
08-09-2021||India||Maharashtra woman dies en route hospital after landslide blocks road||A woman died on her way to the hospital on Wednesday in Maharashtra's Nandurbar district after landslides triggered by heavy rainfall blocked roads, news agency PTI reported quoting police. The woman, reported to be in her 50s, was being carried by her husband on his shoulders after he couldn't find any medium of transport due to the road blockade.The woman, identified as Shildibai Padvi, a resident of Chandsaili village in the tribal-dominated Nandurbar district, was unwell for the past few days. On Wednesday morning, Padvi complained of stomach ache following which her husband decided to take her to a nearby government-run hospital.However, the road connecting the town was blocked due to a landslide at the Chandsaili Ghat after heavy rainfall lashed the district. But, Padvi's husband held his wife on his shoulder and walked barefoot in a desperate attempt to reach the medical facility.He could barely walk some distance before Padvi collapsed, news agency PTI reported, citing a local official. After getting information about the incident, officials from the district administration, local police and a disaster management team rushed to the spot and started removing the landslide debris from the road.One side of the road was opened for traffic by afternoon.Parts of Maharashtra were hit by incessant rainfall over the past 24 hours, leading to severe waterlogging and landslides in some areas, including at Salav in Murud taluka in the coastal Raigad district.Meanwhile, the weather department issued a red alert for the state. A team of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) officials have been kept on stand-by as a precautionary measure.--||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-woman-dies-en-route-hospital-after-landslide-blocks-road-101631105016637.html
08-09-2021||India||Dozens feared missing as two passenger ferries collide on Brahmaputra in Assam||Dozens of people are feared missing in a collision involving two passenger ferries on Brahmaputra in Assam on Wednesday afternoon. According to the initial reports, the incident took place between Kamalabari in Majuli and Nematighat in Jorhat around 4pm. Both the ferries were carrying over 100 passengers in all. “Both ferries hit each other around 4pm. State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) and National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) personnel have started rescue operations. More details are awaited,” Jorhat deputy commissioner Ashok Kumar Barman said. According to reports, the incident took place around 100 metres from the Nematighat when one small ferry going towards Kamalabari hit the bigger ferry coming from the other side. The smaller ferry is reported to have capsized.Also Read | Assam: 100% public transport and govt vehicles to run on electricity by 2030 “Not much detail is available yet but one of the ferries involved in the accident belonged to our department,” said Gautam Das, director, inland water transport department. Chief minister Himanta Biswa expressed concern over the accident and directed the district administrations of Majuli and Jorhat to undertake rescue mission expeditiously with the help of NDRF and SDRF.He also directed minister Bimal Bora to travel to Majuli to take stock of the situation. Principal secretary to the chief minister, Samir Kumar Sinha, has been asked to monitor the developments. Sarma will visit Majuli on Thursday to evaluate the situation.The Brahmaputra and its tributaries are in full spate due to the rains and floods in the state and rescue efforts are likely to be hampered because of that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dozens-feared-missing-as-two-passenger-ferries-collide-on-brahmaputra-in-assam-101631103446646.html
08-09-2021||India||Mamata to file nomination for Bhabanipur assembly bypoll on Friday||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee will file her nomination for the bypoll in Bhabanipur assembly constituency on Friday. Addressing a press conference, Mamata Banerjee also said that Sovandeb Chattopadhyay, who originally won the Bhabanipur seat in the assembly elections held earlier this year, but now vacated it for Banerjee to contest, will contest from Khardaha constituency. “He resigned for me, but he will continue as a minister in Bengal cabinet,” the chief minister said on Wednesday.The bypoll in Bhabanipur assembly constituency, which will take place on September 30, was neccessiated after Trinamool Congress leader Sovandeb Chattopadhyay vacated it recently so that Mamata Banerjee, who became the chief minister despite not winning any seat in the latest assembly election, could contest. Banerjee lost to her former aide Suvendu Adhikari by a thin margin of 1,956 votes from Nandigram constituency.However, as per the law, Mamata has to win on any seat in the state to have the chance of becoming a member of the state assembly, or the chief minister's post, before November 5.ALSO READ | Bhabanipur by-polls: Mamata’s plans to ensure she remains the CM of BengalMeanwhile, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) proposed six names to its leadership in New Delhi, from which it woild pick up the candidate to  be fielded against Banerjee. “We have sent a list of six names to Delhi. The list includes the names of Priyanka Tibrewal and Biswajit Sarkar among others like Tathagata Roy,” a senior BJP leader told the Hindustan Times.Banerjee began her campaign for the bypolls on Wednesday after the Election Commission on Saturday announced that it will hold elections in three constituencies of the eastern state, including Jangipur and Samsherganj constituencies in Bengal.The ballots cast in bypolls will be counted on October 3 – one week before the Durga Puja celebrations kick off in Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-to-file-nomination-for-bhabanipur-assembly-bypoll-on-friday-101631101652579.html
08-09-2021||India||Goa Police bust gang that ran fake call centre, duped US citizens||The Goa Police on Wednesday busted a network of scammers who operated out of a call centre and duped American citizens into parting with their money by impersonating US government officials. Thirteen persons, including the alleged mastermind, were arrested and equipment such as computers, laptops and other devices seized during a raid held by the Crime Branch of the Goa Police. According to the police, the gang had taken over a hotel -- Hotel Eden in Morjim a coastal village in North Goa -- and was operating a call centre from there. Also Read | Goa mining firms’ pleas for extension of leases dismissed by SC“They were defrauding American nationals by impersonating US government agents and telling them that their Social Security Numbers (SSN) were going to be blocked as they were found in a criminal investigation. The victims were then coerced to settle the matter by paying fines in the form of cash vouchers which were then converted to Bitcoin and used by the fraudsters,” Superintendent of Police (Crime) Shobit Saksena told reporters. “The accused are mainly from Gujarat and Mumbai who had taken the premises on rent and had started operating recently,” he added. “Further technical and forensic investigations are ongoing,” Saksena said. The scam, known as the technical support scam, lures victims, often senior citizens. According to the New York Times, Americans have cumulatively lost upwards of USD 14 million via such scams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-police-bust-gang-that-ran-fake-call-centre-duped-uscitizens-101631102124499.html
08-09-2021||India||HT NxT to begin from Sept 9; Abhinav Bindra, Sonakshi Sinha among speakers||The virtual edition of HT NxT, a platform of Hindustan Times that brings together prominent newsmakers, will be inaugurated virtually on September 9. From September 9 to September 23, there will be sessions every Thursday featuring 17 speakers from areas ranging from sports to entertainment. The list of these stellar speakers includes Kapil Dev, Hardik Pandya, Sunil Chhetri, Abhinav Bindra, Naveen Tewari, Dr Navin & Dr Arjun Dang from the Dangs lab, Shatrughan Sinha, Sonakshi Sinha, Rasika and other renowned newsmakers. Catch the Olympians in action only at HT NxT! Register now to experience the future unfold #HTNxT2021https://t.co/PHA8OIZMeX#FirstVoiceLastWord pic.twitter.com/U9UR2ieGqJHT NxT is a first-of-its-kind platform aimed at bringing together the next-generation leaders, newsmakers to discuss the pertinent ideas, harness collective knowledge and experiences and frame innovative solutions for a better future.The HT NxT session will allow live Q&A with the speakers and participants will also be able to network with other peers and delegates in attendance. The Networking lounge feature will also offer an opportunity to send personal chat requests to other attendees, share business cards and request to schedule a meeting.To register for HT NxT, visit https://htnxt.virtualeventexp.com/||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-nxt-to-begin-from-september-9-registration-on-101631099187301.html
08-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: SpiceJet pilots derostered for landing before touchdown zone in Seychelles and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.DGCA derosters SpiceJet pilots for landing before touchdown zone in SeychellesDirectorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), country’s aviation regulator, has derostered two SpiceJet pilots over safety concerns as they landed before the touchdown zone at Seychelles airport on Tuesday. Read more.Farooq Abdullah didn't 'back' Taliban: Party says on his Afghanistan remarkNational Conference on Wednesday slammed attempts to twist party leader Farooq Abdullah's coomment on Taliban and said that the party leader never 'backed' or 'supported' the Taliban as claimed by some media channels and on social media. "I hope they (Taliban) will deliver good governance and follow Islamic principles in that country (Afghanistan) and respect human rights. They should try to develop friendly relations with every country," the National Conference leader said, which has been interpreted by many as "indirectly extending support". Read more.No women: US ‘concerned’ over Taliban govt led by UN-blacklisted AkhundzadaThe United States is concerned over the track record of some of the cabinet members who will now govern Afghanistan under the new Taliban rule. A state department spokesperson explained that the concerns are mainly because of two reasons. One, the past and the affiliations of some of the individuals and second, the overall nature of the cabinet as it is not inclusive at all. The cabinet also includes no women members. Read more.ICC Test Rankings: India's Jasprit Bumrah climbs to ninth place after game-changing spellJasprit Bumrah, who was one of the main architects of India's win at The Oval, has climbed to the ninth place in the latest ICC Test rankings. Read more.Akshay Kumar’s mother passes away, actor says 'I feel an unbearable pain'Actor Akshay Kumar’s mother Aruna Bhatia died on Wednesday morning. The actor took to social media to share the news and expressed his grief. On Tuesday, Akshay had asked his fans to pray for his mother's health. Watch here.Overweight or have joint issues? Try deep water running to lose weightApart from the incredible health benefits it offers, running fills your heart with joy and a feeling of liberation. We leave behind our everyday stress with each step forward even as we get closer to a fitter version of self. Studies have proven how running helps to improve our cardiovascular health, increases immunity, enhances endurance and muscle strength. There are also researches that show how running can actually boost our mental health and serve as an antidepressant. Read more.Harsh Goenka shares pictures of New York’s Little Island, post intrigues peopleIf you follow Harsh Goenka on Twitter, chances are you are aware that he often shares various kinds of posts. Just like his recent share about Little Island Park in New York City. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-spicejet-pilots-derostered-for-landing-before-touchdown-101631097961704.html
08-09-2021||India||Not feasible to pass general order on door-to-door vaccination: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Wednesday left it to the states to decide on implementing door-to-door Covid-19 vaccination, saying that a general order cannot be issued for the entire country considering the diversity of conditions across states. The court was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by the Youth Bar Association of India seeking door-to-door Covid vaccination for all citizens, particularly the elderly, special persons with disability, the less privileged and weaker sections of society, and those who were unable to register online.While directing the petitioner to approach the ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) with their suggestions, the bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, Vikram Nath and Hima Kohli said, “The vaccination programme is already underway and has progressed considerably. At this stage it is difficult for us to issue general directions having regard to the diversity of conditions existing in the country. Any direction by us should not impinge upon the administrative power of the state governments to take any decision, including door-to-door vaccination.” In July, the Bombay high court asked the Maharashtra government to consider providing door-to-door vaccination for the elderly and those bedridden or wheelchair-bound. The top court said it was aware of the Bombay high court order but reminded the petitioner, “These are not matters where with one brush you can pass a direction for the entire country. Can you say the same conditions exist in Ladakh as in Uttar Pradesh or any urban area has the same conditions as prevailing in rural areas?” The court also asked the petitioner organisation, comprising mostly lawyers, whether they had checked the feasibility of carrying out such an exercise. “These are matters of research and for you to just come to court and seek directions is not enough. You have just picked up an issue and want door-to-door vaccination. Nobody has applied their mind if this is feasible. When you ask for such relief, you do not understand the diversity of this country and complexity of the problem.” The petition had relied on the fact that vulnerable sections of the population should be first attended to through a door-to-door vaccination policy. This way, the petition argued, there will be minimum risk of getting infected by avoiding visit to the vaccination centres. The petition also sought directions for drawing out a standard operating procedure (SOP) on door-to-door vaccination facility and a toll-free 24X7 portal for this purpose. The vaccination policy is being monitored by the court in a separate suo motu proceeding wherein a National Task Force has been constituted as part of measures to contain the spread of Covid-19. The court clarified that its present order will not have any bearing on the suo motu proceedings. When the petitioner’s lawyer Bably Singh sought a time-bound order for the government to consider their suggestions, the bench replied, “We will not pass such an order as you cannot imagine how pressurised the officials of the ministry of health and family welfare are. You can make your concrete suggestions that may be considered at the appropriate level. They will certainly take a decision.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-feasible-to-pass-general-order-on-door-to-door-vaccination-supreme-court-101631100082954.html
08-09-2021||India||Uttarakhand: NTCA seeks report on illegal construction in Corbett Tiger Reserve||National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) has again written to chief wildlife warden, Uttarakhand, to investigate the allegations of tree felling, illegal construction of bridges and walls in Corbett Tiger Reserve (CTR) and submit a factual report in the matter. In its letter dated September 6, the NTCA pointed out that it had written to the department on August 12 as well but the report has not been submitted. The letter urged the state forest department to get the matter investigated immediately. Last month, wildlife activist and Supreme Court advocate Gaurav Kumar Bansal sent a legal notice to NTCA member secretary. Bansal alleged flagrant violations of the Wildlife Protection Act and Forest Conservation Act in CTR. His legal notice alleged that illegal construction of bridges and wall was being done in Corbett near Kalagarh Forest Rest House. Also Read | Uttarakhand governor Baby Rani Maurya resignsJS Suhag, chief wildlife warden Uttarakhand said CTR field director has constituted a fact-finding committee in the matter to visit the areas mentioned in the allegations. “Based on the report of this committee, the factual report will be sent to NTCA”, he said. Bansal said within Kalagarh and Pakhro area of CTR, forest officials were illegally constructing bridges. “Near Kalagarh Forest Rest House, Uttarakhand forest department is not only illegally allowing construction of around four bridges, it is also constructing high wall at the boundary of CTR,” he said. Bansal said he also came to know that all the construction material except cement was being sourced from CTR, resulting in illegal mining of natural resources. He also approached the Delhi high court in the matter. In its August 23 order, the high court directed the NTCA to treat the petition as a representation and look into the issues flagged by Bansal. CTR director Rahul (who goes by his first name) also wrote to DFO Kalagarh forest division in July this year, seeking details of constructions or renovations between Kalagarh and Pakhro.CTR, which is spread across 1,288 square km, is one of the most popular tourist destinations in the state. It opens for tourists on November 15 every year for six months, till mid-June. There are 231 tigers inside CTR and 266 using the reserve, according to the latest report on tigers. This is the highest number of tigers across 50 tiger reserves in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-ntca-seeks-report-on-illegal-construction-in-corbett-tiger-reserve-101631099244539.html
08-09-2021||India||Centre gives nod to ₹10,683 crore-worth PLI scheme for textile sector||The Union cabinet on Wednesday approved the production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme for the textile sector with the aim to boost domestic manufacturing and exports, Union minister Anurag Thakur said. The decision to pass the scheme was made in a meeting that was chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Delhi.Under the scheme, incentives worth ₹10,683 crore will be provided over a period of five years, news agency PTI reported. The outlay has been given a nod for textiles for man-made fibre (MMF) apparel, MMF fabrics and ten segments or products of technical textiles.Notably, the PLI scheme for textiles is part of a wider announcement made earlier during the Union Budget 2021-22, which includes a total of 13 sectors, with an outlay of ₹1.97 lakh crore.According to official estimates, minimum production in India from the PLI schemes is likely to surpass US$ 500 billion in five years, Livemint reported.Speaking about the scheme, Union commerce and industry minister, Piyush Goyal told ANI that the government hopes this decision will “produce some global champions.” “The factories based around aspirational districts or Tier-3 & Tier-4 cities will be given priority. It will especially benefit Gujarat, UP, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, etc,” he added.Minister of state (MoS), textiles, Darshana Jardosh said that there is a possibility of about 7.5 lakh people getting employment from this scheme. She further told ANI that the central government is “aiming for production of over ₹3.5 lakh crores; incentive target of 25% after first 2 years.”The idea of the schemes is to better competitiveness of domestic manufacturing activities and to pave the way for global champions. Furthermore, the schemes were specifically designed to curtail cheaper imports, boost domestic manufacturing in strategic sectors and cut down import expenses as well, according to the Livemint report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-gives-nod-to-rs-10-683-crore-worth-pli-scheme-for-textile-sector-101631096299377.html
08-09-2021||India||DGCA derosters SpiceJet pilots for landing before touchdown zone in Seychelles||Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), country’s aviation regulator, has derostered two SpiceJet pilots over safety concerns as they landed before the touchdown zone at Seychelles airport on Tuesday. The incident took place when SpiceJet B737-800 aircraft from Chennai to Seychelles landed before touchdown zone. The aircraft landed safely and according to DGCA sources, there was no damage to the airport or the aircraft.“Both pilots were off-rostered after the preliminary findings,’’ said a DGCA official. “The flight data recorder was reviewed and some manual error was found, after which the pilots were de-rostered,” the official added. SpiceJet spokesperson said, “We have initiated an inquiry.”Also Read | Footfall at Mumbai airport improved in August, festive season expected to be betterAccording to data from flightradar24, a Swedish internet-based service that shows real-time commercial aircraft flight tracking information on a map, the flight that was scheduled to take off at 7am, took off at 10.34am (IST) and landed at around 2.30pm (IST) on runway 13. “The flight landed safely but after the engine shut down, it was learnt that the operating crew made the aircraft land before touchdown zone. However, there is no damage to the aircraft or aerodrome property,” an airline source said. Appreciating DGCA’s decision to de-roster the pilots, aviation safety expert Mohan Ranganathan said, “It is a serious incident because the touchdown zone is at least 1300ft from the threshold and if the aircraft landed short of the runway then it highlights poor judgment of the pilots and had they used vertical situation display instrument, they would have known well in time that they were landing short. The repercussions could have been serious like the aircraft could have been veered off the runway or there could have been structural damage too.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dgca-derosters-spicejet-pilots-for-landing-before-touchdown-zone-in-seychelles-101631096122570.html
08-09-2021||India||Farooq Abdullah didn't 'back' Taliban: Party says after his Afghanistan remark gets 'twisted'||National Conference on Wednesday slammed attempts to twist party leader Farooq Abdullah's coomment on Taliban and said that the party leader never 'backed' or 'supported' the Taliban as claimed by some media channels and on social media. "I hope they (Taliban) will deliver good governance and follow Islamic principles in that country (Afghanistan) and respect human rights. They should try to develop friendly relations with every country," the National Conference leader said, which has been interpreted by many as "indirectly estending support".He was speaking to reporters after paying his respects at his father Sheikh Mohammad Abdullah's mausolem at Naseem Bagh in Srinagar on his 39th death anniversary."Backs? How? Falsely attributing things to Dr Farooq Abdullah that he NEVER said is DEPLORABLE. Twisting words and misrepresenting the intended meaning only exposes the so called “channels” that manufacture stories with mala fide intention," the party tweeted.Earlier, National Conference leader Omar Abdullah questioned the Centre for talking to the Taliban and said the Centre must clarify how it sees the Taliban. "Either Taliban are a terror organisation or not, please clarify to us how you see them. If they are not a terror group, then will you (Centre) move to United Nations and have it delisted as a terror organisation? Let their bank accounts start functioning then. If they are a terror group, why are you talking to them? How do you distinguish between the Taliban and other terror organisations?On August 31, India's ambassador to Qatar Deepak Mittal met Sher Mohammad Abbas Stanekzai at the Embassy of India in Doha to discuss safety, security of Indian nationals stranded in Afgganistan. At that time, Farooq Abdullah voiced his concern over the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan. "Taliban's influence will be felt. Where it will fall, how much will fall on America, how much will fall on Russia, how much will fall on China, I do not know. And we have to see how much impact it will have," Farooq Abdullah had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farooq-abdullah-didn-t-back-taliban-party-says-on-his-afghanistan-remark-101631095783197.html
08-09-2021||India||India, Russia agree to coordinate on Afghan settlement, regional peace||National Security Advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval and his Russian counterpart Nikolay Patrushev on Wednesday held wide-ranging talks in New Delhi on the prevailing situation in Afghanistan following its takeover by the Taliban and its security implications for India, Russia and the Central Asian region.In a statement, the Russian embassy said the duo discussed the military, political and socio-economic situation in the war-ravaged country.An ANI report said they also touched upon humanitarian and migration problems in Afghanistan, as well as prospects for Russian-Indian joint efforts aimed at creating conditions for launching a peaceful settlement process on the basis of an intra-Afghan dialogue.Also read | Afghanistan terrorism may spread to Kashmir: Russian ambassador“In addition, the sides agreed to coordinate the approaches of Russia and India in multilateral formats on the Afghan settlement,” the report said.The importance of defining parameters of the future state structure of Afghanistan by the Afghans themselves, as well as the need to prevent the escalation of violence -- social, ethnic and confessional contradictions in the country -- were also emphasised.Also read | ‘Too early’: Russian envoy to India on recognising Taliban as Afghanistan govtThe two top officials also discussed deepening bilateral cooperation in security with an emphasis on further interaction on the anti-terrorist track, combating illegal migration and drug trafficking, the embassy said.The further spoke about intensifying joint work of the two countries’ special services and military bodies.Also read | India, Russia on the same page on Taliban-ruled KabulThe meeting took place a day after Doval held extensive talks with chief of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) William Burns on the Afghan crisis.Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Russian President Vladimir Putin had on August 24 discussed the developments in Afghanistan and expressed the view that it was important for the two countries to work together.On Tuesday, the Ministry of External Affairs said Patrushev is visiting India at the invitation of Doval for the high-level India-Russia inter-governmental consultations on Afghanistan.On Monday, Russian envoy Nikolay Kudashev said that there is "ample scope" for cooperation between India and Russia on Afghanistan and both sides have been in regular touch with each other on the latest developments in the war-torn country.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-russia-agree-to-coordinate-on-afghan-settlement-regional-peace-101631095254711.html
08-09-2021||India||MI6, CIA chiefs and Russia’s Security Council secretary make beeline for India||Top security and intelligence officials of the UK, the US and Russia have made a beeline for India to discuss the situation in Afghanistan following the Taliban takeover in Kabul and the implications for regional security. Richard Moore, the head of the UK Secret Intelligence Service or MI6, was the first of the visitors over the past week, and he was followed on Tuesday by Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) director William Burns. Both spy chiefs and their teams met National Security Adviser Ajit Doval and top members of the National Security Council Secretariat, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. On Wednesday, Doval met Nikolay Patrushev, the secretary of Russia’s security council. Patrushev is visiting India at Doval’s invitation for high-level bilateral inter-governmental consultations on Afghanistan, the external affairs ministry said. The visits came against the backdrop of the old guard of the Taliban tightening its grip on power in Afghanistan a little more than two weeks after the group marched into Kabul on August 15, following the chaotic collapse of the Ashraf Ghani government. Just three days after a visit to Kabul by Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) chief, Lt Gen Faiz Hameed, the Taliban on Tuesday announced a 33-member interim setup led by veteran political leader Mohammad Hasan Akhund, a close aide of the group’s founder, Mullah Mohammad Omar. The people cited above said developments in Afghanistan and the possible spillover of terrorism from Afghan soil were among the key topics discussed in the meetings with the MI6 and CIA chiefs and the Russian security official. The Indian side raised Pakistan’s backing for the Taliban and its core military component, the Haqqani Network, and the presence of thousands of Pakistani fighters in Afghanistan, the people said. Also Read | As it forms the Afghan government, the Taliban relies on old guard, PashtunsThe meetings also looked at the way forward on Afghanistan, especially at a time when Russia and China appear to be veering towards the possible recognition of the Taliban dispensation. There are indications that Russia and China are keen to work with the Taliban to address their security concerns, especially the perceived threat from the Islamic State and the East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM). Russia and China are also among the very few countries that have kept their embassies in Kabul open and their envoys have been meeting with Taliban leaders. Burns and his team interacted with Doval and key members of the National Security Council Secretariat, including deputy national security adviser Rajinder Khanna and Lt Gen (retired) VG Khandare, the secretariat’s military adviser, the people said. While the external affairs ministry announced Patrushev’s visit, there was no official word from any side on the trips by the British and American spy chiefs. Burns is believed to have travelled to Pakistan after the India leg of his visit. The meeting between Doval and Patrushev is a follow-up to the phone conversation between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Vladimir Putin on August 24, during which the two leaders had agreed to remain in close touch on the Afghanistan issue. The consultations reflect the importance and potential for enhanced political and security cooperation on Afghanistan, the people said. “Both countries also share concerns on terrorism, especially ensuring that the Taliban adhere to their commitments,” one of the people said. The people said the Indian side also raised with Patrushev the activities of terror groups such as Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed on Afghan soil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mi6-cia-chiefs-and-russia-s-security-council-secretary-make-beeline-for-india-101631094744113.html
08-09-2021||India||Uttarakhand governor Baby Rani Maurya resigns||Only the second woman to be appointed Uttarakhand governor after Margaret Alva, Baby Rani Maurya resigned from her position on Wednesday, almost two years before completing her term, confirmed Brijesh Kumar Sant, secretary to the governor. “She has sent her resignation letter to the President Ram Nath Kovind today. The President is yet to accept or reject her resignation,” Sant said. 1956 born Baby Rani Maurya took charge as Uttarakhand governor in August 2018, succeeding Krishan Kant Paul, who was appointed governor in January 2015. The only other woman governor of the state, Margaret Alva held the post from August 2009 to May 2012. Before becoming the governor of Uttarakhand, Maurya had served on many political and administrative posts. From 1995 to 2000, she was mayor of Agra. In 2001, she was a member of the State Social Welfare Board and a member of the National Women’s Commission in 2002. In 1996, she was awarded Samaj Ratna, followed by the Uttar Pradesh Ratna in 1997 and the Nari Ratna award in 1998. Speculations were rife that she might be given some important responsibility in Uttar Pradesh ahead of the assembly elections. A Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader from the Dalit community, Maurya had unsuccessfully contested the Assembly election from Etmadpur seat in 2007, following which she became less active in political circles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-governor-baby-rani-maurya-resigns-101631093242299.html
08-09-2021||India||Politics calling? Baby Rani Maurya resigns as Uttarakhand governor||Uttarakhand Governor Baby Rani Maurya on Wednesday resigned from her post citing personal reasons. Maurya submitted her resignation to President Ram Nath Kovind, the governor secretary BK Sant said, according to news agency ANI.Maurya put in her papers two years before completing her tenure amid speculations that she might take a fresh plunge into Uttar Pradesh politics where the crucial Assembly election is slated to be held next here.Uttarakhand Governor Baby Rani Maurya (in file pic) has submitted her resignation to President Ram Nath Kovind, says the Governor's Secretary, BK Sant pic.twitter.com/bI4rIE6B2WOn Sunday, she met Union home minister Amit Shah in New Delhi.A BJP leader from the Dalit community, Maurya had unsuccessfully contested the Assembly election from Etmadpur seat in 2007, following which she became less active in political circles.She was sworn in as the governor of Uttarakhand on August 26, 2018 taking over from Krishna Kant Paul at the end of his five-year tenure.She had completed three years in office as the governor last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/baby-rani-maurya-resigns-as-uttarakhand-governor-101631091524765.html
08-09-2021||India||Apple’s new update sparks concerns among govt, experts||Apple’s announcement last month that it would scan iCloud and iMessage for images related to the sexual abuse and exploitation of children on iPhones, a plan that has since been deferred amidst an outcry that this could be the forerunner of mass surveillance, has created a stir in policy making circles in India as well. According to a senior government official who asked not to be named, this would be a total violation of right to privacy, something that had been upheld by the Supreme Court as a fundamental right. “Apple has no right to do something like this,” the government official added. “The definition of right to privacy has restrictions which can (only) be invoked by the government not tech companies.”The official added only the state has the “power to breach the fundamental right”. “Apple’s update is against what is enshrined in the constitution.” Also Read | Apple lets some apps avoid 30% cut after facing scrutinyApple proposed to achieve its objective through an update which would have allowed it to scan images stored in the cloud as well transmitted over iMessage, its messaging platform which it has managed to keep outside the purview of India’s new guidelines for social media companies. Any child sexual abuse material (CSAM) on iCloud would automatically be flagged and reported, the company said. The notification when CSAM is shared over iMessage is triggered only when parental controls have been enabled. The update would have been the first of its kind to perform client-side scanning, that is going through the contents of people’s phones. Experts have warned of grave consequences regarding its impact on end-to-end encryption.HT reached out to Apple but did not receive a response immediately. In a statement released globally on September 3, Apple said that it was delaying the update. “Last month we announced plans for features intended to help protect children from predators who use communication tools to recruit and exploit them, and limit the spread of Child Sexual Abuse Material. Based on feedback from customers, advocacy groups, researchers and others, we have decided to take additional time over the coming months to collect input and make improvements before releasing these critically important child safety features.” Former Associate Director of Surveillance and Cybersecurity at the Stanford Center for Internet and Society Riana Pfefferkorn said the update would open a Pandora’s box. “Apple’s new CSAM scanning feature is predicated on complicated cryptography that attempts to preserve user privacy as best as possible,” she said. “Nevertheless, it fundamentally undermines users’ expectations of privacy on their phones. Likewise, notifying parents when children under 13 send or receive explicit images has a privacy impact as well and may result in harm to children of abusive parents. Apple has absolutely set an example that other tech companies, both in the handset space and the encrypted messaging apps space, are already being pressured to follow.”Ranjana Kumari, who is a member of Facebook’s oversight board and Director of Centre for Social Research, said that the framework of end-to-end encryption is evolving. “The question is between privacy and safety. The choice is tough and both are equally important,” she said. “We need to devise other mechanisms for safety. Lot of international experts have proposed alternate mechanisms to promote safety while protecting privacy.”Pfefferkorn added that the surveillance implications of the update were vast. “We can anticipate that the on-device scanning for CSAM will rapidly be repurposed by governments worldwide into a surveillance tool to scan for content they do not like,” she said. “Similarly, Apple’s messaging safety feature could be expanded to content besides explicit images, and notification expanded from “notify only parents of children under 13, if the parents opted in to this notification feature,” to “notify the government, and not just regarding children, and don’t give users the option to opt out.” Apple’s only response to this concern is that they simply would not agree to scan for other types of content outside of the child safety context. But given Apple’s track record of bowing to government pressure worldwide, for example in China, that representation rings hollow.” She added that Apple’s update also showed a willingness to share data with government. “Apple follows the law in the jurisdictions where it does business. That includes both criminal investigatory laws as well as laws governing user privacy and data protection. This means it will comply with demands for user data by governments, whether in the US or elsewhere, but only if both (1) the demand is legal (i.e. there is proper legal process) and, also, (2) compliance with the demand is likewise legal under applicable laws, i.e., there isn’t a privacy law blocking the disclosure of the data. But yes, Apple has now created a way of detecting and sharing information about its users (specifically, those who upload a sufficient number of CSAM images to iCloud) that it did not previously have.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/apples-new-update-sparks-concerns-among-govt-experts-101631089282016.html
08-09-2021||India||Tamil Nadu adopts resolution urging government to repeal CAA||Following through with the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK)’s election promise, Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin adopted a resolution on Wednesday urging the union government to repeal the contentious Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), 2019. The state argues that the CAA isn’t secular, it doesn’t support refugees but it discriminates based on religion and country of origin. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) walked out in protest and its ally and principal Opposition, the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK), walked out even before the resolution was tabled. However, the Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK), which is part of the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA), supported the resolution. The resolution stated that the CAA is not in tune with the secular principles prescribed by the Constitution. “...and also not conducive to the communal harmony that prevails in India. As per established democratic principles, a Country should be governed taking into consideration the aspirations and concerns of the people belonging to all sections of the society. But it is clearly seen that the CAA was passed in such a way that it does not accord warm support to the refugees considering their plight, but instead discriminates (against) them according to their religion and their country of origin. Therefore, to protect and ensure the unity and communal harmony of this Country and to uphold the secular principles enshrined in the Constitution of India, this August House resolves to urge the Union Government to repeal CAA, 2019.” With this, Tamil Nadu joins states such as Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Rajasthan and West Bengal in passing resolutions against CAA. Stalin also drew attention to Sri Lankan refugees who are not covered under the CAA--the DMK has promised them citizenship on humanitarian grounds. After forming the government in May, Stalin dropped charges against anti-CAA protesters. This is also the second legislation passed by the BJP-led Centre that Stalin’s new DMK government has opposed in the assembly. In August, the Tamil Nadu government moved a resolution against the three farm laws.Tamil Nadu BJP’s floor leader Nainar Nagendran defended their party’s decision to enforce the CAA that allows India citizenship for persecuted immigrants except Muslims from three neighbouring countries -- Pakistan, Afghanistan and Bangladesh. “It’s 100% not against minorities,” Nagendran said in the assembly and walked out. The AIADMK walked out ahead of the resolution being tabled, saying that the schemes introduced during former chief minister and AIADMK leader late J Jayalalithaa’s regime were being stalled. “They are scrapping Amma’s (Jayalalithaa’s) schemes one by one, and they are not even allowing us to raise these issues,” leader of Opposition Edappadi Palaniswami told reporters outside the assembly. “We condemned this so we walked out.” The party has not commented on the resolution and has had differing stances on CAA. The AIADMK, during its regime, voted in favour of the CAA in Parliament. But later, the AIADMK made a promise to the contrary in its election manifesto ahead of the assembly elections in April--they said they would ask the union government to withdraw CAA for the protection of the rights of minorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-adopts-resolution-against-caa-101631088801720.html
08-09-2021||India||Women can join NDA, Centre informs Supreme Court||The Union government on Wednesday informed the Supreme Court that it has decided that women, too, can join the Pune-based National Defence Academy (NDA). The Centre’s submission in the top court came as a 2-judge bench took up a plea seeking directions for necessary steps to be taken to allow eligible female candidates to appear in the upcoming NDA examination, which is scheduled to be held on November 14.Also Read | SC allows women to appear in NDA exam“There’s some good news. A decision has been taken at the highest level of forces and government that girls will be inducted for permanent commission through the National Defence Academy. The decision was taken late evening yesterday,” Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Aishwarya Bhati, appearing for the central government, informed the bench, according to Live Law. Bhati described it as a “path breaking” and “generational reform.”The Centre, however, also sought an exemption from allowing women candidates for this year’s paper.On this, the bench headed by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul directed the government to put on record a detailed affidavit by September 20, mentioning details such as steps being mulled, timeline etc. The next hearing in the matter will take place on September 22, it announced. #SupremeCourt asks Centre to put on record a detailed affidavit on steps being mulled, timelines etc by Sep 20 & the case will be heard next on Sep 22. @appauled_ is the AoR for the petitioner in the case, in which SC had last time directed women will be allowed to sit for exam https://t.co/w2Oee2y2HU“Armed forces are so respected in the country. However, on gender equality, they have to do more,” Justice Kaul observed.Wednesday’s developments come in the backdrop of interim directions passed by the court on August 18, in which it said that girls can also appear for the NDA exam. “The policy that restricts their entry into the elite institution is based on gender discrimination,” the order read. In doing so, it rejected Centre’s arguments that women not being allowed at the NDA does not violate their fundamental rights as male cadets trained at the academy do not enjoy any advantage in future career prospects over women who, at present, can join the Army only on short service commission (SSC) through the Combined Defence Services (CDS) exam.Also Read | No violation of rights in denying women admission to NDA: Centre to SCAt present, only male candidates who have cleared class 12th, and are between 16-and-a-half and 19-years-old, can apply for this exam, which is conducted twice every year by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC). Those who clear the written exam then appear for Services Selection Board (SSB) interviews. Finally, the ones who clear their medical tests are inducted into the NDA, which was established in December 1954.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/women-cadets-will-be-allowed-to-join-nda-centre-informs-supreme-court-101631087888411.html
08-09-2021||India||Ajit Doval meets Russia's Patrushev to discuss situation in Taliban-ruled Afghanistan||National Security Adviser (NSA) Ajit Doval on Wednesday met Russia's secretary of the country's security council General Nikolai Patrushev for high-level India-Russia inter-governmental consultations on the situation in Afghanistan. The discussions come hours after the Taliban announced their new interim government in the war-torn nation, revealing an all-male cabinet that includes several individuals sanctioned by the United States and the United Nations, along with an FBI ‘most wanted’ terrorist as a top minister. In light of these developments, Patrushev's visit to India and the subsequent meetings with NSA Ajit Doval assumes special significance for both New Delhi and Moscow in connection with the response to the Taliban takeover.Also Read | Taliban takeover in Afghanistan to figure at BRICS meet chaired by PM ModiMeeting between NSA Shri Ajit Doval and Secretary of the Russian Security Council General Nikolai #Patrushev in Delhi.@PMOIndia @DrSJaishankar @MEAIndia @mfa_russia @RusEmbIndia @DDIndialive @ANI @IndianDiplomacy @tass_agency @rianru @RT_com pic.twitter.com/UK1i0ZKGzHAfter meeting Doval, the Russian security chief is also expected to call on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and foreign minister Dr S Jaishankar. The officials are to discuss the political, security, and humanitarian situation in Afghanistan.The high-level India-Russia inter-governmental consultations on Afghanistan led by the two national security advisers include representatives of the Union ministry of external affairs, the ministry of defence, and security agencies. The consultations, which are currently underway, are likely to reflect on the developing situation in Afghanistan created by the withdrawal of US forces. Both Russia and India share similar concerns on terrorism, especially to ensure that the Taliban adhere to their promises and assurances.Also Read | India, Russia on the same page on Taliban-ruled KabulThe security chiefs are expected to discuss activities of terrorist groups such as the Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammad, threats from drugs, the role of regional countries and details of Indo-Russia cooperation to meet current and future threats and measures to assist Afghanistan, said those privy to the matter.General Nikolay Patrushev is understood to be the ‘right-hand man’ of Russian president Vladimir Putin, and in meeting him today, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be getting a better cognisance of Moscow's position on Kabul.Earlier, India put across its point of view on the impact of Taliban-ruled Afghanistan to the visiting security heads of Britain and the United States – MI-6 chief Richard Moore and CIA chief William Burns – respectively.The political situation in Afghanistan has taken a turn for the worse with US-designated terrorist Sirajuddin Haqqani in charge of interior ministry and intelligence, while Mullah Yaqoob, son of Mullah Omar, the defence minister. The United States said late on Tuesday that it is concerned about the "affiliations and track records" of some of the people named by the Taliban to fill top posts in Afghanistan's new government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ajit-doval-meets-russia-s-patrushev-to-discuss-situation-in-taliban-ruled-afghanistan-101631085374825.html
08-09-2021||India||Come winter, artificial intelligence equipped Saathi to guard, treat crops||Come winter this year, robots will be guarding tomato and potato crops from insects, birds and viruses, analyse the soil and spray insecticides in a targeted area at the CS Azad University of Agriculture and Technology, Kanpur.Developed by the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Kanpur, the robots can navigate through agricultural fields to help farmers keep an eye on the crops, leaves and flowers and guard them against attacks from insects.“It will treat the crops and also send out instant alerts about the viruses infecting the soil, helping the farmer decide on a future course of action. It’s overall interventions will help the farmers get good crop quality and yield,” said professor Vishakh Bhattacharya, the maker of this robot.Between October and November, these robots will be deployed at the CSA University fields to give their inputs on soil and crop conditions.Bhattacharya said the use of pesticides to protect the crops from insect attacks not only pollutes the crops and fruits but also the soil and water. “We have named it Saathi, to help farmers alleviate the ill-effects of the current mode of farming,” he said.Equipped with artificial intelligence, the robot has numerous sensors and cameras, which will help in scanning even the smallest detail.“It will assess the affected area in the field and sprinkle pesticides just in that particular area, and not in the entire field,” he said. Even if one leaf on a plant is not infected, the robot will not spray it, Bhattacharya added.Saathi robot will regularly assess soil health and provide the user or farmer estimates on growth of crops and production. Besides, it will also record the changes in the field and shoot off an analytical report.“We have prepared this robot with Uttar Pradesh in mind. It will go to the CSA fields fully fed with details of diseases that harm potato and tomato crops, and the pesticides that are used,” he said.The team at the mechanical engineering department has been working for two-and-a-half years on this robot with the last one year spent on fine-tuning it to perform specific tasks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/come-winter-artificial-intelligence-equipped-saathi-to-guard-treat-crops-101631086941607.html
08-09-2021||India||Chirag meets Tejashwi in Patna, expresses desire to speak to Nitish too||Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) president Chirag Paswan met Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav in Patna on Wednesday to invite him for an event on September 12 to mark the first death anniversary of his father and former Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan. This was the duo’s first meeting since the Bihar Assembly election held last year.The Jamui MP said he would also meet RJD supremo Lalu Yadav in Delhi on Thursday, adding that he wished to meet Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar as well. “My aim is to invite everyone who has worked with him to pay their tributes,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also read | Tejashwi reaches out to Chirag again, tells him to join Bihar oppositionTejashwi shared photos of the meeting on Twitter.लोजपा के राष्ट्रीय अध्यक्ष श्री चिराग पासवान जी ने अपने पिता स्वर्गीय रामविलास पासवान जी की बरसी के मौके पर आयोजित श्रद्धांजलि सभा में शामिल होने का आमंत्रण दिया। pic.twitter.com/6PWVieLoWG Chirag had severed ties with Kumar-led Janata Dal (United) weeks ahead of the election, but had maintained he would continue to remain a part of the BJP-led NDA at the Centre. The JD(U) and BJP are coalition partners of the ruling camp in Bihar.On Tuesday, Chirag said he had invited top national leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah and Congress president Sonia Gandhi, for the event that is likely to assume heightened political significance at a time when the Paswan scion in embroiled in a bitter dispute with his uncle and Union Minister Pashupati Kumar Paras to claim the legacy of his father. Chirag also met Paras at the latter’s residence in Delhi to give him an invite.Also read | Nitish Kumar sacrificed his party leaders to make Pashupati a minister: Chirag PaswanParas is also likely to organise an anniversary event on October 8, the day Paswan passed away last year. He is also expected to invite top national leaders.Chirag is also in the news for installing the bust of his father at the latter’s official residence for three decades in Delhi for which the Centre has sent an eviction notice to the Paswan family and allocated the same to Union minister Ashwini Vaishnaw. However, the LJP has claimed there was politics behind his move and Chirag, being a lawmaker, would not do anything considered encroachment or any violation of law.While the BJP has given a ministerial berth in the Narendra Modi government to Paras ignoring Chirag's claims to the party, opposition leaders, including Lalu Prasad and his son Tejashwi, have reached out to him.Though he has voiced displeasure over the BJP's treatment of him, he has so far maintained silence about his future political moves, saying his priority now was to build his party.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chirag-meets-tejashwi-in-patna-expresses-desire-to-meet-nitish-too-101631085540326.html
08-09-2021||India||‘UNSC not truly representative of contemporary world’: Indian envoy||India's permanent representative to the United Nations TS Tirumurti on Wednesday briefed the UN Security Council (UNSC) on the maintenance of international peace and security.Highlighting that the UN charter is prescribed a “trigger mechanism for collective action” by the UN Security Council, Tirumurti said, “Action by the UNSC is not the first step, but the last, after exhausting all options.”He said the principle of non-intrusion into domestic affairs of member states is a key aspect of the UNSC. “The challenge is to balance these important articles of faith when initiating action by the (UN Security) Council," the Indian envoy said.Tirumurti spoke on the constraints of the UNSC and the “structural inequality” in the security grouping.“We have seen and continue to witness the distressing consequences of intervention made without allowing for mediation efforts, especially regional mediation efforts. We, therefore, need to draw the right lessons from history and calls for preventive diplomacy should be seen in these contexts," Tirumurti said during this address.The Indian diplomat highlighted that some of the member nations have, in recent years, made efforts to bring thematic issues to be taken up by the UNSC by projecting them as peace and security issues. "While some of them are extremely important and timely, like, for example, the women, peace and security agenda, we should be equally careful that instead of reforming the other UN organs, we are arrogating to ourselves some of the responsibilities of the other organs.”Tirumurti remarked that much of the problems relating to Security Council decisions stem from an "important factor" that the group is not truly representative of the contemporary world.#IndiainUNSCWatch 📺:Remarks by @AmbTSTirumurti at the #UNSC Briefing on Maintenance of International Peace and Security (Elders)@MeaIndia pic.twitter.com/lpLWxelJmDThe Indian diplomat quoted an excerpt from Prime Minister Narendra Modi's address to the 75th session of the UN General Assembly last year, to highlight that "reforms in the responses, in the processes, and in the character of the United Nations is the need of the hour.”“The world today is significantly different from 1945, and if the member states have to truly believe in the impartiality of the Security Council, it must make decisions based on certain impartial yardsticks,” Tirumurti said.Stressing that the UNSC has to be “representative of current realities to be credible, legitimate and effective", Tirumurti said, “Consequently, when considering preventive diplomacy, either suo motu or through the recommendation of the Secretary-General, the member states have to be convinced that the decision taken by the Council is impartial and carefully considered, and is not just a political tool. Only then will preventive diplomacy be effective and even acceptable by all member states.”Tirumurti said that the United Nations has several principal organs which clearly defines roles and functions, and the issues of social and economic significance must be discussed primarily at the General Assembly, and not at the Security Council. “We need to reform the other organs to make them more effective and promote cooperative functionalism between the principal organs of the UN,” he added.Tirumurti further said that the tendency to burden the UNSC with an increasing number of global challenges premised on their “perceived connection with a threat to peace and security” will be self-defeating.The top diplomat highlighted that the world continues to be confronted with peace and security challenges exacerbated by the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. He stressed that contemporary security challenges are not limited to territorial or political disputes but transcend physical or political boundaries. “To address new and emerging challenges we need coordinated and concerted actions across borders. In this regard, strengthening partnerships and enhancing linkages between the UN and regional organisations is absolutely critical,” Tirumurti said.Speaking in favour of including regional blocs in the decision-making process of the Security Council, Tirumurti said, “With their deep knowledge of local factors and complexities, regional and sub-regional organisations and uniquely placed to contribute to finding better solutions to conflicts in their respective regions.”He said there are instances where the UNSC's decisions are at variance with how regional groups decide.Tirumurti also briefed the UNSC on the security challenges in the region and how they are affecting the world. “The continuing acts of terrorism and expansion of terrorist groups pose serious challenges to the maintenance of international peace and security,” he said.He reminded the UNSC of Indian foreign minister S Jaishankar's “eight principles of counter-terrorism,” and said that UNSC needs to have zero tolerance to non-state terror actors and their sponsors. “Equally important is to the end the stalemate and expeditiously adopt a comprehensive convention on international terrorism,” Tirumurti added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/un-security-council-ts-tirumurti-un-general-assembly-global-peace-diplomacy-101631082309556.html
08-09-2021||India||Every eligible citizen must take Covid vaccine: Vice President Naidu||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Tuesday asked every eligible citizen to take the Covid-19 vaccine and added that the vaccination campaign should become a people’s movement. He added that every eligible citizen must deem it as their duty to take the required dose of vaccine.Launching a free vaccination programme organised in Hyderabad by Swarna Bharat Trust in collaboration with Bharat Biotech International Ltd and MediCiti Hospitals, Naidu said that there was no alternative to taking the vaccine.He also urged people’s representatives, film and sports celebrities to take the lead in dispelling myths and fears on Covid-19 vaccination, and stressed on the need to counter misinformation on the vaccines. Mentioning that more than 7.1 million doses were administered in the country till Monday, he expressed his happiness that India had vaccinated over 50% of its eligible citizens with at least one dose. Terming this as a collective and remarkable effort of the Centre and states, the Vice President stressed that the mission of vaccination must not lose momentum until every citizen is vaccinated.Naidu observed that at a time when even developed countries are struggling to cope with the pandemic, India has not only successfully manufactured vaccines, but is also conducting the world’s largest free vaccination programme. “Further, in the spirit of ‘Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam’, India has exported vaccines around the world,” he added.The Vice President also stressed the importance of maintaining Covid-appropriate behaviour even after taking the vaccination. He mentioned that citizens should take personal responsibility and adhere to personal hygiene, wearing masks and maintaining a safe distance from each other. In addition, Naidu suggested that citizens adopt healthy lifestyle choices, such as practising yoga, maintaining physical fitness and eating healthy food in order to ward off potential health problems.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/every-eligible-citizen-must-take-covid-vaccine-vice-president-naidu-101631085681283.html
08-09-2021||India||Rajnath Singh okays increase in financial powers of armed forces||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday approved the expansion of financial powers to the armed forces through the Delegation of Financial Powers to Defence Services (DFPDS) 2021.The move aims to empower field formations, improve operational preparedness, and ease cross-service cooperation among the armed forces. Singh said it is an important step in strengthening the country’s security infrastructure. The order approved substantial enhancement in the schedules related to indigenisation, research, and development by up to three times the existing powers, in line with PM Modi’s vision of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’. Also Watch | PM Modi meets Amit Shah, Rajnath, Ajit Doval after Taliban’s Panjshir claimA general enhancement of up to two times has been approved for the competent financial authorities (CFAs). In certain schedules, this enhancement at field formations is in the range of up to 5-10 times on account of operational requirements,” the ministry said in a statement.“Delegated financial powers of vice chiefs of the services have been increased by 10 percent, subject to an overall ceiling of ₹500 crore,” it said.The ministry said the financial powers of Chief of Integrated Defence Staff to the Chairman Chiefs Of Staff Committee as CFA have been enhanced substantially and aligned with that of the vice chiefs of the services.The statement by the ministry of defence also stated that any clarifications or interpretation of these provisions will be addressed by an empowered committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-okays-increase-in-financial-powers-of-armed-forces-101631085621238.html
08-09-2021||India||To assume every Covid-19 death was due to negligence is ‘too much’, says SC||The Supreme Court on Wednesday said that courts cannot presume that all deaths due to Covid-19 in the second wave of the pandemic were due to negligence as it refused to entertain a plea seeking compensation for the kin of the victims by treating it as medical negligence.A bench of Justices DY Chandrachud, Vikram Nath, and Hima Kohli asked the petitioner Deepak Raj Singh to approach the competent authorities with his suggestions.The bench said, “To assume that each death due to Covid-19 took place due to negligence is too much. The second wave had such an impact across the country that it cannot be presumed that all deaths happened due to negligence. Courts cannot have a presumption that all Covid deaths happened due to medical negligence, which your petition does”.The top court referred to a recent verdict of June 30, in which it had directed the National Disaster Management Authority to recommend within six weeks appropriate guidelines for ex-gratia assistance on account of loss of life to the family members of persons, who died due to Covid-19.It said, “in that verdict, the court has taken a view with regard to humanity and not due to negligence. The government is yet to come out with the policy. If you have any suggestion with regard to implementation of that policy, you can approach the competent authority”.At the outset, advocate Sriram Parakat, appearing for the petitioner, said that his petition is different as it brings into account an element of negligence and compensation for the deaths which have happened due to medical negligence.The bench noted that since the petition was filed in the month of May, a lot of developments have taken place.“We have taken suo motu cognizance on Covid preparedness and a National Task Force has been constituted by this court which is looking into several aspects,” the bench said.The bench further told Parakat that, “It was such a wave that it affected the entire country” and the court cannot make a general presumption of medical negligence.The top court, while disposing of the petition, asked the petitioner to withdraw his plea and amend it and if any suggestions are there, then the petitioner can approach the competent authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-assume-every-covid-19-death-was-due-to-negligence-is-too-much-says-sc-101631084681030.html
08-09-2021||India||Those giving out nationalist certificates targeting firms now: Former Infy exec||A former senior executive at Information Technology (IT) behemoth Infosys on Wednesday hit back at statements in support of a controversial article against the company, saying that those who were earlier issuing nationalist certificates to individuals are now doing the same for companies.“Earlier they were giving nationalist certificates to individuals, now they are giving it to companies. It is bad. When a lot of capital is coming into the country. When we are celebrating entrepreneurs in the ecosystem, creating unicorns. You cannot discredit unicorns and companies which have put the company in the global map . It is a sad thing,” V Balakrishnan, the former chief financial officer (CFO) of Infosys told Hindustan Times on Wednesday.The statement comes a day after Manmohan Vaidya, the general secretary of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), the ideological parent of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), defended a controversial article in Panchajanya, calling the magazine the “herald of a Dharam Yudh” or righteous war.In his comments, Vaidya said that when you have good people on the wrong side, then you will have to shoot arrows against them as well.Despite a section of the RSS distancing itself from the controversial magazine’s article, the comments by Vaidya have raised apprehensions within corporate India.Tata, the salt-to-software conglomerate, was targeted when Tanishq jewellery aired an ad showing a pregnant woman who appeared to be of Hindu religion, being escorted by her Muslim mother-in-law to a baby shower. Right-wing groups termed the ad an effort to promote “love jihad” though the actual messaging was supposedly to show how the festivities brings people together.The company was forced to pull down the ad due to growing pressure from online trolls and scathing remarks from fringe elements.Infosys, better known for its prowess in software, found itself a target of vicious attacks after the magazine claimed that the company’s trust was funding forces against IndiaThe four-page article, which appeared as the cover story in the current edition of the weekly magazine with the headline ‘Saakh Aur Aaghaat’ (‘reputation and affront’), accused Infosys of trying to destabilise the Indian economy and also accused it of helping “Naxals, Leftists and tukde tukde gang”.The article comes in the backdrop of glitches in the new Income Tax e-filing portal developed by Infosys. Last month, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman summoned the firm’s CEO, Salil Parekh, and asked him to fix the glitches in the income tax portal by September 15.“Due to glitches in both GST and Income Tax return portals developed by Infosys, the taxpayers trust in the country’s economy has taken a hit. Is it that any anti-national force via Infosys is trying to hurt India’s economic interests,” the article said.RSS spokesperson Sunil Ambekar on Monday attempted to put some distance between the group and the magazine, earlier believed to be a mouthpiece of the sangh.“As an Indian company, Infosys has made seminal contribution in progress of the country. There might be certain issues with a portal run by Infosys, but the article published by Panchjanya in this context only reflects the individual opinion of the author,” Ambekar said in a post on Twitter.“Panchjanya is not a mouthpiece of the RSS and the said article or opinions expressed in it should not be linked with the RSS,” he added.Following the RSS statement, Panchjanya Editor had Hitesh Shankar tweeted, “Panchjanya stands firm with its report. If Infosys has objections, it should present its side by urging for a more thorough investigation...”A mail sent to Infosys seeking comment went unanswered.“I don’t think that this person understands that Infosys is a 100% Indian company and one of the top companies of India,” TV Mohandas Pai, another former top executive of Infosys said.“He should talk to Prime Minister Modi to understand what companies like Infosys have done for the country,” he added.Pai said that he was not clear what was driving such statements against the company.The controversial episode has put the Bharatiya Janata Party in a tight spot where it cannot publicly defend the company or its ideological parent.The Karnataka government, which has used the success of Infosys and Wipro to put Bengaluru on the global map and attract new investments, has also maintained a stoic silence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/those-giving-out-nationalist-certificates-targeting-companies-now-former-infy-exec-101631084901286.html
08-09-2021||India||Assam: 100% public transport and govt vehicles to run on electricity by 2030||The Assam government is planning to convert existing public transport and government vehicles to electric mode by 2030 as part of a new policy, a state government official said on Monday. The Electric Vehicle Policy of Assam, 2021, approved recently, also aims to introduce at least 200,000 electric vehicles (EVs) within the next five years through a set of incentives for buyers. “It’s a bold decision taken by the government with an eye on improving air quality by reducing emission from vehicles. It’s just the beginning, but we are getting good response to the policy,” principal secretary (industries and commerce) KK Dwivedi said. As the first step towards implementing the policy, the state cabinet has approved procurement of 200 electric buses and 100 CNG-operated (compressed natural gas) buses for Guwahati. Dwivedi said that of the 200,000 EVs to be introduced within 5 years, 100,000 will be two-wheelers, 75,000 will be three-wheelers and 25,000 four-wheelers. “In order to encourage people to buy EVs, the state government will give a subsidy of ₹20,000 on two-wheelers, ₹50,000 for three-wheelers and ₹1.5 lakh for four-wheelers. There will be 100% exemption of registration fees, road tax and parking fees for EVs,” he said. The policy also envisages charging stations for EVs across the state. Entrepreneurs setting up the stations will get a 90% discount on their electricity bills for the first five years. “As per Centre’s policy, by 2030, all vehicles older than 15 years found unfit would have to be scrapped. In order to implement that, we have signed agreements with two firms, one from Kolkata and another from Guwahati,” Dwivedi said. “These scrapping facilities for old and unfit vehicles will be set up near Guwahati and both companies will invest ₹20 crore for them,” he added. For EV manufacturing companies interested in setting up their assembly line in Assam, the new policy will provide subsidies on setting up factories, discounts on electricity bills, rebate on income tax etc. “This is just the beginning. We will be constantly monitoring and will make course correction in policy as and when required. We are open to suggestions on improving it further,” said Dwivedi. At present, Assam has over 4 million vehicles operating across the state. The new policy envisages that by 2026, 25% of newly-registered vehicles will be EVs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-100-public-transport-and-govt-vehicles-to-run-on-electricity-by-2030-101631084541571.html
08-09-2021||India||Gotmar fair: Over 400 injured in annual stone pelting ritual in Madhya Pradesh||More than 400 people were injured in traditional stone pelting in Madhya Pradesh during the annual 'Gotmar' fair on Tuesday. The fair was organised on the banks of river Jaam in Chhindwara district.The district administration had deployed 1,000 policemen and a team of 35 doctors at the site of the fair, news agency PTI reported. The event was monitored by drones, PTI added."During the Gotmar fair on Tuesday, over 400 people sustained injuries. Two people with severe injuries have been referred to Nagpur in neighbouring Maharashtra for further treatment," Chief Medical Health Officer (CMHO) Dr GC Chourasia said.It is a centuries-old and one of the bloodiest fairs in the world. People of two villages - Savargaon and Pandhurna - throng either sides of river Jaam during the fair where a tree is erected in the middle of the river with a flag on top.Both the sides approach the tree to remove the flag by pelting stones (called Got) at each other and those who remove the flag first, are declared winners.The Gotmar fair is organised in the month of September. The whole activity happens amidst the chanting of the sacred name of Maa Durga.District Collector Saurabh Kumar Suman said on Tuesday that the fair passed off peacefully this year and lesser people were injured when compared to previous year, adding that he had appealed to people to organise such events only in a symbolic manner.As per local legend, about 300 years ago, a boy from Pandhurna eloped with a girl from Swargaon and people from the latter threw stones to stop him from crossing the river with her, while his village folk retaliated in the same manner to bring the couple home safely.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gotmar-fair-over-400-injured-in-annual-stone-pelting-ritual-in-madhya-pradesh-101631083858422.html
08-09-2021||India||BJP announces state in-charges for four poll-bound states||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has set the ball rolling for the upcoming assembly elections in a clutch of states by announcing in-charges who will have the mandate to oversee electioneering. Union ministers aided by ministers of state and party functionaries have been given charge of states such as Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Manipur and Goa where the party is contesting to retain power. Union minister for education Dharmendra Pradhan has been given charge of the politically significant state of Uttar Pradesh. His co-incharges will be Union minister for information and broadcasting Anurag Thakur; Minister of State (MoS), parliamentary affairs, Arjun Ram Meghwal; MoS for agriculture and farmers welfare, Shobha Karanjdale; MoS education, Annapurna Devi; former national general secretary Saroj Pandey; MPs Vivek Thakur and former minister in Haryana Capt Abhimanyu. Also Read | Bombs hurled outside BJP MP’s residence in BengalUnion minister for parliamentary affairs Pralhad Joshi has been given charge of Uttarakhand. West Bengal MP Locket Chatterjee and party spokesperson RP Singh will be the co-incharges for the state where the BJP changed three chief ministers within a year. Union minister for Jal Shakti Gajendra Shekhawat has been given charge of Punjab, where the party will be contesting on its own for the first time after its ally, the Shiromani Akali Dal, severed ties. The party faces a daunting task in the state whose farmers have been at the forefront of the ongoing stir against the farm laws. Union minister for urban development Hardeep Singh Puri; MoS in external affairs ministry, Meenakshi Lekhi; and Lok Sabha MP Vionod Chawda will be co-incharges in Punjab. Bhupendra Yadav, Union minister for labour and employment and environment, forests and climate change will be in-charge of Manipur. MoS for social justice Pratima Bhaumik and Assam minister Ashok Singhal have been named the co-incharges for Manipur. Former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis has been made in-charge of Goa. Darshana Jardosh, MoS for railways and textiles; and G Kishan Reddy, Union minister for culture, tourism and development of north-eastern region will be the co-incharges for Goa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-announces-state-in-charges-for-four-poll-bound-states-101631083821023.html
08-09-2021||India||Karnal farm stir: Rakesh Tikait says talks on as tents come up near secretariat||As farmers’ protest in Karnal against the administration’s handling of the August 28 agitation reached the second day, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait said some explanation had been offered and talks were being held over their future course of action.Hundreds of farmers along with their leaders spent the night at the main entrance of the Karnal mini secretariat in Haryana on Tuesday as they made it clear they would not retreat until their demand of action against former Karnal SDM Ayush Sinha is accepted.Haryana | Farmers continue sit-in protest at Mini Secretariat in Karnal Farmers held a march & gheraoed mini secretariat yesterday after district admin refused to compensate injured protesters & to take action against admin officials over lathi-charge on farmers on Aug 28 pic.twitter.com/7aldRI1ZW3Earlier in the day, the farmers held a march as part of the planned ‘kisan mahapanchayat’ and gheraoed the mini secretariat after the district administration refused to compensate injured protesters and take action against officials over baton charging the protesters on August 28. Over 40 farmers were injured in the clashes last month.Also read | Karnal kisan mahapanchayat: Cops warn ‘armed elements’, call for order“The administration has tried to give an explanation of SDM's earlier action. We will hold a meeting with farmers to make a decision on our further actions," Tikait was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Meanwhile, farmers have started setting up tents outside the mini secretariat as a large number of protesters, including women, from different districts continued their sit-in.So far, there has been no restriction on the movement of people and employees of the secretariat.The government has extended the suspension of mobile internet and SMS for the next 24 hours till 12am, September 9.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a platform of farm unions spearheading the protests against the farm laws since November, had threatened to lay siege to the secretariat if its demands for action were not met by September 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnal-farm-stir-rakesh-tikait-says-talks-on-as-tents-come-up-near-secretariat-101631080327926.html
08-09-2021||India||SC upholds extension of ED director tenure till November||The Supreme Court on Wednesday upheld the decision of the Centre to extend the tenure of the director of enforcement Sanjay Kumar Mishra till November 2021, making it clear that he will not be entitled to any further extension.A bench of justices L Nageswara Rao and BR Gavai said, “For the reason that his (Mishra) tenure is ending in November 2021, we have refused to interfere. However, we make it clear that no further extension is to be granted to him.”The court decided the issue in a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by NGO Common Cause which challenged the decision of the government to grant a retrospective one-year extension to Mishra on November 13, 2020 after his superannuation in May 2020. He was initially appointed as ED Director for two years beginning November 19, 2018 and by the November 13, 2020 order, his tenure was amended retrospectively to three years.Also Read | Goa mining firms’ pleas for extension of leases dismissed by SCThe bench said, “We have upheld the power of the Centre to extend the tenure of ED director beyond two years. We make it clear that any extension should be only in rare and exceptional cases. Any extension granted to persons beyond superannuation should be for a short tenure.”The government had cited crucial cases investigated under him and his spectacular performance as a director to continue with his appointment. The petition argued by advocate Prashant Bhushan argued that this arbitrariness would play havoc with the system allowing government a free hand to keep officers of their choice beyond retirement for unreasonable period. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the government, said that Section 25(d) of Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) Act laying down the tenure of director enforcement to be “not less than two years” gave discretion to the government to fix a tenure beyond two years, notwithstanding the retirement age of 60 years applicable under Rule 56 of All India Service Rules. He argued that enforcement director occupies an important post probing money laundering crimes having cross-border and trans-national ramifications. “Considering the huge ramifications, if the government feels that in the interest of preserving the pending investigations, the officer must continue, is it necessary that curtains should fall when he crosses the two-year stage?” The government had informed the court that in the last two years as director, Mishra was instrumental in helping the ED recover a sum of nearly ₹9,000 crore worth proceeds of crime in the investigation of three cases involving Vijay Mallya, Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi. The bench replied saying, “We appreciate that he is doing good work. But you cannot continue with him till all these cases are over.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-upholds-extension-of-ed-director-tenure-till-nov-says-no-further-extension-101631080160644.html
08-09-2021||India||Goa mining firms’ pleas for extension of leases dismissed by SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday dismissed a bunch of petitions filed by Goa’s mining companies seeking retrospective extension of their leases until 2037. The petitions were filed by Vedanta Ltd and other mining companies after the Goa government refused to entertain them saying it was bound by a Supreme Court order specifically prohibiting such extensions. The petitions were dismissed by a bench of justices DY Chandrachud, Vikram Nath and Hima Kohli on Tuesday. The reasons for the dismissal will become clear when a copy of the order is made available. The largest mining company to have operated in Goa, Vedanta Ltd had challenged Goa government’s decision to decline its request to amend their mining lease to extend its period from 1987 to 2037-- a period of 50 years citing Section 8(A)(3) of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 (MMDR Act).Vedanta and others claimed before the Supreme Court that under the amended Mines and Minerals Development Act (2015), all leases that were operational before the amendment “shall be deemed to have been granted for a period of fifty years”. This, they argued, in Goa’s case meant 50 years from 1987 -- the year Goa’s mining leases were converted from Portuguese granted concessions under the Mines and Minerals Development Act. Goa’s miners argued that since their mines were “operational” when the amendment came into effect in 2015, they were eligible for the benefit under the amendment. The Supreme Court order pronouncing Goa’s mining lease renewals to be illegal was passed in 2018. The Goa government agreed with their standpoint, but expressed inability to extend the lease deed due to the Supreme Court verdict dated February 7, 2018, which cancelled 88 mining lease renewals and directed that leases and environmental clearances are granted afresh.The Supreme Court had ruled that Goa’s mining leases, initially granted as concessions by the Portuguese, expired in November 2007 and the subsequent renewals by the state government in 2014-15 were illegal.The Goa government had backed Vedanta in their plea before the Supreme Court saying it was prima facie in agreement with the firm. Earlier this year, the Supreme Court also dismissed a plea by the Goa government seeking a review of SC’s 2018 order, which cancelled the 88 mining leases. Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant on Tuesday said he hadn’t seen the order and hence couldn’t comment on the decision. “I will read the order. But the government has been prepared. We have started our corporation. We will fast track the process. If necessary we will auction the mining leases to restart the mining process,” Sawant said when asked to comment on the development. “After the dismissal of the review petitions, it was apparent that the appeals and petitions filed by Vedanta and Parulekar would also go out of the window. With this development, the private mining industry and its lobbies which held sway over the sector for more than 50 years have come to an inglorious end,” Claude Alvares, the director of Goa Foundation, an environmental NGO whose petitions resulted in the closure of mining in Goa, and who was a respondent in this case, said. HT reached out to Vedanta but received no response at the time of filing this report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-mining-firms-pleas-for-extension-of-leases-dismissed-by-sc-101631079440599.html
08-09-2021||India||Namaaz room in Jharkhand assembly: PIL filed in high court||A public interest litigation (PIL) has been filed in Jharkhand high court on Tuesday against the allocation of a dedicated room for Muslims to offer namaaz in the state assembly building. This comes amid a ruckus in the state assembly over the same, with the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) calling it the state government’s “appeasement politics”.Petitioner Bhairav Singh has sought cancellation of the notification issued to this effect on September 2 by the assembly Secretariat. “We have filed the petition seeking cancellation of the notification that allotted a separate room for namaaz because it violates the preamble of the Constitution, which clearly mentions secularism as one of the guarding principles of the Constitution. The state can’t protect or propagate any religion. Vidhan Sabha is a law-making body and a public funded institution,” said Singh’s counsel Rajiv Kumar. Also Read | Jharkhand assembly clears 75% quota in private jobs for localsThe BJP has been stalling the proceedings in the ongoing monsoon session, demanding that either the notification be cancelled or they also be granted a place for worship. Party legislators did kirtan outside the House on Monday and read Hanuman Chalisa inside the well of the House on Tuesday. Today, they are organising a march up to the assembly even as the ruling combine of Jharkhand Mukti Morcha, Congress, and Rashtriya Janata Dal has refused to relent.The state government has defended the notification, saying there has been such a room earlier, when the BJP was in power. Jharkhand BJP president and Rajya Sabha member Deepak Prakash said the march is against the “perennial appeasement politics of the ruling dispensation”. “Allocation of a namaaz room is not the first such issue. Recently, in the new employment policy, they included Urdu in the regional language papers for conducting exams for jobs, and removed Hindi from it. Two days back, a Congress legislator backed Taliban but the party leadership did not take any action,” said Prakash. If they were being secular, they should have also provided space for worship to Hindus, Christians, Jains, besides Sarna and Jatra Sthal for the tribals, Prakash added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/namaaz-room-in-jharkhand-assembly-pil-filed-in-high-court-101631077340078.html
08-09-2021||India||Jammu man shot down brother-in-law and his brother over domestic dispute||Jammu police late Tuesday arrested the key accused in sensational Chowadhi double murder case when we was attempting to flee from the city, said police officers.Accused Arun Kumar, a resident of Chowadhi shot his brother-in-law Amit Jangral and his younger brother Rohit Jangral, both residents of Gurha Balderan, Hiranagar, Kathua, during a heated argument on Tuesday, killing them on spot, said Chandan Kohli, senior superintendent of police (SSP) Jammu. The accused fled after the shooting incident near Radha Krishan temple at Chowadhi.Police said Amit Jangral and his younger brother Rohit were visiting Amit’s estranged wife on Tuesday at her parent’s Upper Chowadhi house in Jammu to settle a domestic dispute. The matter went out of hand when Amit’s brother-in-law Arun Kumar shot Amit and Rohit down following a heated argument with Rohit. Police said Amit was shot with a pistol and Rohit was shot from a 12 bore gun.A police team headed by sub divisional police officer (SPDO) City East Jammu Bikram Kumar and station house officer (SHO) Channi Himmat under the supervision of South Jammu police chief investigated the case and arrested the accused along with the weapon of offence from a Volkswagen Polo car. Accused had arms license for both the weapons, police said.“During preliminary investigation, it emerged that persistent domestic feud led to this incident. Further investigation is going on,” said the SSP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-man-shot-down-brother-in-law-and-his-brother-over-domestic-dispute-101631077100234.html
08-09-2021||India||Bombs hurled at Bengal BJP MP Arjun Singh's house, guv flags violence concerns||Crude bombs were reportedly hurled at Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Arjun Singh’s residence in West Bengal’s North 24 Parganas district early on Wednesday night. Police have reached the spot and are scanning for evidence.An India Today report said the parliamentarian was in Delhi at the time of the incident although his family members were living inside the house located in Jagatdal. So far, there has been no report of any injury.The report further said at least three bombs were hurled amid the presence of security personnel from the Central Reserve Paramilitary Force (CRPF). Police are investigating the motive behind the incident. According to an NDTV report, Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh said the assailants may have affiliations with the ruling Trinamool Congress. West Bengal: Security personnel present near the residence of BJP MP Arjun Singh in North 24 Parganas"Bomb explosions outside the residence of Member of Parliament Arjun Singh this morning is worrisome," tweeted West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar pic.twitter.com/Gg2XzhQmsrGovernor Jagdeep Dhankhar said the violence outside the parliamentarian’s residence revealed there was no sign of wanton violence abating in Bengal. “Bomb explosions outside the residence of Member of Parliament Arjun Singh this morning is worrisome,” he wrote on Twitter.Also read | Calcutta high court orders CBI probe into West Bengal post-poll violenceThe governor further said he would expect prompt action from the state police. As far as Singh’s security was concerned, the issue had been earlier flagged to chief minister Mamata Banerjee, he added.The governor has been raising the issue of post-poll violence unleashed against opposition leaders and workers ever since the Assembly election results were announced earlier this year. BJP leaders have also spoken about the issue frequently.Singh had switched over from the Trinamool Congress in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crude-bombs-hurled-at-bjp-mp-arjun-singh-s-house-guv-dhankhar-raises-concerns-101631075392766.html
08-09-2021||India||India logs 37,875 new Covid-19 cases; active caseload remains below 400,000||India saw a marginal rise in its fresh infections of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), as 37,875 people tested positive, taking the cumulative Covid-19 infection tally to 33,096,718, the Union ministry of health and family welfare’s (MoHFW) dashboard showed on Wednesday. This is a rise of more than 21 per cent from Tuesday, when 31,222 people tested positive.Also Read | RT-PCR mandatory for passengers from 9 countries landing in KolkataAlso, this is for the third straight day when the country logged more than 30,000 but less than 40,000 cases of Covid-19. On September 6, there were 38,948 cases.Also Read | Covid-19: Karnataka issues advisory against travelling to KeralaWednesday’s data further showed that there were 39,114 additional recoveries, taking total recovered cases to 32,264,051 comprising 97.48 per cent of the overall caseload. 369 people lost their lives in this period, taking total recorded fatalities to 441,411 comprising 1.33 per cent of the national tally. The number of active patients, meanwhile, remained below 400,000-mark for second straight day, falling by 1608 cases to 391,256 or 1.18 per cent of the nationwide infections.Also Read | Kerala lifts night curfew, Sunday lockdown; Colleges to reopen from Oct 4Daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.16% as out of 1,753,745 samples tested on September 7, 31,222 returned positive result. For the last nine days, the daily positivity rate has been below 3 per cent. COVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes @PIB_India @mygovindia @COVIDNewsByMIB #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/PYO4LktvptOn the vaccination front, the national vaccination coverage has crossed the 700 million-mark with 707,543,018 doses of Covid-19 vaccines administered thus far. This includes beneficiaries who are fully vaccinated or received both doses of a Covid-19 jab and those who are partially vaccinated, having been administered their first dose. The nationwide inoculation drive began on January 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-logs-37-875-new-covid-19-cases-active-caseload-remains-below-400000-101631074914094.html
08-09-2021||India||'Covid-19 can be cured with aspirin': Govt says viral message fake||The government has warned against a message being circulated on WhatsApp and other social media platforms, which claims that Covid-19 is a bacteria and not a virus. Posting a message about the WhatsApp forward, the Press Information Bureau's (PIB) fact check team has asked people to not believe in such messages.The fake message claims that Singapore conducted autopsy of a person who died of Covid and found that it is actually a bacteria and can be cured with anticoagulants like aspirin.The viral message claims that a study has been conducted on the aspirin's role in curing the coronavirus disease."A forwarded #WhatsApp message claims that #COVID19 is not a virus but a bacteria and it can be cured with anticoagulants like aspirin. This claim is #FAKE! #COVID19 is a virus not a bacteria. It can not be cured with anticoagulants like aspirin," PIB fact check said in a tweet on Tuesday.A forwarded #WhatsApp message claims that #COVID19 is not a virus but a bacteria and it can be cured with anticoagulants like aspirin.#PIBFactCheck ▶️ This claim is #FAKE! ▶️ #COVID19 is a virus not a bacteria.▶️ It can not be cured with anticoagulants like aspirin. pic.twitter.com/e8RgPRFL0CIndia, meanwhile, recorded 37,875 new cases of Covid-19 and 369 related fatalities in the last 24 hours, according to Union health ministry data.The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country crossed 70 crore on Tuesday, with the last 10 crore doses being given in just 13 days, the fastest so far, according to the ministry.The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers (HCWs) getting inoculated in the first phase.On Sunday, the Centre issued guidelines to help people identify whether they are being given authentic vaccines against Covid-19. The guideline contains a list of parameters based on their label, colour and other details to identify the authenticity of the Covid vaccines being used in the country.The move was a result of an alert from the World Health Organization (WHO) that it has identified counterfeit versions of Covishield in South-East Asia and Africa.India is administering the Serum Institute of India's (SII) Covishield, Bharat Biotech's Covaxin and the Russian vaccine Sputnik V to those eligible during the ongoing vaccination drive in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-can-be-cured-with-aspirin-govt-says-viral-message-fake-101631074216934.html
08-09-2021||India||RSS-affiliated farm union calls for new law for remunerative price to farmers||The RSS-affiliated farmers’ union, Bharatiya Kisan Sangh (BKS), on Tuesday said the Union government should take a sympathetic view of the demands raised by a section of protesting farmers who are seeking the repeal of the farm laws. The BKS, which has distanced itself from the protest has, however, demanded a new law to ensure remunerative price for farm produce. Close on the heels of the farmers’ rally in Muzaffarnagar against the three-farm laws, the BKS said it will hold a countrywide agitation on Wednesday to seek laws for remunerative price to farmers based on their cost of production. Also Read | Farmers spend night outside Karnal mini secretariat; bigger crowd expected todayBKS general secretary Badrinarayan Choudhary said, “Minimum Support Price (MSP) is an illusion. Farmers are not getting MSP in all parts of the country. A new stringent law should be brought which ensures that farmers’ get remunerative price of their produce.” He said a memorandum has also been sent to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 11, to highlight the “anger and discontent” among farmers across the country for not getting remunerative price for their produce. When asked about the protesting farmers’ demand, Choudhary said, “The government should take a sympathetic view of their demands, Though it is also the cases some of farmers’ demands are not reasonable.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rssaffiliated-farm-union-calls-for-new-law-for-remunerative-price-to-farmers-101631072359533.html
08-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Congress seeks postponement of NEET-UG 2021 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Congress seeks postponement of NEET-UG 2021 citing students’ ‘mental health’Congress leaders have put their weight behind students’ demand to postpone the National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test (NEET) for admission to undergraduate (UG) medical courses, abbreviated as NEET-UG, accusing the government of insensitivity to students’ concerns. Read MoreFarmers spend night outside Karnal mini secretariat; bigger crowd expected todayScores of farmers along with Samyukt Kisan Morcha leaders spent the night at the main entrance of the Karnal mini secretariat in Haryana on Tuesday. Several SKM leaders, including Rakesh Tikait, Gurnam Singh Charuni, Balbir Singh Rajewal, Yogender Yadav, Darshan Pal, and Joginder Ugrahan were also present as the farmers made it clear that they will not go back until their demand of action against the former Karnal SDM Ayush Sinha is accepted. Read MoreIndia, Russia on the same page on Taliban-ruled KabulThere is convergence in long-term strategic concerns of India and Russia over Taliban-ruled Afghanistan as it will not only destabilise Central Asia but also become a source of terror, opiate drugs, and a major proliferator of conventional weapons. Read MoreJoe Biden was asked about the China-Taliban finance link. Here's what he saidJoe Biden, president of the United States of America, said on Tuesday (local time) that China has a “real problem” with the Taliban, and thus he has reason to believe that Beijing will work out “some arrangement” with the new rulers in Afghanistan. Read MoreInside look at Taliban all-male cabinet: Minister wanted by FBI, with a bounty on his headThe Taliban on Tuesday announced a hardline government in Afghanistan after weeks of deliberation, revealing an all-male cabinet that also includes a top official who is on the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI)'s ‘most wanted’ list, with a bounty of up to $10 million on his head. Read More‘People said India would miss Ashwin. Kohli said, ‘No, we won't’: Naseer Hussain hails Virat’s captaincy in Oval TestFrom conceding 99-run lead to coming back in style and thumping the hosts by 157 runs to go-up 2-1 in the series, Team India showcased a great example of team work required to win a Test match. Kohli’s batting may not have earned much praise but captaincy did. Things started falling in place for India in the second innings which was powered by the determination of every player to win. Read MoreAlia Bhatt dazzles in ₹5k handmade cotton mini dress for outing in MumbaiFloral dresses have always dominated our wardrobes, no matter the season. They are easy to wear and perfect for any occasion, be it a lunch date with friends or a cosy night-in with family. This versatile sartorial choice is a favourite of some of the best-dressed celebrities in Bollywood, especially Alia Bhatt. Read MoreAnand Ahuja reacts as Sonam Kapoor their poses in boots on ₹18 lakh sofa for photoshoot, she apologises for itAnand Ahuja, the husband of actor Sonam Kapoor, has reacted after she stood in boots on the couple's ₹18 lakh sofa for a photoshoot. Recently, Sonam shared a picture of herself on Instagram as she posed inside her London home and creative studio for the latest edition of Architectural Digest India. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-congress-seeks-postponement-of-neet-ug-2021-and-all-the-latest-news-101631071213216.html
08-09-2021||India||India, Russia on the same page on Taliban-ruled Kabul||There is convergence in long term strategic concerns of India and Russia over Taliban-ruled Afghanistan as it will not only destabilise Central Asia but also become a source of terror, opiate drugs, and a major proliferator of conventional weapons.While India has exchanged notes on Taliban-ruled Afghanistan with visiting security chiefs from the US and UK, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be meeting General Nikolay Patrushev, right hand man of Russian President Vladimir Putin and secretary of Russian Security Council, today to understand Moscow’s position on Kabul. As a follow-up of PM Modi’s warm conversation with President Putin over telephone on August 24, Gen Patrushev flew down to India last night at the invitation of Cabinet ranked National Security Advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval. Patrushev will also meet External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar.India has also put across its point of view on the impact of Taliban-ruled Afghanistan to earlier visiting UK MI-6 chief Richard Moore and to CIA Chief William Burns this week. It intends to do the same with Patrushev, while trying to understand their point of view.The political situation in Afghanistan has taken a turn for the worse with US designated terrorist Sirajuddin Haqqani in charge of interior ministry and intelligence, while Mullah Yaqoob, son of Mullah Omar, the defence minister. Throwing all the global concerns out of the window as expected, there is no space for women or minority in the Afghan Taliban cabinet with rabid hardliners ruling the roost. “The best of shaped IED makers are in the Afghan cabinet,” said a Kabul watcher referring to Haqqani, Yaqoob and Baradar.While Russia was understandably happy at the humiliating exit of US forces from Afghanistan, delight was short-lived as the reality of a terror force ruling Afghanistan at the behest of Pakistan dawned in. Even though Russia still maintains an embassy in Kabul, Moscow, like India, is very seriously concerned about the long-term security impact of the Islamist Sunni Pashtun regime in Afghanistan.It is quite evident now that even though Taliban projects itself as a flag-bearer of Sunni Pashtun nationalism, it is really a medieval force based on 1000 year old Islamic theocracy and has an agenda of global jihad with massive stockpile of US arms at its disposal. Already, the top cadres of Taliban’s ideological brother Jaish-e-Mohammed are carrying US made M-4 assault rifles and night vision devices.After the group has refused to severe ties with Al Qaeda and other jihadi group present in Pakistan, there is clear and present danger of increased Islamic radicalization in the region. Russia is now worried about it, soon will be China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-russia-on-the-same-page-on-taliban-ruled-kabul-101631071068273.html
08-09-2021||India||Farmers spend night outside Karnal mini secretariat; bigger crowd expected today||Scores of farmers along with Samyukt Kisan Morcha leaders spent the night at the main entrance of the Karnal mini secretariat in Haryana on Tuesday.Several SKM leaders, including Rakesh Tikait, Gurnam Singh Charuni, Balbir Singh Rajewal, Yogender Yadav, Darshan Pal and Joginder Ugrahan were also present as the farmers made it clear that they will not go back until their demand of action against the former Karnal SDM Ayush Sinha is accepted.However, the government has extended the suspension of mobile internet and SMS for the next 24 hours till 12am, September 9.Controversial farmer activist from Punjab, Lakha Sidhana, also reached Karnal late night along with several followers. In his brief address, Sidhana slammed the BJP-led governments at the Centre and state for attempts to create rifts between farmers of Punjab and Haryana.Also Watch | Talks fail, agitated farmers pitch tent outside Karnal mini-secretariat“They tried to divide us on several occasions but Punjab is always with its younger brother Haryana and we will stay in Karnal until we force this government to accept our demands,” he added.“The political situation of Haryana is different from that of Punjab and I salute the farmers of Haryana who are fighting against the [CM Manohar Lal] Khattar government despite repeated lathicharge and FIRs,” he added.A huge gathering of farmers is expected in Karnal on Wednesday as there are reports that farm union leaders have given a call to Haryana farmers to reach Karnal.Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said elaborate security arrangements are in place to deal with any law and order situation.The movement of traffic on NH-44 remained normal even as a huge deployment of police and security forces continues in Karnal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-spend-night-outside-karnal-mini-secretariat-bigger-crowd-expected-today-101631070258914.html
08-09-2021||India||Global community must ensure Covid vaccine distributed equitably: Om Birla||Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla urged the global community to ensure that Covid-19 vaccines are distributed equitably around the world on Tuesday.While participating in the general debate on the topic ‘The global response to the Covid-19 pandemic challenges and multilateralism’s ability to deliver for the people ’ at the Fifth World Conference of Speakers of Parliament (5WCSP), the Lok Sabha speaker said the international community needs to push for global and national reforms to make a more just and equal world in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.Underlining India’s global response to the pandemic, Birla said that India has been at the forefront of undertaking prompt humanitarian assistance and relief operations during the pandemic. He mentioned that India supplied vaccines, medicines and other equipment to over 150 countries as a measure of our commitment to global health and well-being.Also Read | Covid-19 infection does not affect lung function in young adults, says new studyBirla stressed that the post-pandemic global economic recovery phase requires collaboration and cooperation between member countries, to stimulate the revival and rebounding of the global economy.The Lok Sabha speaker underlined that India was proactive in dealing with Covid-19 and the hallmark of our response to the pandemic has people and communities at the core of our efforts. Birla added that the initial measures taken by the country in the early days of the pandemic gave India the requisite time and resources to gear up its strategies to fight the virus.He also highlighted India’s focus on developing indigenous technologies. He underlined that the country has enhanced its production capacity of PPE kits, masks, face-covers, diagnostics, oxygen, drugs, ventilators and other accessories to fight the pandemic.Mentioning that India reopened its economy in phases after the initial lockdown, he informed the delegates that two major economic stimulus packages were announced immediately to provide much-needed relief to people. He added that these packages included the $110 Billion Atmanirbhar Bharat Yojana which is equivalent to 10 per cent of India’s GDP and the $23 Billion Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana relief package.He also mentioned that India has embarked on the world’s largest free-of-cost vaccination drive which has an ambitious target of inoculating 900 million citizens by the end of the year. Birla further said that with the strength and will of its people, India is making steady progress towards this lofty goal.On the sidelines of the Fifth World Conference of Speakers of Parliament, the Birla held bilateral meetings with the Presiding Officers of Parliaments of Italy, Mongolia and Guyana and discussed shared democratic values, strengthening the democratic ethos at the grassroot levels, women empowerment and the need for enhanced cooperation in cultural, economic, diplomatic and other areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/global-community-must-ensure-covid-vaccine-distributed-equitably-om-birla-101631070138741.html
08-09-2021||India||Central and NW India to receive widespread rain till Saturday||Several parts of central and northwest India are likely to receive widespread and heavy rain till Saturday, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).A well-marked low pressure area is lying over southeast Madhya Pradesh and adjoining parts of north Vidarbha with its associated cyclonic circulation extending up to middle tropospheric levels-- up to 5 kms from earth’s surface. The well-marked low pressure area and its remnants are likely to move west north-westwards during the next 4-5 days, the weather department said.The monsoon trough is likely to lie south of its normal position for the next 4-5 days. A shear zone is likely to persist over south Peninsular India during the next 3 days, the weather forecaster said. A fresh low pressure area is likely to form over north and adjoining central Bay of Bengal around September 11, IMD has warned.Widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy rain is very likely over Telangana, coastal & north interior Karnataka, Vidarbha and Marathwada on September 7 before a reduction in intensity. However, it will continue over Madhya (central) Maharashtra, Konkan and Gujarat till September 11. Isolated extremely heavy rain (over 20 cm) is also likely over Madhya Maharashtra & Konkan on September 11.Widespread rain is expected over most parts of northwest India till September 11. Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Uttarakhand, east Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Punjab are likely to record heavy rain in this period, while rainfall is likely to increase over Odisha and Coastal Andhra Pradesh from September 11 onwards..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-and-nw-india-to-receive-widespread-rain-till-saturday-101631069358358.html
08-09-2021||India||Congress seeks postponement of NEET-UG 2021 citing students’ ‘mental health’||Congress leaders have put their weight behind students’ demand to postpone the National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test (NEET) for admission to undergraduate (UG) medical courses, abbreviated as NEET-UG, accusing the government of insensitivity to students’ concerns.On Tuesday, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi took to Twitter urging the Central government to postpone the NEET-UG 2021 exam, scheduled for September 12. The opposition leader alleged that the government was “blind” to students’ distress.Soon, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also hit out, accusing the government of not caring about the mental health of aspirants. “Time after time, the government pushes on against the legitimate demands of students across India. Why is it so hard for those in power to hear out and help those who are the future of our nation? Does their mental health and well being not matter?” she tweeted with #JusticeforNEETAspirants.Congress leader Shashi Tharoor said he was “inundated” with messages from NEET aspirants, seeking postponement of the exam. “Subjecting them to unreasonable exactions is shameful. It’s time the BJP worked for people, not for bureaucrats!” he tweeted on Tuesday.The party’s youth wing in Assam and Odisha held protests against the state and Central governments over the alleged manipulation of Joint Entrance Exam (JEE) Mains Examination, which led to the arrest of 7 people a few days ago. JEE is the national-level test for admission in undergraduate engineering courses.Shiromani Akali Dal leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal also accused the government of “insensitivity and arrogance”. She pointed out that students appearing for class 12 compartment exams will have to appear for NEET-UG examinations the very next day. She asked if this was the government’s idea of ‘Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas’- Modi government’s slogan for inclusive development with support from every section of the society.Over 1,400 students have signed an online petition on change.org to demand postponement of NEET 2021. The students argue that the medical entrance examination date is clashing with many other state and national-level entrance examinations and the Central Board of Secondary Examination (CBSE) private exams, and should therefore be postponed to next month. They say it will also give students sufficient time to prepare.#JusticeForNEETAspirants emerged as the no.1 trend on Twitter on Tuesday as thousands of students and social media users rallied to urge postponement.However, the Supreme Court declined to entertain pleas seeking postponement of the entrance examination on Monday and said that nearly 1.6 million students had burnt the midnight oil and any interference by the court will cause “pain and strain” to them. It however, allowed the students to approach the national testing agency, the authority that conducts the examination, for relief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-seeks-postponement-of-neet-ug-2021-citing-students-mental-health-101631067858338.html
08-09-2021||India||Nipah outbreak in Kerala: Karnataka govt issues advisory||In view of the cases of Nipah virus being reported in Kerala, the Karnataka government on Tuesday issued an advisory to prevent a similar outbreak in the state. The virus has killed a 12-year-old boy in Kerala's Kozhikode and infected some healthcare workers.Also Read: Nipah is a potential threat; step up surveillanceThe Karnataka government has asked districts bordering Kerala to be extra vigilant. The district authorities have been asked to monitor those arriving from Kerala for symptoms like fever, altered mental status, severe weakness, headache, respiratory distress, cough, vomiting, muscle pain, convulsion and diarrhoea.In its advisory, the Karnataka government has also asked district authorities to develop a systematic surveillance system to identify clusters of encephalitis cases for early detection of Nipah outbreaks.They have also been asked to spread public awareness in this regard.The advisory further said, "Suitable samples to be collected with all necessary precautions from suspected or probable patients and sent to NIV Pune for laboratory confirmation."According to World Health Organization (WHO), Nipah is a zoonotic virus - which is transmitted from animals to humans - and also through contaminated food or directly between people. Fruit bats are the major carriers of this virus.It is not an airborne infection and in fact, is transmitted from bats and pigs. It is fatal not only for humans but animals too.Those infected with Nipah virus may showcase Covid-like symptoms. The common symptoms of Nipah Virus are cough, sore throat, dizziness, drowsiness, muscle pain, tiredness, and encephalitis that is the swelling of the brain causing a headache, stiff neck, sensitivity to light, mental confusion, and seizures. One may also become unconscious and it can ultimately lead to death.The Nipan virus was first spotted in Malaysia during an outbreak among pig farmers in the year 1999, according to WHO. It was first detected in India in Siliguri, West Bengal in 2001 when 45 people died. Kerala had reported several cases of it in 2018.The incubation period of the virus is two weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nipah-outbreak-in-kerala-karnataka-govt-issues-advisory-101631065808574.html
08-09-2021||India||Bharatiya Kisan Sangh to hold protest today||The Bharatiya Kisan Sangh (BKS) will on Wednesday hold a nationwide protest over its demand for guarantee of a “profitable price” for agricultural crops grown by small farmers. This protest by the BKS, an affiliate of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), will take place at a time when the central government is already engaged in a standoff with farmers over the three contentious agricultural laws passed in September last year.The RSS is the ideological mentor of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which is in power at the Centre.To register its protest, the BKS will stage sit-ins at 600 district headquarters. The outfit’s demand is that the Union government should come up with a formula to work out the profitable price of every crop, instead of focusing only on the Minimum Support Price (MSP) of certain crops. “There are 127 zones and each zone has different cost vis a vis labour and infrastructure wise. Then, one should chalk out a profitable price. This cannot be about only 6 per cent farmers; this should also be about the remaining 94 per cent farmers who are cultivating crops which do not attract MSP given by the government,” Mohini Mohan Mishra, the all-India secretary of the BKS, said earlier this week to news agency ANI.“There are several crops and farmers who do not get profitable price. This should be addressed by the Centre,” Mishra further said.However, the RSS affiliate has made clear its stance on farmers’ agitation which, it alleged, is “political.” Events such as these, Mishra said, are “politically motivated” and hence the BKS is not supporting that movement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharatiya-kisan-sangh-to-hold-protest-today-101631064517008.html
08-09-2021||India||Supreme Court to hear plea of Gauri Lankesh's sister against high court order||The Supreme Court is scheduled to hear on Wednesday a petition by Kavitha Lankesh, the sister of murdered activist-journalist Gauri Lankesh, in connection with the dropping of criminal charges against Mohan Nayak, one of the accused in the case. The top court had last month scheduled the hearing in the matter for September 8, with a Supreme Court bench led by Justice AM Khanwilker issuing a notice to Karnataka on the petition.Kavitha Lankesh, a filmmaker by profession, had filed the petition opposing the Karnataka high court's decision last April to drop charges against accused Mohan Nayak under the Karnataka Control of Organised Crimes Act (KCOCA). The state high court had quashed these charges after dismissing a report by the Bengaluru police commissioner as well as the supplementary charge sheet filed in the case.Lankesh insists that Nayak, according to a special investigation team (SIT) probe, is part of a ‘syndicate’ responsible for multiple instances of organised crime, including the murder of her sister – the journalist Gauri Lankesh – as well as those of other activists such as Narendra Dabholkar and Govind Pansare. According to Lankesh's petition, Nayak is also a close associate of Amol Kale and Rajesh Bangera, both of who are the chief accused in the case. The plea mentions that as defined by the KCOCA, Nayak was involved in “continuous unlawful activity” by providing shelter to the key accused individuals. It says that the Karnataka high court “failed to appreciate the fact that the sanction order under Section 24(2) KCOCA was neither challenged nor assailed, and only order under Section 24(1)(a) had been challenged.”Mohan Nayak, the accused in this matter, is represented by senior advocate Basava Prabhu S Patil. Pointing out that his client has already been in custody for three years now, he had asked the top court to provide an early date for the hearing.Notably, the Supreme Court had earlier this year said that Mohan Nayak would not be granted bail in the murder case until the plea filed by Kavitha Lankesh was decided upon.Gauri Lankesh, a noted journalist and activist, was shot dead on the night of September 5, 2017, from a close range in front of her Rajarajeshwari Nagar house around 8pm. The murder triggered a massive outrage across India with citizens voicing their protests against the alleged repression of journalists and activists in the country. The impact of the case was also seen as one extending beyond borders; this year, the Canadian city of Burnaby decided to observe ‘Gauri Lankesh Day’ on September 5 to mark her death anniversary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-to-hear-plea-of-gauri-lankesh-s-sister-against-high-court-order-101631062025547.html
08-09-2021||India||Delhi, Noida report surge in cases of viral fever among children, say doctors||The doctors in Delhi and National Capital Region (NCR) have said that they are witnessing a surge in viral cases amongst children. The development is extremely concerning at a time coronavirus disease (Covid-19) are showing a spike."We are in midst of an outbreak of viral fevers. We are getting a lot of viral fever cases in children. Almost 25 per cent of our OPDs consist of children coming down with fever commonly with symptoms like cold, cough and fever," Dr Nitin Verma, Director, General Pediatrics, Madhukar Rainbow Children Hospital in Delhi."There are simple virals and in few cases of H3N2 which is a form of swine flu we are also getting that," he added.Dr (Brig) Rakesh Gupta, director of GIMS, Noida said that six children have been admitted in the hospital with viral fever and one case is of dengue. "We are getting almost 30 patients daily in OPD with complaints of viral fever," he added.In Uttar Pradesh, cases of viral fever, dengue and malaria have seen a sharp spike. Firozabad in western part of the state has emerged as a hotspot, with majority of cases being reported from the district.According to health officials, vector indices were found to be high in the district.Cases of viral fever are being reported from new ares like Bareilly, Badaun, Moradabad and Pilibhit districts of the Rohilkhand region. Chief medical superintendent (CMS) of Badaun district hospital Vijay Bahadur Raj said that they are receiving 1,100 to 1,400 out patients every day and most of them complain of symptoms resembling to viral fever.On Tuesday, close to 400 new patients showing symptoms of viral fever were reported in Moradabad.The number of fever cases are rising in Delhi too, with the doctors blaming seasonal influenza for the surge.These patients are tested for Covid-19, in accordance with central government guidelines, almost all of which return negative. Currently, doctors said, seven of 10 fever cases are caused by the flu.They added that the flu this season is also, unusually, affecting entire families.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-noida-report-surge-in-cases-of-viral-fever-among-children-say-doctors-101631063427510.html
08-09-2021||India||Bhabanipur by-polls: Mamata Banerjee likely to launch campaign today||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee is likely to launch on Wednesday her campaign for the upcoming by-polls in the eastern state. The Trinamool Congress (TMC) has fielded Banerjee from the assembly constituency of Bhabanipur, which she previously represented as an MLA. In the assembly elections held earlier this year, the TMC supremo contested from Nandigram but was defeated by her former aide, Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Suvendu Adhikari, in a see-saw contest.Also Read | Bhabanipur by-polls: Mamata’s plans to ensure she remains the CM of BengalLast Saturday, the Election Commission of India (ECI) announced that by-polls will be held on September 30 for three constituencies in West Bengal, including Bhabanipur, with counting of votes scheduled for October 3. The other two seats where the exercise will be held are Jangipur and Samserganj. The poll panel’s decision came after repeated representations from the TMC in this regard. Banerjee, who took oath on May 5 for a third straight term as the chief minister, has to be elected as an MLA by November 5 to continue in office. TMC’s Sovandeb Chattopadhyay, who was elected from Bhabanipur, earlier vacated the seat for Banerjee to contest.Also Read | Bhabanipur by-polls announced. Why is it crucial for Mamata Banerjee? 10 pointsOn Tuesday, the Congress announced it won’t field a candidate against her while the BJP is yet to take a call on who its candidate will be.Also Read | Bengal BJP sends 6 names to fight Mamata Banerjee in Bhabanipur bypollIn the 8-phase assembly elections, which were held between March 27 and April 29, the Banerjee-led party secured a third straight term by winning 213 out of 292 seats for which polling took place. The BJP finished second-best with a haul of 77 seats. However, since then, its tally has come down as two legislators resigned to continue as Lok Sabha MPs while four, including Mukul Roy, have returned to the TMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhabanipur-by-polls-mamata-banerjee-likely-to-launch-campaign-today-101631061030626.html
08-09-2021||India||West Bengal makes RT-PCR mandatory for passengers arriving from 7 countries||The West Bengal government has made it mandatory for international passengers from seven more countries to undergo RT-PCR tests for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on arrival in the state. The new rule will come into effect from Wednesday and even apply on passengers who are fully vaccinated.These countries are Bangladesh, China, South Africa, New Zealand, Mauritius, Zimbabwe and Botswana, according to a state government official who spoke to news agency PTI.The decision was taken after a meeting on Tuesday to review the Covid-19 situation in the state. The rule is already in place for passengers from the United Kingdom and Brazil.As per the decision, the testing would be a paid service at the Netaji Subhas Chandra International Airport in Kolkata. If any passenger wants a free service, he or she would be sent to Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute in the city, according to officials.The order, however, doesn't mention anything about where these passengers will stay till the results of their RT-PCR tests are out.West Bengal reported 601 new cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, which took the overall tally to 15,53,177. Seven persons succumbed due to the infection after which the death roll reached 18,522, according to state government's health bulletin.In the last 24 hours, 687 patients recovered from the disease in the state taking the total number of cured people to 15,26,268. The discharge rate improved slightly to 98.27 per cent.On Tuesday, 5,25,409 vaccine doses were administered in West Bengal and the number of people getting the vaccine has reached 4,46,52,376, a health department official said. The number of active cases in the state is 8,387.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/west-bengal-makes-rt-pcr-mandatory-for-passengers-arriving-from-7-countries-101631060779411.html
08-09-2021||India||C’garh CM’s father in 15-day judicial custody for remarks on Brahmins||A local court in Raipur on Tuesday sent Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel’s father, Nand Kumar Baghel, 86, to 15-day judicial custody for allegedly making derogatory remarks against the Brahmin community.The Bharatiya Janata Party, however, alleged that the CM got the case registered to “pacify the community in Chhattisgarh and Uttar Pradesh”.“Nand Kumar Baghel was arrested and brought from Delhi to Raipur on Tuesday,” said Raipur additional superintendent of Police, Tarkeshwar Patel. After his arrest, the CM’s father was produced in the court of Judicial Magistrate First Class (JMFC) in Raipur, district superintendent of police Prashant Agarwal said.The arrest comes days after the 86-year-old was booked for promoting enmity between different groups on the complaint of Sarv Brahmin Samaj. In its complaint, the outfit alleged that the CM’s father, at an event in Uttar Pradesh recently, urged people to “boycott Brahmins” and termed them “foreigners”. It also accused him of asking people to “evict” Brahmins from the country, an official had said citing the complaint.The CM’s father has not applied for bail so far, officials said. “This is my decisive fight against Brahminism and I will fight it till the Supreme Court,” Nand Kumar Baghel told reporters outside the court premises.The CM had earlier said “nobody is above the law”. “Every person is equal before my government...I honour him as his son but as a CM I cannot forgive him for such statements which disturb public order,” he said in a statement on Sunday after the FIR was filed.The BJP has said that Baghel is “trying to save his image”.“The people of the Brahmin community and other communities were not happy with CM Baghel and his government. Hence, a case was registered... The aim was to pacify the community in Chhattisgarh and UP… Through this arrest the CM is trying to save his image,” said Dharmlal Kaushik, senior BJP leader and leader of opposition in the state.Uttar Pradesh is scheduled to go to polls next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cgarh-cm-s-father-in-15-day-judicial-custody-for-remarks-on-brahmins-101631046369020.html
08-09-2021||India||SC dismisses plea of ex-KSPCB official over alleged forged resignation||New Delhi The Supreme Court on Tuesday refused to entertain a plea of former chairman of Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) against a state government notification relieving him from the post based on a resignation letter addressed to the chief minister.A bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana, however, accepted the contention of M Sudheendra Rao that the state government be asked to consider his representation against acceptance of resignation on May 2.“At this stage, it was brought to our notice by senior counsel that the petitioner has filed a representation dated May 10, 2020 to the Additional Chief Secretary to the government, Karnataka State Pollution Control Board, alleging certain allegations relating to his resignation dated May 2, 2020. In view of the above, it is open for the state government to take necessary action on the representation filed by the petitioner in accordance with law,” the bench said in its order.Rao, a qualified engineer, referred to his version saying that his resignation letter was forged and sent to the chief minister’s office where it was accepted in haste and the Karnataka High Court refused to entertain his plea against this acceptance.The bench, also comprising justices Surya Kant and Aniruddha Bose heard the submissions of senior lawyer V K Shukla and advocate Rohit Pandey on behalf of the former head of KSPCB.“Having heard senior counsel appearing for the petitioner and carefully perusing the material available on record, we see no reason to interfere with the impugned order passed by the High Court of Karnataka at Bengaluru dismissing the writ appeal of the petitioner. The Special Leave Petition is, accordingly, dismissed,” ordered the bench.It was claimed on behalf of Rao that some loose sheets of papers containing his signature were misused to fabricate the resignation letter.The senior lawyer contended forged document was treated as resignation letter of the chairman, who was qualified as an engineer and rendered his services as consultant to the Union government and several other organisations.The court, however, pointed out that the petitioner has already filed a criminal complaint in this regard, the police investigated the matter and filed a report.Rao has challenged the validity of the Karnataka High Court’s order, which dismissed his plea against acceptance of the resignation letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-dismisses-plea-of-ex-kspcb-official-over-alleged-forged-resignation-101631046116520.html
08-09-2021||India||Probe panel issues bailable warrant against Param Bir Singh for failing to appear before it||Mumbai: An inquiry commission headed by a retired high court judge on Tuesday issued a bailable warrant against former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh for not appearing before it.The Maharashtra government in March this year formed a one-member commission of Justice (retd) Kailash Uttamchand Chandiwal to conduct a probe into corruption allegations levelled by Singh against the then state home minister Anil Deshmukh. The commission had issued summons to Singh multiple times to appear before it, but he failed to do so, Hence, the panel issued a bailable warrant against him, a government lawyer said.Earlier, the commission had thrice imposed fines on Singh - ₹5,000 in June and ₹25,000 on two occasions last month - for failing to appear before it.Days after he was shunted out as Mumbai police commissioner and transferred to the Home Guards in March, Singh claimed in a letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray that Deshmukh used to ask police officers to collect money from restaurant and bar owners in Mumbai.Deshmukh, an NCP leader who resigned from the post of state home minister in April, has denied the allegations.The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) are probing the allegations made against Deshmukh by the senior IPS officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/probe-panel-issues-bailable-warrant-against-param-bir-singh-for-failing-to-appear-before-it-101631045635954.html
08-09-2021||India||Congress panel plans to start year-long events from Gandhi Jayanti||In its first meeting on how to mark 75 years of India’s independence, a high-powered committee of the Congress led by former prime minister Dr Manmohan Singh on Tuesday decided that the party would kickstart year-long events on Gandhi Jayanti with emphasis on special events at key places associated with the freedom struggle, like Jallianwala Bagh in Amritsar and Champaran in Bihar where Mahatma Gandhi led the first Satyagrah movement. The party also decided to focus on the role the farmers played in the freedom struggle.To chalk out the finer details of these events, the panel, which included former chief minister of Haryana, Bhupinder Hooda, former ministers AK Antony and Ambika Soni, among others, decided to form sub-committees, which would submit a final report to the former prime minister. This comes at a time when the government has launched a high-profile campaign called Azaadi ka Amrit Mahotsav to celebrate the landmark Independence celebrations in 2022.“We have to find a way that we can convey the role that so many people played in the freedom struggle, how to convey it to the young,” Hooda said, adding, “For instance, Dr Singh said that we have to highlight the importance of the Congress’ 1929 Lahore session- that was when the call for poorna swaraj or complete independence was first raised.”Over the last few weeks, the Opposition has reacted sharply against posters by the government body, Indian Council of Historical Research (ICHR), which omitted the country’s first prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru. While ICHR maintained that the poster was part of a series, the Congress in its meeting hinted at highlighting the role of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) during the freedom struggle.“People should know who helped the British and who fought against them, and our events should make it very clear,” said Pramod Tiwari, Congress’ Rajya Sabha MP and the member of the panel.During the discussion, it was decided that each sub-committee would frame strategy to mark the celebrations in three-four states and emphasis should be made to showcase the “real” history of the events surrounding India’s independence.The committee’s next meeting will be held after all suggestions are collated and submitted to Manmohan Singh..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/75-years-of-independence-congress-panel-plans-to-start-year-long-events-from-gandhi-jayanti-101631045035940.html
08-09-2021||India||BJP shortlists 6 candidates to fight Mamata Banerjee in Bengal by-election; Cong to sit out||Kolkata: The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) West Bengal unit on Tuesday proposed six names to the party leadership in Delhi to pick a candidate to be fielded against Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief Mamata Banerjee from Bhabanipur where the bypoll is scheduled on September 30, even as the Congress announced it would not field any candidate against the chief minister.“We have sent a list of six names to Delhi. The list includes the names of Priyanka Tibrewal and Biswajit Sarkar among others like Tathagata Roy,” said a senior BJP leader on condition of anonymity.Tibrewal, who is also an advocate, is the vice-president of the BJP’s youth wing in West Bengal. She was one of the petitioners in the post-poll violence cases in the Calcutta high court, which ultimately resulted in the court ordering a CBI probe.Biswajit Sarkar is the brother of BJP worker Abhijit Sarkar, who was murdered allegedly by TMC workers in Kolkata on May 2, the day election results were declared. Sarkar is among the petitioners who moved the Supreme Court in May, seeking the formation of a special investigation team for probing allegations of violence by TMC workers. The apex court allowed the high court to hear all the petitions.Abhijit Sarkar’s murder figured prominently in the National Human Rights Commission’s (NHRC) report that was submitted before the high court on July 13. Tibrewal represented many victims in the case, including Sarkar. The list also includes Tathagata Roy, veteran BJP leader and former governor of Meghalaya and Tripura, who recently slammed some of his party colleagues over the debacle in the West Bengal elections. Rudranil Ghosh, who was the BJP candidate in the constituency in the assembly elections earlier this year, also features in the list. He lost the contest to veteran TMC leader Sobhandeb Chatterjee, who has since vacated the seat for the chief minister to contest the bypoll.Talking to reporters on Tuesday, West Bengal Congress chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said, “The Congress high command in Delhi has decided that the party will not field any candidate against Mamata Banerjee. It is because that would help the BJP.”Last week, the Election Commission of India (ECI) announced that bypolls to three assembly seats in the state, including Bhabanipur in Kolkata, would be held on September 30. Counting of votes will take place on October 3. Apart from Bhabanipur, the bypolls will also be held to Jangipur and Samerganj assembly seats.Banerjee had won from Bhabanipur in 2011 and 2016. In the 2021 assembly polls, she, however, had decided to contest from Nandigram. Even though the TMC returned to power with a sweeping victory winning 213 seats out of the 292 seats where polls were held in eight phases in March and April, she lost by a narrow margin of 1,956 votes to her protégé-turned-adversary Suvendu Adhikari of the BJP.“It is good that good sense has prevailed, and the Congress has realised that fielding a candidate against Mamata Banerjee may help the BJP in turn. As far as the BJP’s candidates are concerned, they can field their central leadership. They would lose with such a huge margin that in future they would think twice before contesting an election,” said Tapas Roy, TMC leader and spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-shortlists-6-candidates-to-fight-mamata-banerjee-in-bengal-by-election-cong-to-sit-out-101631044316044.html
08-09-2021||India||Expert on farm-law panel asks SC to make report public, settle matter||A member of a Supreme Court-appointed panel of experts to examine the three contentious farm laws has urged the court to make its report public and decide the matter as thousands of farmers continue to oppose the legislation.The panel, which was set up by the Supreme Court in January this year, submitted its report in March.“More than five months have passed. It is painful to see farmers still protesting, being a representative of farmers myself. The court has so far not taken any interest in the report. It should be made public,” said Anil Jaysing Ghanwat, one of the experts on the panel.The committee scrutinised the three agricultural laws and held several rounds of meetings with a large number of farm organisations, regulated farm markets and food businesses. It is believed to contain several recommendations on policies regarding the agricultural economy that supports half of all Indians.Ghanwat said he has written a letter to the chief justice of the top court, urging him to take up the report as it has a bearing on “the agriculture economy, farm growth and farmers’ welfare”.The government passed a set of agricultural laws in September 2020 to ease restrictions in farm trade, allow traders to stockpile large quantities of food stocks for future sales and lay down a national framework for contract farming.Farmers claim the laws will hurt their livelihoods by eroding their bargaining power and leave them at the mercy of big corporations. This has set off a politically challenging farmers’ agitation in the country.On January 12, the top court put a moratorium on the new agricultural laws after fierce opposition from farm unions, who held 11 rounds of negotiations with the Union government that ended in a deadlock.The Supreme Court also set up a four-member panel, naming economists Ashok Kumar Gulati and PK Joshi as well as farm leaders Anil Ghanwat and Bhupinder Singh Mann to the committee. Mann dropped out, citing personal reasons. Ghanwat leads the Shetkari Sangathana, a farm organisation from Maharashtra.Farm unions rejected appeals to join the committee, saying at the time that they wanted nothing short of a repeal of the legislation.Ordering the committee to scrutinise the laws, the top court had said: “This committee will be for us. All of you people who are expected to solve the issue will go before this committee. It will not pass an order or punish you, it will only submit a report to us.”All four members proposed for the committee have either publicly endorsed the laws or want them amended. Like economist Ashok Gulati, a key figure in the committee who has been arguing for decades for a market-led, enterprise-driven agricultural economy, which supports half of all Indians. That has been a gripe among farm unions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/expert-on-farm-law-panel-asks-sc-to-make-report-public-settle-matter-101631043655341.html
08-09-2021||India||Study: Antibodies less effective against Delta variant of coronavirus||There was a six-fold drop in the ability of antibodies from a past infection to neutralise the Delta variant of the Sars-Cov-2, and a greater eight-fold reduction in the potency of antibodies elicited by vaccines, according to a peer-reviewed study led by researchers from India and the UK. The study, the authors say, combines findings from lab experiments and analysis of breakthrough cases to piece together signs of the Delta variant, or the B.1.617.2, being better at replication and resisting antibodies – these traits helped it rapidly overtake the Alpha (B.1.1.7) variant that was at the time the most transmissible version of the coronavirus.“We’ve shown that the delta variant is better at replicating and spreading than other commonly-observed variants. There’s also evidence that neutralising antibodies produced as a result of previous infection or vaccination are less effective at stopping this variant. These factors are likely to have contributed to the devastating wave in India during the first quarter of 2021, where as many as half of the cases were individuals who had previously been infected with an earlier variant,” said professor Ravi Gupta from the Cambridge Institute of Therapeutic Immunology and Infectious Disease, who is one of the authors. In comparison to the Delta variant, which was first found in India, the Alpha variant (first found in the UK) triggered only a 2.3-fold drop in potency of antibodies drawn from recovered Covid-19 patients. The study involved antibodies drawn from people who had a past infection, or received either the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine or the Pfizer-BioNTech shot. These were then made to neutralise the Alpha, Beta and Delta variants in a laboratory. This part of the analysis showed the most evasive variant was Beta (first found in South Africa), followed by Delta and Alpha. The second part of the study involved analysis of breakthrough infections among 112 healthcare workers in three Delhi hospitals, which showed that most were cases of Delta variant (99 infections) – confirming the mutated virus was more likely to cause disease in vaccinated people compared to other versions of the Sars-Cov-2. The study found a similar drop in the potency of lab-grown antibody therapy such as bamlanivimab and imdevimab.“Infection in vaccinated healthcare workers with the Delta variant is a significant problem. Although they themselves may only experience mild Covid-19, they risk infecting individuals who have suboptimal immune responses to vaccination due to underlying health conditions – and these patients could then be at risk of severe disease,” said Dr Anurag Agarwal, director, Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, who is also part of the study. The authors suggest due to this risk, infection control measures – such as masking, social distancing, and hand washing – must continue even in “post-vaccination era”. The study also addresses why the Delta variant appears to be fitter than the others, despite showing a lower antibody resistance than the Beta variant. It cites lab analysis that shows the Delta variant to be more efficient in entering human cells and replicating within.It achieves this in particular by mutating to make its fusion with the host cell more efficient. Once within a cell, they are also able to replicate more widely as compared to the Alpha variant, according to experiments conducted in epithelial cells (the lining) of the airway and the lungs as well as 3D organoids (mini-organs grown from airway cells). These clues explain what has been observed around the world, beginning with India in mid-April. The variant quickly swept through the country, overwhelming testing as well as treatment capacities. The variant then pushed up case trajectories in countries like the UK, where a large proportion of the population was vaccinated -- although the wide inoculation rate helped the country avoid its facilities from being overwhelmed, unlike in the case of the Alpha outbreak in the winter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/study-antibodies-less-effective-against-delta-variant-of-coronavirus-101631043417459.html
08-09-2021||India||AIMIM begins UP poll campaign: Owaisi slams BJP, says ‘Muslims harassed in UP’||Lucknow: All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Tuesday said his party’s main aim was to ensure the defeat of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly elections, even as he attacked successive governments led by the Samajwadi Party (SP), Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and Congress for the poor plight of Muslims in the state. Launching the party’s poll campaign at Rudauli town in Ayodhya district on Tuesday, Owaisi said the AIMIM was ready to discuss pre-poll alliance with the SP or BSP, but the talk will be over the share of the Muslim community if the alliance came to the power in Uttar Pradesh. “Muslims constitute 19% population of UP whereas Yadav community leader becomes CM though they are mere 9% of the population. The Muslims are denied government jobs,” he said. Restricted to Hyderabad in Telangana for much of its 93-year-old existence , the party has, in recent years, expanded to Maharashtra and Bihar. It also tried to expand to West Bengal where it could not make a dent in this year’s assembly elections. “The Muslims in UP are harassed and exploited. They have been denied a share in the power, education and basic facilities. They have been denied justice. The Muslim community in UP is leaderless and no political party is interested in addressing the grievances of the Muslims. The interest of political parties is in the vote of the Muslim community,” he added“The Muslim community believed in the false promises made by the SP, BSP and Congress. Due to the support of the Muslims, their leaders became prime minister and chief minister. Today, the Muslims in UP are feeling cheated as they have been dumped by the parties who sought their vote in the name of secularism,” added the four-time Lok Sabha MP. Elections to the 403-seat Uttar Pradesh legislative assembly are scheduled for early next year. Earlier in the day, jailed gangster and former MP Atiq Ahmad and his wife Shaista Praveen joined the AIMIM in presence of Owaisi. A five-time legislator and one-time MP, Ahmad has more than 90 criminal cases, including those related to murder against him. He is lodged in a Gujarat jail. He was shifted there from Uttar Pradesh on the Supreme Court’s directions in 2019. Defending his decision to induct Ahmad, who has several criminal cases lodged against him, Owaisi asserted that even several BJP leaders face similar cases. “In UP, 37% of BJP MLAs have criminal cases; 116 BJP MPs have serious criminal cases and most of them have cases related to crime against women,” Owaisi said. The ruling BJP, however, sharply reacted to his assertion and the development. “Giving protection to a notorious criminal like Atiq Ahmed in the name of providing protection to the community, inducting him and his wife in AIMIM shows Owais’ mentality. But keep in mind that Yogi Ji will not allow Jinnah’s jehadi mentality to flourish in UP,” BJP Kannauj MP Subrat Pathak said in a tweet in Hindi. The AIMIM chief will address a ‘vanchit-shoshit samaj’ (deprived and victimised communities) conference in Sultanpur on Wednesday and in Barabanki a day later. The AIMIM has announced that it will field candidates for 100 assembly seats in Uttar Pradesh. It has also joined an alliance of smaller political parties to form Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha; this includes the Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) led by Om Prakash Rajbhar, Jan Adhikar Party led by Babu Singh Kushwaha, Rashtriya Uday Party led by Babu Rampal, Rashtriya Upekshit Samaj Party led by Premchanda Prajapati, and Janata Kranti Party led by Anil Singh Chauhan.Accusing the AIMIM chief of speaking the “language of the BJP”, Samajwadi Party state unit spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary said, “The Samajwadi Party has worked for the welfare and uplift of the Muslim community. The Muslim community in UP are with SP, they will not be misguided with the allegations of Owaisi.”UP Congress committee spokesperson Surendra Rajput said Owaisi has neither launched a movement over the Covid-19 mismanagement by the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh nor has he made his stand clear over the farmers’ protest over three farm laws. “On the direction of the BJP, he has come to UP to divide the Muslim community. The AIMIM is not interested in the welfare of the Muslim community in UP but it wants to disturb the communal harmony,” Rajput said.BSP state unit president Bhim Rajbhar said Owaisi has come to UP when the assembly elections are near. “He did not visit UP when the Muslim community were harassed by the ruling BJP. The BSP government has worked for the welfare of the Muslim community, several schemes for the Muslims were launched when BSP chief Mayawati was chief minister,” Rajbhar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aimim-begins-up-poll-campaign-owaisi-slams-bjp-says-muslims-harassed-in-up-101631043055868.html
08-09-2021||India||‘I don’t agree’: Goa withdraws Ganesh Chaturthi SOPs after CM tweets disapproval||PANAJI: The Goa government on Tuesday introduced, and then quickly withdrew ‘standard operating procedures’ (SOPs) issued for the upcoming Ganesh Chaturthi festival after Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant tweeted his disapproval.“I personally do not agree with some of the guidelines that were issued in the SoP, especially the one stopping priests from going to individual households for puja. Ganesh Chaturthi is the most important festival in Goa and such rituals are an integral part of it,” Pramod Sawant said on microblogging platform Twitter.“While the expert committee may have suggested such curbs, I have asked the administration to withdraw the SoP immediately. Chaturthi must be celebrated with full fervour while taking all the necessary precautions, given the pandemic”.The state government’s SOPs issued just hours earlier mandated that the otherwise extravagant Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations on September 10 should be toned down this year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.
08-09-2021||India||Incarcerated Masarat Alam is new Hurriyat chairman||Six days after the death of separatist leader Syed Ali Geelani, his close aide Masarat Alam Bhat, who is in jail, has been appointed as the chairman of hard-line All Parties Hurriyat Conference (APHC), according to a press release apparently issued by the party.The APHC statement, which was mailed to some media outlets and was being circulated on the social media, read that the party had held a meeting in Srinagar during which, the decision was taken. The statement could not be independently verified. It said that a “consultative exercise was conducted with the members of the executive council of the APHC using different mediums to avoid arrests and Indian counter strategy”.“Masarat Alam Bhat has been elected as the next chairman of APHC. Shabir Ahmad Shah and Ghulam Ahmad Gulzar, both, elected as vice-chairmen,” the statement read.The statement said Gulzar will continue running the affairs of APHC with “regular guidelines” from the chairman.The APHC was apparently headless since June 29, 2020 when Geelani, its lifetime chairman, had announced his separation from the amalgam 17 years after he had launched the organisation. He had accused Hurriyat members of inaction after the revocation of Article 370 on August 5, 2019. Alam, the 49-year-old firebrand Hurriyat leader and Muslim League chairman, is currently in Tihar Jail since June 2019 in a case filed by National Investigation Agency under alleged terror funding. Shabir Shah is also in jail. Alam has been in jail for most of the time since his arrest in October 2010 following his alleged role in the mass public agitation that year. Alam continued to be in prison as authorities booked him in one case after the other under PSA, even though the court quashed his detention multiple times.He has 27 FIRs registered against him and has been booked under the public safety act (PSA) atleast 36 times, according to local media reports.He was released after more than four years in March 2015 triggering backlash against ruling Peoples’ Democratic Party which was then in coalition with Bharatiya Janata Party.The then state government arrested Alam again on April 17, 2015 on the charges of ‘sedition’ and ‘waging war against the state’ after he allegedly raised pro-Pakistan slogans in a rally, orgainsed to welcome Syed Ali Geelani in Srinagar. He was subsequently booked under public safety act. When alive, Geelani would often accuse the state government of vengeance for “prolonged and unlawful” detention of Masarat Aalam. The young separatist leader has been instrumental in framing marathon strike calendars in 2010 when over 120 youth were killed in security forces action to control spiraling anti-India protests on the streets on Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/incarcerated-masarat-alam-is-new-hurriyat-chairman-101631042395800.html
08-09-2021||India||If BSP voted to power, we will ensure security of Brahmins, says Mayawati||Bahujan Samaj Party leader Mayawati continued with her outreach to Brahmins ahead of the 2022 assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, promising to ensure the security of the Brahmin community if the party was voted to power next year. “Brahmins have agreed that under BSP’s rule, people from the Brahmin community were in better condition as compared to the current BJP’s rule. I assure the Brahmin community that if we come to power in the next elections, we will ensure their security,” she said while addressing the closing ceremony of ‘Prabudh Varga Sammelan’. “I promise that when the BSP forms the government in 2022, it will take care of the dignity, security and welfare of the Brahmin community in a similar manner as was done after the formation of the BSP government in 2007,” she added. The BSP leader’s assurance came days after she decided to take up the legal battle to secure bail for the 17-year-old widow of slain Brahmin gangster Vikas Dubey’s nephew, who too was shot in an encounter onJuly 8, 2020. Khushi Dubey has been booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, including murder and criminal conspiracy, and has been lodged at a juvenile centre in Barabanki for a year. The party is reaching out to the community as part of its effort to grow its traditional voter base (composed mostly of Dalits) in the state. The BSP had earlier announced that it would expedite the construction of the Ram temple at Ayodhya if it was voted to power in the assembly elections.In her first public appearance at the party office since the outbreak of the Covid pandemic last year, the 65-year-old former chief ministeralso announced to initiate a high-level inquiry into any atrocities by the current Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government against the community and compensate for economic losses suffered during the period.Giving a clarion call for a “Dalit-Brahmin” unity to bring her party back to power in the state, Mayawati said both the BJP and the Samajwadi Party (SP) have indulged in empty talks to win the votes of Dalits and Brahmins, but neither safeguarded their interests when in power.“Unlike them, the BSP stands firm on its ‘Kathni aur karni (words and deeds)’, and this can be testified from its rule in Uttar Pradesh from 2007 to 2012, when security and welfare of Dalits and Brahmins, along with other sections of the society, were given top priority,” she said. Interestingly, both the SP and the BJP have also been wooing Brahmins, the latter even inducting the Congress’ Jitin Prasada into its tanks with the objective of reaching out to Brahmins. The BSP leader also promised to focus on the development of the state and not build memorials, parks and museums in the name of Dalit icons, something that characterised her last stint in power. “If I form the government again, I will not concentrate on statues or memorials or parks but on governing the state to the best possible ability,” she said. Reaching out to the farmers’ community, Mayawati promised to see that the contentious agricultural laws passed last year are not implemented in the state if the BSP came to power. “Our government will not only ensure that farmers get a genuine price for their products but also see that the three farm laws are not implemented in the state. At least 500 farmers have died but the BJP government remains unmoved,” she said. The BSP leader also took note of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh chief Mohan Bhagwat’s remarks that the ancestors of Hindus and Muslims were the same, asking him to explain why the “BJP behaves as if Muslims are adopted”.In the 2017 state elections, the BJP won 325 seats out of a total of 403 Assembly seats. Samajwadi Party and its allies won 54 seats, and the BSP won a mere 19 .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/upelections-if-bsp-voted-to-power-we-will-ensure-security-of-brahmins-says-mayawati-101631042215888.html
08-09-2021||India||Covid-19: Panacea Biotech supplies 1 million Sputnik V doses||Indian pharma and vaccine major Panacea Biotec has supplied first batch of the Russian made anti-coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine, Sputnik V, manufactured in India for distribution and sale locally, the company announced on Tuesday.Panacea Biotec was the first company to locally manufacture the Russian vaccine in May this year.The batch comprises one million doses of the second component of the two-dose vaccine, and with that the possibility of more doses of the Russian-made vaccine to be administered as part of the national Covid-19 immunisation programme would increase.“The Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF, Russia’s sovereign wealth fund) and Panacea Biotec Ltd. (Company), one of India’s leading vaccine and pharmaceutical manufacturers, announce supply of the 1st shipment out of 1 million doses of the second component (human adenovirus serotype 5) of the Russian Sputnik V coronavirus vaccine manufactured by Panacea Biotec for sale in India,” said the company in a statement.Sputnik V is made by Russia’s Gamaleya Institute, and marketed globally by Russian Direct Investment Fund.Doses of the second component of Sputnik V have been manufactured at the Panacea Biotec’s state-of-the-art vaccine manufacturing facility in Himachal Pradesh.The company received necessary clearance from the Central Drug Laboratories (CDL), Kasauli on August 31, 2021.According to the company statement, full-scale production of the vaccine doses started at Panacea Biotec’s facilities this summer. The facilities comply with good manufacturing practice standards and are prequalified by WHO (World Health Organisation).“Panacea Biotec is pleased to have successfully produced and dispatched the first batch of Component II (Ad5) of Sputnik V vaccine. More batches are currently under production at our manufacturing facility in Himachal Pradesh,” said Rajesh Jain, managing director, Panacea Biotec.According to earlier statements, RDIF and Panacea have agreed to produce 100 million vaccine doses per year.The current batch of one million will be distributed in India through Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, a partner of RDIF and Panacea Biotec.Dr Reddy’s Laboratories has partnered with RDIF to be the brand custodian of the Sputnik V vaccine in India, and has the sole distribution rights of the first 250 million doses of the vaccine in India.“As announced by our partners, the RDIF and Panacea Biotec, supply of the second dose component manufactured by Panacea Biotec has now commenced. Dr. Reddy’s has initiated supply of the first dose component to partner hospitals all over India followed by equivalent quantities of the second dose component. With more batches of the second dose component to follow from the manufacturing site, we expect this momentum and supply to continue…,” said a spokesperson of Dr Reddy’s Laboratories.On availability of Sputnik V vaccine, Dr Reddy’s said, “For a comprehensive list of cities, towns, and hospitals where dose 1 of sputnik V vaccine is available, please visit www.drreddys.com/sputnik-vaccine. Currently in India, the vaccine is administered in two doses with a 21-day gap. Both doses should be taken from the same hospital.”India is the leading production hub for Sputnik V vaccine, with RDIF having reached agreements with a number of local pharmaceutical companies for manufacturing about 850 million doses to be produced annually. Besides Panacea Biotec, RDIF has tied up with Gland Pharma, Hetero Biopharma, Stelis Biopharma, Virchow Biotech and Morepen for production of the Russian vaccine.Sputnik V was registered in India under the emergency use authorisation procedure on April 12, 2021 and vaccination against coronavirus with the Russian vaccine started on May 14.Efficacy of the Sputnik V vaccine is 97.6%, based on the analysis of data on coronavirus infection rate in Russia among those vaccinated with both components of Sputnik V from December 5, 2020 to March 31, 2021.The vaccine is based on a proven and well-studied platform of human adenoviral vectors and uses two different vectors for the two shots in a course of vaccination, providing immunity with a longer duration than vaccines using the same delivery mechanism for both shots.India has so far vaccinated over 700 million beneficiaries with Covid-19 vaccine, of which 531 million have received at least one dose till Tuesday, according to CoWIN dashboard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/panacea-supplies-1-million-sputnik-v-doses-101631041796772.html
08-09-2021||India||Karnataka logs 851 fresh Covid-19 cases, 15 deaths||Karnataka health and medical education minister Dr K Sudhakar said on Tuesday that the government is working with a target to fully vaccinate the entire adult population by the end of November. In a video conference with deputy commissioners (DCs) and zilla panchayat CEOs of 23 districts, which are lagging behind in vaccination coverage, the minister said, “These 23 district administrations have been given a target to speed up coverage and complete the first dose for all by the end of this month. Target has been set to complete both the doses for all by November,” Sudhakar said. Currently, Udupi (83.77%), Kodagu (80.93%), and Bengaluru (80.54%) have the highest rate of vaccine coverage. “The target has been set to complete both the doses for all by November. Progress and achievement on testing, setting up of oxygen plants, and other civil works were also discussed,” the minister said. Experts, however, argued that the government’s claim is unrealistic. “We are still going at an average of 200,000 to 300,000 per day. It is a good number but at this rate, we won’t finish the entire population by November. While Bengaluru is showing higher numbers, in many districts, especially in north Karnataka, there is a shortage of vaccination. In these districts numbers (vaccine coverage) is below 50%,” said a Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) member, who didn’t want to be named. “But at this rate, there is a chance that the entire adult population might get their first dose of the vaccination. Now, during the second wave, the number of deaths was the biggest concern. If we are able to provide at least one dose to the entire adult population, we will be able to blunt the impact of a third wave,” the TAC member said. However, the health minister said that additional stock of the vaccine will be procured soon. “In August, we got 11 million doses from the Centre. Chief minister Basavaraj Bommai and I went to Delhi twice seeking increased vaccine allocation for Karnataka and considering our request, the Centre has increased our allocation,” the minister said. Sudhakar said BBMP has administered over 10 million doses in Bengaluru so far. “Our target is to make Bengaluru the first city in India where the entire population is fully vaccinated. We have directed the BBMP commissioner and other officials to work towards achieving this target,” he said. On Tuesday Karnataka administered 401,000 doses of the vaccine according to the Cowin portal. So far, 46 million people have received the vaccine in the state, out of which 11 million people received both doses while 34 million people got the first dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-logs-851-fresh-covid-19-cases-15-deaths-101631041617423.html
08-09-2021||India||Data shows potholes in 1,332-km Bengaluru roads||Damaged or potholed roads and traffic snarls have become a nightmare for over 12 million residents of Bengaluru, people and activists say, even as the government has given the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) a deadline to complete all pothole-covering works by September 30. At least 2,000 kms of roads in the city are damaged or have potholes, according to the state government, which have cost many lives over the years. “I had done a review the day before. I have told the BBMP to cover the potholes after the rains slow down. In the coming days, we will take this up on a war footing,” Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Tuesday. The statement comes barely hours after another life was snuffed out on a potholed road, prompting citizens and activists to allege that the BBMP and other civic agencies make lofty promises and waste tax money every year. The BBMP has a budget outlay of ₹9,287.81 crore for 2021-22. But 9.4 million vehicles crawl through the city’s killer roads. On Monday night, a 75-year-old differently abled man died after his two-wheeler hit a pothole in Kamakshipalya locality. “There is one incident that has come to our attention. It is a layout that comes under the BDA (Bengaluru Development Authority) and the incident took place on the road there. This should have definitely not happened but it has come to our attention,” BBMP chief commissioner Gaurav Gupta said. An old tactic used by the civic agencies is to blame each other for the mess on the roads. The BBMP has often blamed the Bengaluru Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB) and Bengaluru Electric Supply Company (BESCOM), among others, for digging up roads without permission and abandoning them after completion of their work. The BBMP is now trying to use an app (Geostamp) to monitor the covering of these potholes as a measure to streamline the work and speed up completion of an exercise that is taken up periodically in the city in the garb of development. All works taken up by the BBMP’s pothole-covering exercise will have to be uploaded in this app, officials said, including pictures, details of area covered among others in a bid to bring in transparency and efficiency. Karnataka’s revenue minister R Ashok said on Monday that 1,332 kms of major roads in the city are damaged because of potholes. Of the 85,791 number of roads in the over 198 wards in the city, 2653 (or 887 kms) are in poor condition by the government’s own admission. The government has given the BBMP a deadline to complete all pothole-covering works by September 30. V Ravichandar, an urban expert, said that the dug up roads make Bengaluru look like a “Mohenjo-daro excavation.” “Anywhere you drive, it is impossible to drive without potholes. It has become kind of a Mohenjo-daro excavation city which is perpetually dug up,” the urban expert earlier told Hindustan Times. The potholes and poor roads have even become a canvas for creative art work. Badal Nanjundaswamy, a renowned artist, recreated a simulation of an astronaut walking a crater-filled road in September 2019 that was dubbed “moonwalk”, which became global headlines for bringing to light the perennial and basic infrastructure challenges of a city that has been called India’s IT, technology, startup and aerospace capital. Nanjundaswamy has over the years created nearly 50 art works to get the attention of civic agencies, which include a mermaid in a water-filled pothole, a plastic yet realistic crocodile, a picture of Lord Yama or the god of death according to Hindu mythology painted around an open man-hole, among other pieces of art, that trend online but has, at least so far, had little impact on the agencies like BBMP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/data-shows-potholes-in-1-332-km-bengaluru-roads-101631041557069.html
08-09-2021||India||Case against man who died in pothole mishap||Adding insult to injury, the Bengaluru police on Tuesday registered a case of negligent driving against the 65-year-old differently-abled man who died after he fell from his scooter over a badly-dug up road in Kamakshipalya traffic police station limits on Monday night. “(A) case has been registered, post mortem has been done and body has been shifted. An FIR has been filed under 304 (A) and 279,” said one official from Kamakshipalya traffic police station, requesting not to be named. The case has been filed under 304 (A) or causing death by negligence against some officials of civic agencies and Section 279 or rash driving has been lodged against the deceased, Kurshid Ahmed. “It happened around 8.30-8.45 pm at night when it was raining in Vishweshwaraiah layout,” said the official cited above. While the police maintain that the deceased came on the wrong side of the road and was not wearing a helmet, few say that the road was dug up poorly on both sides of the road. Ironically, the incident took place in Sir M Vishweshwaraiah layout, named after one of India’s most renowned civil engineers, whose creations like Krishnaraja Sagara Dam constructed nearly a century ago stands to this day without a single problem. The pothole was filled with water as Bengaluru continues to receive heavy rains that exacerbated its infrastructure weaknesses which continues to claim more lives and adds to the challenges of the city’s over 12 million residents and 9.4 million vehicles. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), however, has skirted responsibility stating that the locality comes under the Bengaluru Development Authority (BDA). “There is one incident that has come to our attention. It is a layout that comes under the BDA (Bengaluru Development Authority) and the incident took place on the road there. This should have definitely not happened,” Gaurav Gupta, the chief commissioner of the BBMP said on Tuesday. The BDA commissioner and chairman could not be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/case-against-man-who-died-in-pothole-mishap-101631041555757.html
08-09-2021||India||B’luru civic body cuts Ganesh celebrations from 5 to 3 days||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) on Tuesday reduced the number of days to celebrate the Ganesh Pooja publicly in the city to three, despite the state government allowing five-day celebrations, chief commissioner Gaurav Gupta said in a circular.“Ganesha festival will not be allowed for more than three days in Bengaluru city. There should not be any procession while bringing the idol or during immersion,” he said.The order came after the BBMP commissioner met with senior district-level officers and Bengaluru police commissioner Kamal Pant. Speaking to reporters, Gupta said the BBMP had permitted the Ganesha festival celebrations for three days last year, which will continue this year. He said the decision to have it for only three days was taken after inputs from the police, suggesting there could be large gatherings participating in the public celebrations. Gupta also said that Ganesha idols made of plaster of Paris are banned. He asked people to immerse the traditional Ganesha idol, made up of biodegradable material at their homes in buckets or mobile tankers of the civic agency. “Idols installed at homes should be immersed at home only or in our mobile tank. Ganeshas installed at public places should be of (a maximum of) four feet height and should be immersed in mobile tanks. We are also creating immersion tanks. We have also decided to ban immersion of idols in lakes,” Gupta said.Pant said one Ganesha idol at a public place in each ward is permitted, for which the organizers will have to get the nod from the BBMP and then inform the deputy commissioner of police of the area. A BBMP official said the number of infections in the city is still on the higher side and hence decided to limit public celebrations to a maximum of three days. Karnataka government’s decision to allow Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations in the state has already raised concerns among experts. Even though the government decided to allow celebrations only in districts with a test positivity rate of less than 2%, and strict restrictions are imposed in districts where celebrations have been allowed, experts are questioning the decision.Dr N Manjunath, member of state Covid Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) and director of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research, said that festivals could become potential super-spreaders if a large number of people are allowed to celebrate together. “A large number of people usually come out for festivals like Ganesh Chaturthi, and markets are often overcrowded. We have our Covid situation under control. Such overcrowding could undo it,” he said.Another TAC member, on the condition of anonymity, said that even though the government has put strict restrictions in place, implementation has been a problem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bluru-civic-body-cuts-ganesh-celebrations-from-5-to-3-days-101631041380762.html
08-09-2021||India||Viral fever cases spike in new regions of UP||Cases of viral fever, dengue and malaria have seen a sharp spike in Bareilly, Badaun, Moradabad and Pilibhit districts of the Rohilkhand region of Uttar Pradesh since last week, said the state health department officials on Tuesday.In Badaun, Vijay Bahadur Raj, the chief medical superintendent (CMS) of the district hospital said, “We receive 1,100 to 1,400 out patients every day and most of these patients complain of symptoms resembling to viral fever.” “So far we have around 50 confirmed cases of malaria in the Badaun but no case of dengue so far,” Raj added.Bareilly CMS, Dr Subodh Sharma said, “A 10-year- old child who had very low platelets count was brought to hospital. The child succumbed within hours of admission. He had dengue like symptoms we have sent his blood samples for confirmation.” The district health administration has set up dedicated dengue and malaria wards in response to the confirmed cases.On Tuesday, close to 400 new patients showing symptoms of viral fever were reported in Moradabad, while two cases each of dengue and malaria were confirmed in Moradabad. “We have sent 23 samples for dengue test and 280 samples for malaria... The results are awaited,” said MC Garg chief medical officer of Moradabad.In Pilibhit, the number of patients with viral fever-like symptoms was 500. Health administration also confirmed a case of dengue in a 12-year-old boy. District magistrate, Pulkit Khare said, “The health department is keeping a close watch on the cases of dengue and malaria, in the district and ensure proper treatment,” said the DM.The government health department officials have said that the spike in case of viral fever is a norm post-monsoon, asserting that the situation is under control.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/viral-fever-cases-spike-in-new-regions-of-up-101631041379228.html
08-09-2021||India||11 samples from contacts of Nipah victim test negative||Eleven samples collected from close contacts of a 12-year-old boy who died of Nipah this week tested negative for the disease on Tuesday in what was described by the Kerala government as a big relief for a state, which is struggling to control its Covid-19 cases.Talking to reporters in the state capital, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the Nipah situation was under control. The government has taken enough measures, and the deadly virus will be localised and contained effectively, he added.“Samples, including that of parents, were tested negative. The condition of those admitted to hospitals with symptoms is stable now. We are expecting more results from the National Institute of Virology (Pune),” Vijayan said.He added that four ministers were camping in Kozhikode in north Kerala to review the Nipah situation and help the district administration. Out of 257 contacts of the boy, 141 are health workers, and 51 of them have been hospitalised as a precaution. Only the primary contacts of the boy and those showing severe symptoms are being tested. Around 21 samples have been sent so far, some are getting tested in medical college lab with the help of NIV scientists camping in the city.At a time when the state is grappling with a high Covid-19 caseload -- Kerala reported 25,722 cases on Tuesday -- Nipah claimed the life of the boy on Sunday, leading to a high alert in Kozhikode and neighbouring districts. The region is reporting Nipah infections for the second time in four years. In 2018, it claimed 17 lives in the district.“Different teams are at work to trace the source of infection. Experts have recovered half-eaten rambutan fruits from the premises of the boy. They also found a fruit bat habitat near his house,” said state health minister Veena George, adding that a team from the National Institute of High-Security Animal Diseases Laboratory from Bhopal will be in the city on Wednesday.The fruit bat is considered the main carrier and reservoir of the virus.Though bats were suspected to be behind the outbreak in 2018, no expansive study was done on the source of the disease that infected at least 19 that year, 17 died, and two survived.“It is a great relief for us that all are negative. Among 11, include the boy’s parents and medical officials. We will localize and contain the outbreak as we did in 2018,” stressed the minister.Colleges to open from October 4The Covid cases reported in the state on Tuesday -- the daily positivity rate was 15.87% -- were also lower than what the state was reporting last week when the average positivity rate was over 20% and daily cases crossed 30,000 on three days last week.“The expert committee on pandemic has recommended to lift Sunday lockdown and night curfew. We can’t remain in lockdown forever. We have also decided to open colleges and higher educational institutions from October 4,” CM Vijayan said.Students above 18 and teachers should have taken at least one dose of the vaccine to attend classes. Vijayan said that 76.15% of the eligible population was vaccinated in the state. A decision on reopening schools will be taken later, he said.“We have no idea why the night curfew was imposed during night movement is very low. Good, finally it was withdrawn. It is time for the government to begin some serious studies. Our experiences show such infections are likely to crop up again, and it should share data with research bodies,” said Dr S S Lal, who was formerly with World Health Organisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/11-samples-from-contacts-of-nipah-victim-test-negative-101631041015774.html
08-09-2021||India||Kerala IAS officer booked for sending ‘obscene’ text to journalist||Kerala police on Tuesday registered a case against IAS officer N Prasanth for allegedly insulting the modesty of a woman journalist by sending her inappropriate stickers over WhatsApp while she reached out to him for an official reaction.Police told PTI that a case has been registered in the incident, which happened in February this year after obtaining legal advice on the issue.“We have registered a case under Section 509 of the Indian Penal Code,” police said.The section deals with the offence of insulting the modesty of any woman, utters any word, makes any sound or gesture, or exhibits any object, intending that such a word or sound shall be heard, or that such gesture or object shall be seen, by such woman, or intrudes upon the privacy of such woman.Prasanth, the Managing Director of Kerala State Inland Navigation Corporation (KSINC), was caught in a political controversy early this year after the corporation signed an MoU with a US firm on deep sea trawling.The reporter from a vernacular daily texted Prasanth introducing herself and sought a reply on the controversy. In the screenshots of the WhatsApp messages that were circulated, the journalist could be seen asking whether it was a good time to talk regarding a news story.To this Prasanth replied with just a sticker. When she replied saying the story was not to harm him, and asked him to give a statement regarding the controversy, he replied with an inappropriate and obscene sticker.A complaint was filed with the police by the Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ).The state government later in May had ordered a probe against the 2007 batch IAS officer for his alleged misbehaviour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-ias-officer-booked-for-sending-obscene-text-to-journalist-101631040957091.html
08-09-2021||India||Kerala CM welcomes high court’s order allowing second Covishield dose after 4 weeks||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday said that his government was in agreement with the High Court’s ruling, allowing second dose of Covishield after four weeks from the first jab to those who want it earlier, and said the ball was now in the Centre’s court.The CM, during a press meet held here, said it was now up to the central government to decide how to implement the Kerala High Court’s September 3 ruling and said that the chief secretary and the health secretary of the state government would be liaising with the Centre on this matter.He also said that priority in vaccination would be given to those who are due and “overdue” for their second dose of the vaccine.Vijayan further said that the state has till date administered over 3 crore doses, including both first and second jabs, of vaccine.Of these, 21,854,153 received the first dose of vaccine and 8,246,563 received the second dose, he said and added that Kerala’s vaccination rate was much higher than the national average.He said vaccination was hampered during the last few days due to vaccine shortage, but on Monday the state received 1 million doses and subsequently, the inoculation process has been going on smoothly.In the meeting, he also said it was being noticed that the micro containment zones and containment zones were not being updated properly on the Covid portal and district websites and to ensure that it happens, an IT expert from the Information Technology Mission will be temporarily appointed to each District Emergency Management Centre.In the last 24 hours, cases have been registered against 9,654 people for not wearing masks and legal action was taken against 8,852 for non-compliance with social distancing norms. A fine of ₹1,885,800 was also levied, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-cm-welcomes-high-court-s-order-allowing-second-covishield-dose-after-4-weeks-101631040898326.html
08-09-2021||India||TN planning service rights bill for public||The Tamil Nadu government is working towards enacting a Right to Services legislation to help ensure timely delivery of government services to people, officials familiar with the matter said. People line up in taluk offices and at e-seva centres for services, such as pensions and change in registrations, from across more than 50 state departments. A Chennai-based anti-corruption NGO, Arappor Iyakam, has submitted a draft of the Right to Services legislation to chief minister MK Stalin and urged the government to take feedback from the public before tabling a Bill in the assembly. Guaranteeing every citizen the right to obtain government services within a stipulated time has been a poll promise of the DMK. Governor Banwarilal Purohit, during his inaugural address in the assembly in June after the formation of the new government, said a Right to Services Act will be introduced to streamline the delivery of public services by government agencies. The NGO says that through this Act every person will have the right to obtain services within a stipulated time and an official violating this will be liable for punishment and that such systemic steps are important to curb bribery and corruption over time. “This is a citizen’s initiative by Arappor Iyakkam to provide feedback to the government on the key features required in the Tamil Nadu Right to Service Act,” said Jayaram Venkatesan, convener of the NGO. “A law that is aimed at making access to services effective and efficient needs to be passed after getting wide feedback from the people who are most affected due to the issues in delivery of such services.” The NGO surveyed 2,000 people on the issues they faced in Tamil Nadu while accessing citizen services from the government. Among the respondents, 93% of the people revealed that bribe was demanded from them for delivering service, 82% were dissatisfied with their experience, 28% pointed to delays in availing of services, and 11.5 % cited lack of transparency and clarity on the list of documents needed for applying. Only 29% of the people said the current e-Seva centres have helped them access services without paying bribes. Volunteers prepared the model Bill based on the public feedback as well as the good features available in the Right to Service Act of other states such as Punjab, Maharashtra, Kerala, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Draft bill of Citizen’s Charter and Grievance Redressal, 2011. Tamil Nadu previously was reluctant to pass this legislation. The NGO’s model Bill calls for the government to constitute an independent body, ‘Tamil Nadu Right to Service Commission’, to be led by a commissioner who is an appointee of the chief minister, leader of opposition and the chief justice of the high court who can deal with appeals on rejection of services and lack of responses. It guarantees that every applicant will have the right to obtain services within stipulated time, failing which officials face penalties, such as a salary cut and disciplinary action. A senior official of the department of finance, planning, human resources management, pensions and pensionary benefits, who is overseeing the Bill, said that public feedback is vital. “We are working on the Bill and we are looking into aspects of bribery, the process not being clear, not enough details being made available in offices and online,” the official said, not wishing to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-planning-service-rights-bill-for-public-101631040897216.html
08-09-2021||India||Andhra Pradesh to begin asset monetisation project in state||The Andhra Pradesh government too has begun efforts to monetize its non-productive assets to generate the much-needed extra revenue to tide over the grave financial situation.In the first step, the government has decided to hand over a 3.26 acre site in the heart of Vijayawada city for commercial development over the next 24 months under the ‘Mission Build AP.’ Though the expected revenue from the project has not been disclosed, official sources monitoring the project estimate that the income could be “substantial”.“Importantly, the project will create tens, if not hundreds of jobs, and boost the local economy,” a top official pointed out.The ‘Mission Build AP’ was launched in late 2019 and the Jagan Mohan Reddy government put some properties on sale. However, it is now stuck in a legal tangle, with the High Court staying the proceedings.“We are not selling the property in Vijayawada, where currently the State Guest House is housed. We are only giving it for development,” the official said. The SGH in Vijayawada once used to be the place of stay for all visiting dignitaries, including the President and the Prime Minister. However, half of it is now in a dilapidated condition and the other half also needs a facelift.As the state government is in no position to spend crores of Rupees for that, it has decided to monetize the prime asset.The Centre’s NBCC (India) Limited, which has been entrusted with the Mission Build AP plan, has appointed Rudrabhishek Enterprises Limited (REPL) to provide comprehensive architectural and engineering consultancy services for the development of the proposed project in Vijayawada.REPL has drawn up plans to reconstruct the State Guest House with a built-up area of one lakh square feet and a commercial complex with a BUA of 2.5 lakh square feet.REPL Chairman and Managing Director Pradeep Misra said the proposed project was being designed as an energy efficient campus with “unique and inspiring” space to work, rest and rejuvenate.The company would prepare a master plan, concept designs and a detailed project report and also assist in project coordination and bid process management, he said.REPL said in a release here on Tuesday that it was currently working on preparing GIS-based master plans of four clusters in 14 urban local bodies. It was also providing architectural and engineering consultancy services for the new government medical college in Madanapalle in Chittoor district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-pradesh-to-begin-asset-monetisation-project-in-state-101631040896167.html
08-09-2021||India||MP’s Kuno national park to be home to Cheetahs in 6 months||Cheetahs from Namibia and South Africa are likely to reach too India in the next four to six months, and be reintroduced in Kuno national park in Madhya Pradesh, Union environment ministry officials have confirmed. The move comes 74 years after the last of the big cats was killed in India. The cheetah was declared extinct in the country in 1952. “We are expecting African Cheetahs to arrive in the next 4-6 months. The Kuno national park is being prepared for reintroduction,” said Gaurav Khare, official spokesperson of the environment ministry. In the first phase, 12 to 15 cheetahs are likely to arrive later this year or early in 2022 but over the next five years 40 to 50 are likely to be reintroduced, SP Yadav, member secretary at the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA), which is overseeing the project, said.“Experts from South Africa visited Kuno and found the habitat suitable for reintroduction. In fact, they said it is better than some of their habitats in South Africa. Reintroduction will take months. First, we need to see if they (the cheetahs) are able to kill prey in a very large enclosure,” explained Yadav.Chital, chinkara and black bucks may be suitable prey for cheetahs in India, according to experts. Yadav said cheetahs don’t necessarily require grasslands, and that the forests of central India and parts of Rajasthan are best suited for them.“Our understanding is that their habitat is varied. The last time cheetahs were seen in the wild was in the Sal forests of Chhattisgarh,” said Yadav adding that “each Cheetah requires around 10 to 20 sq km area. They are small cats so they need a far smaller area than say a tiger. There is no record of a Cheetah attacking humans. Their prey base is mostly small ungulates (hooved mammals).”The International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) lists the Asiatic Cheetah to be critically endangered. With a historic distribution across southwest and central Asia to India, the Asiatic Cheetah is now only known to occur with certainty in Iran. The population is very small, the IUCN states. Because of extremely low numbers of the Asiatic Cheetah, African Cheetahs, another subspecies are being considered for reintroduction in India but the experiment has been criticised by some scientists.“Firstly, this is not reintroduction but introduction of African Cheetahs to India. They belong to the African continent. The Kuno Palpur sanctuary hasn’t been prepared for cheetahs which need large open areas and small catchable prey. The Chinkara group size in Kuno is very small and Chital group size is also shrinking due to loss of open grasslands. We have to be very cautious of zoonotic diseases also during this experiment. It would have been better if suitable habitat was developed before bringing them,” said Fayaz Khudsar, a wildlife biologist who conducted field research in Kuno in the late 90’s.The SC on January 28, 2020, approved the introduction of the African Cheetah in India on an experimental basis in a carefully chosen habitat which will be closely monitored to assess if the cat can adapt to Indian conditions. NTCA approached SC regarding introduction of African Cheetahs to India.The Wildlife Institute of India in collaboration with the Wildlife Trust of India assessed potential sites and as long back as 2010 recommended Kuno Palpur Wildlife Sanctuary in Madhya Pradesh; Shahgarh landscape in Jaisalmer (Rajasthan); and Nauradehi Wildlife Sanctuary in Madhya Pradesh for introduction of the African Cheetah.In 2013, SC imposed a stay on introduction of African Cheetahs to Kuno because it was an ideal habitat for the Asiatic Lion. The Asiatic cheetah was driven to extinction in India and the genetically very similar African cheetah which numbers about 12000 wild individuals, was favoured as seed stock for reintroduction. The International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN) whose opinion was sought by the Government in this regard, approved this proposal according to a note by Wildlife Trust of India.“There are several sites that are being surveyed for the Cheetah including Nauradehi Wildlife Sanctuary in Madhya Pradesh, Mukundara in Rajasthan, desert grasslands of Rajasthan or in Gujarat if you reclaim the grasslands. The Cheetah habitat in India historically is from Jammu to Tamil Nadu, very widespread and they were found in any habitat dry forests, grasslands, scrub forest etc. So, they will survive quite happily. In India they survived with lions, leopards and tigers. As long as there is enough food and there is protection they will regenerate on their own. Cheetahs in Namibia are being killed by farmers why not reintroduce them into their former habitat?” asked Divyabhanusinh Chavda, heads the Advisory Board at World Wide Fund For Nature, India. He is also a Cheetah expert.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mps-kuno-national-park-to-be-home-to-cheetahs-in-6-months-101631040837425.html
08-09-2021||India||Will celebrate Chaturthi in full swing, says TDP defying Andhra govt orders||Andhra Pradesh assembly’s main opposition Telugu Desam Party on Tuesday decided to defy orders of the state government disallowing public celebrations of Ganesh Chaturthi in September, and observe the festival in full fervour. TDP national spokesperson Pattabi Ram on Tuesday said that party MLAs and in-charges of all 175 Assembly constituencies have been instructed to organise and celebrate Ganesh Chaturthi in a “huge way” while following Covid-19 protocols. “We feel that it is a part of a larger conspiracy by Jagan Reddy to attack one religion,” he alleged. A day earlier, on September 6, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Andhra also held state-wide protests demanding the state government to allow public celebrations for the festival. Party leaders, including state president Somu Veerraju, general secretary Vishnu Vardhan Reddy, and others were detained by the police over the agitation. They were released the same day later. Both, Sudheesh Rambhotla, chief spokesperson for BJP in Andhra, and Pattabi Ram pointed out that the ruling Yuvajana Sramika Rythu Congress Party (YSRCP), led by chief minister Y. S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, held a big gathering to observe the memorial of Jagan’s father and former chief minister of erstwhile Andhra Pradesh Y. S . Rajasekhara Ready on September 2, contradicting their current stance on Covid-19 protocol. The YSRCP called the TDP’s stand on the issue hypocritical. “The decision was taken concerning the third (Covid-19) wave. We took a decision based on the central government’s guidelines. If we would have allowed it, then TDP would have said we are allowing it despite the pandemic, and now they are saying this,” said YSRCP MLA and spokesperson Abbaya Chowdary Kothari.Kothari pointed out that the BJP-ruled neighbouring state Karnataka has also placed restrictions on the Ganesh Chaturthi festival. “From our perspective, we are not trying to dictate anything to anyone. Everyone will celebrate the festival, but we don’t want massive rallies or public gatherings. Why are the TDP and BJP not questioning the centre on this?” he said. Political analyst Palwai Raghavendra Reddy opined that the TDP is in a “clueless” position in the state currently because the BJP is trying to take over the main opposition space. “On these issues, the BJP is taking an aggressive stance. The Telugu Desam is struggling as it cannot do too much Hindutva, which will benefit the YSRCP. The former will have to identify issues which are not religiously sensitive,” he added. Chief minister Jagan Mohan Reddy held a review meeting on September 2 and decided to continue the night curfew in AP from 11 pm to 6 am, owing to the festival season. Based on suggestions from health department officials, the government also decided to limit Ganesh (or Vinayaka) Chathurti celebrations within homes instead of public places. The Andhra government decided that Ganesh idols cannot be installed in public places and that immersions this year, along with processions, should be avoided. Before this, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla August 28 issued guidelines to chief secretaries of all states and Union Territories informing them that Covid-19 guidelines have been extended till September 30. In his letter to the chief secretaries, Bhalla stated that state governments and Union Territory administrations have been advised to take suitable measures to avoid large gatherings during the coming festive season. He added that if required, local restrictions may be imposed to curb such large gatherings. “In all crowded places, Covid appropriate behaviour should be strictly enforced,” he wrote in his letter.Ganesh Chaturthi, which falls on September 10, is widely observed in cities like Bombay and Hyderabad, wherein people gather in large numbers to immerse idols in lakes or other water bodies. Many also install Ganesh idols which are set up in public pandals. While not as widespread in AP, it is also observed similarly by a section of people every year in cities and districts. As of September 6, AP reported 739 new cases, taking the tally to 2,022,064. Over the last fortnight, the case tally of Covid-19 in the state have been around 1,000 marks per day on average.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-celebrate-chaturthi-in-full-swing-says-tdp-defying-andhra-govt-orders-101631040836926.html
08-09-2021||India||Covid-19: Karnataka issues advisory against travelling to Kerala||The Karnataka government on Tuesday issued an advisory, asking residents of the state to avoid travel to neighbouring Kerala which is currently grappling with a massive surge in Covid-19 infections and a new scare of the resurgence of Nipah virus.“ln view of the prevailing Covid-19 situation in Kerala, special measures are already in place for arrivals from Kerala. Further, it has been observed that students and employees arriving to Karnataka from Kerala though bringing negative RT-PCR reports are testing Covid-19 positive during repeat test and number of such case are considerably high in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi,” according to an order issued by Jawaid Akhtar, the additional chief secretary of the health and family welfare department of Karnataka.The new orders come hours after Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday morning said that he has asked for stricter measures to be implemented in borders between the two states.“At the time of sealing the Kerala border, we had asked for vaccination and testing and will make this stricter,” he said.The new orders are also significant because they come in the wake of the Nipah scare in Kerala.“I have asked our experts to learn everything about Nipah virus, how it spreads and what precautions should be taken and their suggestions. We have already kept an eye on it (Nipah) and will definitely try and do it in a manner to control it,” Bommai said.Karnataka believes that people travelling from Kerala and Maharashtra are the main source of the spread of infections in the state and has turned a blind eye on political events and other large gatherings of people within its own cities and districts.“Public is advised to defer their plan to visit Kerala till the end of October, 2021, if there is no emergency/urgency with a view to avoid a third wave of Covid-19 in Karnataka in the larger interest of public health,” the order states.“All administrators/principals of the educational/nursing/paramedical institutions are advised to instruct their wards who have not yet returned to Karnataka to defer/postpone their return till the end of October, 2021. Further, they should also advise their wards not to travel to Kerala till the end of October, 2021,” the order states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19karnatakaissues-advisory-against-travelling-to-kerala-101631040835586.html
08-09-2021||India||Cut ‘queerphobic’ text from MBBS books: Kerala HC||The Kerala high court on Tuesday directed the state medical education board to take necessary steps to remove discriminatory references against LGBTQIA (lesbian, gay, bi-sexual, transgender, queer, intersex and asexual) community from MBBS textbooks and check “queerphobic” contents.Hearing a petition filed by two NGOs named Queerythm and Disha representing the queer community, a division bench of Chief Justice S Manikumar and Justice Shaji P Chaly directed the board to redress their grievances and take immediate action.The petitioners pointed out inhuman and discriminatory remarks against their community in textbooks — references like “they consist of a group of people suffering from mental disorder, perversion and flaunting such identity is an offence”.They submitted a list of such references through their counsel Legith T Kotakkal and said such references are against the fundamental rights of the community. “Many such references are made in textbooks despite the fact that queer community rights are recognised by the Supreme Court and it decriminalised sex between consenting adults of the same sex,” the petition claimed.They said they had made a representation to the state authorities for correction earlier in March this year, but it was not responded to. They claimed that not only medical books but many other textbooks also contain such highly “queerphobic” and discriminatory contents.Even in the medical field, the petitioners claimed, due to the fear of being victimised due to the stigma attached to queerness, many members from the community are scared to reveal their sexual orientation.They also pointed out that last week, Madras high court had directed the Tamil Nadu medical board to revamp its curriculum and immediately remove references against LGBTQIA community based on a public interest litigation.Kerala was the first state to formulate a transgender policy in 2015 and also establish a transgender justice board in 2017. The state’s first metro in Kochi also employed many people from the community. But many activists working in the area say such measures remain only on paper, and the community needs acceptance, not sympathy.“We have set up a research desk to find out such discriminatory contents in curriculum. Despite many verdicts and new measures attitude towards the community is changing very slow. We have to speed up the pace,” said Syma S, a member of the government of Kerala’s Transgender Justice Board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cut-queerphobic-text-from-mbbs-books-kerala-hc-101631040835052.html
08-09-2021||India||Over 150 evacuated from flood-hit Sircilla in Telangana||The Telangana government Tuesday evacuated several people from the low-lying areas of Rajanna-Sircilla district, among other places inundated due to heavy rains that hit the state.The district is among the most affected areas in the state, with over 150 people evacuated from their homes. District superintended of police Rahul Hegde told Hindustan Times that water bodies were filling up due to heavy rains, which resulted in floods across parts of the Sircilla town and other rural areas. “In rural areas also water bodies are overflowing, so some roads were closed. Wherever it is receding slowly, the routes are opening up. Sircilla town flooded as there was a lot of rain, and we had to evacuate people from areas where rainwater reached two to three feet high,” Hegde said. The state government also deployed a section of its Disaster Response Force (DRF) to the flood-hit district. The DRF works under the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC).“Recently, DRF teams with 25 members were deployed at Siricilla Municipality for Monsoon Rescue operations. Incharge officers are appointed to supervise all the complainants attended by the DRF Teams. A dedicated Control Room established under the Directorate of EV&DM works round the clock with robust communication system and is closely monitoring the situation at the field,” said a press note from the GHMC. Given the weather warning by IMD, the chief minister of Telangana K. Chandrasekhar Rao (KCR), who is in New Delhi currently, on Tuesday asked state chief secretary Somesh Kumar to hold a meeting with all district collectors. Kumar, in a teleconference with collectors of 20 flood-affected districts, took stock of the situation and asked all officers to take steps and prevent loss of life or damage to any property.On Tuesday, ex-MLA and former cabinet minister Eatala Rajender who left the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi and joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), also provided breakfast and lunch for those whose homes were flooded in the Huzurabad assembly seat (Karimnagar district)Rajender resigned from the seat in June, after which he joined the BJP. He has been campaigning there ever since he resigned. Similarly, ex-MP and TRS MLC (daughter of KCR) K. Kavitha also provided food for people whose houses were flooded in Nizamabad townTwitter was awash with videos of the Sircilla district collectorate getting flooded. Congress leader and ex-member of Parliament Ponnam Prabhakar also posted a similar video, questioning the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi’s infrastructure work in Rajanna-Sircilla district.However, Hegde said that only the front portion of the collectorate’s premises was inundated and not the actual building. The rains were in accordance with the Indian Meteorological Department’s (IMD) alert for Telangana, which had issued an ‘extremely heavy’ rainfall warning for northern districts of Telangana for September 6 and 7. Warangal and some parts of Karimnagar district also witnessed flooding on Tuesday. Other parts of Telangana which witnessed flooding due to heavy rains were Nizamabad, Warangal and Karimnagar districts. In fact, in Nizamabad, the yet to be inaugurated collector office was also flooded on Tuesday. Similar situations were seen in Warangal town as well, where heavy rains battered roads apart from flooding other parts of it. However, no casualties were reported so far.In Hyderabad, parts of the city witnessed intermittent rainfall. However, the showers were not heavy, which eased the situation a bit, given that the state machinery and the public were expecting another flood-like situation. According to the IMD, on Tuesday, about 20 places in the state, especially the flood-hit areas, witnessed rainfall of over 200 millimetres. Nallabelly in Hanumkonda district recorded the highest rain at 258 mm, while Huzurabad in Karimnagar followed closely with 253.8 mm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-150-evacuated-from-flood-hit-sircilla-in-telangana-101631040780408.html
08-09-2021||India||Don’t carry photos of CM and public officers on kids’ items: Madras HC to TN government||The Madras high court on Tuesday directed the state to discontinue the practice of carrying photographs of chief ministers and other public functionaries on school bags, textbooks and stationery used by children. “It is abhorring that school books or school bags meant for school-going children, who do not have a right to vote, would carry photographs of public functionaries even if the functionary is the chief minister of the state,” the court said. “The state should ensure that such practice is not continued in future.” The first bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice PD Audikesavalu passed the orders in a public interest litigation (PIL) that sought these directions so that public funds are not wasted on carrying the names and photographs of previous chief ministers on textbooks, school bags and stationery. “However, photographs of the chief minister may be carried, but that should be restricted to advertisements in newspapers or some hoardings and certainly not used on textbooks or exercise books or any educational material at all,” the court said in its orders. Advocate general R Shunmugasundaram, appearing for the state, informed the court that chief minister MK Stalin has said in the on-going assembly session that the present government will ensure that school bags, textbooks and stationery bearing photos of leaders from the previous regime will continue to be used until they are exhausted. The AG added that Stalin has decided not to publish his photos in such materials. Given such a decision from the DMK government, the court said that no further order need be made except directing the state that extreme care and caution should be taken to ensure that public funds are not expended for publicity purposes of political leaders. With these observations, the court disposed of the petitions. This is however a new turn in political culture in the state. Last month, school education minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi told the assembly that Stalin’s decision to retain photos of former chief ministers late J Jayalalithaa and Edappadi Palaniswami on 6.5 million school bags and 1 million stationery items has saved ₹13 crore for the state exchequer. Tamil Nadu’s past chief ministers who made the transition from the world of films to politics enjoyed sycophancy and it was a common practice for their images to be erected as hoardings and banners. Both DMK and AIADMK have also introduced free and heavily subsidised schemes and offered free materials to the electorate such as colour TV, grinder, fans, cycles and bags for school students that often bear the names and photos of whichever party is in power. Once a government was in transition following elections, it was also common for the previous regimes’ schemes and materials to be discontinued and replaced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-carry-photos-of-cm-and-public-officers-on-kids-items-madras-hc-to-tn-government-101631040779212.html
08-09-2021||India||You will see a new Kerala Congress in six months, problems ironed out: K Sudhakaran||Last week, the factional feud within the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee came out in the open with the selection of 14 presidents of the District Congress Committee (DCC) and a series of disciplinary actions against few leaders for a public outburst. Speaking to Ramesh Babu, state unit chief and Kannur MP K Sudhakaran says while most of the differences have been “settled”, discipline is supreme to the party.The rumblings within the Congress are out in the open. For how long will the present stalemate continue? There is no big crisis as such, as portrayed by the media. In a democratic party like Congress, it is natural that differences will crop up and the present case is one such case. But discipline is paramount in the party. We have settled most of our differences. Opposition leader V D Satheesan called on senior leaders Oommen Chandy, Ramesh Chennithala and Thiruvanchoor Radhakrishnan to iron out wrinkles. I also met them. Since we have settled everything, All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary Tariq Anwar won’t be coming to the state now. We will carry everyone along, we will hear our seniors properly. There is no question of any neglect or step-motherly attitude. Our aim is to strengthen the party and turn it into a well-oiled machine. A strong party is the need of the hour.Can we call it a generational shift?The new leadership is a proper blend of fresh blood and experience, we need new ideas, mode and direction. It doesn’t mean seniors leaders will have to take a backseat. The new team will take a leaf out of their rich experience to reinvigorate the party. The party is supreme and the factions can take rest now. Senior leader Oommen Chandy said a couple of days back in Kottayam that the party is first and the groups are second.You said the Congress would be turned into a semi-cadre party soon. How do you plan to achieve this? Any plan to attract more youth? Yes, we will transform it into a new party in six months. It will be a semi-cadre outfit and you will see the differences soon. We will select 2,500 committed cadres -- 1,000 from Youth Congress and 1,500 from our trade wing INTUC. We will train and groom them. We have to attract more youth. There will be special drives at the grassroots and leaders will oversee them. All office-bearers will have to submit a performance report periodically. These posts are not showpieces, they will have to work on the ground. We will spot exceptional ones and groom them. We have to strengthen our students and youth outfits. In the 1970s and 80s, a surge of youth leaders catapulted the party to new highs in the state. We need a similar move. The Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Development Studies in the state capital started regular workshops for them. The new DCC chiefs will also attend such workshops. The party will have a new look and vigor and it will be visible in six months.How do you see the state tackling the pandemic?I don’t have to say it in detail, the records tell. The state continues to report more than 65 per cent of the total Covid-19 cases of the country and another deadly threat of Nipah has also emerged. This is the third onset of Nipah. No serious study was done. Even the source of the first outbreak in 2018 remains a mystery. My humble request to the government is to hear experts more and avoid politics. Kerala has the best health infrastructure in the country, despite this we are in a sorry state now. Inept handling and race for cheap publicity landed the government in such a mess. Hope the chief minister will realise his follies at least now and correct them.There are claims that the BJP is taking the space of the opposition Congress in the state. Do you agree?It is a baseless question. A desperate BJP tried its best to widen its base but its lone account (a single MLA in the last assembly) was also closed. We played a vital role in it. Among all state units, the BJP has the weakest one in Kerala, it doesn’t have a proper leader and infighting reigns supreme.What we witness these days is a secret understanding between the ruling CPI(M) and BJP. What happened to the gold and dollar smuggling cases? High-profile probes stopped abruptly after the chief minister’s right-hand man was grilled. The Lavalin case (in which chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s name allegedly cropped up) was deferred 28 times in court and most of the time, at the initiative of the probe agency (CBI). In return, the chief minister is protecting state BJP leaders in the highway heist and hawala cases (snatching of alleged funds meant for BJP electioneering in Thrissur in last April). The CPI(M)’s Congress-‘mukt’ Kerala will remain a day dream. I am sure people will expose this unholy alliance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/you-will-see-a-new-kerala-congress-in-six-months-problems-ironed-outksudhakaran-101631040775806.html
08-09-2021||India||Massive march in Karnal as talks with farmers fail||Thousands of farmers surrounded a key government building in Haryana chief minister’s bastion of Karnal on Tuesday evening, holding a massive show of strength and intensifying their protest over controversial police action on agitating cultivators last month. Farmers gathered at a mahapanchayat venue in Karnal, and later marched on foot to the mini secretariat building five kilometers away. They jumped over some barricades but didn’t face any serious police challenge on their way. Three rounds of talks with the district administration dissuading the farmers from blocking the highway and marching into Karnal town had failed earlier in the day. “Our talks with administration failed as they did not agree to our demands,” senior Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leader Joginder Singh Ugrahan said. “We have gheraoed the mini-secretariat. We don’t have to enter inside. We will sit outside peacefully,” farm leader Yogendra Yadav said. This is the second mahapanchayat by farmers, who clashed with the government last year over three controversial central laws, in two days. On Sunday, farmers held a similar mega event in Uttar Pradesh’s Muzaffarnagar, attended by hundreds of thousands of people. Karnal is the home constituency of Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar, who defended the August 28 police lathi charge that left some farmers injured and allegedly caused the death of one protester – a charge denied by the administration. The farmers vowed not to lift the blockade till the government lodged a case of murder against sub-divisional magistrate Ayush Sinha, who was caught on tape allegedly telling policemen to “break heads” if protesters crossed the line. Singh has since been transferred. The cultivators also demanded ₹25 lakh compensation to the farmerwho died on August 28 and ₹2 lakh each to the injured farmers.Farmers said that they will pitch tents at the entrance of the mini secretariat and that the sit-in protest will be organised on the lines of Singhu and Tikri border sites. For about nine months, farmers from Punjab, Haryana and other north Indian states have been sitting on the borders of the Capital to press for the repeal of the three laws. As night fell, farmers squatted outside the mini secretariat, shared food and water, and shouted slogans in support of the agitation against the central laws. Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait said the state government was not listening to the farmers. “The Khattar government should agree to our demands or else arrest us. We are ready to fill Haryana jails,” he tweeted. The farm unions had fixed September 6 as the deadline to meet the demands. The day began on a tense note as farmers mobilised early in the morning at Karnal’s grain market even as the administration rushed 40 companies of paramilitary forces, diverted traffic, suspended mobile internet services in five districts, and barricading every corner of Karnal. The administration had earlier signalled that it will not let the farmers march towards the town but later blinked after the massive mobilisation. Deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav, Karnal’s inspector general of police Mamta Singh and superintendent of police Ganga Ram Punia were among the officials who took part in the talks. The administration invited an 11-member delegation, comprising BKU Haryana unit chief Gurnam Singh Charuni, Rakesh Tikait, Balbir Singh Rajewal and Darshan Pal, for talks but the negotiations broke down after three rounds. The farm leaders returned to the grain market to meet supporters and strategise. Later in the day, the farmers began their march to the mini-secretariat. Police had installed several layers of barricades but the protesters removed them without facing police resistance. Addressing the mahapanchayat earlier, Yadav said, “We have come to ask the government which Constitution, which law gives an IAS officer permission to give orders to break the farmers’ heads.... Under which law are police allowed to carry out brutal lathi charge resulting in the death of one and injuries to several others.”In the afternoon, the Karnal district administration and police quoted ground intelligence reports and said that some “elements” had reached the grain market armed with lathis, iron rods and other weapons. They added that “all such elements will be strictly dealt with in accordance with law”. “Ground intelligence reports indicate that some elements from Rambha, some from Nissing and some from other places have reached the Anaj Mandi armed with lathis, jellis, iron rods etc. It does not show a good intention on their part,” the administration said. “Karnal district administration and police is warning such mischievous elements not to take the law into their hands and maintain public order. All such elements will be strictly dealt with in accordance with law,” a notice issued by the administration added.The farmers launched their agitation against the three central laws last year, arguing that the new regulations will end government-regulated markets and assured minimum crop prices. The government has denied the allegations and offered to put the laws on hold for 18 months -- an offer rejected by the farm unions that press for complete repeal of the legislation. On August 28, protesters were hurt in the clash with police in Karnal as farmers tried to march towards the venue of a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) meeting, in which the chief minister and other senior state leaders were present. Farm leaders also claimed that a protester died later, an allegation rejected by the administration.Hours after the clashes, a video clip showed Sinha was purportedly heard instructing a group of policemen: “Hit them hard…We shall not allow this cordon to be breached. We have enough force available. No one should break the cordon and reach me. If someone does, make sure he has a broken head.”The IAS officer alleged the video was edited and consisted only of selected portions of his overall instructions to the police.The viral clip triggered immediate outrage with the Opposition demanding a probe and the government sought a report from local officials. The CM admitted that Sinha’s choice of words was wrong but he defended the police action. Deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala also condemned Sinha’s instructions to the police and assured action against the officer.The 2018-batch IAS officer has since been transferred out of Karnal and posted as additional secretary of Citizen Resources Information Department (CRID), as per a government order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/massive-march-in-karnalas-talks-with-farmers-fail-101631040716217.html
08-09-2021||India||UP outbreak: Kin of Mathura village victims mourn loss||KOH (MATHURA): Koh stirs to life early in the morning. The young men go to factories in Mathura, an hour’s drive away, and other men and women head to the fields or cowsheds. The village of roughly 350 households is a patchwork of red, green, pink and blue brick houses with piles of cow dung, mulch, and water strewn along the few pucca roads. Open drains run alongside. The locals don’t seem to mind, walking barefoot and skipping over the garbage. The village is built on a slope, so putrid water drains into a large pond on the far edge of the settlement. A temple stands nearby, looking outwards into shrubs and bushes.Over the past fortnight, however, a blanket of silence has fallen over the usual village chatter, pierced by the occasional wail of a heartbroken mother. In that period, the village has lost nine children to dengue and another 130people have fallen sick to the viral fever that has killed at least 54 people in the region, according to government estimates. Koh is the among the worst affected areas by the outbreak that first became public on August 18 from Firozabad but quickly spread across the region. The government later clarified that the “mysterious disease” initially reported was, in fact, dengue. A central team later classified a majority of the deaths as being caused by dengue, with the others attributed to scrub typhus and leptospirosis. In the village, people don’t go out anymore, instead congregating on the courtyard of houses where new victims emerge, mourning and offering condolences to families of victims as young as four. Some distraught relatives make the rounds of the local temple, others call up local moneylenders and banks because most families are poor and financially stretched by hospital costs. Ved Prakash, 37, is one of them. The labourer’s five-year-old daughter, Honey, died on August 23, while on their way to a hospital. “On August 5, Honey got a fever but after giving her medicines from the local doctor, her condition worsened. We admitted her to a private hospital in Mathura where she was treated for 20 days. On August 23, we decided to take her to Jaipur to a better hospital but she passed away on the way,” said Prakash, biting back tears. Eleven of the 12 members in his house are down with fever. “The adults did not need to be admitted but all four of my daughters were. After Honey passed away, my youngest daughter was put on ventilator. For all these admissions at the private hospital, we had to shell out ₹4.5 lakh by taking loans and selling gold jewellery. Even after doing everything, I could not save my gudiya,” he added. After a visit by chief minister Yogi Adityanath on August 30, the government has also stepped up treatment and mitigation efforts. “In Firozabad, some officers of the health and urban development departments have been found lax in discharging their duties. It should be examined and action should be initiated against guilty officers,” the chief minister said on Monday. But as locals from Koh said the outbreak has also spotlighted poor health infrastructure and public hygiene, especially in the hinterlands where awareness is low. Inadequate facilitiesIn Koh, the primary health centre is 10 km away but is poorly staffed. Villagers said they didn’t “trust” the government facilities. “The first death due to fever was reported at our village on August 11 of four-year-old Ramiya. Her parents had gone to the district hospital in Mathura and had to wait over 1.5 hours just to get and even after getting admission, no doctor attended her for eight hours. She had to be taken to a private hospital and eventually passed away,” said Harender Singh, the village chief. Between August 11 and 20, three more children died, one of them Singh’s nephew Avneesh. “My Nandagopal has been snatched away from me, our family’s future is gone,” said Lilawati, the child’s grandmother, clutching a smiling portrait of the nine-year-old and referring to him with one of Lord Krishna’s names. Mathura is considered the birth place of the Hindu God. “On August 15, Avneesh woke up with fever and cold sweat. Soon, his condition worsened, with red spots on the body. He said he felt a hundred ants were biting him. He was admitted in a private hospital in Farah (a block in Mathura) for two days after which we decided to shift him to a bigger hospital on August 20. However, he died on the way before we could reach the hospital,” said Singh. He said he informed Mathura chief medical officer Rachna Gupta on August 20but alleged that he didn’t receive a response. “She took the matter lightly. That is when on August 21, I decided to inform a local journalist about it. After the report was published in the local newspaper, a medical team from the CMO office came to our village on August 22,” said Singh.Since then, a medical team comprising a doctor, a pharmacist, a lab technician and a nurse have set up a temporary 24x7 health care centre where all cases of fever are being screened for malaria and dengue. Two ambulances are also stationed at the village to ferry patients to the local community health centre.“The nine deaths are of paraxia of unknown origin (PUO) who have clinical symptoms of dengue. However, a death audit of these cases is being done to ascertain the exact cause of death,” said Dr Munish Paurush, district surveillance officer, Mathura. Villagers also say two sanitation workers have sprayed medicine in wild bushes and drains – the first time this has happened in twoyears. But they are still seething. “When hospital bills started increasing, many villagers had to mortgage their lands, jewellery and even their house to pay for the treatments of their children,” said Singh.Blame gameThe spate of deaths has sparked a blame game with villagers alleging the government was initially lax, and the administration refuting the charges. Gupta said that immediate action was taken by the district health department. “The village pradhan decided to inform the media before informing the local health officials about it. However, immediate action was taken by us which has helped control the deaths and the fever cases, as compared to nearby districts which has become an epicentre of the outbreak,” she said. She added that there was no “mystery fever”. “While a death audit will ascertain the cause of deaths, there are several infections that people are being screened for, these include Dengue, Malaria, Japanese Encephalitis (JE), Scrub Typhus and Laptopirisis,” said Gupta. Official data shows the block – which comprises four villages other than Koh – has reported 177 cases of dengue, 16 cases of malaria, 29 cases of scrub typhus, 45 cases of laptopirisis, and 2 cases of Japanese Encephalitis since August 21. Gupta said 16 of the 352 houses were found to have larvae and stagnant water. “Stagnant water was found in coolers and trays of fridges in people’s houses. Our medical team had to go door to door to get these cleaned and larvae was found as well. District health department regularly carries our awareness programmes to inform people about the dangers of stagnant water in houses,” she added. She said cases were now under control. But back at the village, locals say it will take a long time for things to be back to normal. They point to the many locked houses, after at least 40 families fled the village due to fear of the fever. “The families left in the village have sent their women and children to their maternal villages,” said Singh. Nearby villages have shunned Koh and told local residents that the deaths were the reason of a curse. In response, village elders revived a small temple on the outskirts the village which was shut for a year since its priest passed away. “We feel that we were disrespectful to the gods which is why this is happening to our village,” said Savitri Devi, a resident. The children still left in the village carry knots of red thread on their arms. “My dadi has given me this to protect me from the evil eye,” said Rinku, 7. (with inputs from Hemendra Chaturvedi in Agra)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-outbreak-kin-of-mathura-village-victims-mourn-loss-101631040178597.html
08-09-2021||India||Pegasus row: Centre hints at filing second affidavit in SC||New Delhi:The Union government on Tuesday signalled a rethink of its previous stand against filing a detailed response in the Supreme Court on a clutch of petitions demanding a court-monitored probe into the alleged surveillance of Indian citizens using Pegasus spyware. This came on a day the apex court was expected to pass orders on the constitution of a committee and other ancillary issues related to an independent inquiry.On August 17, the Centre told the top court that it has nothing to add to its three-page affidavit on the Pegasus snooping matter filed on August 16 which neither confirmed nor denied the use of the military-grade spyware to hack phones of ministers, politicians, businessmen, activists and journalists. Following this, the bench, headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana, said it would consider passing some orders on the constitution of an expert committee at the next date of hearing.But on Monday, solicitor general Tushar Mehta told the bench, which also included justices Surya Kant and AS Bopanna, that the government is yet to take a final call on filing the second affidavit, as suggested by the court earlier.When the matter was taken up, Mehta, representing the Union government, submitted that there is some difficulty in a decision on the additional affidavit since he could not consult the officers concerned.“There is some difficulty regarding a call on filing the second affidavit. Please, consider accommodating me till Thursday or Monday,” the SG requested the bench.To this, the CJI said: “But you have already filed an affidavit.”Mehta replied: “Yes, my lords. We filed one affidavit, and this court had enquired if we wanted to file another one. I could not ensure that stand. For some reason, some officers were not there; then I could not meet, etc. It (the stand) could not be found.”The SG requested adjourning the matter till Thursday or next Monday.Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing in the petition filed by journalists N Ram and Sashi Kumar, said that there was no objection if the government is reconsidering its previous stand on filing a comprehensive affidavit.Accordingly, the matter was adjourned to September 13.The Pegasus row erupted on July 18 after an international investigative consortium reported that the phones of Indian ministers, politicians, activists, businessmen and journalists were among the 50,000 that were potentially targeted by Pegasus, Israeli company NSO Group’s phone hacking software. According to this consortium, Pegasus can switch on a target’s phone camera and microphone, as well as access data on the device, effectively turning a phone into a pocket spy.Responding to a bunch of petitions filed by lawyers, politicians, journalists and civil rights activists, the Union ministry of electronics and information technology filed the three-page affidavit on August 16 that refused to confirm or deny whether it used the Israeli Pegasus spyware for surveilling Indians. The Centre instead offered to set up an expert committee to look into the controversy and “dispel any wrong narrative spread by certain vested interests”.The bench tried to know whether the government would come clean on the purchase or use of Pegasus but the SG consistently maintained that a committee should rather be allowed to delve into the issue, adding that “whatever interception was done, it was done in the interest of national security”.The case was adjourned by a day on August 16 to enable the government to decide on filing a comprehensive reply.On August 17, the court observed that it is “not averse” to setting up an expert committee to look into the alleged surveillance of Indian citizens with Pegasus spyware but expects the government to bring sufficient facts on record regarding the interception regime in India.The government, however, replied that any disclosure on its using or not using Pegasus spyware would come at the cost of national security and insisted that it will divulge such information only before the proposed committee, which, it said, can report to the top court.It also added that all interceptions were being done in accordance with the statutory procedure, and it would not wish to put out in the public domain details of the software used for lawful surveillance by filing any additional affidavit.Following the Centre’s refusal, the court on August 17 issued a formal notice to the government on the batch of pleas filed by petitioners in the case, a list that includes advocate ML Sharma, former minister Yashwant Sinha, Rajya Sabha MP John Brittas, the Editors Guild of India, journalists N Ram and Sashi Kumar, journalists Paranjoy Guha Thakurta, Rupesh Kumar Singh, Ipshita Shatakshi, SNM Abdi, and Prem Shankar Jha, and civil rights activists Jagdeep S Chhokar and Narendra Mishra.Deferring the matter for August 17, the bench once again asked SG Mehta to consider filing a detailed reply while observing that the court would ponder over the future course of action in the meantime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pegasus-row-centre-hints-at-filing-second-affidavit-in-sc-101631039815418.html
08-09-2021||India||Elgar accused Rona Wilson gets bail to join deceased father’s mass||A special NIA court on Tuesday granted temporary bail for 15 days to activist Rona Wilson, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, to attend a mass organised for his father, who died last month, at his native place in Kerala.Special judge D E Kothalikar granted the temporary relief from September 13 to Wilson on a personal bond of ₹50,000 and one or two sureties in the same amount. Kothalikar also directed the accused to surrender his passport to the court before leaving for his native place Neendakara in Kollam city of Kerala.The court also said that Wilson should not leave the limits of his native place and maintained that no prayer for extension of the bail will be entertained.Wilson had moved the special court seeking temporary bail to visit Kerala after his father, Jacob, died on August 18. The last rites were performed on the following day. In his plea, Wilson said that he had last met his father in 2018 in Alappuzha. Wilson was arrested nearly two months later by Pune Police in connection with the Elgar Parishad-Bhima Koregaon violence case. He is currently in judicial custody and lodged in Taloja jail in Navi Mumbai.As per customs, Wilson said, a function is organised on the 30th-day of his father’s death, which falls on September 16. He also annexed a letter from St Sebastian Church about the function.Appearing for the NIA, special prosecutor Prakash Shetty told the court there were chances of Wilson carrying out some illicit activity if released on bail, and that he may also influence witnesses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elgar-accused-rona-wilson-gets-bail-to-join-deceased-father-s-mass-101631039337348.html
08-09-2021||India||Magistrates can’t push UAPA charge sheet deadline: SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday lay down an important proposition of law, holding that a judicial magistrate is not competent to extend the time period for filing of a charge sheet in a case registered under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), 1967. A three-judge bench, headed by justice Uday U Lalit, said that only a special court designated under UAPA will be authorised to deal with the issue of extending the time for filing of charge sheets in such cases.The order would also imply that a magistrate is not competent to extend the remand of an accused in UAPA cases. According to the bench, which also included justices S Ravindra Bhat and Bela M Trivedi, a “court” under the UAPA has to be construed as a special court, or a sessions court in the absence of a special court, and it cannot include a “magistrate” as mentioned under Section 167 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC). The Supreme Court also turned down a suggestion by amicus curiae (friend of the court) and additional solicitor general SV Raju to refer the issue to a larger bench of five judges for an authoritative interpretation of what a “court” would mean. “In so far as time to complete investigation is concerned, a magistrate will not be within his jurisdiction to extend the time for filing of the charge sheet...such a power is non-existent,” held the bench, adding the only competent authority to consider the request in terms of UAPA will be a special court or a sessions court, in absence of a notification for a special court. The bench was hearing an appeal filed by four accused, who were denied bail by a court in Bhopal in March 2014 on the grounds that a magistrate extended the time for filing of charge sheet in their case from 90 days to 180 days. The Madhya Pradesh high court upheld this order in September 2017. Filing of the charge sheet was directly connected to grant of bail in the case. The accused wanted default bail on the grounds that the police failed to conclude its probe and submit a charge sheet within the stipulated period of 90 days.Appearing for the accused, senior counsel Siddharth Dave contested the order of extension of time, contending that a judicial magistrate is not competent to examine a request for extension of time in UAPA cases. Dave added that “court” had to be understood in light of Section 2(1)(d) of UAPA which means a court which can try such cases whereas a magistrate cannot try UAPA cases. Called to assist the court, ASG Raju, however, said that a magistrate is equally entitled to extend the time period for a charge sheet. Raju emphasised that Section 167 of the CrPC stands modified by Section 43D(2)(b) of UAPA, which entitles a court to give time to investigators the maximum period of 180 days for filing the charge sheet instead of usual 90 days. The ASG said that a “court” has to mean a court under CrPC and would therefore, include even a magistrate for the purpose of extending time for filing a charge sheet. He said that a magistrate’s order of extending a remand will also be a perfectly valid order since UAPA mentions only the “court” and not a “special court” or a “designated court”. He also said that the definition of a “court” has not been properly examined in light of Section 167 of CrPC by the Supreme Court in its 2020 judgment in Bikramjit Singh’s case, and hence, the issue requires to be referred to a five-judge bench for determination. But the bench said that the issues being raised are covered by the 2020 judgment and there is no need to refer the matter to a larger bench. In the facts of the case, the court granted bail to the four accused after holding that the magistrate’s order of extending the time period is not a valid order and therefore, the accused are entitled to default bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/magistrates-can-t-push-uapa-charge-sheet-deadline-sc-101631039218527.html
08-09-2021||India||Jharkhand assembly clears 75% quota in private jobs for locals||Ranchi: A select committee of the Jharkhand assembly has cleared with some changes a key piece of legislation that accords 75% reservation to locals in all existing jobs up to ₹40,000 per month in the private sector.The Jharkhand State Employment of Local Candidates Bill, 2021 was originally tabled in the assembly’s budget session in March, when it was referred to the panel for deeper examination. The six-member select committee, formed by the Speaker, was chaired by state labour minister Satyanand Bhokta. Among the changes made in the original Bill include adding the words “private sector” in the amended bill, changing its name to “The Jharkhand State Employment of Local Candidates in Private Sector Bill, 2021”. The new amendments also increased the salary bracket from ₹30,000 to ₹40,000, and added a new clause that brought public sector undertakings under the purview of this law.Once notified, the Act will make Jharkhand the third state in the country, after Andhra Pradesh and Haryana, to have passed a law reserving jobs for locals in the private sector. “With submission of the report, the amended bill will now be notified as an Act. The government will form the related rules and regulations to implement it. This is a landmark law as people, especially those who are displaced for setting up industry, are often forced to protest and hit the streets for jobs would now have a legal backing. Otherwise now they are often threatened with cases for raising their voice. With increasing privatisation and the Centre pushing for NMP (national monetisation pipeline), this law would prove to be boon for the locals,” said CPI (ML) legislator Binod Singh, one of the members of the select committee.BJP legislator and former health minister Ramchandra Chandrvanshi, who was also a member of the select committee, said they cleared the Bill because it was in the interest of the state.While the new law does not fix quota for any vulnerable groups, including displaced or social groups, as done in government jobs as part affirmative action, the amended bill adds a new clause saying that attention will be given for their representation. “During the process of employment of the local candidates, attention will be given to the representation of the displaced due to the establishment of the concerned institution, local candidates of the concerned district and all classes of the society,” said sub-clause (ii) of Section 4 of the new law.The amended bill also expanded the monitoring committee for implementation and addressing complaints. Now the deputy commissioner in each district will chair the committee with local MLAs, and employment and labour department officers as members of the committees. Earlier, only the deputy commissioner was given the sole right to settle disputes. Andhra Pradesh had become the first state in 2019 to pass a Bill imposing 75% quota for locals in private industrial jobs. In June this year, Haryana passed a law , reserving 75% quota for local people in private sector jobs with monthly salary less than ₹50,000.“This bill aims at checking the migration of work force from the state. If people get jobs here, no one would want to go out for menial jobs. Reserving jobs for locals also helps in checking people who arrive from other states and eventually settle here,” principal general secretary of ruling Jharkhand Mukti Morcha Supriyo Bhattacharya said. Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries president Praveen Chhabra said the industry won’t find it difficult to implement the new law as majority of the work force in the lower rung consist of locals.“Majority of the unskilled and semi skilled labours in majority of the industrial units here are anyway locals. So it shouldn’t be a problem. As far as the skilled workforce is concerned as the salary bracket is being increased, finding such hands locally won’t be a problem if the government parallelly runs skill development programmes in association with the industry,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/select-committee-of-jharkhand-assembly-clears-75-quota-in-private-jobs-for-locals-101631039217299.html
08-09-2021||India||Supreme Court gives bail to 97 convicts who served 20 yrs in Uttar Pradesh jails||The Supreme Court has ordered 97 prisoners languishing for over 20 years across different jails in Uttar Pradesh to be released on bail after it was noted that the convicts would have been entitled to premature release under the state’s policy for prisoners who have served 20 years of their sentence.The order was passed by a bench of justices Indira Banerjee and JK Maheshwari on two petitions filed by a set of 66 convicts in one petition and 31 convicts in another.Representing their case, advocate Rishi Malhotra told the court that the case of the petitioners highlighted a “shocking and sorry state of affairs” in Uttar Pradesh where the prisoners were still in prison despite being entitled to premature release.The Supreme Court also issued notice to the Uttar Pradesh government to ascertain on record the entitlement of convicts for premature release as per the policy of August 1, 2018.The bench also granted bail to the 97 convicts, saying, “Since the petitioners have been in jail for over 20 years, they shall be released on ad interim bail subject to the terms and conditions to be imposed by the trial court to its satisfaction.”The two petitions raised a question of law on the ground that the UP government, on July 28, amended its policy of August 1, 2018 on premature release and introduced a condition that only those convicts who have attained the age of 60 years or more would be entitled under the 2018 policy.Malhotra said, “It is a settled law that it is the policy which was in existence at the time of conviction which would be applicable and not the policy which is applicable at the time of consideration for premature release of a convict.”He urged the Supreme Court to determine whether the state government could defeat the statutory right of these 97 petitioners who became entitled to release as per the August 2018 policy after serving 20 years.He underlined that the change in policy by the Uttar Pradesh government came after the Supreme Court, on May 4 this year, ordered the release of about 32 convicts lodged in Uttar Pradesh’s jails. When the state failed to act on the direction, a contempt petition was filed, following which all the 32 convicts, who had undergone over 20 years of incarceration, were released.On August 25, another bench of the Supreme Court, while considering the case of 18 convicts in UP jails whose appeals were not heard for years together, noted that there are nearly 7,214 convicts across various jails in the state who have undergone more than 10 years in jail and are awaiting a decision on their criminal appeals.The Supreme Court further noted that an “astronomical” figure of 1.83 lakh criminal appeals are pending decision with the Allahabad high court and Lucknow bench and sought a response from the high court to remedy this situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-gives-bail-to-97-convicts-who-served-20-yrs-in-uttar-pradesh-jails-101631038616875.html
08-09-2021||India||PM Modi launches key education initiatives for ‘education revolution’||From educational tools for the differently abled to an assessment framework for schools to a new teacher’s training programme, Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched several important educational initiatives which he said were aimed at ushering an “education revolution” in the country and placing India’s educational system on the “global map”.Addressing the inaugural session of an educational conclave organised by the union education ministry under its ongoing “Shikshak Parv” celebration, the PM said “we have to constantly redefine and redesign our teaching-learning process in order to make our education sector world-class; in this rapidly changing era, our teachers also have to learn about new systems and techniques rapidly.”The PM also announced the launch of Vidyanjali 2.0, a portal that will facilitate donations, contributions from Corporate Social Responsibility funds, and volunteering, all aimed at developing and improving schools. “Vidyanjali 2.0 is like a platform for the country’s resolution of ‘Sabka Prayas’ with ‘Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas’. In this society, our private sector has to come forward and contribute to increasing the quality of education in government schools,” Modi said. The PM recently added a fourth element to his government’s mission statement, “with everyone, for everyone’s progress, and building trust in everyone” -- “with everyone’s efforts”. Among the initiatives launched by the PM were the Indian Sign Language Dictionary (audio and text embedded sign language video for the hearing impaired, in conformity with Universal Design of Learning) and talking Books (audio books for the visually impaired). Dr Satendra Singh, a disability right activist, said the dictionary will help to have a uniform sign language in the country. “Internationally, several countries have their own sign languages. For instance, the United States and the United Kingdom have their own sign languages. But within India, due to the existing geographical variations, we see different variations of sign languages in different regions. It becomes very difficult to have a uniform sign language to use in education. This dictionary will address the issue. As far as talking books are concerned, there are several softwares and resources already available like that for people with visual disability,” he said. The PM also announced the launch of the School Quality Assurance and Assessment Framework of CBSE to provide global parameters of attainment as standards in schools affiliated to it. According to the ministry, it’s being “operationised” now.Noting that “inclusivity” and “equitability” in education is must for any country to progress, the PM said, “The National Digital Education Architecture, N-DEAR is likely to play a major role in eradicating inequality in education and its modernization. N-DEAR will act as a ‘super-connect’ between various academic activities in the same way the UPI interface revolutionized the banking sector.” The government, in Union budget 2021-22 announced the setting up N-DEAR to strengthen the country’s digital infrastructure for education.Asserting that the initiatives launched are not just policy-based but also participation-based, the prime minister said, “If we are in the midst of a transformation period, fortunately, we also have a modern and futuristic new National Education Policy (NEP) 2020. These transformations in the education sector are not just policy-based but also participation-based”Speaking on the occasion, Union Minister for education and skill development Dharmendra Pradhan said, “Shikshak Parv will encourage innovative practices to ensure not only spread of education at all levels but also to improve quality, institutionalise inclusive practices and enhance sustainability in the schools.”The ‘shikshak parv’ is being observed between September 5 and September 17 to recognise the contributions of teachers. Between September 8 and September 17, the ministry will conduct webinars on themes including technology in education, nurturing inclusive classrooms, foundation literacy and numeracy, and other practices and initiatives which can be adopted by the schools across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-launches-key-education-initiatives-for-education-revolution-101631038315626.html
08-09-2021||India||Bengal govt challenges HC order on Suvendu in his security guard’s death case||The West Bengal government on Tuesday moved the division bench of Calcutta high court against the order of a single-judge bench, which stayed a probe by the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) into the death of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Suvendu Adhikari’s security guard in 2018. Adhikari, who is the leader of opposition in the West Bengal Legislative Assembly, did not appear before the investigating agency in connection with the case on Monday. On Tuesday, the matter was mentioned by a state lawyer before a division bench presided over by justice Subrata Talukdar with regard to filing an appeal against the single bench order. The state’s appeal is likely to be taken up for hearing on Wednesday. “I was surprised to see the way the high court provided a shield to Adhikari. Police filed a case on the basis of a complaint lodged by the victim’s wife and were probing the death of his bodyguard. The court gave the person (Adhikari) a shield and said he can’t be arrested. Then what was the need of a police case? We have several questions against the high court order. This case has added to our questions. We would carry on our campaign against this without disrespecting the court,” Trinamool Congress MP Saugata Roy said. Reacting to the state’s move, state BJP chief Dilip Ghosh said: “The state has moved the Supreme Court against the high court order on post poll violence. In most cases, the state has suffered a face loss in the court. It is being proved in the court that the state is not abiding by the law. The people who voted the party to power becomes doubtful in such cases as to whether they have voted the right party to power.” In July, the CID initiated a fresh probe into the death of Adhikari’s security guard who reportedly died by suicide in 2018, officials familiar with the matter said. The victim’s wife lodged a complaint on July 10, demanding a fresh investigation into the case. Adhikari was with the Trinamool Congress at the time; he defected to the Bharatiya Janata Party in late 2020; and defeated chief minister Mamata Banerjee from his constituency Nandigram. On Monday, the single bench of Justice Rajasekhar Mantha stayed proceedings against Adhikari in connection with the case lodged in Contai, in Purba Medinipur district.The court also stayed proceedings against him in a case of an alleged political clash in Nandigram and a case of snatching lodged in Nandigram and Panskura police stations, respectively, in the district. The court, however, allowed investigation against the BJP leader in an alleged job scam case registered with Maniktala police station in Kolkata and in another case where he is accused of threatening the police at Tamluk. It also directed that no coercive action (read: arrest) can be taken against the BJP leader in connection with these.Adhikari is not a named accused in the cases filed in Contai and Maniktala police stations.The order was passed by the high court in Adhikari’s petition seeking the court’s intervention in criminal proceedings filed against him by the police or an order transferring investigation of the cases to CBI.The TMC and the BJP fought a high-intensity election, which the former won in a landslide. Since then, the TMC has accused the BJP of using central agencies such as CBI to target it; the BJP has accused the TMC of targeting its workers and supporters after the election results were announced. While the CBI is investigating some of the cases of post-poll violence in a court monitored probe, the Enforcement Directorate is investigating the role of TMC leader Abhishek Banerjee, who is also Mamata Banerjee’s nephew, in a case involving illegal coal mining. Meanwhile, a clutch of cases has also been registered against Adhikari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-govt-challenges-hc-order-on-suvendu-in-his-security-guard-s-death-case-101631037715442.html
08-09-2021||India||Kolkata teacher, son found murdered in flat; six detained: Police||A 45-year-old school teacher and her 13-year-old son were found dead with their throats slit, in their flat at Parnasree in southwest Kolkata on Monday night, police said. The woman’s husband and his son’s tutor are among those being interrogated in the case, they added. According to news agency PTI, at least six persons have been detained in connection with the case.The bodies were discovered by the woman’s husband, Tapan, when he returned home from work, police said, adding that the role of more than one person was suspected behind the crime. “The two bodies were found with their throats slits in adjacent rooms. The bodies have been sent for post mortem and an investigation is underway. A few people have also been questioned,” an officer from the detective department of Kolkata Police said on condition of anonymity. Tapan, who works in a private bank, told police the matter came to light when he came home and found all the lights switched off. He said he had also called Susmita before reaching home but did not get a response. “I called my wife before reaching home but her mobile phone was switched off. After returning from the office, I could see from the road that the lights were switched off in our flat. I knocked but no one responded. I eventually broke open the door and found them in a pool of blood,” Tapan told reporters. Police said Tomojit’s tutor had visited the flat at around 5 pm but returned when no one responded to his knocks. Tomojit, a student of Class 8, was found in his uniform, leading police to believe that he was attending classes online at the time of the incident. Neighbours told police that they did not hear any screams or see anything suspicious near the flat. While the woman’s mobile phone was missing from the flat, blood stains were found in the washroom. “We are probing all angles. Sniffer dogs have been deployed. An investigation is going on,” a senior officer involved with the probe said, preferring anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kolkata-teacher-son-found-murdered-in-flat-six-detained-police-101631037356597.html
08-09-2021||India||Former cop Pradeep Sharma was paid cash to kill Mansukh Hiran: CBI||Encounter specialist Pradeep Sharma was assigned the task of killing Thane trader Mansukh Hiran, owner of the explosives-laden SUV found abandoned near the South Mumbai residence of billionaire Mukesh Ambani, the charge sheet filed by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on September 3 said. It added that he was paid a “huge amount of cash” for the killing by the prime conspirator in the case, another policeman Sachin Vaze, and that he got the car accessories shop owner killed through his accomplice Santosh Shelar. The charge-sheet revealed that on March 2, two days before 48-year-old Hiran was done to death, Vaze ensured his presence at a meeting, also attended by another policeman Sunil Mane and Sharma, so that the two policemen knew how he looked. “The task was assigned to Pradeep Sharma (A-10),” states the charge-sheet.”Pursuant to the conspiracy, accused Pradeep Sharma (A-10) contacted, accused Santosh Shelar (A-6) and enquired if he could carry out the murder in lieu of monetary consideration,” it stated, adding, that “accused Santosh Shelar (A-6) accepted the task.”Vaze and Mane have both been dismissed from service. Sharma resigned in 2019 to contest the state elections as a Shiv Sena candidate (he lost). All three have been arrested. The March 2 meeting came a week after a green Mahindra Scorpio was found abandoned near billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s residence, Antilia, on Carmichael Road in South Mumbai, with 20 lose gelatin sticks and a threatening note addressed to the Ambanis. Investigators at the National Investigation Agency believe this may have been an attempt by Vaze to burnish his credentials as an investigator (by solving a case he had himself orchestrated), although there is no evidence of this. Nor is there evidence to support another prevalent theory in Mumbai -- that this was plain old extortion.  It emerged that the car was in Hiran’s possession, and had been borrowed by Vaze, but reportedly returned a few weeks before the incident. Soon questions began to be aired about Vaze’s involvement in the case, and whether he had himself planted the explosives. Then, Hiran went missing, and then turned up dead. According to the charge sheet, on March 3, Vaze met Sharma and handed over huge amount of cash in a bag. “Investigation has further established that, on 03.03.2021 accused Sachin Vaze (A-1) met accused Pradeep Sharma (A-10) at PS (Pradeep Sharma) Foundation office, Andheri (East), Mumbai during eventing time and handed over a rexine bag containing large amount of cash (bundles of Indian currency note of Rs.500 denomination).”It added that after receiving the cash, Sharma called Shelar and obtained details of the vehicle, a red Tavera, that he intended to use to kill Hiran and dispose the body, and passed on the same to Vaze.The charge-sheet further added that, as agreed between Vaze and Mane, on the evening of March 4, Mane called Hiran, using a SIM provided by cricket bookie Naresh Got on the basis of bogus documents, pretending to be a police officer from Malad.Vaze, according to the charge-sheet, had already convinced Hiran to escape to a “safe place” to evade arrest and interrogation by various agencies, especially the Maharashtra ATS that was then investigating the matter. Hiran readily agreed to meet the officer near Suraj Water Park along Ghodbunder Road in Thane.Mane picked up Hiran and handed him over to Shelar, who was waiting in the Tavera along with three others, Manish Soni, Satish Mothukari and Anand Jadhav.The quartet smothered Hiran in the vehicle and dumped the body in a creek . The next day, the body was found in the creek. NIA subsequently took over investigations in both the cases and revealed that it was all handy work of Vaze, out of desperation to “restore his lost glory.”NIA later also arrested encounter specialist Sharma and four others, Shelar, Jadhav, Soni, and Mothukari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-encounter-specialist-pradeep-sharma-was-paid-cash-to-kill-mansukh-hiran-cbi-101631037002093.html
08-09-2021||India||District-wise estimates of Covid-19 vaccination coverage in India||India has administered at least one dose of a Covid-19 vaccine to 539.6 million people by September 7. In absolute terms, this makes India the largest country in terms of number of people who have received at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine (comparable data from China is not available). But absolute numbers do not matter; what matters is the share of population which has been vaccinated. For example, Israel has completely vaccinated 5.5 million people. But relative to its population, this is 62.7%, compared to just 17.7% for India (the proportion of fully vaccinated adults).With most decisions involving non-pharmaceutical interventions to prevent the spread of the pandemic, such as lockdowns, being taken at the local level (not just in states but even districts), it will help to know the share of the adult population that has been vaccinated across districts.HT has estimated the share of vaccinated population at the national and state level by using the population projections for March 2021 by the National Commission on Population. No such projections exist at the district-level. So far, this has been an important handicap in assessing vaccination coverage at the district-level.To be sure, the government is likely to have population data at the granular level, but this is not available in the public domain.In a two-part series, HT uses a reasonable proxy for population estimates for adults in India by district. The first part will describe how we arrived at these population estimates and summarise the status of inter-district inequality in vaccinations. The second part will track the trajectory of inter-district inequality in vaccinations over time.The next-best estimation for district-wise populationCovid-19 vaccines are only being administered to people who are 18 or above. This means the database of voters could be a good proxy (in India, the voting age is 18 years).HT has used the number of electors at the district level in the 2019 general elections available from the Election Commission of India. Data compiled by the Trivedi Centre for Political Data (TCPD) maps assembly constituencies to districts. This can be used to calculate the number of electors in these districts. There are a total 662 districts in the TCPD database. HT has mapped the 754 districts given in the government’s Co-WIN dashboard back to these 662 districts.Because, these are 2019 numbers, adult population for a district thus calculated is likely to be an underestimate by 3.74% of the projected adult population for 2021 at the national level. To be sure, there are differences across states. For instance, the number of electors is more than the projected adult population in Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka, Odisha, and Tamil Nadu. In all other states, the number of electors is lower than projected adult population. However, the estimation error is largely the same across states. Median deviation across the 23 states and UTs (Union Territories) for which projections are available is -4.05%.Best and worst performing districtsOn the basis of the data on electors, the share of adults who had received at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine by September 5 was 57.8%. The share of fully vaccinated adults was 17.6%. As expected, these figures are close to but slightly higher than the estimates – 55.7% with one dose and 17% with both doses – generated using the projected population by the National Commission on Population.Population projections using electoral roll data shows that top five fully vaccinated districts are Kolkata (76.1%), Diu (72%), Leh in Ladakh (71.7%), Gurgaon (64.3%), and Papum Pare in Arunachal Pradesh (59.6%).The five least fully vaccinated districts are all in Uttar Pradesh: Kanpur Rural (2.97%), Budaun (4.35%), Kannauj (4.57%), Hardoi (4.67%), and Chitrakoot (4.75%).The best five districts by share of adults given at least one dose are Diu (210%), Kolkata (184%), Solan in Himachal (170%), Gurgaon (150%), and East Sikkim (149%). To be sure, these numbers could be bigger than 100% not only because the adult population might have increased, but also because people from neighbouring districts might be getting their shots here.The bottom five districts on this metric are Mahbubnagar in Telangana (18.76%), Kanpur Rural in Uttar Pradesh (20.02%), Narayanpur in Chhattisgarh (20.14%), Senapati in Manipur (23.51%)and Kiphire in Nagaland (24.36%).But best and worst districts do not capture a state’s overall performanceThe performance of the best and worst districts is not an indicator of the performance of their respective states. Kolkata, for instance, has delivered 4.2 times the number of total doses per 100 adults as West Bengal and Gurgaon 2.3 times than Haryana. Kiphire in Nagaland, has delivered 0.45 times the number of total doses per 100 adults as the state, Kanpur rural 0.42 times as Uttar Pradesh, and Narayanpur 0.38 times as Chhattisgarh. All these districts are among the top and bottom 10 districts by variation from state-level vaccination figures. Vaccinations in most districts are, however, close to the state-level figures. The ratio of this coverage (district to state) for most (60%) districts is in the 0.8-1.1 range.The rural-urban divide in vaccinationWhether India’s vaccination drive has reached rural areas is an important question. While using the number of electors as a proxy for adult population, HT has used total population figures from 2011 census to classify a district as rural (more than 60% population in rural areas), urban (less than 40% population in rural areas), and mixed (40%-60% population in rural areas).Urban, mixed and rural districts had 14.5%, 13.9%, and 71.6% of the total adult population on the basis of the number of electors. Not all states and Union territories had all three categories of districts. For example, Bihar had only mixed and rural districts, and Goa only urban districts. Up to September 5, the share of adults who had received at least one dose was 75.6% for urban districts, 61.41% for mixed districts and 53.56% for rural districts. The corresponding numbers for full immunisation are 28.01%, 21.36%, and 14.80%.This is the first of a two-part data journalism series on vaccination coverage by districts in India. The second part will look at how district-wise inequality has changed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/districtwise-estimates-of-covid-19-vaccination-coverage-in-india-101631036575437.html
08-09-2021||India||African Cheetahs to be experimentally introduced in India in the next 4-6 months||Cheetahs from Namibia and South Africa are likely to reach too India in the next four to six months, and be reintroduced in Kuno national park in Madhya Pradesh, Union environment ministry officials have confirmed. The move comes 74 years after the last of the big cats was killed in India. The cheetah was declared extinct in the country in 1952.“We are expecting African Cheetahs to arrive in the next 4-6 months. The Kuno national park is being prepared for reintroduction,” said Gaurav Khare, official spokesperson of the environment ministry.In the first phase, 12 to 15 cheetahs are likely to arrive later this year or early in 2022 but over the next five years 40 to 50 are likely to be reintroduced, SP Yadav, member secretary at the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA), which is overseeing the project, said“Experts from South Africa visited Kuno and found the habitat suitable for reintroduction. In fact, they said it is better than some of their habitats in South Africa. Reintroduction will take months. First, we need to see if they (the cheetahs) are able to kill prey in a very large enclosure,” explained Yadav.Chital, chinkara and black bucks may be suitable prey for cheetahs in India, according to experts. Yadav said cheetahs don’t necessarily require grasslands, and that the forests of central India and parts of Rajasthan are best suited for them.“Our understanding is that their habitat is varied. The last time cheetahs were seen in the wild was in the Sal forests of Chhattisgarh,” said Yadav adding that “each Cheetah requires around 10 to 20 sq km area. They are small cats so they need a far smaller area than say a tiger. There is no record of a Cheetah attacking humans. Their prey base is mostly small ungulates (hooved mammals).”The International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) lists the Asiatic Cheetah to be critically endangered. With a historic distribution across southwest and central Asia to India, the Asiatic Cheetah is now only known to occur with certainty in Iran. The population is very small, the IUCN states. Because of extremely low numbers of the Asiatic Cheetah, African Cheetahs, another subspecies are being considered for reintroduction in India but the experiment has been criticised by some scientists.“Firstly, this is not reintroduction but introduction of African Cheetahs to India. They belong to the African continent. The Kuno Palpur sanctuary hasn’t been prepared for cheetahs which need large open areas and small catchable prey. The Chinkara group size in Kuno is very small and Chital group size is also shrinking due to loss of open grasslands. We have to be very cautious of zoonotic diseases also during this experiment. It would have been better if suitable habitat was developed before bringing them,” said Fayaz Khudsar, a wildlife biologist who conducted field research in Kuno in the late 90’s.The SC on January 28, 2020 approved the introduction of the African Cheetah in India on an experimental basis in a carefully chosen habitat which will be closely monitored to assess if the cat can adapt to Indian conditions. NTCA approached SC regarding introduction of African Cheetahs to India.The Wildlife Institute of India in collaboration with the Wildlife Trust of India assessed potential sites and as long back as 2010 recommended Kuno Palpur Wildlife Sanctuary in Madhya Pradesh; Shahgarh landscape in Jaisalmer (Rajasthan); and Nauradehi Wildlife Sanctuary in Madhya Pradesh for introduction of the African Cheetah.In 2013, SC imposed a stay on introduction of African Cheetahs to Kuno because it was an ideal habitat for the Asiatic Lion.The Asiatic cheetah was driven to extinction in India and the genetically very similar African cheetah which numbers about 12000 wild individuals, was favoured as seed stock for reintroduction. The International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN) whose opinion was sought by the Government in this regard, approved this proposal according to a note by Wildlife Trust of India.“There are several sites that are being surveyed for the Cheetah including Nauradehi Wildlife Sanctuary in Madhya Pradesh, Mukundara in Rajasthan, desert grasslands of Rajasthan or in Gujarat if you reclaim the grasslands. The Cheetah habitat in India historically is from Jammu to Tamil Nadu, very widespread and they were found in any habitat dry forests, grasslands, scrub forest etc. So, they will survive quite happily. In India they survived with lions, leopards and tigers. As long as there is enough food and there is protection they will regenerate on their own. Cheetahs in Namibia are being killed by farmers why not reintroduce them into their former habitat?” asked Divyabhanusinh Chavda, heads the Advisory Board at World Wide Fund For Nature, India. He is also a Cheetah expert.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/african-cheetahs-to-be-experimentally-introduced-in-india-in-the-next-4-6-months-101631015333563.html
08-09-2021||India||J&K L-G launches portal to redress migrants’ property grievances||The lieutenant governor (L-G) of Jammu and Kashmir Manoj Sinha on Tuesday launched an online portal (http://jkmigrantrelief.nic.in) for the registration of complaints by Kashmiri migrants about distress sale, encroachment or other grievances regarding property in the union territory. According to the government, applications filed on the portal will be addressed in a fixed timeframe under the Public Services Guarantee Act, 2011 by the revenue authorities. The district magistrates, who are the competent authority, will have to undertake surveys or field verification of properties and update all registers within a period of 15 days and submit a compliance report to the divisional commissioner.In 1997, the government of Jammu and Kashmir had brought in the J&K Migrant Immovable Property (Preservation, Protection and Restraint on Distress Sale) Act, 1997 for preventing distress sale of properties belonging to migrants who were forced to leave in the aftermath of terrorism in the Valley. The services through the portal will be applicable to all migrants irrespective of their faith. Also Read | ‘Placed under house arrest’, tweets Mehbooba MuftiAs per government data, 44,167 families are officially registered as Kashmiri migrant families. Those who are not registered as Kashmiri migrants but have fled from the Valley are also eligible to register their complaints on the portal, said a government official.“Following complaints that despite the provisions of the Act, little has been done by way of restoring rights or preventing distress sales, the government has decided to launch the portal to allow all those who migrated to lodge their complaints and these will be addressed in a time bound manner,” said the official.Any violation of the Act will be taken cognizance of by the district magistrates with timely action for eviction, custody and restoration of such properties, the official said.Agnishekhar, a writer, poet and a member of Panun Kashmir, a group of Kashmiri Pandits who seek a separate homeland, said the launch of the portal is laudable. “We have been demanding declaring the sale of all properties under distress and duress as null and void. This forceable sale of properties was also a form of genocide and it was the inability of the government that prevented it,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-l-g-launches-portal-to-redress-migrants-property-grievances-101631004293012.html
08-09-2021||Today's||Twenty years later, a fractured world||Reports that representatives of six countries — Pakistan, China, Russia, Qatar, Turkey, and Iran — were invited to the formation of the Taliban-led government in Afghanistan perhaps best capture the long-term geopolitical repercussions of the post-9/11 era. The complex global landscape that marked much of the past two decades has started to assume greater clarity. Of particular importance is the concatenation of four regional geopolitical contests across the Eurasian landmass. Recent developments in Afghanistan have affected them all.
08-09-2021||Today's||The frolic, gentle, and sharp Keshav Desiraju||And Lamb the frolic and the gentle has vanished from his lonely hearth — William Wordsworth on Charles Lamb.
08-09-2021||Today's||Fortifying rice is scientific, cost-effective, addresses nutrition deficiencies||One of the most cost-effective interventions to address the global challenge of micronutrient inadequacies is large-scale food fortification (LSFF). In this backdrop, Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi, in his Independence Day speech, announced the fortification of all rice under the Public Distribution System (PDS) by 2023.
08-09-2021||Today's||Keshav Desiraju: Distinguished public servant, voice of conscience, friend||Keshav Desiraju was a formidable presence in the Indian State. In a career spanning four decades in the Indian Administrative Service, he worked in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and with the central government. Passionate about public welfare, as Union Health Secretary, Keshav Desiraju made landmark contributions to medical education, the rural health system and mental health.The outpouring of memories from friends in public office and civil society are testament to his contributions. Keshav studied economics at the University of Cambridge and earned his Master’s in Public Administration as a Mason Fellow at Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government. He was also committed to research and engaged closely with Indian scholars and the global academic community.Keshav and I first met in 2008, at his office in the Secretariat building in Dehradun. He was serving then as Principal Health Secretary of Uttarakhand. I was a curious graduate student at the time, embarking on field research for my doctoral thesis. Keshav welcomed me into his office and asked that I take a seat. Within minutes, he was engrossed in a discussion of my research topic, the delivery of India’s universal primary education programming. I took copious notes as Keshav fired away with probing questions and promising avenues to explore. Having served as Education Secretary previously, he had his own burning questions about the government school system: “What is preventing quality services from reaching our rural schools? Why are so many parents going after private schools, at such high personal cost? What are other school systems doing to integrate rural girls? How can we learn from them?” Keen that I spend time away from Dehradun to engage with communities in the hill districts, Keshav moved quickly to facilitate my field visits.I left the room feeling like I had found a kindred spirit. Little did I know that our encounter in Dehradun would produce a friendship spanning 13 years. Over this time, we had countless conversations about India’s political economy, the State and human development. A generous interlocutor, Keshav always made himself available to discuss my research ideas and writings. He listened patiently before giving sincere feedback.Keshav took an active interest in policy-related research and he contributed to academic conferences in India and abroad. He spoke on subjects ranging from rural health care and education to women’s security and gender-based violence. A sharp, analytical mind combined with deep institutional experience, Keshav brought an invaluable perspective to the table. If he felt that a policy idea required more evidence, or that it went astray of common sense, he would say so. He disagreed passionately and expressed his ideas with candour. He exuded humility and always sought to learn from others.Keshav’s demeanour was disarmingly simple. He appreciated a nice pair of socks, but otherwise he was understated. Notwithstanding his vast experience, he was perennially self-effacing. He rejected distinctions based on social status. These personal attributes were more remarkable considering that Keshav hailed from a renowned family of scholars and statesmen. His grandfather, Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan, was a distinguished professor of philosophy at the University of Oxford and served as the second President of India. His uncle, Sarvepalli Gopal, was an esteemed historian. Keshav never spoke of his august pedigree. I learned of it only years after we became friends, from a common acquaintance.In many ways, Keshav was a bureaucrat’s bureaucrat. He was forever punctual. His words, measured. Events required appropriate planning in advance. Paperwork had to be tidy and files kept in order. He saw value in administrative systems. But he also questioned the assumptions on which bureaucracy operated. He challenged stifling rules and broke through red tape. He sought field-based evidence before reaching policy judgments.More than anything, he opposed hierarchy. He gave subordinates their due respect, treating them more like his teammates. Similar ideals informed his interactions with citizens. As District Magistrate of Almora, I learned that Keshav travelled by foot to villages, where he took stock of public services and monitored implementation. The recent outpouring of memories from residents of Almora and other parts of Uttarakhand, whose lives he touched decades ago, speaks to his impact on the ground.Keshav had an unwavering concern for others. Perhaps this is why he chose to work in public health and education. These policy arenas suffered from longstanding neglect. Among IAS circles, they were conventionally perceived as lower status portfolios. But Keshav was unencumbered by convention. He had the courage to enter spaces where the State’s presence was most needed. He created openings for Indian civil society organisations to inform and improve upon State efforts. He took particular interest in policies affecting women, children, the mentally ill, and other vulnerable groups.When weighing policy options, he tried to see things from the vantage point of the most marginalised citizen. Keshav’s contributions as Union Health Secretary earned him public recognition. He was a driving force behind the development of India’s Mental Health Act of 2017. Working quietly behind the scenes, he advanced numerous other programs.Keshav’s interests were wide-ranging, spanning politics, history, literature and the arts. He had a love for Indian classical music. An aficionado of the Carnatic genre, he relished live performances. My affinities lay instead with Hindustani tabla and sitar, but he never held this against me. Keshav’s recent book, Of Gifted Voice, a biography of M.S. Subbulakshmi, showcased the depth of his knowledge of Carnatic music. Afternoons with Keshav brought nourishing conversations interspersed with tea and snacks, often followed by sambar and rice. Now and again, Keshav would hum a ragam, his eyes momentarily veering away, lost in the melody. After dinner, Keshav appreciated a good single malt, treated with one teaspoon of water. For all his seriousness of purpose, he maintained good humour and an almost child-like ease. Marzipan sweet was his great weakness. His face would light up whenever he received a box.In our final exchange, but a few days ago over email, Keshav offered thoughts on a recent paper I had published on girls’ education reforms in Uttar Pradesh. He recalled his time as District Magistrate of Uttarkashi, where he had had fought to extend a residential schooling program for disadvantaged girls from Grade 8 to Grade 10, which helped make it possible for them to complete high school. Not satisfied with his efforts, he wanted girls’ education programs to be supported much further. As he wrote in the closing lines of his email: “How much there is to do, and how cruel our system is.” Till his last days, Keshav was concerned with how the public system treated those in need.Keshav Desiraju was the kind of friend one yearns for, but seldom finds. Today, I mourn the loss of my dear friend. But I also celebrate the richness of his life and all that it represented. Behind his gentle mannerisms and mischievous smile was a bright light, which radiated an unqualified commitment to public welfare. Through acts, both small and large, he left his mark on India’s institutions, making them stronger. He proved what government can accomplish, so long as it puts humanity first. May the memory of Keshav Desiraju keep us tethered to this greater purpose.Akshay Mangla is an Associate Professor of International Business at the University of OxfordThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/keshav-desiraju-distinguished-public-servant-voice-of-conscience-friend-101631080342295.html
08-09-2021||Today's||Scientifically Speaking: Worrying number of Covid survivors face brain disorders||Covid-19 is a disease that affects multiple organs. Even after the causative virus is no longer detectable by diagnostic tests, up to a third of patients suffer symptoms, often collectively called long Covid. There are around 200 symptoms of long Covid, but little consensus on how to detect or treat it.
08-09-2021||Editorials||India confronts increased rain-deficiency, climate migration||Around 29% of India’s geographical area is undergoing a spell of dry weather, according to the drought tracker of the Indian Institute of Technology, Gandhinagar, released on Monday. The tracker captures rainfall patterns and found that till September 4, there were no drought-like conditions in about 71% of the country, but that the remaining parts face rain deficiency. Almost all of Gujarat, western Odisha, eastern West Bengal, Bundelkhand in Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh, and districts in the Northeast face drought-like conditions.
08-09-2021||Editorials||The new Afghan government||The Taliban has formalised its military takeover of Afghanistan, and the de facto control it has exercised over the Afghan State since August 15, with the announcement of a new interim government. The all-male, Pashtun-dominated set-up, where the key axis of power revolves around military commanders with ties with the Pakistani Deep State, is a clear message from the Taliban to the rest of the world. The talk of an inclusive government was just that, talk; the Taliban remains exclusivist, on ethnic, gender, and, of course, religious lines; it remains committed to the politics of violence, given the seamless fusion of terror groups and designated terrorists in the formal power structure; and Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) will continue to have a substantial say — if not an outright veto — on the Afghan State’s orientation, especially with regard to internal security, intelligence, defence and foreign policy.
