13-09-2021||News||Delhi University has approved FYUP. What does it mean for students?||With Delhi University (DU) approving the implementation of the four-year undergraduate programme last month, the central varsity is set to roll out the mammoth structural change next academic session. The university is also set to implement other provisions laid down in the National Education Policy 2020, including enrolling itself in the Academic Bank of Credits (ABC) system and allowing students to opt for Multiple Entry-Exit Scheme (MEES) for increased flexibility in higher education.
13-09-2021||News||Conversion in C'garh: Aggressive BJP, silent Congress, insecure community||Forty-four-year-old Viju Phillip, like most other Christians in Raipur, has been fielding anxious calls all week.
13-09-2021||News||India has lagged behind in textile exports. Can the sector become competitive?||India’s textiles exports traditionally lagged behind China because of cost and scale factors, but now it has been beaten by countries such as Bangladesh and Vietnam due to another factor – the duty disadvantage.
13-09-2021||News||India’s new approach: Afghans first||Though shut out by the Pakistan-backed Taliban, India has a very strong ally in Afghanistan — the Afghan people. And New Delhi might try and figure out a way of building on that equity that, frankly, few other neighbours of Afghanistan can claim credibly. Least of all Pakistan.
13-09-2021||Noida||Dengue, malaria up in Noida, Uttar Pradesh health dept takes stock||A team of the Uttar Pradesh health department on Monday took stock of a door-to-door surveillance carried out in Gautam Budh Nagar from September 7 to 16, said officials.The team, led by Dr Sachin Vaish, joint director, directorate of Medical Health and Services, also checked preparedness for handling fever cases and vector borne diseases like dengue and malaria in the district, they added. The move came after several people died of fever in nearby districts.“We have inspected the work of Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs) and Auxillary Nurse Midwives (ANMs) that are conducting door-to-door surveys to screen the fever cases. Fever cases are screened for the detection of dengue and malaria, according to the symptoms... I also made surprise visits to primary health centres in Barola, Mamura and Hoshiarpur to check medicine stock, anti-larvae fogging activities and the preparedness to handle the fever cases,” said Dr Vaish.Also Read | 30 CCTV batteries stolen from Eastern Peripheral Expressway in UP’s GB NagarDr Vaish has submitted his findings and recommendations in a report to the district chief medical officer, Sunil Kumar Sharma, following the Monday inspection. “The inspection results were satisfactory but some improvements are required, which have been submitted to the CMO. We will also conduct another inspection on Tuesday. The district is fully equipped to handle fever cases, and we are sure we won’t see a similar situation as in nearby districts,” he added.As per the district malaria officer, Rajesh Sharma, regular anti-larvae fogging drives are being carried out across the district. “The district has been receiving heavy rainfall for the past few days, which increases the chances of vector borne diseases. The transmission period for the same will continue till October. Hence, anti-larvae fogging activities are being carried out across the district to prevent breeding of mosquitoes. So far, the district has reported 24 malaria cases and no dengue cases,” he said.Dr Sharma, meanwhile, said, “The report submitted by the inspection team will be taken into account... We are fully prepared to handle such fever cases. A rapid response team and a control room has been set up at the Sector 30 district combined hospital and all the seven health centres in the district -- Community Health Centre (CHC) Bhangel, CHC Bisrakh, CHC Badalpur, CHC Dadri, CHC Dadha, CHC Jewar and Primary Health Centre Dankaur -- to report cases of viral fever and take immediate action. All these are equipped with dengue and malaria testing facilities and have child health specialists as well.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/dengue-malaria-up-in-noida-uttar-pradesh-health-dept-takes-stock-101631557712463.html
13-09-2021||Chandigarh||National shooter dies by suicide in Mohali||Namanveer Singh Brar, a 29-year-old national shooter and private coach, died by suicide at his house in Sector 71, Mohali, in the wee hours of Monday. Sub-inspector Amandeep Singh, who is the investigating officer (IO), said the incident took place around 3:35 am, when Brar was alone in his room. “He returned home late and went to his room, while his wife, who is pregnant, was sleeping with her mother-in-law,” said the IO. Brar shot himself on the right temple with his licensed Austria-made Glock pistol, and died on the spot, said the IO. After hearing the gunshot, the family members rushed him to the civil hospital in Phase 6, Mohali, where the postmortem was conducted.“Prima facie, it looks like a suicide case,” said the IO, adding that no suicide note was found.Ruling out foul play, police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Criminal Procedure Code on the statement of Brar’s father, who didn’t want any further investigation. After the postmortem, the body was handed over to family members. An alumnus of DAV College, Sector 10, and Panjab University, Brar had won the bronze in the double-trap shooting event at the Indian University Championship and World University Games in 2015. He had also won the gold in the Masters Meet Shooting Championship a few years ago. At present, he was providing coaching to young shooters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/national-shooter-dies-by-suicide-in-mohali-101631557711480.html
13-09-2021||Other||Over 74 lakh Covid vaccine doses administered in Himachal||Himachal Pradesh has been able to successfully vaccinate 100% of its eligible population over 18 years of age and has taken a lead in the country, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said on Monday.He was speaking after dedicating the newly-installed PSA oxygen plant at Palampur civil hospital under the PM Cares Fund, which will support 100 beds. The plant has been built at a cost of ₹2 crore.The chief minister said over 74 lakh doses have been administered to people, including first and second dose so far.Today, there are only 1,500 active cases in Himachal as the state government has been working 24x7 to overcome the threat of Covid.Earlier, the state had only 11 dedicated corona health centres with 440 beds and 32 ICU facilities. The state has 80 such centres with 8,765 beds having 880 ICU beds, which can be enhanced up to 11,000, if required.He also dedicated the oxygen plants at Una, DCHC, Haroli, and Palakwah in Una district, through video conferencing.State logs 202 new casesHimachal recorded 202 fresh Covid-19 cases on Monday taking the state’s tally to 2,15,893 while the death toll mounted to 3,623 after three patients succumbed to the contagion.Of the new cases, 54 were reported in Hamirpur, 46 in Kangra, 38 in Mandi, 28 in Shimla, 25 in Bilaspur, four in Una, three in Chamba, two in Solan, and one each in Kinnaur and Kullu.The active cases have come down to 1,521 while recoveries reached 2,10,732 after 214 people recuperated.Kangra is the worst-hit district with a total of 48,149 cases reported to date followed by 30,336 cases in Mandi, and 26,918 in Shimla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/over-74-lakh-covid-vaccine-doses-administered-in-himachal-101631557655228.html
13-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s Covid positivity rate up to 1.33 per cent, may rise further||The Covid positivity rate in Mumbai went above 1% on Monday and is expected to go up further in the coming days as the city is likely to witness a surge in cases after Ganesh festival, according to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials.On Monday, the city reported 345 cases and six deaths, taking tally to 735,400 and toll to 16,028. On Monday, 25,581 tests were conducted in the city, meaning a positivity rate of 1.33%.Monday was the second consecutive day when the city’s positivity rate went above 1%. Earlier, positivity rate had gone above 1% on three days last week.According to BMC officials, Covid testing had gone down due to Ganpati festival, but is expected to reach around 45,000 to 50,000 in the coming days daily, from the daily testing of around 25,000 to 35,000 during the weekend.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, had last week told HT, “There is no third wave yet and we are monitoring the situation constantly. There is likely to be a spike in Covid cases in the coming days and the period till October 5 is going to be crucial.”Further, the city’s recovery rate is 96% with 711,891 recoveries and fatality rate is 2.17%. There are 5,033 active Covid cases in the city. Meanwhile, Dharavi — city’s former hotspot — reported two cases on Monday, taking case count to 7,055.Meanwhile, on Monday 73,980 doses of vaccine were administered in the city, taking the total to 10,553,439. So far, 10,553,439 doses of vaccine have been administered in the city since January 16 and 3,107,511 citizens are fully vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-covid-positivity-rate-up-to-1-33-per-cent-may-rise-further-101631557352016.html
13-09-2021||Noida||UP’s Greater Noida residents miffed as firms leave roads dug up after work||Residents of Greater Noida, miffed at private agencies that have been digging roads to lay cables and not repairing them after, filed a complaint with the Greater Noida authority on Sunday regarding the damage to public infrastructure.The Greater Noida authority, taking cognizance of the complaints, imposed a penalty of ₹20 lakh each against two companies that dug up roads in sectors Beta 1 and Beta 2 to lay cables. “We have been complaining to the Greater Noida authority that private companies dig roads in the city every now and then to lay cables without permission, thereby causing huge problems for residents. And after their cable laying work is completed, they leave without repairing the dug-up patches. This practice not only causes trouble to us but also damages infrastructure,” said Harendra Bhati, a resident of Sector Beta 1 and the founder of Active Citizen Team, a residents’ group.Also Read | 30 CCTV batteries stolen from Eastern Peripheral Expressway in UP’s GB Nagar“The Greater Noida authority must ensure that the permission to dig roads is only given to a firm on the condition that the firm will repair the patch properly immediately after the work is complete. And the digging should be done so as to not inconvenience commuters and residents,” said Alok Nagar, founder-member of India Against Corruption, an NGO in Greater Noida, and a member of the Federation of Greater Noida Resident Welfare Associations.Greater Noida chief executive officer Narendra Bhooshan ordered the digging of roads to be stopped immediately as it is causing huge issues amid rain.“We have imposed a ₹20 lakh penalty against both the firms. And we have directed them to deposit the penalty amount right away. If they do not pay the penalty now then further legal action will be taken. And we have directed the staff to address such issues properly in the future,” said Deep Chand, additional chief executive officer of the Greater Noida authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ups-greater-noida-residents-miffed-as-firms-leave-roads-dug-up-after-work-101631557232875.html
13-09-2021||Noida||10 major roads to get ₹25 crore makeover in UP’s Ghaziabad||In the next few months, the Ghaziabad municipal corporation will spend about ₹25 crore to revamp major city roads meant for inter-district or interstate movement of vehicles. Officials in the know of the development said that the project will be initiated by end of September and will involve the development of approximately 75km-100km of the road network comprising 10 major roads under corporation jurisdiction.Corporation officials said that the 10 roads include stretches of GT Road, Delhi-Meerut Road, Hapur Road, and Loni-Wazirabad Road, among others. They added that the funds allocated under the 15th finance commission will be utilised for the redevelopment.“We are likely to float tenders for the 10 roads by the end of September when the monsoon season is expected to end. Our aim is that all these roads should be in proper condition before the onset of winter and should not aid pollution,” said MS Tanwar, municipal commissioner.Also Read | Ghaziabad civic body asks commercial establishments to obtain trade licence by SeptemberTo control the pollution generated by road dust, the corporation has also decided that they will use perforated tiles on pavements and will develop patches of greenery in nearby open spaces.“The central verge of these roads will also be developed with greenery, and we have also planned the development of dense forestry following the Miyawaki method of plantation in 10 industrial areas in the city. This will help us develop more green areas in the city to reduce pollution. The roads will be completed with proper functional lighting, repair of bad road patches, and development of footpaths,” Tanwar added.Ghaziabad has been hit hard by heavy rainfall during the ongoing monsoon season as several potholes develop on many internal and arterial roads.“The city roads were largely affected by heavy rain during the monsoon season and development and repair works were also delayed due to pandemic. Apart from major roads, internal roads also require immediate repair. With the development of major roads, the corporation must focus on internal roads as well on an urgent basis,” said Rajendra Tyagi, councillor from Raj Nagar.Officials said that the work for the repair of internal roads will also commence once the monsoon season ends.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/10-major-roads-to-get-25-crore-makeover-in-up-s-ghaziabad-101631557051444.html
13-09-2021||Other||Political prospects of TMC in Tripura yet to be determined, say analysts||After victory in West Bengal for the third time in May this year, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) has fixed its first target to make its organizational base strong in Tripura before the state goes for Assembly polls in 2023 rather than focusing on choosing leaders from the state. Keeping its target to form government in the state, the Trinamool Congress appealed to all non-BJP political parties including the Left, Congress or others, to join them in their fight against BJP. But the opposition forces rallying against the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) are yet to announce any sort of electoral alliance. The party, though earlier, announced to introduce all the welfare schemes in Tripura that are currently implemented in Bengal if they get people’s mandate in the upcoming elections. The political analysts claim that the prospect of the party led by Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee for the 2023 polls is yet to be determined at this moment. The experts said that the division of votes among the opposition parties might pave the scope for the BJP to give the final laugh. “It is premature to say the prospect of Trinamool Congress here. All the opposition parties, CPM, Trinamool Congress, Congress and other regional parties are raising voice against the BJP, but all of these parties have some different political beliefs that might not be acceptable to other anti-BJP parties. Almost one and half years left for the polls, the situation might vary during this period,” said a veteran political analyst who wished not to be named. The CPM has no agenda of allying with any anti-BJP party, especially Trinamool Congress, in the current circumstances, though they welcome any party if they want to fight against the BJP. “The CPM is the lone party in the state that has its reach to each and every booth in the state. The Left Front has a strong base here and to date, there is no need to go for alliance with the Trinamool Congress as it has no base here,” said CPM veteran leader Pabitra Kar. Trinamool Congress general secretary Abhishek Banerjee was supposed to announce formally the new state committee but it is yet to be done. “Our first target is to prepare cadres and the people of Tripura will decide who will be their leader. In electoral politics, people’s mandate is everything. We will visit all the districts of the state and will assess who has mass acceptance according to which we will decide our party’s Tripura unit president,” said newly-joined Trinamool Congress leader Sushmita Dev during her visit to the state a few days back. In the meantime, Banerjee’s pre-scheduled rally in Agartala on September 15 might not happen as the rally got no permission from police as it will collide with another political party’s rally the same day. The Trinamool Congress criticized the BJP saying that the party used the administration to disrupt the rally and it shows that the BJP is scared of them. “The Agartala police have said another political party will hold a rally along the same route on Wednesday. This proves that the BJP government is scared of the TMC. Abhishek Banerjee’s car was attacked twice when he visited Tripura,” said TMC Rajya Sabha member Sukhendu Sekhar Roy. “As the police denied permission to our rally, we will soon share our next course of action,” said TMC former parliamentarian Kunal Ghosh in Agartala on Monday. Terming both the CPM and Trinamool Congress as ‘two sides of the same coin’, Bharatiya Janata Party said that the Trinamool Congress has planned to bring people from Kachhar, Karimganj and Silchar of Assam to show their strength to Tripura people during the rally that was scheduled to be addressed by Abhishek Banerjee on September 15. “The Trinamool Congress has no booth committee here and they are well aware of their nil chances to come to power in 2023. They want to create unrest in the state through this rally that got no permission from the police as they didn’t apply properly. They aim to exploit the situation and take it to national politics. So, I urge all to keep themselves away from the conspiracy of Trinamool Congress,” said newly-appointed information and cultural affairs minister Sushanta Chowdhury. He also said that the state witnessed violence that was orchestrated by former chief minister Manik Sarkar a few days back where BJP activists were attacked by the CPM men. “The CPM created vandalism in the state. Now, they have handed over the baton to Trinamool Congress,” he said. Many influential leaders from different political parties, including the BJP, joined TMC in the past two months. The All India Mahila Congress chief Sushmita Dev also joined the party last month. The Trinamool Congress first hit the headlines in Tripura in July when 23 members of political strategist Prashant Kishore’s Indian-Political Action Committee (I-PAC) were detained and forced to stay inside a hotel in Agartala on the charge of violating Covid-19 norms.Centring the issue, Trinamool Congress bigwigs, including general secretary Abhishek Banerjee, Bengal minister Bratya Basu, and some parliamentarians have started visiting the state to expand its base beyond West Bengal that invited tussle between the two political parties several times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/political-prospects-of-tmc-in-tripura-yet-to-be-determined-say-analysts-101631556692429.html
13-09-2021||Noida||30 CCTV batteries stolen from Eastern Peripheral Expressway in UP’s GB Nagar||Officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) said that unidentified thieves have made away with over 30 batteries used to operate the CCTV cameras on several stretches of the 135km Eastern Peripheral Expressway (EPE) in Gautam Budh Nagar since mid-August.The officials that they conveyed the issue to senior officers and are also assessing the damage caused by thieves across Uttar Pradesh. The Ghaziabad police said that NHAI officials on Monday approached them regarding this issue. “They have told us about the thefts, and we will register an FIR,” said Iraj Raja, superintendent of police (rural).The EPE, which became operational in May 2018, has been witnessing frequent thefts--the thieves usually escape with iron fencing, artifacts, and solar panels, among other things, the authorities said. Also Read | Noida: Bangladeshi national held for woman’s murderNHAI officials said that more thefts have come to light recently.“Nearly 30 batteries, covered with iron cages, were stolen during the past few weeks. These issues are prevalent in both Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. Our teams are trying to fix the issue and we have decided that the CCTV cameras (with night vision and 360 degrees rotation) will also cover the battery system setups installed at different locations... Even electricity cables have been taken away. There are certain areas affected by these issues and we have conveyed them to the Meerut divisional commissioner, Surendra Singh,” said Mudit Garg, project director, NHAI.Officials said they do not have footage prior to the battery thefts as the CCTV cameras are located at some distance from each other. The expressway witnesses movement of 70,000 passenger car units every day. NHAI officials, familiar with the development, said that five or six illegal exits on the road were detected near Gautam Budh Nagar’s Dadri and Ghaziabad’s Dasna.“We have fixed/covered the illegal exits in the area. The thieves cut open metal beams on the expressway to make their way around the expressway,” Garg added.Singh said, “We will discuss these issues in the upcoming meeting with NHAI officials and get them sorted out. We hold such meetings twice every month. I have also directed the district officials to rein in traffic violators and stop the entry of unauthorised vehicles on the expressways.”“... The issue of illegal exits is due to the local population. We are keeping a check on certain activities and will get these resolved at the earliest,” said Raja.Traffic police officials of Gautam Budh Nagar said, “Making short-cuts, or driving on the wrong side of the roads can become a nuisance in certain rural belts. Sometimes, local toll booth operators are also involved. We do not have an extensive problem on the EPE, but it does happen once in a while. We keep an eye on the situation and our ground teams in the area immediately fine such vehicles,” said Ganesh Saha, deputy commissioner of police, traffic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/30-cctv-batteries-stolen-from-eastern-peripheral-expressway-in-up-s-gb-nagar-101631556511415.html
13-09-2021||Noida||QR code, GPS: Greater Noida authority's plan for door-to-door waste collection||The Greater Noida Authority on Monday said it was introducing high-tech features like sticking QR codes outside houses and installing GPS and CCTV on vehicles carrying garbage in order to ensure efficient door-to-door waste collection.The features have been made part of the new door-to-door waste collection contract for which tender has been floated, the authority said, adding that the incorporation of these provisions is done to ensure cleanliness in Greater Noida.Greater Noida generates around 200 tonnes of garbage everyday and the authority said it is in the process to hire a single agency, instead of the two currently, for door-to-door collection of waste as well as its segregation.The tender for the project has been floated on a contract of ₹123.37 crore for a period of 10 years, it said."The authority has made some changes in the present method of garbage collection. The authority will keep a close watch on the process of collection of garbage through digital means. For example, every house will have a QR code. Whenever the waste picker goes to pick up the garbage from that house, he will scan it through mobile scanner. As soon as the scan is done, the information about the garbage being picked up will reach the vendor. The vendor will place its monthly information before the authority," the authority said in a statement.Whether it is a village or urban sector of Greater Noida, all the houses will have a QR code, it added.Similarly, it said the monitoring of vehicles engaged in garbage collection will also be done through GPS (Global Positioning System) technology."With this, the authority will be able to monitor the real-time location of any vehicle on garbage collection duty. Till now, the GPS was being used only in vehicles engaged in mechanical sweeping of roads. CCTV cameras will be installed at the waste processing plant. Through this, the movement of vehicles engaged in carrying garbage will be monitored," the authority said.The website of the Greater Noida Authority will also have complete information about waste collection and if any problem persists even after implementation of the new system of door-to-door service, then residents can complain on the Mitra app, authority's CEO Narendra Bhooshan said.Bhooshan expressed hope that the new tender for door-to-door garbage collection will be finalised soon and residents will get better facilities.According to officials, under the new system, the details of the contractor's employees engaged in door-to-door garbage collection will be on the website of the authority.The worker's name, mobile number, among other details will also be uploaded on the website and if he skips picking up the garbage or does not come for a day or two, the residents will also be able to call that employee to flag the issue, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/qr-code-gps-greater-noida-authority-s-plan-for-door-to-door-waste-collection-101631555824663.html
13-09-2021||Delhi||Dengue cases in Delhi sees an uptick, 158 infections so far||The city added 34 dengue cases in the seven days ending September 11, according to a weekly report released by the city’s municipal corporations. The city has seen 158 cases of dengue so far, of which 72 were reported in August, according to the data. There have been no deaths due to the infection. Last year, the city saw 131 cases of the infection in the same duration, and 1,072 cases were reported over the entire year. One person died of the infection last year. The city was reporting a surge in Covid-19 cases during the peak dengue season last year. Unlike Covid-19, dengue is not a notifiable disease in Delhi; meaning it is not mandatory for hospitals and healthcare centres to share details of cases that they might receive. Most of the data collected by the municipal corporation comes from government hospitals and dispensaries. “There were significant challenges last year, with fear of Covid-19 most people with other ailments did not go to the hospitals and even for those who did the data was not immediately share. This made it difficult to carry out breeding control measures. This year, we have started spraying insecticides and now even conducting fogging for adult mosquitoes,” said an official from the municipal corporation, on condition of anonymity. Delhi has also reported 68 cases of malaria and 40 cases of chikungunya so far this year, according to the report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dengue-cases-in-delhi-sees-an-uptick-158-infections-so-far-101631555911427.html
13-09-2021||Delhi||Congress leader’s call to police helps thwart suicide attempt on south Delhi flyover||A timely alert to the police by Congress leader Alka Lamba helped save the life of a 42-year-old man, who was allegedly drunk and contemplating to end his life by jumping off a flyover in south Delhi’s Andrews Ganj on Sunday evening. A six-member police team, led by the station house officer (SHO) of the Kolta Mubarakpur police station Vinay Kumar Tyagi, engaged the man in a conversation before overpowering him from behind and bringing him to safety, police said.The Congress leader said she was strolling on the terrace of her house, when she spotted a man climbing onto the railings of the Andrews Ganj flyover and shouting something to someone standing below.“His activities made me suspect that he may jump off the flyover. I immediately contacted the local SHO Vinay Kumar Tyagi and informed him about the incident. I also sent my security guards to get the man off the flyover. The police acted promptly and saved the man’s life,” said Lamba. Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said Lamba informed the police around 6pm and the man was rescued within 10 minutes of her call. “The man works as a food delivery agent but was unhappy with his earnings. He consumed alcohol with his friend and went to the flyover with the intent to kill himself,” he added.The man was counselled and later allowed to go with his acquaintance, the police said.(If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialists. Helplines: Fortis Stress Helpline: 8376804102, Sumaitri: 01123389090, Snehi: 01165978181, Sanjeevani: 01124311918/01124318883).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/congress-leader-s-call-to-police-helps-thwart-suicide-attempt-on-south-delhi-flyover-101631555371423.html
13-09-2021||Delhi||‘Not allowed to ply on revamped road’: Chandni Chowk rickshaw pullers allege||A day after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal inaugurated the revamped section of the Chandni Chowk market, rickshaw pullers operating in the area said that they were being prevented from plying on the stretch, claiming that only licensed rickshaw pullers with redesigned vehicles are being allowed to operate on the 1.4-kilometre stretch between Red Fort and Fatehpuri Masjid.Over a 100 refurbished cycle rickshaws, issued licences by the MCD, have been pressed into service on the revamped Chandni Chowk stretch that was inaugurated on Sunday.Several rickshaw pullers, however, said that this is only a fraction of the total such vehicles operating in the area. With the key stretch being out of bounds for regular cycle rickshaws, many now fear losing income.Among them is Intizar Ali (27) who was stopped by guards on Monday afternoon. “Today (Monday) morning, we were ferrying passengers as before but were asked to leave the area around the afternoon by guards... They did not permit us to ply our rickshaws, so we could not earn a penny,” said Ali.He said that he wanted to get a revamped cycle rickshaw and the licence, but did not know how to go about it.“The contractor from whom I rent the rickshaw only has old-style rickshaws... We are poor people. Yesterday, we did not earn anything and had to skip a meal. How will people like me survive in the city? We don’t have a roof over our heads and sleep on the rickshaw,” said Ali.Bhim Singh (42), another rickshaw puller, said, “People here say we need to get the license from MCD, but we don’t know the process. They say we will have to shell out ₹2,000 for the new cycle rickshaw and license, which we can’t afford.”Shahjahanabad Redevelopment Corporation (SRDC) officers said that as per a Delhi high court order of 10 February 2017, only those cycle rickshaws and rickshaw pullers, who are registered or licensed, with effect from April 1, 2017, will be permitted to ply in the area.Rajesh Verma (30), who got one of these licences, said, “We are happy with the new look of the rickshaws and hope the number of visitors in Chandni Chowk will increase further in the coming days. All of us are charging a fixed sum of ₹20 per passenger for a trip between Red Fort and Fatehpuri Masjid,” said Verma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhimany-rickshaw-pullers-claim-not-allowed-to-ply-on-revamped-chandni-chowk-stretch-101631555311630.html
13-09-2021||Delhi||Trash cans outside homes a hazard: E Delhi residents||Residents of cooperative group housing societies in Mayur Vihar Phase -1 (Extension) have opposed the civic body installing large open trash cans outside the gates of some of these compounds, arguing that they may pose health hazards.The East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) has placed the bins as part of its ongoing ‘zero dhalao’ (local dump yards or garbage collection points) initiative. The civic body has, over the past two years, resolved to free the area under its jurisdiction of these dhalaos by gradually coming up with an alternative for bulk waste collection and shutting these three-walled points one by one.“It has been a few days since two of these unwieldy bins were placed at the gates of our society. Besides being a breeding ground for mosquitoes at this time of the year, when dengue and malaria tend to spread, stray animals have now started gathering at our gates,” said Aditi, a resident of Samachar Apartments, one of the compounds outside which bins have been placed.She added that there are around 250 households within the society and that dumping the waste from all of these homes will turn the bins into a dumpyard, and defeat the purpose of the civic body’s initiative.“Civic officials told us that garbage will be lifted from these bins thrice a day on a regular basis. However, it is only once a day that they do manage to lift the waste and on days when it’s raining like the day before, it keeps rotting there,” she said.Residents also said the civic body did not have a fixed schedule to lift the waste.“Even though the bins have not come up in front of our society yet, having them right at the entrance with all this volume of waste is not a great alternative. Once these are full, the stench will be unbearable and the situation may be even worse than dhalaos” said Sanjay Gupta, a resident of Nirman Apartments.According to civic officials, the bins are cleared regularly. There were around 300 dhalaos in the EDMC area, of which 44 have been closed.“According to the Municipal Solid Waste (MSW) Rules, which were notified in 2018, group housing societies are categorised as bulk waste generators and are supposed to segregate as well as process their own waste. However, despite issuing notices to many housing societies for not segregating wet and dry waste, they continue to dump their waste as it is. The bins have been placed as a temporary arrangement and our concessionaire is lifting waste from the bins regularly,” said a senior official, who didn’t wish to be named.EDMC mayor Shyam Sunder Aggarwal said that these bins can be used by passersby as well and are a part of the plan to shut dhalaos gradually. “Waste is lifted both from the dhalaos as well as the bins. Soon, we plan to come up with at least 40 more compacter plants to segregate and recycle the waste,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/residents-oppose-civic-body-move-to-install-trash-cans-outside-compound-gates-say-it-poses-health-hazard-101631554531281.html
13-09-2021||Delhi||Two-day conclave to discuss road map for education sector||Taking lessons from the pandemic and its impact on education, thought leaders, policymakers, educators, and industry experts will participate in a two-day education conclave beginning Thursday to discuss a road map for the education sector in India. Organised by Hindustan Times, the Lenovo Smarter Ed Conclave will focus on the New Education Policy (NEP), the digital divide brought to the fore amid the advent of online learning during the pandemic, developments in technology in education, upskilling teachers, and on encouraging interaction with decision makers across schools and institutes of higher education. Those interested in attending the virtual conference can visit https://lenovosmarteredconclave.virtualeventexp.com/ .“There is a strong argument that education will never go back to the pre-pandemic time and technology is going to be as important as physical campuses. The focus on large physical spaces will shrink and a hybrid model of education involving a combination of classroom teaching and online lessons will find greater acceptance,” the organisers said in a statement. Focussing on technological innovations and solutions leading to progression and tech penetration, the conclave will also discuss concerns on digital inequality and the new forms of exclusion that may arise. The conclave will begin with the address by Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan speaking on the NEP 2020 and the role of technology in the future of education. The managing director of Lenovo India, Shailendra Katyal, will share insights on how technology can help in bridging the digital divide, and Rajeev Chandrasekhar, the Union minister of state for skill development, will talk about the importance of skill education and how it can be built up in the coming years. The two-day conclave will touch upon the three key areas of the education sector – technological advancements in education, digital inequality, and reskilling or upskilling of the educator workforce. The conclave will also see an in-depth discussion on government policies focusing on upgrading the education sector with innovative tools and ideas. Experts will discuss the approach towards smarter education India and the role of analytical, data-driven technology in understanding young minds and providing them with a holistic curriculum as per the learner’s needs. Policymakers and experts will discuss the lack of infrastructure in rural India, address the gender bias in households, digital readiness of government educational institutes, and role of communities in bridging these gaps.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/twoday-conclave-to-discuss-road-map-for-education-sector-101631554111462.html
13-09-2021||Gurugram||HSVP invites quote requests for Sector 29 car parks||The Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) has invited request for quote (RFQ) for setting up two multilevel car parks in Sector 29, with a deadline of September 30, in a move aimed at accommodating 2,500 cars in these facilities and decongest roads. The technical bids will be opened on October 4, HSVP officials said.An HSVP official said that these two car parks will be developed on a build-operate-transfer basis for a period of 33 years with an annual fee of ₹2.5 crore- ₹3 crore. According to the proposal, the facility in Sector 29 will be constructed on 2.2 acres and will be able to accommodate 1,100 cars. Likewise, the facility near Iffco Chowk Metro station is being planned on 2.89 acres, with a capacity to accommodate up to 1,450 cars.A committee headed by the chief administrator of HSVP will evaluate the bids, while another committee, comprising superintending engineer one, estate officer two and senior officials from accounts and other departments, will prepare the tender document. A senior HSVP official said that they have invited RFQ for the Sector 29 multilevel parking project, and the last date is September 30. “The RFQ has been invited, to set up these facilities,” the official said. Meanwhile, in another development, the enforcement wing of the Department of Town and Country Planning has issued notices to market associations of Palam Vihar Vyapar Kendra, Central Arcade and DLF Qutub Plaza market to remove encroachments and illegal extensions on their respective premises.RS Bhath, district town planner (enforcement) said that encroachments, illegal extensions and other violations could pose a danger to visitors in case of an emergency. “We have asked the associations to take corrective actions and remove violations; else, we’ll be forced to carry out a sealing drive,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/hsvp-invites-quote-requests-for-sector-29-car-parks-101631553933642.html
13-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Two snake charmers held for robbing man in a car, police say they threatened victim with serpents||New Delhi: The city police on Monday said that they have arrested two of the three snake charmers who used the serpents to allegedly threaten and rob a gold ring from a man in a car in northwest Delhi’s Mukherjee Nagar last week. Police said they recovered two snakes from the men, who belong to the “Sapeda gang”, adding that they are on the lookout for a third associate who is still absconding.Police identified the suspects as Gautam (22) and Gagan (19), adding that the former was previously involved in three robberies committed in areas falling under the jurisdiction of Mukherjee Nagar police station in 2019 and 2020. Both are residents of Indira Vikas Colony in Mukherjee Nagar. Deputy commissioner of police (northwest) Usha Rangnani said that on September 6, three men with snakes in baskets approached a 29-year-old IT professional, Akshat Jangotra, when he had stopped his car in Kingsway Camp area while on his way to office in Pitampura from Nehru Vihar. As Jangotra pulled down the window, the three men allegedly threw the snakes on him and threatened him. They allegedly robbed Jangotra of his gold ring and fled with the snakes. Though Jangotra tried to chase them, he told police that the suspects allegedly brandished blades and threatened to kill him.A case of robbery was registered on Jangotra’s complaint.“We identified the suspects through our human intelligence network and arrested two of them from their home on Sunday. Two snakes that they had used in the crime were also rescued. The snakes will be handed over to the wildlife department,” said Rangnani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhitwo-snake-charmers-held-for-robbing-man-in-a-car-police-say-they-threatened-victim-with-serpents-101631553932544.html
13-09-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19 vaccinations: Over 60,000 covered in statewide drive, over half the jabs were second doses||At least 62,426 doses of Covid-19 vaccines were administered in the district on Monday as part of a statewide mega vaccination drive for the population aged 18 years and above. Nearly 52.5% of the doses were administered as the second shot, according to the district health department data.With a target to administer over 145,000 doses of the Covid-19 vaccines, the health department planned a three-day mega vaccination drive. The drive will resume from September 15 as health centres will be holding a routine immunisation programme on Tuesday for pregnant women and infants.“At least 62,426 doses were administered on the first day of the mega vaccination drive at 230 vaccination centres. The target was to focus on providing a second dose to people aged above 45 years. Currently, out of the targeted population in the district, at least 85% have been inoculated with both the doses,” Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer, said.According to the data, about 32,780 doses were administered as the second shot, while 29,646 were administered as the first shot. Almost 89% (55,590 doses) of the inoculations took place at 203 government vaccination centres and the remaining at private hospitals. The health department’s target was to administer over 68,000 doses through direct walk-ins and online appointments.Since the beginning of the Covid-19 vaccination from January 16, over 2,688,268 vaccine doses have been administered. According to Singh, the district has exceeded its target of inoculating people in the 18-45 years age bracket, with a coverage rate of around 129%.Earlier this month, senior health officials said that due to the migratory and floating population, Gurugram exceeded its target of covering people of 18-45 years.The last mega vaccination drive was conducted on August 27, in which almost 60,000 were inoculated in a day. The highest vaccination count in a single day has been 104,178, in a drive held on June 21, wherein the health department covered house helps, drivers, security staff, workers and daily wage workers. Since then, several camps have been held for teachers and people with disabilities, among others.The health department has also started evening vaccination camps, between 4pm and 8pm, in specific markets where there is high footfall. On Tuesday, a vaccination camp will be set up at the Galleria Market in DLF Phase-4, Jain temple near Patel Nagar bus stand and Hanuman temple in Sadar market. At least 200 doses of Covishield have been reserved for each of the sites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid19-vaccinations-over-60-000-covered-in-statewide-drive-over-half-the-jabs-were-second-doses-101631553931355.html
13-09-2021||Gurugram||Wanted man involved in 30 thefts, burglaries held from Iffco Chowk||A wanted man, who was allegedly involved in over 30 thefts and burglaries in the National Capital Region, was arrested from Iffco Chowk by the Sector 17 crime team on Sunday following a tip-off. The suspect, identified as Dileep, of Sangam Vihar in Delhi, had jumped bail and carried a reward of ₹25,000 for his arrest. Six cases of theft are registered against him in the city.Preet Pal Sangwan, the assistant commissioner of police (crime), said, “The accused Dileep admitted during questioning that he was involved in more than three dozen incidents of thefts in Delhi and NCR. He was absconding after coming out on bail and was wanted in six cases in Gurugram, he said. Sangwan said that in the latest incident, four persons arrested in connection with the burglary of a residence in Surya Vihar on May 5 told police that the crime was masterminded by Dileep. “The crime team investigated the matter and managed to arrest Dileep on Sunday,” he said.In another incident, the crime team of Manesar police station arrested four people who were allegedly planning to carry out a robbery. Acting on a tip-off, a raiding party was dispatched to Birheda Morh near Musedpur village, when their vehicle was stopped by four armed men. However, after noticing police personnel, they tried to flee but were apprehended. Sangwan said that the four suspects were identified as Kamal, Rajesh, Arjun and Suresh. The police seized four countrymade pistols, 16 live rounds of ammunition and one torch from their possession.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/wanted-man-involved-in-30-thefts-burglaries-held-from-iffco-chowk-101631553874066.html
13-09-2021||Gurugram||Polls to elect councillor for MCG Ward 34 to be held on October 3||Polls to elect a councillor for the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram’s (MCG) Ward 34, a post that has been vacant since May 30 following the death of the previous office-bearer, will be held on October 3, according to a release issued by the district administration on Monday.The elections will be held on Sunday, October 3, from 8am to 4.30pm, the release stated.Satish Yadav, the returning officer (official nominated to hold the polls) and subdivisional magistrate (SDM) of the Badshahpur assembly constituency, said that according to the notification issued by the Haryana State Election Commission, nominations can be filed from September 17 to September 22, barring September 19, on account of it being a Sunday. The previous office-bearer, RS Rathee, an independent candidate, died of Covid-19. The ward comprises DLF Phases 1, 2, 4, and sectors 27 and 28. A spokesperson for the district administration said, “The time for filing nominations will be from 11am to 3pm and the nomination papers can be collected from the offices of subdivisional officer (civil) in Badshahpur, Sector 57, and Wazirabad, near Rail Vihar. From 11.30am on September 24, the nominations would be scrutinised. After this, nominations can be withdrawn from 11am to 3pm on September 25. The counting of votes would take place immediately after polling.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/polls-to-elect-councillor-for-mcg-ward-34-to-be-held-on-october-3-101631553872881.html
13-09-2021||Gurugram||Sheetla Mata temple shooting: Two more arrested, total arrests at four for murder||The Palam Vihar crime branch on Sunday arrested two persons from Nakhrola Chowk in connection with the murder of a 19-year-old man outside the Sheetla Mata temple in Sector 5 on September 3, taking the total arrests in the case to four.The police said that the four suspects had planned to commit a series of murders to seek revenge over personal rivalries. The victim of the murder, Annu Thakur, was a prime suspect in a murder that took place in May 2020 and was out on bail from Karnal jail when he was shot dead by the suspects while exiting the temple. They shot him dead to seek revenge for the murder of their friend, identified as Manan, the police said.On September 8, the police arrested Deepak Lamba and Shivam, while the two arrested on Sunday were identified as Neeraj alias Baba, of Rewari, and Deepak alias Deepu, of Sidhrawali.Preet Pal Sangwan, the assistant commissioner of police (crime), said, “They revealed during questioning that they planned to commit four more murders and had killed Thakur as part of their plan. One revolver used in the crime, five live rounds and a scooter were recovered from them.” Sangwan said that one of the suspects arrested on Sunday had supplied the weapon in exchange for the others’ help to eliminate his rival. They will be questioned and others arrested, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/sheetla-mata-temple-shooting-two-more-arrested-total-arrests-at-four-for-murder-101631553871279.html
13-09-2021||Delhi||Adopt Pusa solution, Kejriwal urges states||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday urged the Centre to direct other states to provide farmers with a proprietary microbial solution developed by the Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI) – usually referred to as the Pusa institute -- to turn crop stubble into manure for free so as to prevent stubble burning, which is a major contributor to air pollution in Delhi-NCR.“I urge the Centre to direct all neighbouring states to start providing this microbial solution to their farmers for free so that we can curb air pollution this year, which starts getting severe from around October 10 as stubble burning in the neighbouring states takes off,” he said, during a digital press briefing.Kejriwal also said a third-party audit by the Centre’s WAPCOS — a PSU of the Union jal shakti ministry — has found the microbial solution, also known as the Pusa bio-decomposer, to be “highly effective” in converting stubble into manure.“WAPCOS inspected 15 villages in four districts [in Delhi] and interviewed 79 farmers to understand whether the new decomposers have helped or not. The central agency found that farmers in Delhi are very happy with the results of these bio-decomposers,” he said.Citing the report, Kejriwal said 90% of the 79 farmers said their stubble decomposed in 15-20 days, which otherwise would take 40-50 days. It found that wheat production in these farms increased by about 8% and the wheat sprouting levels increased by 17-20% as the soil quality enhanced, he said.Last year, the Delhi government gave the microbial solution for free to all city farmers.Every year, from October to November, fumes from crop residue set alight by farmers in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh engulf the national capital and its surrounding areas, making the air hazardous to breathe. This has required the Capital to issue restrictions on construction work and halve the number of private cars on the roads via the odd-even system.“The report states that farmers had to plough the soil 6-7 times earlier, but after using the new solution, the soil needs to be ploughed only once or twice. It also showed that the level of organic carbon in these farms increased by 40%. Nitrogen content in these farm lands also increased by 24% and the quality of soil has improved. The presence of bacteria that helps crops grow also rose around seven-fold, whereas fungal content in the soil tripled. The use of DAP fertilisers has also reduced from 46kg per acre to 36-40kg per acre,” Kejriwal said.He said the Delhi government had written to the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) too, informing them about this new technology developed by Pusa Institute.“But, they told us that it is only the Delhi government which thinks it has been successful and that the efficacy of the technology required a third party audit. So, we roped in the Centre’s WAPCOS for the audit and they submitted their report now. I will seek an appointment with the Union environment minister to share the findings of the report with him,” he said.Kejriwal said that the Centre, in October last year, proposed heavy fines and even jail for polluters, including farmers who were burning paddy stubble, in a desperate attempt to control air pollution in Delhi-NCR. “But the fault lies with the governments, not the farmers. So, I hope state governments also adopt this new technology,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/direct-other-states-to-provide-pusa-bio-decomposer-solution-for-free-to-farmers-for-crop-stubble-management-cm-to-centre-101631553811279.html
13-09-2021||Bhopal||'Ramcharitmanas' added as optional subject in Madhya Pradesh colleges||First-year students of graduation courses in Madhya Pradesh colleges and universities will be offered epic 'Ramcharitmanas' as an elective subject under philosophy discipline in art stream, higher education minister Mohan Yadav said on Monday. On recommendation of the syllabus committee, the “applied philosophy of Shri Ramcharitmanas” has been introduced as an elective (optional) course under the philosophy subject for first-year students of graduation (BA) from the academic session of 2021-22, he said. “The Ramcharitmanas has science, culture, literature and 'shringar' (concept of love and beauty in Indian classical art form). This is not about a particular religion. We have also introduced Urdu Gazal as a subject,” Yadav said. The minister said this 60-hour long elective course will help develop humanitarian perspective and ability of balanced leadership quality among students. Ramcharitmanas is an epic poem composed by the 16th-century bhakti poet Tulsidas. “When new syllabus is being implemented in context of the new education policy, we are also trying to bring our glorious past to the fore. Whether it is related to our scriptures or to our great men,” he said. Yadav claimed it has been proved in a NASA study that Ram Setu was a man-made bridge built millions of years ago and Beyt Dwaraka existed 5,000 years back. “This syllabus is being implemented on recommendation of scholars,” the minister said. Meanwhile, Congress MLA Arif Masood said the BJP government is taking such steps to hide its "failures". “The slogan of Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas (everyone's support, everyone's development) is false. This slogan could be true if they would have included the Quran and the Bible along with the Ramayana,” he said. Masood said the BJP governments in Madhya Pradesh and at the Centre have failed and such steps are being taken to hide their "failures" on issues like education, infrastructure and employment. Earlier this month, medical education minister Vishwas Sarang had announced that MBBS students in Madhya Pradesh will study about RSS founder KB Hedgewar, Bhartiya Jana Sangh leader Deendayal Upadhyaya, Swami Vivekananda and BR Ambedkar as part of the first-year foundation course. He said the move is aimed at instilling social and medical ethics among students. Similarly, Yadav had earlier announced that the Madhya Pradesh government is considering changing the Hindi nomenclature of the vice-chancellor's post in state universities from 'Kulpati' to 'Kulguru'.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/-ramcharitmanas-added-as-optional-subject-in-madhya-pradesh-colleges-101631552971522.html
13-09-2021||Other||Cyber cheats on the prowl, don’t download apps on stranger’s advice: UP police||A lawyer, a professor at Allahabad University (AU), a retired high court judge, a doctor and a policeman are just some of the many people who have been duped by cyber frauds who made them part with details of their bank accounts. Many of them downloaded an app on telephonic advice from unknown people and others shared bank details on phone. Still others were blackmailed, cops from cybercrime police station said. “That’s because the cyber cheats are continuously targeting people who use online payment modes and mobile banking techniques and apps. Since these modes are mostly preferred by the tech savvy, the cheats take advantage of the loopholes in online banking apps to dupe them,” the police said. Police said that online conmen frequently change their modus operandi. Besides luring bank customers on different pretexts and lucrative offers, they are using women to cheat the gullible. “A lawyer lost ₹39000 in cash after a cyber conman offered to deliver a pizza in 10 minutes and made him download an app. An assistant professor of Allahabad University (AU) was offered food for ₹10 from Sagar Ratna Restaurant. He used a mobile app and lost ₹10,000,” said the cops at cybercrime police station. “A police constable lodged an FIR at Dhumanganj police station after he lost cash ₹37000 from his bank account. The constable said he had received a call from a person posing as bank official who asked him to download an app on his mobile,” police said. “There are other instances too. Like that of a doctor who fell in a honey trap and was forced into transferring ₹35000 cash in his blackmailer’s bank account. The doctor later approached police when the woman made more demands of money,” the police said. Even a retired judge of the Allahabad High Court was duped of cash by a person who sought his personal details on the pretext of updating the judge’s bank account. Cyber police station in-charge Rajeev Kumar Tiwari said such incidents of fraud can be controlled only through massive awareness. “Online payment services should be used carefully, and their passwords and PIN number should not be shared with anyone under any circumstances. People should report to police if they receive such calls,” Tiwari said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cyber-cheats-on-the-prowl-don-t-download-apps-on-stranger-s-advice-up-police-101631553331194.html
13-09-2021||Other||Amritsar man held for role in 40kg heroin smuggling||Amritsar Punjab Police on Monday arrested an international smuggler identified as Harpreet Singh, alias Happy, of Chawinda Kalan in Amritsar, for his role in the smuggling of a 40kg heroin consignment, which was recovered on the Indo-Pak Border on August 21. Director General of Police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta said police have also recovered 1kg heroin from Happy, who was arrested by the Amritsar Commissionerate Police from Chheharta village in Amritsar. “We have also impounded his Splendour motorcycle,” he added. Amritsar-rural police had foiled this major drug smuggling bid by recovering 39 packets of heroin, weighing 40.81 kg, in the Panjgraian Border Outpost (BOP) area of Amritsar. Gupta added that investigation had pointed to Happy’s nexus with international drug smugglers and gangsters. “His (Happy’s) links with smugglers in Pakistan and smuggler Jagga, who works from Malaysia, are being probed,” he added.Amritsar commissioner Vikram Jeet Duggal said police were carrying out investigation to unravel the international drug supply network operating in the state. A case been registered under Section 21 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act at Chheharta police station in Amritsar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amritsar-man-held-for-role-in-40kg-heroin-smuggling-101631552431108.html
13-09-2021||Other||Mantra 29 Gold Coast developers get bail in land-grab case||PUNE Additional Sessions Judge A N Mare, on Monday, granted bail to Rohit Ghanshyam Gupta (60), Mukesh Ghanshyam Gupta (55), Kishor Popatlal Gada (45), Nilesh Popatlal Gada (40), in a case filed over alleged land grabbing involving a project named Mantra 29 Gold Coast, located between Airport road and Dhanori road.The order stated “ In the event of arrest of applicants in connection the complaint lodged by Rajendra Singh and forwarded for investigation to the Vishrantwadi police station, the applicants are to be released on a personal bond of Rs30,000 each, with one or more sureties in the like. The applicants shall cooperate with the investigating agency. The applicants shall attend the concerned police stations on every second and fourth Sunday between 1pm and 2. The applicants shall provide permanent residential address and contact number of themselves and of two close relatives with documentary proof to the investigating agency within seven days from the date of their release on bail,” the order stated.According to police, the land grab took place between 2009 and May 2021. Mantra Properties allegedly got the land measured in their names by filing false documents with the Land Records Department. The police complaint stated that the accused have grabbed nine gunthas on plots 16, 20, 21 of 15,100 sqft on survey number 29. A special leave petition is pending in the Supreme Court. A private suit was filed in the court of judicial magistrate (first class), Khadki Cantonment, who directed police to lodge a case and investigate. Mukesh Gada, director, Gada group-29 Gold Coast said, “The land was purchased by paying all claims in front of Justice J A Patil appointed by the High Court.”“There is no civil litigation pending on this plot against the company for the said project in the Supreme Court. Police have already recorded our statements earlier. It is purely a civil litigation that the complainant is trying to make a case with. In his sale deed there are no boundaries marked or written which can locate his plots; the entire survey no 29 is around 50 acres plus. Looking into all these aspects district court of Pune has granted us interim bail,” Gada said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mantra-29-gold-coast-developers-get-bail-in-land-grab-case-101631551590320.html
13-09-2021||Other||Pune woman ‘pays’ ₹14 lakh for gift from man on matrimonial site||PUNE A woman from Pune was duped of ₹14 lakh by a man she met on a matrimonial site for the Marathi-speaking community.The complainant received a biodata and photo of the accused through the platform. The man had made a profile in the name of Sanjay Kulbhushan Jadhav, and claimed to be a resident of Chinchwadgaon.The two got talking and the man told her on March 22 that he had sent a gift for her birthday. However, he told her, the gift was stuck at the customs department in Delhi.He told the woman that the customs department officials required a payment of ₹38,000 to release the gift. Upon receiving a call from someone claiming to be from the customs department, the woman sent the money to the private account, details for which were shared by the second caller.Since then, she has made multiple bank transfers to different accounts amounting collectively to ₹14,09,208. However, she did not receive the gift she was promised. When she realised that the man was cheating her, she lodged a complaint.A case under Sections 419 (personation), 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code along with Sections 66(d) of the Information Technology Act has been registered at Sangvi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-woman-pays-rs-14-lakh-for-gift-from-man-on-matrimonial-site-101631551531615.html
13-09-2021||Other||163,112 cases pending before fast-track courts in Maharashtra||PUNE: In a reflection of the seriously slow pace of trials, there are as many as 163,112 lakh cases pending before various fast-track courts in Maharashtra with the state ranking second in terms of pendency of cases before fast-track courts, the ministry of law and justice stated in a reply in parliament. The mammoth pendency assumes significance in the wake of two recent rape-related deaths in Mumbai, and an underage girl recently raped by six persons in Pune where the police have promised fast-tracking of the case. Both Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray and Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta have promised fast-tracking of these cases for speedier delivery of justice.According to the department of justice, ministry of law and justice, the fast-track special courts’ scheme has been mooted for expeditious disposal of cases of rape and the Protection of Children against Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Fast-track courts address different kinds of cases pertaining to crimes against women, child trafficking under the POCSO Act, crime against senior citizens, crime against the disabled, and other heinous crimes. In 2018, 1.60 lakh cases were disposed of by fast-track courts while 29,779 cases were decided by fast-track courts in 2019. Till May 2020, only 5,119 cases were decided by the fast-track courts.Advocate Milind Pawar said, “The sluggish working of fast-track courts defeats the very purpose of the institution whose main objective is faster disposal of pending cases. Factors such as the lack of physical infrastructure, shortage of dedicated judicial officials and clear mandates, less staff strength, and procedural reforms are essential elements that can fix the current situation.”Recent incidents of rape and gang-rape of minor girls and other heinous crimes against women have shaken the nation’s conscience. To prevent such crimes, “the Criminal Law (Amendment) Act, 2018” has been introduced to strengthen the relevant provisions of the Indian Penal Code (IPC); Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC); Evidence Act; and Protection of Children Against Sexual Offences Act (POCSO) and provide for stringent punishment for the rape of children and women. The key motive behind introducing harsh punishment is to create deterrence against such crimes. However, it is only possible if the trial in the court is completed within the timeframe and justice is delivered expeditiously to the victims. This view is further supported by the proposed ‘National Mission for the Safety of Women’ anchored with the ministry of home affairs (MHA). One of the mission’s key objectives is to expedite trial and dispose of cases involving women and children by setting up fast-track special courts (FTSCs). The POCSO Act also mandates that the investigation in these cases is to be completed in two months and the trial in six months. However, despite a strong law and policy framework, a large number of rape and POCSO Act cases are still pending in various courts in the country, the ministry of law and justice said.In 2018, there were 22,775 cases pending under the POCSO Act and 138 fast-track courts were proposed. While in 2019, 19,968 cases were pending trial and 138 fast-track courts were operational for handling such cases in the state according to information made available by the department of justice, ministry of law and justice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/163112-cases-pending-before-fast-track-courts-in-maharashtra-101631551350250.html
13-09-2021||Mumbai||Kirit Somaiya levels graft allegations against MVA minister||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Kirit Somaiya on Monday levelled allegations of money laundering to the tune of ₹127 crore against Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Hasan Mushrif, prompting the latter to announce that he would file a defamation suit against the former seeking at least ₹100 crore in damages.The BJP leader accused Mushrif, the rural development minister, as well as his family members of making transactions via shell companies. “The family opened accounts in banks in the name of companies (which) were announced (to be) shell companies by the central government. Navid (Mushrif’s son) disclosed in his election affidavit in 2019, that he had taken the loan of ₹3.85 crore from Marubhumi Finance, ₹2 crore from CRM Systems, the two companies registered in Kolkata. The directors of these companies are Sikandar Desai, Aalamgir Mujawar, and Gopal Pawar who are close confidante of the minister. The family showed income from the companies which actually do no exist,” Somaiya said in a press conference.In 2018, the Central government struck off around 400,000 shell companies across the country.In a press conference held an hour later Mushrif said: “Kirit Somiya has been continuously targeting NCP leaders and ministers from the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government. Income Tax officials had raided my home and offices in 2019 ahead of the Assembly polls but they could not find anything substantial.”IT officials raided Mushrif’s home in 2019 based on complaints.Mushrif said he would file a defamation case against Somaiya and seek damages worth ₹100 crore. “I have faced not a single case in my 17 years’ stint (as minister),” he said. Mushrif also threatened to file a criminal case against state BJP chief Chandrakant Patil, whom he accused of providing incorrect information to Somaiya.“Kirit Somaiya has no correct information and the allegations are based on the information provided by BJP state chief Chandrakant Patil and their local leader Samarjeet Ghatge. Somaiya should have taken correct information before levelling such allegations,” Mushrif said.Somaiya, a former Member of Parliament alleged that Navid Mushrif and his mother Sahera, were shareholders in the Santaji Ghorpade sugar factory, a cooperative entity, which was involved in money laundering. He further alleged that the sugar factory had received crores of rupees from the shell companies from 2003 to 2014 the duration when Mushrif was a state cabinet minister in charge of various departments including labour.“I have already made complaints with Income Tax department by submitting 2700-page documents related to the corruption. I have also made a complaint with the Mumbai office of the Enforcement Directorate and with the Anti Corruption Bureau. I am heading to Delhi on Wednesday to take up the issue with ministries concerned, offices of Income tax, ED among others,” Somaiya said. Somaiya submitted the document to the IT department last week.Mushrif said that he was taking legal advice to file a complaint against Patil for his alleged corruption in the hybrid annuity model implemented while the latter was the public works department minister in previous BJP government in the state.Patil said that he was ready to face any inquiry. “The model implemented during our stint helped in construction of many roads which are being inaugurated by the Thackeray government now. Mushrif has threatened to file a case against me after his corruption was exposed by Somaiya. We are not afraid of any probe, Mushrif should go ahead with it,” he said, addressing queries from Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kirit-somaiya-levels-graft-allegations-against-mva-minister-101631551171295.html
13-09-2021||Other||Chennai man booked for duping Pune bride of ₹11 lakh||PUNE A man from Tamil Nadu has been booked for duping a woman from Pune of ₹11 lakh.Communication between the victim and the accused allegedly began in April 2020 after they matched on an online matrimonial platform, according to the complaint.The account holder on the platform, the male accused in this case, has been identified as Premraj Thevraj, a resident of Chennai in Tamil Nadu.The woman exchanged phone numbers and the two allegedly spoke on the phone for three months before asked her for ₹11 lakh. The woman gave him the money and he called her to Chennai for their wedding.The complainant woman told the police in her complaint that she went to Chennai and they got married by signing a document he had brought. The woman now claims that the document is a fake and that he cheated her into believing that they were married based on that document.The woman told the police that she returned to Pimpri- Chinchwad after the alleged wedding. The man then told her that he wished to take a loan in her name of ₹80 lakh for his business.However, when the woman refused, the man started threatening to hurt her parents.A case under Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating), 469 (forgery) and 507 (criminal intimidation by anonymous communication) has been registered at Nigdi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chennai-man-booked-for-duping-pune-bride-of-11-lakh-101631550930276.html
13-09-2021||Other||387 drivers face action, 215 rickshaws seized||PUNE Coming down hard on autorickshaw drivers violating traffic rules in the city, the Pune regional transport office (RTO) took action against 387 autorickshaws, and seized 215 for not having legal documents to operate. The Pune RTO formed squads along with the Pune traffic police and since September 9, this action has been on. On August 31, a minor girl was allegedly raped and kidnapped by auto drivers from the Pune railway station. “We have formed different five squads of RTO inspectors and our officials and throughout the day we are checking and inspecting autos at the major chowks. Permits, licences and all other necessary documents are checked by the squad. Action is then taken and if the offence is serious the vehicle is seized. Accordingly, we have taken action against 387 drivers and seized 215 vehicles since September 9,” said Sanjeev Bhor, deputy regional transport officer, Pune RTO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/387-drivers-face-action-215-rickshaws-seized-101631550810268.html
13-09-2021||Other||NEET: Man arrested in Gorakhpur for appearing as solver||A 23-year-old man was arrested in Gorakhpur on Monday for allegedly appearing for an NEET aspirant during the exam held on Sunday, police said.The national eligibility-cum-entrance test (NEET), the gateway to MBBS and BDS seats in the country, was held on Sunday across the nation.The man-- Rahul Kumar of Kushinagar -- appeared for a candidate at the exam centre set up at Naval’s Academy Senior Secondary School in Sidharthhapuram of Gorakhpur. A case was lodged against Kumar under sections 419 (cheating by personation), 420 (cheating and dishonesty), 467 (using forged documents), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as forged genuine document) of IPC.The police have also seized a fake Aadhaar card and admit card from his possession, Ramgarh Tal SHO said and added that the accused, who is also a student, has been sent to jail. He further said probe was on to see whether he took money to appear on behalf of the candidate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/neet-man-arrested-in-gorakhpur-for-appearing-as-solver-101631550692450.html
13-09-2021||Lucknow||AAP’s tiranga yatra today: Sisodia, Sanjay seek blessings from Ram Lalla, Ayodhya saints||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader and deputy CM of Delhi Manish Sisodia and party’s Uttar Pradesh incharge Sanjay Singh on Monday paid obeisance to Ram Lalla and Lord Hanuman in Ayodhya and sought blessings of the saints. The AAP is slated to take out ‘Tiranga Yatra’ from Gulab Bari to Gandhi Park in Ayodhya on Tuesday. Both Sisodia and Singh reached Ayodhya on Monday. After paying obeisance to Ram Lalla at the makeshift temple at Ram Janmabhoomi, both the leaders went to Hanuman Garhi temple. At Hanuman Garhi, both the leaders met Mahant Prem Das, head priest of the temple. The AAP leaders also sought blessings from saints at Rasik Peeth and Janki Ghat. At Janki Ghat, they met Mahant Janmejay Sharan and served food to the devotees at the community feast. “We have sought blessings from Lord Hanuman to form party’s government in Uttar Pradesh,” Manish Sisodia said. Attacking the BJP, Sanjay Singh said, “AAP’s true nationalism will defeat BJP’s fake nationalism. AAP’s ‘Tiranga Yatra’ is getting an overwhelming response everywhere. After Ayodhya, Tiranga Yatra will be taken out in the entire Uttar Pradesh.” Sabhajeet Singh, state president of AAP, was also present. AAP leaders, however, avoided meeting saints associated with the VHP and Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust. AAP was the first to raise question marks on land deals entered into by the Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust. Later, Samajwadi Party and the Congress had also alleged irregularities in the land deals.AAP is trying to make inroads in Uttar Pradesh’s politics in the assembly polls due in February–March next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/aaps-tiranga-yatra-today-sisodia-sanjay-seek-blessings-from-ram-lalla-ayodhya-saints-101631550571284.html
13-09-2021||Other||Shetti ups the ante against MVA government||PUNE: The Raju Shetti-led Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana has decided to launch another agitation against the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government – of which it is a part – over fair remunerative price (FRP) for sugarcane.The MVA government gave feedback to the central government that sugarcane farmers in the state will get their FRP for sugarcane in one year even as Shetti opposed the same and demanded that the FRP be given in a single installment. Shetti has now launched a campaign and appealed farmers to give a missed call on the number 8448183751 if they support getting the FRP in a single installment.“The campaign is scheduled between September 12 and 30. Within a single day on September 12, we got over 1 lakh missed calls. We are hoping to get a huge response as we used social media as tool. We will submit this data to the central government and even add it to my petition which is in the Supreme Court,” Shetti said.“I am fighting for the farmers. I quit the BJP alliance as they did not resolve farmers’ issues. We were hoping that this government will take a decision in the interest of farmers. But when the central government sought feedback about paying farmers the FRP in two months, the MVA government without thinking of the farmers, gave the feedback in the interest of the sugar industry and asked that the FRP be paid in a year instead of over two months,” Shetti said.Earlier this month, Shetti undertook the Panchaganga parikrama and threatened to take a jal samadhi while demanding financial assistance for flood-affected farmers. Following the agitation, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray held a meeting with him and assured the farmer-leader that the government will look into his demand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/shetti-ups-the-ante-against-mva-government-101631550392853.html
13-09-2021||Other||Pune dams at full capacity; water discharge begins||PUNE With good rainfall in the catchment and ghat areas, dams across Pune are full with a continuous discharge of water on going. Till Monday, Khadakwasla dam had discharged 4.87 thousand million cubic feet (TMC) of water as per officials from the water resources department.HV Gunale, chief engineer, water resources, Pune division, said that all four dams are at capacity as of Monday.“Khadakwasla, Temghar, Warasgaon and Panshet dams are at full capacity with 100 per cent water storage,” said Gunale.“The dams collectively have 29.15 TMC wate,” said Gunale.On Monday, the Panshet dam catchment area received 10 mm rainfall. Temghar has reported 30 mm rainfall, Warasgaon reported 14 mm and Khadakwasla reported 4 mm rainfall on Monday.From June 1 till September 13, Khadakwasla reported 583 mm of rainfall, whereas Panshet reported 1,866 mm. Warasgaon reported 1,844 mm and Temghar reported 2,839 mm rainfall during this time. As compared to 2020, between June 1 to September 13, Khadakwasla reported 994 mm rainfall and Panshet reported 2,160 mm rainfall. Warasgaon has reported 2,060 mm and Temghar reported 2,734 mm of rainfall during this time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-dams-at-full-capacity-water-discharge-begins-101631550270238.html
13-09-2021||Other||Failed medicos disrupt OPD services in Bihar, demand re-evaluation||Some MBBS second-year students of the 2019 batch disrupted the outpatient department (OPD) services at Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) and Jawahar Lal Nehru Medical College and Hospital (JLNCH) on Monday as a mark of protest, demanding re-evaluation of answer sheets of the MBBS first professional examination, conducted by the Aryabhatta Knowledge University (AKU) in March.As many as 423 of the 1,140 MBBS students (37.10%) who appeared in the exams across nine medical colleges in Bihar have failed the first university examinations. The results were declared on August 30.According to Vishal Kumar, a medico of 2019 batch at DMCH, out of 120 students pursuing the MBBS course at DMCH, 50 have failed. On the other hand, as many as 39 students out of 116 from JLNMCH were declared failed. When contacted, the principal of JLNMCH, Dr Hemant Kumar Sinha, said that protesting students vented their ire against AKU for poor results. After the symbolic protest, OPD services were restored. He expressed sympathy with students while saying it was unprecedented that so many students failed this time.Protesting medicos at DMCH were persuaded by students in charge, Dr O P Giri, to allow the functioning of OPD in the interest of patients. Later on, a delegation of students approached the college principal Dr K N Mishra, who asked students concerned to provide their roll numbers and registration numbers for forwarding them to AKU for re-evaluation purposes. According to informed sources, these days, evaluation of answer sheets is done on computers by converting them into a PDF file. “Even an attempted question by a student was marked as unattempted,” alleged a student.According to a memorandum submitted to governor-cum-chancellor on behalf of the Indian Medical Association, as many as 1,172 students from nine medical colleges appeared in the examination, of which 447 were declared failed. Considering the inconvenience caused to students because of the change in examination pattern, besides the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, a re-evaluation was requested.Meanwhile, OPD services were also affected at Patna Medical College and Hospital due to the protests by MBBS students, said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/failed-medicos-disrupt-opd-services-in-bihar-demand-reevaluation-101631549910773.html
13-09-2021||Patna||Bihar: 5 injured in shoot-out between cops, bank robbers||Four suspected robbers and a tea stall vendor were injured in Muzaffarpur district on Monday in a shoot-out between the police and the miscreants who had allegedly come to loot a bank. Police said four accused, who had come to loot Motipur branch of Bank of Baroda (BoB), were apprehended while two of their accomplices managed to escape.According to police sources, the firing continued for 30 minutes, after which the police team conducted a combing operation in the area and found five people in an injured condition, including a tea vendor who is out of danger. Police said all injured accused were taken to the Sri Krishna Medical College and Hospital (SKMCH). “The police team intercepted the bank robbers around 3.30 pm,” Muzaffarpur senior superintendent of police Jayant Kant said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-5-injured-in-shoot-out-between-cops-bank-robbers-101631549851278.html
13-09-2021||Other||Trauma care centre to come up on NH4 to save lives||PUNE: Residents of villages along the Mumbai-Bangalore national highway (NH4) can now breathe easy as the state health department has given its sanction to constructing a new “trauma care centre and district hospital” on the highway near Nasrapur phata. For many years now, the villagers have been demanding a trauma care centre on the highway, especially since there is no emergency hospital along the Pune-Satara stretch. The Pune zilla parishad took the initiative and forwarded the proposal to the state health department and on Sunday, state health minister Rajesh Tope gave his go-ahead to the project and instructed that it be taken forward.Ranjit Shivtare, vice president, Pune zilla parishad, said, “The number of accidents taking place on NH4 on a daily basis is quite high and there is not a single trauma care centre between Pune and Satara. During times of emergency, victims do not get immediate medical aid so it was demanded to have such a centre on the highway. Accordingly, the proposal has been sanctioned in the general body meeting of the Pune zilla parishad and has now been sent ahead for further permissions. Yesterday, we held a meeting with health minister Tope and he too is positive about it and has instructed the department officials to follow the process.”“This new trauma care centre and district hospital will come up at Nasrapur on NH4 and a land parcel of 1 acre has been allotted for the project by the state government. A budget of Rs9 crore will be sanctioned for it soon after which the tender process for the actual work will start. If everything goes well, within one-and-a-half years, the trauma care centre will be functional to help accident victims and save lives,” Shivtare said.A similar proposal has been made for another trauma care centre in the Pirangut area, which is surrounded by several industrial and manufacturing companies. This too is located on the highway going towards Raigad district and there are accidents taking place along this stretch as well so a trauma care centre will prove helpful for accident victims.There is a trauma care centre operational at the Ozarde toll naka on the Pune-Mumbai expressway as well, which has all the necessary modern medical equipment and doctors to help accident victims during emergencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/trauma-care-centre-to-come-up-on-nh4-to-save-lives-101631549850045.html
13-09-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow Municipal Corporation removes 200 illegal hoardings||Around 200 illegal billboards, kiosks, posters, banners and hoardings were removed by Lucknow Municipal Corporation from various corners of the city in a special drive. The illegal hoardings were not only spoiling the city’s skyline but were also threat to the common man as most of the them were installed on the road curves. The LMC staff met stiff resistance from the people while removing these hoardings. Municipal commissioner Ajay Dwivedi said, “All these hoardings were put up without permission of LMC and were violating norms. The LMC cannot be a silent spectator to the rising hoarding menace in the city.” The municipal commissioner admitted that there are still hundreds of illegal hoardings which are yet to be removed. “For that, I have called for a special drive this week,” said Ajay Dwivedi. LMC is determined to remove all the illegal hoardings despite pressure coming from all quarters. “The market of illegal hoardings has been long flourishing in the city, this is patronised by local politicians, and officials,” an LMC insider, who didn’t wanted to be named, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-municipal-corporation-removes-200-illegal-hoardings-101631549550974.html
13-09-2021||Other||Agra: No mobile tower to distort rear view of Taj Mahal||In a bid to preserve the rear view of the Taj Mahal, Agra Development Authority has curtailed the height of two mobile towers and ordered removal of another mobile tower installed in the area. These towers were defacing the sky view of the 17th century momument. The development authority has also issued orders against allowing installation of new mobile towers in 1.5 kilometre area in rear of the Taj. Commissioner, Agra division, Amit Gupta recently visited the Taj Mahal and while viewing the monument from southern side, he was disturbed after finding mobile towers in the background view between two minarets of the historical structure. “Being the chairman, commissioner, Agra Division, has asked Agra Development Authority to take up the matter. Three of the mobile towers were found damaging the view between two minarets of Taj Mahal and action was initiated,” said Rajender Pensiya, vice chairman, Agra Development Authority. “Two of these three mobile towers on other side of Yamuna were curtailed in height while one was brought down. A proposal has been forwarded to concerned authority in Agra Development Authority to incorporate the ban on installation of mobile tower in area of 1.5 kilometres around Taj Mahal in the forthcoming master plan of Agra city,” Pensiya added. The action was taken on Sunday. “It is not the first time that such steps have been taken. Earlier, a TV tower which used to distort view of the blue sky behind Taj Mahal was shifted,” said Arun Dang, former president, Agra Tourism Guild. “The real and natural background of the Taj Mahal stretch of blue sky sometimes is covered by clouds. In any case, the blue sky adds to the beauty of the Taj and its minarets in white. The TV tower on other side of Yamuna and in rear of Taj was damaging the front view and agitation was started about four decades ago and later the TV tower was removed,” claimed Dang, a veteran of tourism trade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/agra-no-mobile-tower-to-distort-rear-view-of-taj-mahal-101631549370833.html
13-09-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh assembly polls: Priyanka wants organisational structure in all panchayats by September 22||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has tasked the party’s state unit to complete constituting grassroots level organisational structure in all the remaining village panchayats of UP by September 22.As the Congress proposes to launch various programmes, including the proposed Congress Pratigya Yatra, across the state early next month, Priyanka wants the organisational structure in place at all levels in every district of Uttar Pradesh.She gave directives in this regard at various meetings she had with party leaders to review the organisation’s preparedness for 2022 assembly elections before winding up her three-day visit and leaving for New Delhi early on Monday. “Yes, Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) has been tasked with completing the process of setting up of organisational structure at the village panchayat levels by September 22, 2021. UPCC is also finalising the routes of the proposed Congress Pratigya Yatra: Hum Vaada Nibhayenge Yatras (Congress commitment: We will fulfil our promises) scheduled to be launched soon. We are also giving a final shape to some of the promises the party proposes to make to people at these yatras,” said UPCC president Ajay Kumar Lallu.Uttar Pradesh has 58,000 village panchayats. The Congress has so far set up its units only in 20,000 village panchayats. Besides, the state, district and city units the Congress have organisational structure in 831 blocks, 2614 wards and 8134 ‘nyay panchayats’ of the state.It proposed to complete the task of setting up organisation structure in the remaining village panchayats by October 2021 earlier. Besides taking its commitments to the people, the party proposes to target the BJP government in the state for allegedly not fulfilling promises made to the people. About her visit to Rae Bareli and Amethi, another leader said Congress general secretary had decided to meet people from two constituencies every week in New Delhi or in Lucknow. As a demand to declare Congress candidates for 2022 polls was made before her by office bearers of Rae Bareli and Amethi, she assured them that efforts would be made to announce candidates well in advance.“Some leaders have demanded early declaration of candidates. A request to visit and meet people in every assembly constituency of Amethi was also made. She has agreed with our both the demands,” said Amethi district Congress Committee president Pradeep Singhal.“The Congress is setting up a new organisational structure when only about six months are left for 2022 assembly elections in the state. Will the Congress office bearers being appointed now be able to work and help the party in such a short span? Whatever Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has done now may help the party in the long run. Priyanka should also think about restructuring of the party keeping in mind the long-term objectives,” said prof SK Dwivedi, former head of department, political science, Lucknow University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-assembly-polls-priyanka-wants-organisational-structure-in-all-panchayats-by-september-22-101631548950920.html
13-09-2021||Patna||Bihar bank manager arrested for allegedly raping daughter||Bihar’s Muzaffarpur police on Monday arrested a bank manager on the charge of repeatedly raping his 13-year-old daughter for the last three years, officials said.Confirming this, Samdedna Snehi, station house officer (SHO), woman’s police station at Muzaffarpur, said the bank manager has been taken into custody. “Other legal formalities, including his production before the court, are being made,” said Snehi.The development came after a team of Muzaffarpur police took the manager into custody from his rented house at Raghunathpur in East Champaran after the women police station in Muzaffarpur registered a case on the basis of the alleged rape survivor’s statement on Sunday.On his part, the 51-year-old manager told police that he was being falsely implicated in the case by his daughter and her mother. “They have been threatening me of dire consequences for long,” a police officer quoted the bank manager as saying.Quoting the FIR (case no 72/21) lodged with women’s police station at Muzaffarpur, Samdedna Snehi said the girl, a resident of Muzaffarpur district, in her complaint, accused her father of raping her 10 to 12 times since August 2018. The bank manager had a strained relationship with his wife after he broke his relationship with her and was staying with a Nepali woman for the past year, said the SHO.“The medical examination of the girl has been done and the report is awaited,” said Snehi.Police have booked the manager under sections 376 (rape), 120B (criminal conspiracy), 504 (intentional insult), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-bank-manager-arrested-for-allegedly-raping-daughter-101631548894549.html
13-09-2021||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath holds Janata Darshan in Gorakhpur||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath met around 400 people during Janata Darshan on the second day of his visit to Gorakhpur on Monday and heard their grievances.He met 150 people at Hindu Seva Ashram and 250 others at Yatri Niwas during the Janata Darshan. The chief minister gave instructions to the officials concerned for speedy action.In the morning, Yogi Adityanath performed Rudrabhishek of Lord Shiva. He conducted the ritual for about an hour at the Shakti temple in the Gorakhnath temple complex.Earlier, on Sunday evening, chief minister Yogi Adityanath inspected the Mahant Digvijaynath Park in Gorakhpur after returning from Kushinagar.Yogi Adityanath obtained feedback about the beautification and other proposed works from Gorakhpur Development Authority (GDA) vice-chairman Prem Ranjan Singh.The chief minister gave his approval for the unveiling of a statue of Mahant Digvijaynath and asked the officials to complete the work soon. The statue will be unveiled on September 23 on Mahant Digvijaynath’s death anniversary. It is likely that CM Yogi will unveil the statue.On the wall behind the statue, mural art will depict glimpses of Mahant Digvijaynath’s life, the GDA vice-chairman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-adityanath-holds-janata-darshan-in-gorakhpur-101631548891924.html
13-09-2021||Lucknow||Ram temple structure will have minimum life of 1000 years: Trust general secretary||The structure of the upcoming Ram temple in Ayodhya would have a minimum life of 1000 years, Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust general secretary Champat Rai said on Monday. He was speaking at the valedictory session of a two-day convention of the All-India Mayors’ Council in Ayodhya.“The Ram Janmabhoomi movement instilled a feeling of pride and self-respect among every citizen of the country,” he said.The foundation work of the Ram temple is in full swing.“The structure of the upcoming Ram Temple in Ayodhya will have a minimum life of 1000 years. For that, the best of architects and engineers are working overtime. The temple would be an engineering marvel as only stones would be used for its construction. No steel or iron would be used,” he said.Rai was the chief guest at the valedictory session.The mayors’ convention concluded with a resolve to work for eco-friendly development of urban areas, provide better sanitation, cleanliness, drains, water supply, electricity supply, education and health infrastructure in cities. The mayors also demanded implementation of the 74th Constitutional amendment and full powers.All India Mayors’ Council president Naveen Jain said, “The mayors must get full powers according to constitution. There should be a uniform law for mayors in the country. Some states have implemented the 74th amendment but some states have still to implement it and give full powers to the mayors.” Jain is the Agra mayor.Lucknow mayor Sanyukta Bhatia said, “Mayors must be given full rights, they must be trusted.”“During the interaction with other mayors, many ideas on development have been shared. Every city can learn from others for development,” she said.Ayodhya mayor Rishikesh Upadhyaya presented mementos to all the mayors who participated in the convention.Earlier, in the first session of the day, environmentalist Gopal Arya said, “There has to be a balance between the ecosystem and development. We cannot follow the West every time as this is the land of the Ganga, which has its own philosophy of development in an ecofriendly way. Our mayors can plan development by recharging underground water and saving greenery for the future generations.”“Any development model cannot be successful unless backed by people. So, the involvement of locals in future development programmes is essential,” he said.Uttar Pradesh urban development minister Ashutosh Tandon had inaugurated the convention on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ram-temple-structure-will-have-minimum-life-of-1000-years-trust-general-secretary-101631548890657.html
13-09-2021||Other||ZP to convert 5 primary health centres into district hospitals, trauma care units||PUNE The Zilla Parishad’s health department has put forward a proposal to develop five primary health centres into district hospitals and trauma care centres at five different talukas. The five primary health care centres are in Mulshi taluka’s Pirungut village; Bhor taluka’s Nasrapur village; Junnar taluka’s Narayangaon village; and two in Khed taluka - Pait village and Dehane village. The project has been approved by the district planning committee headed by the deputy CM and also by the Zilla Parishad general body meet on August 23. Dr Ashok Nandapurkar said, “We will soon send the proposal for approval. As of now we have a trauma care centre at Manchar, Chandoli, Tavat, Bhigwan and Aundh district hospital. A district hospital is 30 beds and a trauma care centre would be 10-20 beds depending on the requirement. We have already got approval for a 50-bed trauma care centre in Vadgaon Maval in Maval taluka. We will send the proposal for these five also. The demand to turn these primary health centres was made by public representatives from these areas. These projects will reduce the dependence on city health infrastructure for emergency cases.” The proposal will now go for approval to the deputy director of health service Pune division, and the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/zp-to-convert-5-primary-health-centres-into-district-hospitals-trauma-care-units-101631548830042.html
13-09-2021||Mumbai||Pune, Ahmednagar contribute to nearly half of new Covid cases in Maharashtra||Two districts —Pune and Ahmednagar — are driving up the daily Covid-19 caseload by contributing nearly half of new cases in Maharashtra. While Mumbai has been reporting less than 500 cases for the past two months, Pune and Ahmednagar have been recording between 600 and 900 cases daily. On Monday, the state recorded 2,740 new Covid cases of which nearly 42% were from Pune and Ahmednagar. “The daily caseload has become a matter of concern for us,” said Dr Bhagwan Pawar, district health officer of Pune. “We have put all our focus on strengthening surveillance and aggressive contact tracing of high-risk as well as low-risk contacts. Lifting of lockdown restrictions has resulted in a massive movement of people which is driving up cases,” he said. Pune currently has more than 13,000 active Covid-19 patients — the highest in the state. The district’s daily testing hovers between 22,000 and 25,000. According to Pawar, the movement in Pune is different because of nearly 12 Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporations (MIDCs). “Many people come down from Marathwada and nearby districts, halt for a day or two and then go back. Therefore, the circulation of the infection is rampant,” he said, adding there could be other environmental factors such as humidity or temperature that could be responsible. “We need studies on these factors as well,” he said. Pune has administered over 9.1 million vaccine doses so far. The district has an estimated adult population of 7.8 million who are eligible for vaccination. To cover the population with both doses, the district needs to administer another 6.5 million doses. In Ahmednagar, majority of the Covid cases are coming from four talukas — Parner, Shrigonda, Pathardi, and Sangamner — that have been seen many religious gatherings, weddings as well as political events. “We have complained to the tehsildar about such events, but it seems to have become difficult to control people without lockdown restrictions,” said Dr Sunil Pokharna, civil surgeon of Ahmednagar. “There is also a lot of movement from Ahmednagar to Pune and Mumbai. In the recent weeks, many drivers and their families have tested positive for Covid after they returned from travelling to Pune and Mumbai,” he said. Ahmednagar currently has 6,600 active cases. The district is carrying out 15,000 to 18,000 tests daily. It has administered 2.1 million vaccine doses with around 480,000 people fully vaccinated. “There is some hesitancy reported from remote villages in Akola. But overall, vaccination is picking up. We are emphasising on Covid-appropriate behaviour and speedy vaccinations to bring down Covid cases that have remained stagnant around 700 since the past two months,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pune-ahmednagar-contribute-to-nearly-half-of-new-covid-cases-in-maharashtra-101631548771323.html
13-09-2021||Other||Roadways’ staff strike: Bus services hit for 9th day in Punjab; CM to meet employees on Tuesday||Patiala Bus services across Punjab remained crippled with the indefinite strike of contract and outsourced employees of the State Transport Undertakings (STUs), including Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC), Punjab Roadways and the PUNBUS, entering its 9th day on Monday. Nearly 8,200 contract and outsourced employees are seeking regularisation of their jobs for over 10 years. Presently, conductors on contract are being paid ₹9,118 per month, while drivers, also on contract, get ₹10,200 per month.The PRTC has been able to operate only 25% of its 1,100 buses for these nine days, with the strike hitting the life of the common man, especially those who commute to their places of work or business. Overall, the daily losses of the three STUs runs into crores of rupees, with 80% of public buses off road.Responding to the situation, the state government has invited the employees for a meeting, which chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh will chair, on Tuesday. On Monday, senior officials of the state transport department and the management of three STUs held meeting at Chandigarh to chalk out plan to resolve the issue in Tuesday’s meeting. PRTC managing director Bhupinderpal Singh said the issue will be discussed and resolved at the government level only. “I cannot comment much, as the government will take the final decision,” he added. Among other demands, the union is demanding stringent measures to keep check on transport mafia; streamlining of daily hourly roster; strengthening the STUs; implementation of equal work, equal salary law, and to stop unnecessary harassment of employees on day-to-day reports.Harkesh Kumar, state general secretary of Punjab Roadways, Punbus and PRTC Contract Workers Union, said, “We hope for a positive result in Tuesday’s meeting. If the government fails to consider our demands, our protest will be intensified.”PRTC INCURRING ₹95 LAKH LOSS A DAYThe PRTC, one of the key STUs, is facing a daily loss of between ₹90 lakh and ₹95 lakh over the past nine days with these employees on strike. Before the stir, the corporation’s daily income was around ₹1.5 crore; since the strike, the daily receipt has been recorded at around ₹55 lakh. “It will be difficult for the corporation to overcome these losses in coming days. Already, we were working hard to bridge the gap between daily income and expenditure, this new loss will put extra burden on corporation’s fiscal condition,” an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/roadways-staff-strike-bus-services-hit-for-9th-day-in-punjab-cm-to-meet-employees-on-tuesday-101631548710565.html
13-09-2021||Other||FYJC admissions: Merit list, cut-offs after round three declared||PUNE The merit list for Class 11 (first year junior college - FYJC) after the third regular round of the online centralised admission process, was declared on Monday by the director of Education (Secondary and Higher Secondary), Pune, along with the cut-off percentages for colleges. In this third regular round, for a total of 56,635 seats available, 29,505 students applied and 9,261 students were allotted a college. Of the 9,261 students, 2,314 students were given a college of their first preference, 2,143 students were given the college of their second preference and 1,340 students were given the college of their third preference. For this academic year a total of 85,701 students registered for the Class 11 admissions. Despite a high passing percentage for Class 10 this year, student registrations have been low this year for the available 112,965 seats. It is feared that a high number of seats will remain vacant this year. “One of the major reasons for the low number of registration is rural students who come to Pune for studies have not registered this year. This has a major impact on the admission process and would result in vacancy of seats,” said Meena Shendkar, assistant director of education, Pune, who is in-charge of the admission process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fyjc-admissions-merit-list-cut-offs-after-round-three-declared-101631548651471.html
13-09-2021||Chandigarh||Covishield: Haryana relaxes 84-day gap for overseas travellers||The Haryana government has allowed administration of second dose of Covishield before the mandated 84 days for people needing to travel abroad urgently.The relaxation has been allowed for people who need to fly overseas for urgent reasons, like availing medical treatment; foreign nationals who have to return to their country and circumstances in which foreign travel may be unavoidable. This is in line with the directions issued by the Union ministry of health and family welfare on August 23. State health minister Anil Vij said the government had communicated the relaxations to all civil surgeons. He said the individual concerned will be required to produce a copy of the travel documents, such as visa or confirmed tickets, along with any documents that may justify the urgency for undertaking the travel. Earlier, in June, the Union health ministry had allowed the relaxation to only those who needed to travel abroad for work, education and participation in the Olympics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covishield-haryana-relaxes-84-day-gap-for-overseas-travellers-101631547930666.html
13-09-2021||Pune||Woman found stabbed to death in Pune, partner in police custody||PUNE: A woman was found stabbed to death near the opening of new Katraj tunnel that connects Pune and Satara around 10pm on Sunday. The police found her partner in the early hours of Monday and remanded him to three days in police custody. The woman was identified as Sapna Patil (32) of Balajinagar in Dhankawadi area of Pune. The man was identified as Ram Giri (34) of Solapur. She had knife wounds on the side of her abdomen. A complaint was lodged by a woman who worked at the house of the victim as housekeeper and lives in Balajinagar. “They knew each other for the past 7-8 years. The woman was married to another man but did not live with him anymore. She had a daughter and both lived with the deceased woman’s younger sister. They worked as housekeeping professionals. The accused did hotel-related jobs that he could find. They were travelling on that route when a fight escalated and he killed her,” said assistant inspector Ashish Kavthekar of Bharati Vidyapeeth police station who is investigating the case. The two used to fight over Giri’s suspicion about the woman having an affair with another man, according to the police. A case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Bharati Vidyapeeth police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/woman-found-stabbed-to-death-in-pune-partner-in-police-custody-101631546489711.html
13-09-2021||Delhi||Bored millennials get hooked to Shasn, the newest modern board game||Since time immemorial, board games have been the mainstays of quiet entertainment for various civilisations. Some of the earliest shreds of record in connection with board games come from Indus Valley Civilisation in the form of archaeological finds. Chaturanga was one of the more popular aristocratic games of ancient India. This immensely popular game has undergone various changes from chaturanga to shatranj to finally modern-day chess. The newest entrant into the fray is SHASN, a multiplayer political strategy board game created by Zain Memon, and published by Memesys Culture Lab, where each player takes on the role of a politician contesting elections and is required to take a stand on various political and ethical issues.In an ever-increasing digital world, all thanks to the pandemic induced boredom, board games have made a surprise comeback. Typically set on hard surfaces, including boards, game pieces, figurines, cards, dice, and other accessories, the board game market is growing by miles and leaps. Another one that has captured the imagination of many modern-day dwellers is Dungeons and Dragons, a fantasy tabletop role-playing game which has legions of adoring fans all across the western world. “SHASN managed to introduce a lot of players to the exciting world of modern tabletop games. Our vision is to keep expanding the market by creating fun, engaging games across genres and ages, and remind the country of its rich tabletop legacy,” quotes Zain Memon, designer, SHASN. And AZADI, the sequel to SHASN takes the political experience of its predecessor one step forward by plunging players into the shoes of revolutionaries attempting to overthrow a tyrannical Imperial power. The semi- cooperative board game is an effort to reclaim and rewrite history through the lens of the oppressed. Now that sounds like a reboot of your favourite Game of Thrones, doesn’t it?Coming to the era of internet civilisation, most of us have sneaked our way around a dragon’s lair to a heavy, hours-long strategic game about running a fast-food franchise, or have played at least one fantasy dungeon-crawler with the classic human/elf/dwarf/wizard party on a static board. “Pandemic induced lockdowns have made board games pretty popular. SHASN is one-of-its-kind game, the production values of SHASN which appear minimalistic in design but are just amazing. SHASN not only looks good but has high-quality linen cards and thick card stock of other elements. I hope AZADI is as fun as SHASN. This one will be in my collection for a long while. I highly recommend it,” says Karan Juneja, a gaming enthusiast.Board games that provide an intellectual challenge, or an opportunity for strategic thinking lures millennials and seniors alike. Understanding rules, finding an optimal placement for a piece, making a move that surprises your opponent—all of these are enormously gratifying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/bored-millennials-get-hooked-to-shasn-the-newest-modern-board-game-101631546190373.html
13-09-2021||Kolkata||Bengal BJP seeks disqualification of 2 turncoat MLAs, moves assembly Speaker||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday appealed to West Bengal assembly Speaker Biman Banerjee to disqualify two of its legislators, Tanmoy Ghosh and Biswajit Das, under anti-defection law as they returned to the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) on August 30 and 31 respectively. While Ghosh is the legislator from Bishnupur in Bankura district, Das represents the Bagdah seat in North 24 Parganas. Both of them left TMC before the March-April polls. Leader of the opposition in the Bengal assembly, Suvendu Adhikari, who left Mamata Banerjee’s cabinet in December last year, filed the petitions for disqualification on Monday afternoon. “I request you to dispose of the same as fast as possible,” said both the petitions that HT has seen. In the March-April polls, the BJP bagged 77 seats while the TMC won 213. The polls were held in 292 of the state’s 294 seats as the two TMC candidates died in Murshidabad. Two TMC candidates from North 24 Parganas and South 24 Parganas died of Covid-19 after the polls and it was found that they had won. These seats are lying vacant. Though the BJP wrested 77 seats, its score came down to 75 immediately after the polls as two legislators resigned from the assembly to retain their Lok Sabha seats. One of them is Nisith Pramanik who took oath as the Union minister of state for home affairs in July. Four BJP legislators have returned to the TMC although none have officially resigned from the party or the assembly. They are Tanmoy Ghosh, Biswajit Das, Kaliagunj MLA Soumen Roy and Krishnanagar North MLA Mukul Roy, a founder-member of the TMC who switched sides in 2017 and was made a BJP national vice-president last year. The BJP has already appealed for Mukul Roy’s disqualification and sought an explanation from Soumen Roy who returned to the TMC on September 4. No TMC leader commented on the BJP’s appeal for disqualification of the MLAs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-bjp-seeks-disqualification-of-2-turncoat-mlas-moves-assembly-speaker-101631545892129.html
13-09-2021||Lucknow||Varanasi cops bust solver gang during NEET exam; woman and mother arrested||VARANASI Two members of a solver gang, including a woman and her mother, were arrested from a NEET examination centre at St Francis’ Xavier School, Tadia Sona Talab in Varanasi’s Sarnath on Sunday, said police. The woman identified as Julie Kumari, 23, and her mother Babita Devi were arrested from the spot, while one of their accomplices Vikas Kumar Mahto managed to flee, said police. A case was registered against the three accused under sections 419, 420, 467, 468, 471, and 34 of the IPC. The mother and daughter were sent jail and raid were on to arrest the third accused, said A Satish Ganesh, commissioner of police, Varanasi. Osama Shahid, a final year MBBS student at Lucknow’s KGMU, used to send candidates seeking admissions to medical colleges to one ‘PK’, the kingpin of the solver gang. So far, he had sent several such candidates. The gang leader was a native of Mau, said Ganesh. Cops said the involvement of a doctor from a medical university in Lucknow also came to fore. The police had received inputs that a member of a solver gang was impersonating a candidate at the examination at the centre. A team of cops reached there and arrested the woman who was writing the exam. Julie Kumari and her mother Babita Devi were arrested from the spot, Vikas Kumar Mahto managed to flee, said a police officer.During interrogation, Babita Kumari revealed that Vikas Kumar Mahto was acquainted with her son Abhay Kumar Kushwaha. Mahto knew that her daughter Julie qualified NEET two years ago and was pursuing BDS (second year) from IMS-BHU. He offered to give Babita ₹5 lakh, if she convinced Julie to appear in place of someone else in NEET, said the commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/varanasi-cops-bust-solver-gang-during-neet-exam-woman-and-mother-arrested-101631545410362.html
13-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai gets above normal rain for September within first 13 days of month||After a prolonged dry spell last month, which resulted in the city’s fourth-driest August in 10 years, Mumbai recorded above normal rain for September within the first 13 days of the month, touching 407.4mm (as per the India Meteorological Department’s observatory in Santacruz). This is in excess of September’s normal average for the month at 327.1mm. In comparison, Mumbai saw only 338mm of rain in August, as opposed to the monthly normal of 546.2mm. The city recorded 39mm of rain in 24 hours ending 8.30am.A Negative Indian Ocean Dipole over the tropical Indian Ocean — a phenomenon where the western Indian ocean becomes colder than the eastern one and which is unfavourable for monsoon — prevailed throughout August, contributing to deficient rainfall, said experts at the IMD. There were also fewer typhoons in the West Pacific than is typical around this time of the year, leading to less westward movement of their remnant weather systems, into the Bay of Bengal.This led to fewer low-pressure systems forming over Bay, which typically activates monsoon activity across India. “Owing to a deep depression which has formed over the Bay of Bengal and a low-pressure area covering parts of south Gujarat, the northern part of the Konkan coast in Maharashtra has been receiving good rain for a week,” said Shubhangi Bhute, meteorologist with the IMD’s regional centre in Mumbai. She added that short bursts of heavy rain are likely to continue on Tuesday, after which moderate rainfall activity will prevail till at least Friday.In 24 hours ending 8.30am on Monday, the city and surrounding metropolitan areas received widespread moderate to heavy rain. While most monitoring locations of south Mumbai received between 20mm-40mm of rain, parts of the suburbs, Thane and Navi Mumbai received between 40mm and 70mm. Thane saw the heaviest showers, touching 142mm in the past 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-gets-above-normal-rain-for-september-within-first-13-days-of-month-101631545293212.html
13-09-2021||Kolkata||NIA takes over case of bomb attack outside house of Bengal BJP MP Arjun Singh||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Monday took over the case of bomb 'attacks' outside the house Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) parliamentarian Arjun Singh's house on the outskirts of Kolkata.Crude bombs were reportedly hurled at Arjun Singh’s house at Jagatdal in North 24 Parganas district early on September 8. Police have reached the spot and are scanning for evidence.Although no one was injured in the reported “attack”, the iron gate outside the MP's house showed marks.State BJP chief Dilip Ghosh was quick to say the assailants of Trinamool Congress were behind the attack while West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar took to Twitter to allege that “wanton violence” in Bengal show “no sign of abating.” The governor said he flagged his concerns to chief minister Mamata Banerjee.ALSO READ | Calcutta high court orders CBI probe into West Bengal post-poll violenceThe Trinamool Congress, however, rubbished the allegations and said the attack was a result of the Bengal BJP's internal feud.During the reported incident Arjun Singh was in Delhi but his family was inside the house, heavily guarded by personnel from the Central Reserve Paramilitary Force (CRPF). Singh had switched over from the Trinamool Congress to the BJP in 2019. He won the Lok Sabha seat from Barrackpore constituency in 2019.Earlier this year, the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) of the West Bengal police summoned the legislator in connection with an economic offence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/nia-takes-over-case-of-bomb-attack-outside-house-of-bengal-bjp-mp-arjun-singh-101631540687982.html
13-09-2021||Other||Goa beaches sullied by tarballs; fishermen, tourism stakeholders worried||The menace of tarballs, greasy blobs of thick black oil that wash ashore, has once again afflicted beaches in Goa this year with increased severity covering several beaches including those popular with tourists like Anjuna with the black sticky carpet. The phenomenon which occurs every year with varying intensity has been found on beaches in North Goa including along the sands of the Miramar beach in the capital city, Anjuna beach in North Goa as well as beaches further North including Morjim, Mandrem, Keri, as well as Colva beach in South Goa. Fishermen and tourism stakeholders have urged the Goa government to resolve the worsening environmental issue. Speaking to HT, Olencio Simoes, general secretary of the National Fishworkers Forum, said the tarballs were forcing the fishermen, especially the traditional ones, to dump their catch. “It happens every year, but this year the problem has been especially severe. The shellfish is completely covered in the tar and the entire colonies die out. Besides that, the nets are completely covered in tar and we have to throw the fish out as they cannot be cleaned,” Simoes said. “Tarballs can attract various heavy metals, including nickel, copper, and cobalt, to their surfaces. Due to different weathering processes, tarballs can accumulate high concentrations of heavy hydrocarbons, organic compounds that only contain carbon and hydrogen, such as polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAH). This also causes cancer in humans besides complete destruction of marine life and loss to the livelihoods of thousands of fishermen,” he said. On Monday, a delegation of locals called on North Goa MP and Union minister of state for shipping Shripad Naik asking him to address the issue. A study by scientists at the National Institute of Oceanography, which backtracked the origin of the tarballs and using sea surface current modelling as well as chemical fingerprinting, found that the source of tarballs that arrive after the monsoons was used oil dumped in the sea by tankers that pass between the Middle East and South-East Asia. The tarballs that arrived in May were found to be crude oil spills from the Bombay High region. Tarballs are caused by the churning of the oil with seawater to become a thick paste which then washes ashore in the monsoons with the water currents. Some of the balls are as big as a dung cake while others are smaller globules that are a major irritant to those bathing in the sea or walking along the beach as they stick to the skin and are very difficult to wash off, the study said.The NIO also found that the Goan coast was close to one of the Sea Lines of Communication (SLOC), which is used by ships and international oil tankers coming from and going towards the Persian Gulf. Hence, all the oil spilt in the Arabian sea eventually gets deposited on the western coast in form of tarballs in the monsoon season when wind speed and circulation pattern favour transportation of these tarballs, the study said.Last year, Goa environment minister Nilesh Cabral wrote to the then Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar seeking help in tackling the problem. “We have tracked down the source of these tarballs after studying the phenomenon. We have written to the MoEF about the matter. The Central ministry will now study our findings before taking measures to address the issue which we have raised,” Cabral said.The Goa government officials said they were trying to find reasons for high tarball deposition on coasts this year as compared to previous years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/goa-beaches-sullied-by-tarballs-fishermen-tourism-stakeholders-worried-101631543612183.html
13-09-2021||Other||Raids at 2 Prayagraj Rly stations:Ticketless passengers, illegal vendors nabbed||Over 300 ticketless passengers, nine people without face masks and several illegal vendors were caught during surprise raids carried out by railway authorities at Prayagraj Junction and Prayagraj Cheoki railway stations during the weekend, railway officials said.A travelling ticket examiner (TTE) was suspended on the spot for missing from duty while a woman TTE was given warning for playing games on her mobile phone and not checking the passengers entering the platform, officials said.The raids were led by senior divisional commercial manager (SDCM-II), Prayagraj Division, Vipin Singh on the orders of divisional railway manager (DRM) Mohit Chandra and additional divisional railway manager (ADRM) Ajit Kumar Singh following several complaints of illegal vendors and ticketless travelers.Leading a Railway Protection Force (RPF) team during the checking drive in 11 trains including Bombay Mail, Mahanagari Express, Varanasi-Lokmanya Tilak Express, Mumbai Janata Express, Sarnath, Tapti Ganga, Danapur Special, Patilputra-Lokmanya Tilak Express, SDCM II nabbed 311 passengers who were travelling without tickets.“Penalty of ₹2.13 lakh was realised from these passengers. Nine passengers were also caught walking without masks at the railway station. After doing the necessary paperwork, a fine of ₹900 was collected from them as well,” railway officials said. Action was against two stall owners at the station and ₹1500 was collected as fine from them for not keeping proper billing machines and not putting up a “Don’t pay if not billed” board as mandated by the railways, officials said.Eyewitnesses said before the raids SDCM II reached Prayagraj Junction unannounced after asking his driver to park the car away. “He covered his face with a ‘gamcha’ (cotton cloth) and arrived at platform number 9 and 10 where train number 08610 Lokmanya Tilak-Ranchi Express was standing. More than 10 illegal vendors were selling items to passengers inside the train and the senior officer suddenly took out his mobile phone and started making videos. As panic set in among the illegal vendors who tried to escape but senior DCM-II nabbed several of them and handed them over to the authorities,” an official who witnessed the raids said. SDCM-II also inspected the LTT-Ranchi Express where he suspended TTE Vinod Kumar posted on the platform with immediate effect for missing from duty.“The senior DCM stood there and got the report prepared and put 10 vendors who were arrested in the blacklist. He also directed the officials to impose a fine of ₹10,000 on the contractor of these vendors,” an official said.At foot over bridge II of the Prayagraj station, the official found a woman TTE playing games on her mobile phone without checking the passengers and issued her a warning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/raids-at-2-prayagraj-rly-stations-ticketless-passengers-illegal-vendors-nabbed-101631543130332.html
13-09-2021||Mumbai||Lake levels at 97 per cent, water stock to last Mumbai a year||Mumbai is unlikely to have any water cuts for the next one year as the water level in the seven lakes crossed the 97% mark on Monday. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has adequate water stock for the next 365 days. However, the final decision on water cuts is taken annually on October 1 post withdrawal of monsoon. Of the seven lakes supplying drinking water to the city, four— Tulsi, Vihar, Tansa and Modak Sagar — have already overflown once this monsoon. According to BMC’s data, the livestock of water is 100% in Modak Sagar, Tulsi and Vihar, and Tansa is 99%. The seven lakes that supply water to the city are located in Mumbai as well as neighbouring Thane and Palghar districts. This year, between July 16 and July 23, the catchment areas of the lakes received a maximum of its stock. On July 17, the overall water level in seven lakes was just 17% and the BMC was considering announcing a water cut. However, by July 22, water level crossed the 50% mark, followed by 60% on July 24 and 70% on July 28. On September 13, the water level was 97.72% in the seven lakes. Last year, on September 13, the water level was 97.87%, and it was 98.30% in 2019.Bhatsa dam in Thane which supplies 55% of the total annual water requirement of the city has 98% water stock, which was 97% last year at this time. In case of Upper Vaitarna, water level is 93% as of Monday. Last year at this time, the level stood at 98%. Middle Vaitarna has 95% of water stock as opposed to 96% last year at this time.The seven lakes are bifurcated into two systems —Vaitarna system which supplies to the western suburbs and the island city, and Bhatsa system which supplies to the eastern suburbs. The civic body supplies 3,850 million litres of water daily against the city’s demand for 4,200 million litres. In order to meet the shortfall, the BMC has been exploring several ways. Around two months ago, the civic body signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with an Israel-based firm for the city’s first desalination project at Manori in Malad. Under this project, the BMC plans to turn seawater into drinking water, and the pilot project is expected to be ready by 2025.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/lake-levels-at-97-per-cent-water-stock-to-last-mumbai-a-year-101631542829989.html
13-09-2021||Dehradun||Defection politics heats up in Uttarakhand with new entrants in BJP||Uttarakhand is just months away from the next state assembly elections to be held early in 2022 with all the contesting parties already in poll mode. However, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) seems to be already going a step ahead of others by succeeding in welcoming two sitting MLAs, including one from Congress, into the party fold. The inclusions of the two MLAs, including Rajkumar from Purola constituency who was earlier in Opposition Congress, and independent MLA from Dhanaulti constituency Pritam Singh Panwar, created ripples in the state politics ahead of the elections. However, if the party insiders are to be believed, the mind behind this tactical move was of BJP Rajya Sabha member from the state and senior party leader Anil Baluni. Baluni, who was recently elevated in the party as the national chief spokesperson, was is believed to be the one who paved the way for the two MLAs to join the party. It was also evident during the events held at BJP headquarters in Delhi for the formal joining of the two MLAs during which they hailed his “leadership skills and development works in their respective constituencies.” “Rajya Sabha member Baluni played a major role in the inclusion of both Rajkumar and Panwar months before the elections. It was done very covertly and cleverly by him for which the persuasion was started a few months ago,” said a senior BJP leader on condition of anonymity. He added, “The MLAs were not included in the party without analysing the political equations. Panwar, who had played a significant role in the statehood movement, was also an MLA in the first assembly elections in 2002 after the formation of the state with Uttarakhand Kranti Dal. He has got his own strong support base.” “Similarly, Rajkumar who is an SC member, has a significant hold in the community which will benefit the party in the upcoming elections. Baluni knew all these and decided to get in the party,” the leader said. Another party leader too corroborated with him and said, “Apart from the above-mentioned reasons, the MLAs also have their own reasons to switch sides before the polls.” “Rajkumar, who was earlier in the BJP before fighting the 2017 elections on Congress ticket, was uneasy after senior Congress leader and former CM was handed over the charge for the 2022 polls by their national leadership. Our leadership sensed that and played the right card at right time,” said the leader. Despite several attempts, Baluni couldn’t be contacted. The two MLAs - Rajkumar and Panwar - didn’t speak openly on Baluni’s role in their joining the BJP but hailed him as an “efficient leader of Uttarakhand.” “Without any doubt, he is a very efficient leader who is concerned for the development of the state. During the first and the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, his relief works done for the poor in the state is its evidence. I was very impressed with that,” said Panwar. Rajkumar, who joined the BJP from Congress on Sunday, hailed Baluni’s works on the improvement of health infrastructure in his constituency. “I was mighty impressed with him when he helped in setting up an ICU in the government hospital in my constituency which falls in a small district of Uttarkashi. He didn’t see that I was an MLA from his opponent party. That just showed how much he is concerned for the people of the state, especially those hailing from the hills,” said Rajkumar. Party state president Madan Kaushik refused to comment on any leader’s role in the inclusion of the two MLAs, saying, “They were influenced by the charismatic leadership of PM Narendra Modi which they even accepted during the formal induction at the party headquarters.” “They saw that today BJP is the only party that is working for the development of Uttarakhand and the country under the able leadership of PM Modi. Hence, they decided to join the party in the national interest,” said Kaushik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/defection-politics-heats-up-in-uttarakhand-with-new-entrants-in-bjp-101631541571113.html
13-09-2021||Chandigarh||Central agencies discuss drone threat from Pakistan at high-level Attari meeting||As drones from Pakistan continue to pose a threat in the border areas, the country’s security agencies have been on toes mulling measures to deal with the arising situation. A high-level meeting of central agencies’ officials was held at the Integrated Check Post (IPC), which facilitates India’s trade with Pakistan and Afghanistan, to increase vigil and strengthen the Attari border’s security. The meeting was attended by the officials of Border Security Force (BSF), customs, Land Port Authority of India (LPAI), immigration, Central Warehousing Corporation (CWC), intelligence wing, etc. The meeting comes on the day when a drone entered into the Indian territory at Bharopal village, 18 km from the Attari border. Punjab Police suspected that the drone had returned to Pakistan after dropping a consignment. The police have also recovered a plastic cover which is used by anti-national elements in Pakistan to pack consignments of drugs or weapons. A manhunt has also been launched by the police. “The meeting focused on how to deal with the threat of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV) which were being used by anti-India forces for smuggling explosives and drugs. It was discussed to increase the vigil at the Attari border and the ICP. More manpower will be used to keep a close eye on the border,” said a senior official, who was part of the meeting. He said, “There is a suspicion that anti-national elements in Pakistan may use drones to drop arms or explosive at Attari border. Though our forces are capable of dealing with any kind of situation, but we have to remain extra vigilant.”“We have also noticed increase in trade activities from Afghanistan. On Monday, 45 tuckloads of goods reached from Afghanistan. Every truck is being checked keeping in view of the Taliban taking over Afghanistan’s control. We are not taking any chances,” he added. In July, the Indian Air Force (IAF) base in Jammu was attacked using two low intensity improvised explosive devises (IEDs), which were allegedly dropped by two drones. Earlier, on August 10, a tiffin bomb, five hand grenades and 100 pistol cartridges were found near a drain at Daleke village, around 5km from Attari border. This consignment was also allegedly dropped by a drone from Pakistan. ICP’s manager Sukhdev Singh confirmed the meeting, but refused to divulge agenda of the meeting. Punjab Police recovered some drones that were used by Indian and Pakistani suspects for the smuggling of arms, ammunition and drugs in the last three years. “Anti-national elements often use UAVs late night making it difficult for our jawans to shoot them down. Our forces, many times, opened fire and forced drones to retreat,” said a senior BSF official, who didn’t wish to be named. BSF’s Punjab inspector general (IG) Sonali Mishra didn’t respond to phone calls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/central-agencies-discuss-drone-threat-from-pakistan-at-high-level-attari-meeting-101631541330251.html
13-09-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: No fresh Covid cases in 64 districts||Uttar Pradesh’s 64 districts reported no fresh cases of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours while 33 districts had no active Covid cases. The daily positivity rate remained at 0.01% while the overall recovery rate was at 98.7%, said a state government spokesperson on Monday. “In the 1.8 lakh tests done in the last 24 hours, only 14 tested positive for Covid in nine districts, the statement said. Uttar Pradesh’s Covid-19 vaccination tally is likely to surpass 9-crore (in terms of doses) in the next few days, said the statement. “By Sunday, UP had administered the first dose of vaccine to 48% target population with 7.22 crore people getting their first jab. And the total vaccination doses administered so far is 8.69 crores,” the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-no-fresh-covid-cases-in-64-districts-101631539829804.html
13-09-2021||Jaipur||Boy killed after being hit by cow vigilantes’ vehicle chasing a truck||A teenager was killed after being hit by a vehicle of cow vigilantes, who were chasing a truck that was reportedly smuggling bovine in Alwar district of Rajasthan, the victim’s family has alleged.The incident occurred on Sunday in the Chupanki police station area in Bhiwadi near the Rajasthan-Haryana border where Sabir Khan (17) was hit by the speeding vehicle in which the cow vigilantes were chasing the truck, police said.A case of murder was registered against seven persons on the basis of the complaint filed by Khan’s family, police said, adding three of them have been arrested.“Sonu, Harkesh and Naredra have been arrested while four others are absconding. The matter is being investigated further,” Station House Officer (SHO) Mukesh Kumar Verma said.Khan’s body was handed over to his family after postmortem.Bhiwadi Circle officer Hari Ram Kumawat said the truck, which was carrying 15 cows, rammed a tree and stopped in Tauru area of Nuh district of Haryana and the matter related to the cows was being probed by Haryana police. PTI SDA MGA MGA||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/boy-killed-after-being-hit-by-cow-vigilantes-vehicle-chasing-a-truck-101631539257875.html
13-09-2021||Kolkata||Suvendu urges Bengal speaker to disqualify BJP MLAs who switched camps||Leader of opposition in West Bengal assembly Suvendu Adhikari on Monday wrote to Speaker Biman Bandyopadhyay seeking disqualification of BJP MLAs Tanmoy Ghosh and Biswajit Das for switching to the Trinamool Congress (TMC). "Petition for disqualification of Tanmoy Ghosh, Member of Legislative Assembly from 255, Bishnupur Assembly Constituency is enclosed herewith. I request you to dispose of the same as soon as possible," reads Adhikari's letter. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader further sought disqualification of Biswajit Das as MLA. "Petition for disqualification of Biswajit Das, Member of Legislative Assembly from 94, Bagda (SC) Assembly Constituency is enclosed herewith. I request you to dispose of the same as soon as possible," wrote Adhikari.BJP MLA from Bishnupur Tanmoy Ghosh joined the Trinamool Congress on August 30. Ghosh had alleged that BJP is attempting to snatch the rights of the people of West Bengal by unleashing central agencies. He urged all the politicians to support West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee for public welfare. ALSO READ | Bengal MLA's ghar wapsi to Trinamool; 3rd BJP leader to switch since Didi's win"BJP is into vindictive politics. They are attempting to snatch the rights of the West Bengal people by using central agencies. I urge all politicians to support CM Mamata Banerjee for public welfare," Ghosh had said while joining the Trinamool Congress. A day after Tanmoy Ghosh moved back to the Trinamool Congress, another BJP MLA, Biswajit Das, switched sides, too. Das joined the BJP from TMC in 2019.Biswajit Das had courted controversy within his own party ahead of the assembly elections in Bengal earlier this year, when he accused the BJP of "blackmailing" the people of the powerful Matua community on the pretext of granting citizenship. Despite joining the BJP, Das was also seen touching the feet of chief minister Mamata Banerjee at the state assembly last February, giving rise to speculations that he could return to the Trinamool Congress.West Bengal has been witnessing a reverse trend of leaders rejoining TMC from BJP after assembly elections results. Earlier, BJP heavyweight Mukul Roy and his son Subhranshu Roy joined TMC. The Mamata Banerjee-led TMC registered a landslide victory in polls winning 213 seats in the 294-member West Bengal Assembly. Despite aggressive campaigning, the BJP lost the polls but emerged as the second-largest party with 77 seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/suvendu-urges-bengal-speaker-to-disqualify-bjp-mlas-who-switched-camps-101631534937441.html
13-09-2021||Mumbai||‘Trying to find out if Sakinaka rape accused has a criminal record in his home state UP’: Mumbai Police||Mumbai Police is probing if the 45-year-old Mohan Chauhan, the Sakinaka rape accused, has a criminal record in his home state Uttar Pradesh (UP), Police commissioner Hemant Nagrale told reporters on Monday. Nagrale also said that no offences have been registered against the accused in the state of Maharashtra and hence the search has been extended to his home state.“As per Crime and Criminal Tracking Network and Systems (CCTNS) we've not found out any offence that is registered against accused so far in Maharashtra. We're trying to find out if he has any criminal record in Uttar Pradesh,” ANI said, quoting Nagrale.Chauhan hailed from Jaunpur in Uttar Pradesh, worked as a driver and lived on the pavement in the same area. He was arrested for raping and brutalizing a 32-year-old woman in a tempo parked in Mumbai’s Sakinaka on September 10. The victim succumbed to her injuries on September 11 while undergoing treatment at a government hospital. Chauhan was arrested after he was seen exiting the tempo on a nearby CCTV camera. Police said on Monday that Chauhan has confessed to the murder and also revealed that he had gone to his cousin’s house to wash up and change clothes.Also Read: Maha CM Thackeray announces ₹10 lakh aid for family of Sakinaka rape victimMumbai Police had come under intense scrutiny after the incident, following which Nagrale defended police actions, and insisted that it is impossible for cops to be present everywhere. His comments had invited further backlash and the National Commission of Women (NCW) had accused him of evading responsibility.Police also told reporters that the victim and Chauhan were known to each other and they share a monetary relationship, but they refused to divulge any more information on the nature of the transactions. Chauhan murdered the victim after a monetary dispute between the two escalated on the night of the crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/trying-to-find-out-if-sakinaka-rape-accused-has-a-criminal-record-in-his-home-state-up-mumbai-police-101631538697256.html
13-09-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow admn puts price cap on dengue, related tests||LUCKNOW The district administration put a price cap on dengue and related tests and warned laboratories that overpricing would invite legal action under the Epidemic Diseases Act. People should not be charged more than ₹1,200 for NS1 ELISA test, if carried out at the lab and not more than ₹1,400, if the test is done at the patient’s residence, stated the administration’s new dengue and related tests price list released on Monday. The district administration’s initiative is an outcome of several complaints related to overpricing by laboratories. “We are fighting out dengue, the same way we fought against Covid during first and second waves. Overpricing in dengue tests would not be tolerated. Of late, we have received several complaints of overpricing, hence it should be made sure that no laboratory charges more than the prescribed amount,” said Abhishek Prakash, district magistrate while addressing a meeting with laboratory owners. As per the administration’s price list, not more than ₹1,000 should be charged for carrying out the NS1 card test. A maximum of ₹750 would be charged for IGM ELISA test, if carried out in the lab and ₹800 if carried out at the patient’s residence. Not more than ₹750 should be charged for IGA ELISA test in the laboratory and ₹800, if carried out at the patient’s residence. The IGM card test would cost ₹600. The administration also fixed charges for platelet count test at ₹250, if carried out in the lab and ₹350, if carried out at the patient’s residence. The price list also stated that 1 unit platelet RDP would not cost more than ₹400. The DM said no hospital or laboratory should charge more than the prescribed amount. “We will initiate strict action against the erring body if they were found indulging in overpricing,” he said. The administration also divided the city into 24 sector teams in order to keep a check on the growing cases of dengue. He also directed the health department to ensure that no panic situation is caused and overpricing is checked. Price list for dengue/related tests NS1 ELISA in laboratory for ₹1,200 NS1 ELISA at patient’s resident for ₹1,400 NS1 CARD test for ₹1,000 IGM ELISA in lab for ₹750IGM ELISA at patient’s residence for ₹800IGA ELISA in lab ₹750IGA ELISA at patient’s residence for ₹800IGM card test for ₹600Platelet count in lab for ₹250Platelet count at patient’s residence for ₹3501 unit platelet RDP for ₹400||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-admn-puts-price-cap-on-dengue-related-tests-101631536769353.html
13-09-2021||Lucknow||‘Floods have devastated east UP, government’s relief is on paper’: Mayawati||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati on Monday said floods in eastern Uttar Pradesh (UP) have made life miserable for the people of the region and added that the government’s claims of help to the affected were largely unreliable and mostly on paper.She said that since government relief was not reaching the poor and affected, her party cadres should help the affected in whichever way they can. This is the second time since August that she has targeted the BJP government on the issue of inadequate relief to those displaced and devastated by floods.“People of UP, especially eastern UP, have witnessed widespread loss, destruction and devastation. Government help is also mostly on paper and hence there is an urgent need to ensure ensuring relief to the flood-hit,” Mayawati tweeted.“I urge the party cadres to reach out to the affected and provide the flood-hit all such help to the needy in whichever way they can,” said the four-term UP chief minister.In August, Mayawati, while reacting to a tweet put out by @BJP4UP, the BJP’s official Twitter handle for UP, claimed that it was “shameful” that BJP was playing “dirty politics” over floods.Her reaction was over the BJP post that claimed that while chief minister Yogi Adityanath was busy organising relief and rescue operations in flood-hit areas, the BSP was holding caste conferences.She had then hit back at the BJP saying instead of launching ‘Jan Ashirwad Yatras’, the BJP should have organised ‘flood victims’ assistance yatra’ to help those hit by floods in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/floods-have-devastated-east-up-government-s-relief-is-on-paper-mayawati-101631535990855.html
13-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab elections: Ex-AIG quits SAD after Chamkaur Sahib seat given to BSP||Differences in the Shiromani Akali Dal over seat sharing with the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) surfaced on Monday as the SAD leader and former Punjab Police officer, Harmohan Singh Sandhu, resigned from the party’s primary membership. Sandhu was the constituency in-charge of the SAD in Chamkaur Sahib. He is the son of former cabinet minister Satwant Kaur Sandhu and MLA Ajaib Singh Sandhu. He resigned as Punjab Police assistant inspector general (AIG) in 2018 even as eight years of his service were remaining. Also read: Punjab CM says Badals playing double game on farm lawsHe was inducted into the SAD by party president Sukhbir Singh Badal, who termed him an asset. Sandhu was tipped to be the SAD candidate for the assembly elections, but his hopes were dashed when the SAD decided to give the seat to ally BSP. He was under pressure from workers to take a call on the issue. Sandhu took to Facebook to announce his resignation from the SAD. He said that his family had served the Akali Dal since 1962. Sandhu wrote that some SAD leaders and Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee members had worked against the party. “After the June 12 alliance with the BSP, SAD workers from our area asked the party leadership not to give Panthic seats such as Anandpur Sahib and Chamkaur Sahib to the BSP, but our demand was not met,” said Sandhu, explaining the reason for quitting. The SAD is yet to comment on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-elections-ex-aig-quits-sad-after-chamkaur-sahib-seat-given-to-bsp-101631535270107.html
13-09-2021||Other||Prayagraj: Man kills wife for rebuke over liquor addiction||A man allegedly beat his wife to death after she rebuked him over his addiction to liquor at their house in a village in Prayagraj district on Saturday night, police said.Niraj Mishra, 35, returned home in an inebriated state on Saturday night. When his wife Neelu Mishra, 32, rebuked him over his drinking habit, he picked up a stick and kept on thrashing her till she died, they added.After committing the crime, Neeraj allegedly locked his 11-year-old daughter Yogita in a room of the house to stop her from informing others of the incident which took place in Nachna village under Kaundhiara police of trans-Yamuna area of the district, the police said.The girl, however, managed to escape from the house on Sunday evening and informed her cousin Kuldeep of the incident. Later, other family members and villagers barged into the house where they found Neelu’s body lying in a pool of blood.Station house officer, Kaundhiara police station, Vinod Kumar Singh said the accused had been arrested and the stick used in the crime had been recovered from the site of the crime. “Primary investigations revealed that the accused attacked his wife after she complained about his liquor addiction,” Singh added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-man-kills-wife-for-rebuke-over-liquor-addiction-101631535269075.html
13-09-2021||Patna||Bihar on alert over rise in viral fever cases: CM Nitish Kumar||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar said on Monday that the government was on alert to check the outbreak of viral fever.Talking to media after the customary Janata Darbar--an event where people can meet the CM over their issues --Kumar said along with viral fever, the health department was keeping a tab on dengue cases in various districts, particularly those adjacent to Uttar Pradesh.Also Read | 50-year-old woman in Bihar dies in police lockup, SHO, IO suspendedNearly 400 children suffering from viral flu were admitted in various government hospitals over the past one week. Health minister Mangal Pandey, who accompanied the CM during the media interaction, said by now, around 300 of those children have been discharged from hospital. However, 87 are still undergoing treatment.“There is no shortage of beds in the hospital, nor is there any crisis of doctors in hospitals,” said Kumar.Claiming full preparedness for a potential third wave of Covid, Kumar said, “I have asked the officials to ensure daily testing of at least 200,000 people to check the spread of Covid. Those coming from other states are being tested.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-on-alert-over-rise-in-viral-fever-cases-cm-nitish-kumar-101631532989128.html
13-09-2021||Bangalore||Will ensure Siddaramaiah continues in opposition after 2023 polls: Yediyurappa||Former Karnataka chief minister B S Yediyurappa who attend the legislative assembly session for the first time after demitting office, on Monday said he will function as an ordinary BJP MLA and would make all efforts to ensure Congress leader Siddaramaiah continues to remain in opposition after 2023 assembly polls in the state. The BJP strongman said his successor Basavaraj Bommai was doing a "good job" as the chief minister and that he would extend all kinds of support and cooperation to him. "I don't have any such thing, with utmost happiness I will function as an ordinary BJP MLA, there is nothing that I want to function only as chief minister. As an MLA sitting in the back benches, I will appreciate the good work of the government and do everything to ensure that the opposition parties continue to remain in opposition in the days to come," Yediyurappa said in response to a question on attending the session as an MLA. Speaking to reporters here, he said he will continue work for the BJP along with other party leaders by travelling across the state after the assembly session. "We will do everything to ensure that Siddaramaiah (now LoP) sits in the opposition, in case he wins the next election...bringing BJP back to power is my resolve and I will travel across the state along with other leaders for it," he added. Interestingly, Yediyurappa who led the ruling side in the assembly till the previous session in March, occupied one of the back seats of the treasury benches on Monday, the first day of the 10-day long monsoon session of the state legislature. "...as someone who was the chief minister I had requested the Speaker to allot me a seat next to the Chief Whip, he has agreed to it. I will participate in the proceedings of the assembly from there," he said in response to a question. Yediyurappa is MLA from Shikaripura assembly constituency in Shivamogga district. This is first session of the Karnataka legislature, after the change of guard in the state. The 78-year old BJP veteran had stepped down as the chief minister on July 26, as his government completed two years in office, paving the way for Basavaraj Bommai to take charge and form a new cabinet subsequently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/will-ensure-siddaramaiah-continues-in-opposition-after-2023-polls-yediyurappa-101631532260017.html
13-09-2021||Bhopal||5 die of dengue in Madhya Pradesh, over 2500 cases detected||Five people died of dengue in the past twelve days in Madhya Pradesh while 2,510 cases have been reported in the state, said health officials.The worst affected district is Jabalpur where 399 dengue cases have been reported so far. There is a crisis of beds at the district hospital and Jabalpur Medical College as many patients of seasonal flu, malaria and chikungunya have also been admitted at the hospital, said Rakesh Pahariya, district malaria officer, Jabalpur. Now, the district administration swung into action and started identifying the hotspot of dengue larva. “We are holding a door to door survey and also conducting fumigation to kill the larva in the district,” said Karamveer Sharma, district collector, Jabalpur. Indore and Bhopal district administrations also swung into action to contain the breeding of Aedes Aegypti mosquitoes.In Indore, a door-to-door sample collection drive is being done to check the presence of larva of the Aedes mosquito.Similarly, in Bhopal, fumigation is being done in the areas where a high number of cases has been reported. According to health experts, the symptoms of dengue-infected people are more serious. High fever and reduction of platelets are causing trouble for patients. Dr Pankaj Agrawal from Bhopal said, “High fever and sudden reduction of platelets are the reason behind the high rate of hospitalization of patients. It seems that the dengue virus also changed its variant.”The state health department issued a warning to all district administration and municipal corporations to make necessary arrangements to kill larva and identify the hotspots.State malaria officer Himanshu Jaiswal said, “We have sent samples to the National Institute of Virology Pune to check the variant but the report is awaited. We have given necessary directions to all the district officers to remain alert because the next two months are a favourable environment for breeding mosquitoes.”Medical education department minister Vishwas Sarang said, “Health, district administration and municipal bodies’ officers are jointly working to contain the spread. We are also spreading awareness among people by releasing a list of Dos and Don’t. We are also appealing to people that the condition is under control in MP so there is no need to panic.”The opposition was quick to attack the state government for failing to control the seasonal diseases.Congress MLA Kunal Choudhary said, “MP state government failed to contain the spread of seasonal diseases. The hospitals are full and patients are lying on the floor in many districts. After Covid-19, dengue and viral diseases are claiming the lives of people in the absence of health facilities.”Congress leaders also staged a protest on Monday in Jabalpur against the rise in cases of dengue.(With inputs from Monika Pandey in Jabalpur)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/5-die-of-dengue-in-madhya-pradesh-over-2500-cases-detected-101631532629919.html
13-09-2021||Delhi||Two mile fashion: Chic, comfy, carefree||The pandemic followed by lockdown, #WFH and restricted social gatherings changed almost everything, including the way we dress up. Something which was called too boring to be worn outside has now become a chic style statement. Known as ‘2 Mile Fashion’, this trend is super comfy and relaxed. Brands are inspired to bring out collections featuring clothes that are simple yet stylish. “During the pandemic, staying indoors and having fewer avenues to venture out and socialise made people realise the value of things. People now wish to carve out a simpler lifestyle and avoid unnecessary expenditure on expensive, luxury goods. Comfort and simplicity have begun to define people’s choices and two-mile clothing offers exactly what people want. Our experimental category features an array of lounge sets perfect for working from home or while on the move,” says fashion designer Arjun Kilachand. Options abound for those who like the relaxed look. Jumpsuits, playsuits, culottes, loose fitted shirts, shorts, dresses and mid-length skirts, all spell comfort. “They need to be easy-to-wear, crinkle-free and trendy. Loungewear shouldn’t be restricted only to casual clothing like track pants, pajamas, hoodies etc. People want to look stylish for their WFH zoom meetings, casual dinners, drives or going out to a friend’s house,” says fashion designer Deepika Arora. Her new collection is inspired by this concept. “People prefer versatile pieces that are stylish and transitional from day to night yet comfortable. Two miles fashion doesn’t have to be restricted to home-wear. Most consumers today need chic, comfortable clothing to run errands, and deal with life’s little moments, without any hassle,” adds Arora.The concept is ersatile and can be styled up or down very easily. “For women, there are multiple options from joggers and hoodies to kaftans/kimonos, kurta sets, co-ords, wide-legged pants, and so on. Men can go with joggers, bermuda shorts, linen pajamas, kurtas, and so on. These can be worn at home to lounge in, for virtual meetings, house parties, casual dinners, and movies. These make perfect comfy travel outfits as well,” says Prashasti Goyal, founder of a sustainable homegrown brand, Auruhfy. Not just the clothing brands, shoe brands are also launching 2 mile footwear ranges. Matteo Lambert, Chief Collection Officer, Bata India Limited, “Even as the world opens up and people start stepping out, they lookout for footwear that can provide them home-like comfort all day long. The lines between strictly formal wear and casual wear are bound to blur. This has paved the way for 2-mile footwear, offering the perfect balance between lounge and workwear. We witness an uptick in demand for two-mile footwear in the last one year. Overall, demand for two-mile footwear has increased by 20%, and this trend is here to stay.” Author tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/two-mile-fashion-chic-comfy-carefree-101631530232746.html
13-09-2021||Delhi||Relish the rustic and rare taste of Bihar||What’s the first thing that comes to your mind when you think of Bihari cuisine? The delicious litti-chokha, right? However, chef Nishant Choubey shares, “Let’s not summarise Bihari cuisine as only litti-chokha. Bihari cuisine is unique, not just from its historic relevance but due to its diverse nature. I call it ‘food for the soul’ since it satisfies all your five senses. Every dish has its style.” Got tempted to try out more? Well, bringing authentic Bihari cuisines to your doorstep, the Bihar Bhawan canteen is now live on the food delivery app. “Bihar Bhawan is the first State House in the NCR to tie up with Zomato. Dishes that are ordered the most include bhuna maas, sarson wali machhli, litti-chokha and chicken curry,” says Raj Srivastava, canteen manager of the Bhawan.Bihari cuisines consists of traditional dishes both in the vegetarian and non-vegetarian categories. One can savour a variety of breads, appetisers, side-dishes, fast food variants of traditional delights and desserts. Nevertheless, litti-chokha remain on the top of the list for foodies across India. So what exactly is litti-chokha, you ask? “The litti is a ball made of dough (wheat flour) and stuffed with sattu (pitti) and then roasted [on open fire], while chokha is a blend of eggplants, potatoes, tomatoes and a whole lot of spices. It is not cooked like a regular sabzi, rather it is a roasted vegetable mix. Traditionally, it’s roasted over cow-dung [or coal or wood fire]. We use coal in our canteen,” shares Raghvendra Singh, head chef at the Bhawan.There is even a dedicated festival to this dish known as ‘Litti-Chokha Mela’. “It’s a unique five-day fair where people gather to make and eat only one kind of the recipe/dish, litti-chokha. Residents from all over the town of Buxar and nearby villages turn up in large numbers for this mela,” adds Singh.Sattu is another popular drink from the state known for its health benefits. “We fill litti with roasted sattu, we have sattu ka parantha, sattu drinks and much more. They are high in dietary fibre and serve as a good source of proteins. You can eat it as much, almost guilt-free,” adds Srivastava. For non-vegetarians, Bihari feast is a gastronomer’s haven. From mutton-litti, chicken-litti, mustard fish curry, bhuna mutton, fish fry, champaran handi meat, Bihari kebab, fish curry, prawn curry, potiya machhli there are options galore.“Indigenously originated in Middle Eastern cuisine, kebab is the most-loved dish among non-vegetarians. Bihari variant of kebab comprise juicy chunks of chicken or meat marinated in yoghurt and poppy seed paste. It is then barbecued till it turns golden. They are served best when wrapped in parathas with a squeeze of lemon juice on top,” says Singh.Champaran handi meat is a popular dish from the Champaran-Bettiah belt. “Handi meat gained popularity due to its unique cooking method and ingredients. Entire mixture of mutton, onion, grind spices and other ingredients are mixed with mustard oil and placed into an earthen pot over midly heated charcoal,” says Choubey.Bihari fish-curry, especially the rohu variety, with mustard paste, is another finger-licking delight. “The secret lies in the ingredients, which include mustard seeds, garlic, ginger, cumin, red chili roasted lightly before grinding . As the region of Mithila has a pisciculture tradition, machh-bhat has become the trademark cuisine of that region. Rohu, naini, bhakur, singhi, pothi are typical varieties of fish cultivated in Mithila. Fish curry, fried fish, fish-egg pakora, fish pickles are some traditional delicacies of the region. Potiya machhli, another delicacy, is made with fresh, small fishes from ponds and rivers,” says Srivastava.Bihar has a rare tradition of enjoying not-so-popular poultry products like fowl, quail and partridge. “Such birds are kept in the household for eggs and meat. These birds are locally known as teetar and bater. They are non-farmed and fed natural products. The recipe is almost identical to mutton curry and is served with rice, better-known as Bageri-Bhat (rice),” says SinghRecipe of Mutton ChamparanIngredients:•Onion- 500gms•Ginger and garlic - 2tbsp crushed•Whole garlic -2 nos•Cinnamon- 2 inches•Clove- 5nos•Green Cardamon- 5 nos•Black Cardamon -2 nos•Black peppercorn - 10nos•Bay leafs - 2nos•Dry Red Chilli- 5 nos•Chilli Powder - 1/2tsp• Kashmiri Red Chilli Powder- 1tsp• Turmeric Powers- 1/4tsp• Coriander Powder - 1tsp•Cumin Powder - 1/2tsp•Fennel Seeds - 1/4tsp•Garam Masala Powers- 1/4tsp• Tender Mutton(with bones)- 500gms•Mustard Oil - 4tbsp•Ghee - 5tbspMethod-Take Pot and add all the ingredients mentioned in the ingredients list expect the Ghee. -Mix all together and leave it marinate for 4 hours, so the mutton becomes tender. -Take a clay pot and add ghee-Take the marinated mutton, put everything inside the clay pot and seal it with whole wheat flour dough. -Cook for 4 min on high and then lower the heat and cook for 45 min. -Garnish it with coriander and serve it hot.By chef Nishant Choubey Author tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/relish-the-rustic-and-rare-taste-of-bihar-101631529752643.html
13-09-2021||Patna||50-year-old woman in Bihar dies in police lockup, SHO, IO suspended||A senior Bihar Police officer has sought a detailed report on the mysterious custodial death of a 50-year-old woman at Piro police station in state’s Bhojpur district on Sunday amid allegations that she was physically tortured for four days in illegal detention.The local police claimed that the woman was detained in a murder case and hung herself inside the toilet adjacent to the lock-up inside the police station. She was immediately rushed to Sadar Hospital but was declared brought dead by the doctors, a police officer said, requesting not to be named.Deceased’s brother said his sister and her son were detained by Piro police on September 8 in connection with the murder of a rural medical practitioner Mantosh Kumar Arya and that his sister was illegally kept at a women constable’s quarter in the premises of Piro police station instead of the women lockup for four days. He alleged that she was physically tortured by policemen and demanded registration of an FIR against the Piro police station chief and investigation officer (IO) of the murder case.Explaining the reasons for the woman’s arrest, a local cop said she was detained after Mantosh’s body was recovered on September 1 following a missing complaint lodged by his family on August 29. He said at least six persons including the woman, her son, three cousins of Mantosh and the chief accused Birendra Ram were detained in the murder case on September 8.The deceased was a mother of five including a daughter. Two of her children worked in a private company at Rajkot in Gujarat, while her husband worked at Jamshedpur in Jharkhand.Shahabad range deputy inspector general (DIG) P Kanan told HT on Monday that he has directed Bhojpur superintendent of police (SP) to immediately suspend the station house officer (SHO) and the case investigation officer (IO). Earlier, the SP had suspended three women cops responsible for keeping an eye on the deceased for dereliction of duty.DIG has also sought an action taken report from Bhojpur police detailing incidents leading to the death of the woman, time and place of occurrence as well as the reason for her arrest or detention.On Sunday evening, Bhojpur SP Vinay Tiwari, along with a Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) team, reached the spot and gathered details about the incident. The SP said that an inquiry had been ordered into alleged lapses in the handling of the murder case. He added that the chief judicial magistrate had been informed and proceedings were being carried out as per the law.Meanwhile, political parties like the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), the Congress, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) CPI (M), the Communist Party of India (Marxist–Leninist) CPI (ML) said that Bhojpur police’s action to “illegally” detain a woman, who did not have any criminal antecedent, in the police station for four days and subjecting her to physical torture cannot be termed as discharge of public duty. The opposition parties have termed it a case of misuse of powers.On Monday. More than 50 residents from Mothi and neighbouring villages shouted slogans outside Piro police station demanding judicial probe into the incident. The protests started at 10 am and continued till 3 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/50yearold-woman-in-bihar-dies-in-police-lockup-sho-io-suspended-101631528789043.html
13-09-2021||Lucknow||2,097 govt personnel died of Covid during election duty in UP||A fresh tabulation by the Uttar Pradesh government has revealed that 2,097 government personnel died of Covid-19 infections while on duty in the three-tier panchayat election in April in the state, and a large number of them were teachers.The election was held in four phases from April 15 to 29, and the counting of votes was done on May 2.Additional chief secretary (panchayati raj) Manoj Kumar Singh shared the tabulation with secretary, state election commission, asking him to ensure early transfer of ₹30 lakh ex gratia each to the families of the deceased.“I have been directed to convey to you that the ex gratia payment must be made available to the heirs of the personnel, who died in the election duty, with immediate effect,” Singh said in his letter last week.Also Read | 4 bodies found in 2 days in UP’s Bahraich; yet to be identifiedAccording to the letter, 2,128 government employees died during election duty of which 2,097 succumbed to Covid-19 while 31 others died of other causes.“An amount of ₹633.25 crore is required to be paid as ex gratia to the victims’ heirs and of this amount, ₹606 crore has been made available to the state election commission while the remaining ₹27.75 crore is being arranged,” Singh said. While the personnel who died of Covid-19 belonged to various departments, almost 95% of them were teachers from the education department (basic education, secondary education, higher education and technical education). The government initially made a provision for ₹30 lakh ex gratia but this covered only the day the staff was on election duty. By this criterion, only 74 personnel died (40 due to Covid and 34 for other reasons) during election duty. The government later changed the definition of election duty to accommodate more personnel by increasing the duty period to 30 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/2097-govt-personnel-died-of-covid-during-election-duty-in-up-101631526688542.html
13-09-2021||Bangalore||4 arrested in Karnataka over viral video of woman’s sexual assault||Yadgir district police have arrested four men after a video of a woman being stripped began doing the rounds on social media. Yadgir superintendent of police Vedamurthy, in a video statement released Monday, said the four arrested a day ago have said the incident took place one and a half years ago. Also Read | Rape survivor can terminate 29-week pregnancy: Bombay high courtPolice said in the video, the suspects could be seen stripping, sexually abusing and assaulting the woman with sugarcane sticks. The suspects were also allegedly heard telling the woman that no one is coming to her rescue and also speak about some money they lost. The miscreants used the mobile torchlight and vehicle’s headlight since the video was shot at night. The video also showed the miscreants clicking selfies with the victim during the assault. Police have identified the Dalit woman. According to police, the incident took place on the Yadgir-Shahapur state highway. “The police department has taken the case very seriously. Shahapur police have registered a suo motu case and the matter will be investigated,” Vedamurthy said in a report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/4-arrested-in-karnataka-over-viral-video-of-woman-s-sexual-assault-101631526089759.html
13-09-2021||Mumbai||Frame policy for vaccinating homeless: Bombay high court tells Centre, state||The Bombay high court on Monday directed the state and central governments to address the issue of Covid vaccination of the homeless and those with an unsound mind.Hearing a Public Interest Litigation by activist TJ Bhanu, a division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni said the authorities should frame a proper policy to vaccinate the persons identified by the state and inform the court of the same within three weeks. Additional solicitor general Anil Singh for the Centre said a similar petition was being heard by the Supreme Court. He added that there was a provision in law for local authorities to shift the homeless to shelters and as per the Mental Healthcare Act, the police were duty bound to locate mentally unsound persons and either unite them with their family or shift them to institutions through which they could be given the jabs. Also Read | Uddhav Thackeray calls for a meeting with police chiefs, home dept officialsThe bench, however, sought to know why no proper decision was taken for vaccinating the mentally unsound though it had observed in the previous hearing that the May 27 advisory of the Central government did not contain any specific guidelines for such people. “The May 27 advisory does not cover mentally ill. If we do not choose to vaccinate mentally ill and he is left to decide, he would be threat to society, why don’t you come up with policy to vaccinate mentally ill,” observed the bench. The bench observed that the issue was regarding homeless persons too as there was no mechanism to identify if they were infected with Covid. The state government, through the additional government pleader, submitted that around 20,950 homeless persons were identified in July and around 1,761 mentally ill persons were vaccinated in that month. The bench noted that the affidavit was silent on homeless mentally ill persons and whether the 1761 vaccinated persons included them. The court then directed the state to file a better affidavit with steps to reach out to such persons within two weeks and posted the hearing of the PIL after three weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/frame-policy-for-vaccinating-homeless-bombay-high-court-tells-centre-state-101631525548398.html
13-09-2021||Mumbai||Uddhav Thackeray calls for a meeting with police chiefs, home department officials on women’s safety||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is scheduled to meet the chiefs of police forces, Government Railway Police (GRP) commissioner and senior officials of the home department on Monday to discuss the issue of women’s safety in the state. Thackeray’s call for a meeting comes days after the rape and brutalisation of a 34-year-old woman rocked financial capital Mumbai.The Shiv Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government was subjected to intense criticism by the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Leader of opposition in the legislative council Pravin Darekar said the patience of women has run out due to such “repeated” offences, which occur due to “carelessness of the government”.“The incident has only happened due to the carelessness of the government. We want an action plan for such crimes to not happen in the future. Rape incidents have happened in Pimpri-Chinchwad, Pune, Amravati, Ahmednagar, Palghar and Vasai, where women were brutalised. Now the Sakinaka incident is chilling; it is as gruesome as the Nirbhaya rape case in Delhi,” Darekar said.Shiv Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' came out with an editorial on Monday condemning the rape but insisted that Mumbai is the "safest city" in the world for women and there should be no doubt about it in anyone's mind. "The rape and murder of the woman in Sakinaka has shocked one and all. But, Mumbai is the safest city in the world for women and there should be no doubt about it in anyone's mind," the party said.The editorial also condemned comparisons with similar tragedies in Hathras and Kathua, alleging that the culprits in such cases were protected by the state and there were delays in arrests but the 45-year-old accused in the Sakinaka incident was arrested by police without delay.The party also defended Mumbai police commissioner Hemant Nagrale's comment that police cannot be present at all the scenes of crime, adding that police in all states will agree with his opinion. Nagrale was criticised by a member of the National Commission for Women (NCW) for his comment."The statement is extremely unfortunate. Police can't run away from their responsibility,” Chandramukhi Devi, an NCW member told reporters on Sunday. Nagrale had defended Mumbai police by insisting that they responded in a timely manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/uddhav-thackeray-calls-for-a-meeting-with-police-chiefs-home-department-officials-on-women-s-safety-101631524741629.html
13-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM says Badals playing double game on farm laws||Balachaur (Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar): Sounding the bugle for the 2022 Punjab elections, chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Monday accused Shiromani Akali Dal patriarch and former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal and his son and former deputy CM Sukhbir Singh Badal of playing a double game on the farm laws passed by the Narendra Modi government last year. Also read: States should give decomposers to farmers to prevent stubble burning: KejriwalCapt Amarinder Singh said that the Shiromani Akali Dal, as an ally of the Narendra Modi-led NDA government, first endorsed the three farm ordinances but later did a U-turn under pressure from its rural constituency of farmers in Punjab. The chief minister took on the Akalis while addressing a function after laying the foundation stone of the first college of Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) at Ballowal village in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar district. Harsimrat part of cabinet when ordinances made “The three farm ordinances were made in agreement of the Shiromani Akali Dal, as Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal was a part of the cabinet that passed the ordinances,” Capt Amarinder said. He said that the former chief minister, Parkash Singh Badal, had issued a video statement, endorsing the farm laws and advocating that there was nothing wrong in the new ordinances. He accused the Akali Dal of abandoning the interest of farmers when its backing was needed and supporting them now when they are protesting the farm laws tooth and nail. Repeal laws unacceptable to farmers: CM to Centre Capt Amarinder Singh said that the Centre must repeal the three farm laws by amending the Constitution as the legislation was unacceptable to farmers. “The Punjab government debunked the three farm laws by passing laws in the Punjab Vidhan Sabha. The Congress is the first party to oppose the three laws and call an all-party meeting with farm leaders,” said the Punjab CM. He announced increasing the subsidy for fencing around farms in the Kandi area from 60% to 90%. He also announced the setting up of five horticulture estates in the state. Step-motherly approach towards Punjab: Tewari Anandpur Sahib MP Manish Tewari told the gathering that the Centre was meting out a step-motherly treatment towards Punjab by toughening its stand on the release of ₹1,600 crore as rural development fund (RDF). Tewari said chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh was the first to raise a voice against the three farm laws. First PAU college outside Ludhiana PAU vice-chancellor Anirudh Tiwari said that the admission process for the first college of PAU outside Ludhiana has been completed and classes will begin by October. The batch comprises 60 students. He said that the PAU regional research centre at Ballowal has been doing research in the field of apple cultivation in the Kandi area and other varieties of oil seeds. Capt Amarinder Singh also handed over cheques for debt waiver to landless farmers and labourers. State education minister Vijay Inder Singla, Balachaur MLA Darshan Lal Mangupur and SBS Nagar MLA Angad Singh were present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-says-badals-playing-double-game-on-farm-laws-101631523568261.html
13-09-2021||Other||4 arrested for forging CM’s signature, duping company of lakhs in Assam||Police in Assam have arrested four persons for allegedly forging signature of chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and duping a company of several lakhs of rupees with assurances of a government contract. According to a police release on Monday, they received inputs from the chief minister’s office on September 8 that the chief engineer (public health engineering-water) received a note with a forged signature of the CM with directions that a contract worth over ₹3 crore be awarded to Lohit Construction. A case was lodged at Dispur police station and four persons of the company were called in for questioning. They revealed that one Imrah Shah Chaudhary, a resident of Guwahati, had assured them of a contract worth ₹3.16 crore in the department in lieu of a 3% commission. Also Read | Don’t pass consequential orders, Assam directs foreigners’ tribunalsTwo of the four persons questioned reportedly handed over ₹9 lakh (3% of the total value of the contract) to Chaudhary who, in turn, gave them a forged note which they submitted to the chief engineer’s office. Police investigation revealed that Chaudhary had forged the CM’s signature with the help of three others -- Dilip Das, Anupam Chaudhary and Prakash Basumatary. The trio allegedly received ₹3 lakh as commission from Chaudhary for their help. The forged document was prepared at a shop owned by one Naba Roy. “Investigation revealed that Chaudhary and one Rajib Kalita escaped to Delhi once they got to know about the FIR. A team of Guwahati police tracked them down,” said the police release. Kalita was arrested on September 11 at the Guwahati airport on his arrival from Delhi. Another accused, Dilip Das, was arrested the same day from Guwahati. On Sunday, Chaudhary was arrested from a hotel in New Delhi. He will be brought to Guwahati shortly. On Monday, shop owner Naba Roy was also picked up by the police. Search is on to arrest the two other accused who are absconding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/4-arrested-for-forging-cm-s-signature-duping-company-of-lakhs-in-assam-101631523208069.html
13-09-2021||Delhi||States should give decomposers to farmers to prevent stubble burning: Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday urged the Centre to direct other states to start providing their farmers with a proprietary microbial solution that turns rice stubble into natural manure for free so as to prevent stubble burning, which is a major contributor to air pollution in Delhi-NCR. Addressing a digital press conference, Kejriwal said a third party audit by the Central government’s WAPCOS has found the microbial solution to be “highly effective” in converting stubble into manure. “The WAPCOS inspected 15 villages in four districts of Delhi and interviewed 79 farmers to understand whether the new decomposers have helped or not. The central government agency found that the farmers in Delhi are very happy with the results of these bio-decomposers,” he said. Citing the report, Kejriwal said 90% of the 79 farmers said their rice stubble decomposed in 15-20 days only. It found that wheat production in these farms increased by about 8%. Last year, the Delhi government had provided this microbial solution for free to all its farmers. In total, the Delhi government along with the Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI) – usually referred to as the Pusa institute, which developed this technology, used this on a total of 1,935 acres of farmlands in 39 villages of Delhi. Also Read | Delhi Police save man from jumping off Andrews Ganj flyover“The report states that farmers earlier had to plough the soil 6-7 times, but after using the new solution, the soil needs to be ploughed only once or twice. It also found that the level of organic carbon in these farms increased by 40%. Nitrogen content in these farmlands also increased by 24% and the quality of soil has also improved. The presence of bacteria that helps crops grow also rose by about 7%. The use of DAP fertilisers has also reduced to only 36-40 kilograms per acre,” Kejriwal said. He said the Delhi government had written to the newly constituted Air Quality Commission ,too informing them about this new technology developed by Pusa Institute. “But, they told us that it is only the Delhi government which thinks it has been successful and that the efficacy of the technology required a third party audit. So, we roped in Centre’s WAPCOS for the audit and they have submitted their report now. I will seek an appointment with the Union environment minister to share the findings of the report with him,” the Delhi chief minister said. “I urge the Centre to direct all other neighbouring states to start providing this microbial solution to their farmers for free so that we can curb air pollution this year which starts severing from around October 10 as stubble burning in the neighbouring states takes off,” he said. Kejriwal said last year in October, the Centre in its desperate attempts to control air pollution in Delhi-NCR, proposed heavy fines and even jail for polluters, including farmers who were burning paddy stubble, leading to the city’s deadly winter smog. “But the fault is that of the governments. The fault is not of the farmers. So, I hope state governments also adopt this new technology,” he said. Along with three new farm laws, thousands of farmers are also protesting these harsh measures, saying they cannot afford costly alternatives. Farmers across Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh typically harvest paddy in October and then set their fields on fire to clear rice stalks for the next crop.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/states-should-give-decomposers-to-farmers-to-prevent-stubble-burningkejriwal-101631521828054.html
13-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police save man from jumping off Andrews Ganj flyover||A team of Delhi Police out for patrolling duty saved the life of a 42-year-old man, who was allegedly trying to kill himself by jumping down from Andrews Ganj flyover on Sunday."On September 12, at about 06:00 pm, during patrolling in the area of the police station, information was received by Station house officer (SHO) Kotla Mubarak Pur regarding that one male person trying to jump from the Andrew Ganj flyover," said police.After receiving information, the team reached the spot and found that one male person aged about 40 years was trying to jump from a flyover. He was found standing near the flyover iron railing and was loudly saying that he is disappointed with his life and wanted to die, the police stated.The police team immediately deployed the staff under flyover with net and over the flyover to stop him.While holding negotiations with him a policeman quickly held onto the person and rescued him from committing suicide.The victim has been identified as Jagat Singh Bisht hailing from Uttarakhand's Almorah and is presently staying at Hauz Khas.He was later handed over to the family, the police added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-save-man-from-jumping-off-andrews-ganj-flyover-101631520012449.html
13-09-2021||Pune||BigBasket’s Pune godown catches fire; no casualties reported||A godown of BigBasket, an online grocery shopping and delivery platform, located in Bavdhan area of Pune was damaged completely in a late night fire incident on Sunday.“The stocks were charred completely. A total of 12 fire tender units brought the fire under control. There were no injuries,” read a statement from Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) fire department.The godown in located in the industrial area at Bavdhan Budrukh. The fire department got calls about the incident late in the night and the fire was in full blaze by midnight. Also Read | Headless body of man found in bag in Navi Mumbai“We started the work around 11.30pm and it went on till 4.30am. The structure did not have many fire safety measures in place. I saw on odd fire extinguisher in the rubble. It was closed from all sides and there was no one inside it at the time of the accident. The godown was operating from tin sheds and the whole structure collapsed,” said Gajanan Patrudkar, fire officer of PMC’s central fire station.The fire department called for equipment to pull out the rubble to assess the damage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bigbaskets-pune-godown-catches-fire-no-casualties-reported-101631520087602.html
13-09-2021||Lucknow||4 bodies found in 2 days in UP’s Bahraich; yet to be identified||Police in Uttar Pradesh’s Bahraich district have said four bodies, including those of two children, with their throats slit have been in the last two days, according to reports. The bodies found within a 9km radius of the Fakharpur area along the Lucknow-Bahraich highway are yet to be identified, according to Live Hindustan on Monday.On Sunday evening, the body of a six-year-old girl and a 35-year-old woman was found in a farmer’s field of paddy, about 100 meters away from the highway on the border of Malukpur and Madhaupur villages under the Fakharpur police station. Superintendent of police (SP) Sujata Singh inspected Malukpur and Madhopur villages on Sunday, Live Hindustan, which is HT’s sister publication, reported. Singh said they can comment only after getting evidence.On Saturday, the bodies of a 10-year-old girl and an eight-year-old boy with hilt marks on their necks were found. "Bodies of the two children were found in a sugarcane field on Saturday morning in Basantapur village under Fakharpur police station. One child is a boy, while the other is a girl. Both were attacked with sharp-edged weapons. The age of the deceased girl is around 10 years, while that of the boy is eight,” additional superintendent of police Kunwar Gyanjay Singh said, according to news agency PTI.According to Live Hindustan, residents have expressed apprehension that these four bodies belong to the members of the same family.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/4-bodies-found-in-2-days-in-up-s-bahraich-yet-to-be-identified-101631518485085.html
13-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi building collapse: CM Kejriwal says monitoring rescue work||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Monday rescuers are trying to pull out people after a four-storey building collapsed in the national capital’s Sabzi Mandi area and said he is monitoring the situation. A call was made from the Sabzi Mandi area after the house collapsed at around 11.50am, news agency ANI reported. Officials said five tenders have been rushed to the site for rescue and relief work. Later, the local administration sent two more tenders to the site.“The accident of building collapse in Sabzi Mandi area is very sad. The administration is engaged in relief and rescue work. I am monitoring the situation through the district administration,” Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi.
13-09-2021||Delhi||Four-storey building collapses in Delhi’s Malkaganj; 2 kids die under rubble||A four-storey building collapsed in north Delhi’s Malkaganj near Subzi Mandi late on Monday morning. Two children, both brothers, were rescued from the debris but were declared brought dead at Bada Hindu Rao hospital. One person was rescued and was undergoing treatment at the hospital.A car parked nearby was badly damaged as debris from the building fell on it, police and fire department officials said.Also Read | Delhi weather: Cloudy sky with a chance of light rainfall todayDelhi Fire Services (DFS) chief Atul Garg said the fire control room received a call at 11.50am regarding a building collapse in Malkaganj. Initially, five fire tenders and rescue teams were sent to the spot. Later, two more fire tenders were dispatched, he said. Deputy commissioner of police (north) Anto Alphonse said, “The rescue operation is still on and the local police officials are there. Further information will be shared soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fourstorey-building-collapses-in-delhi-s-malkaganj-2-children-feared-trapped-101631518947885.html
13-09-2021||Other||Uttarakhand ascetic gave religious lectures sitting on leopard’s hide, arrested||A 70-year-old Uttarakhand ascetic has been arrested for possessing a leopard hide, used for offering prayers and delivering religious discourses, from the border district of Pithoragarh, forest officials said. “An ascetic associated with a temple has been arrested for possessing a leopard’s hide. He had hidden it under the bed,” said Dinesh Joshi, ranger, Pithoragarh forest. Joshi said forest officials and special operation group of police raided Kapelshwar Mahadev temple in Kafladi village, 6-km from Pithoragarh district headquarter, on Sunday, following a tip-off that the 70-year-old ascetic, Chandan Giri, regularly delivered religious discourses sitting on the hide of a tiger, a banned article under the wildlife act.He was arrested for possessing a two-metres long leopard’s hide, which also had the skeleton of the animal’s head including its teeth. Generally, leopard hides are recovered headless, forest officials said. The ascetic told officials that it was gifted to him by one of his disciples some months ago. He was booked under relevant sections of the Wildlife Protection Act and produced in the court from where he was sent to jail on Monday, said officials. Joshi said that the hide appeared to be one-and-a half-years old. “The ascetic claimed that he used to deliver religious discourses sitting on the hide but it was recovered from under his bed, which suggests that the monk was up to something,” he said. On Saturday, a leopard’s hide and body parts of a bear were recovered from two persons in Khumti village in Dharchula area of Pithoragarh district. According to Balam Singh Alamiya, a forest ranger, Aan Singh and Trilok Singh were arrested with the hide and the bear’s body parts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/uttarakhand-ascetic-delivered-religious-lectures-sitting-on-leopard-s-hide-arrested-101631518407666.html
13-09-2021||Patna||Patna HC questions mining in heritage hillocks without environmental clearance||The Patna high court last week asked the Bihar government why it allowed private parties to extract raw material from the ‘Lomas’ and ‘Yagyawallakya’ hillocks in Nawada district, which carry great heritage value, without obtaining the requisite environmental clearances and if depredation of the ecology and biodiversity of Rajauli area in Nawada was considered before allowing the mining activities.The court said it prima facie found that environmental clearances was not obtained for commercial activity on the hillocks, situated just 3.5 kilometers from Koderma Wildlife Sanctuary, and asked secretaries of the Union ministries of culture and environment, Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) and principal secretary of the department of mines, Bihar government, to file personal affidavits in this regard within three weeks.The matter has been listed for next hearing on October 5, till when the cultural heritage and environment of the area will continue to receive protection under interim orders passed on July 20, 2021 by the bench of chief justice Sanjay Karol and justice Sanjay Kumar.A Rajauli (Nawada) resident Vinoy Kumar Singh had filed the case, seeking protection of the environment and the ecosystem surrounding ‘Lomas’ and ‘Yagyawallakya’ hillocks, named after ancient sages and carrying religious, cultural and historical significance evidenced in the presence of ancient temples, stairs and caves.Citing the Bihar District Gazetteer, Gaya, published in 1906 by the then Indian Civil Service (ICS) officer LSS O’Malley and other scriptures, identifying the hillocks as abode of sages such as Durvasa, Lomas, Gautam, Shringi and Yagyawallakya, the petition pleads for a survey in the area, granting the hillocks status of heritage and protected sites of great historical and religious value, and restrain on all ongoing stone quarrying and mining activities in the area.The petitioner has also sought the withdrawal of the no-objection certificate (NOC) granted for mining lease, citing distortion of facts in the enquiry report, such as claim that it was not forest land and there was no water source or river within 500 meters of the concerned site and that the local villagers had no objection to issue of mining licenses.The counsel for the petitioner, Brisketu Saran Pandey, said that following the July order of the court, work has stopped at the site. “The report submitted from the ground was wrong, as it completely ignored the sensitivity and heritage value of the ancient hillocks. I have also mentioned it before the court. It is an ecologically sensitive place and due precaution should have been taken before allowing any mining activity,” he added.Harjot Kaur Bamhrah, principal secretary-cum-mines commissioner, could not be contacted for his comment.The chairman of the recently constituted State Level Environment Impact Assessment Authority, Bihar, Atul Aditya Pandey, who is also the head, department of Geology, Patna University, said the matter had not come before him so far. “I have just joined. But there is a clearly laid down procedure, which requires vendors to obtain a NOC from around 15 places before it is presented before the authority for review. I will have to see the records,” he added....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/patna-hc-questions-mining-in-heritage-hillocks-without-environmental-clearance-101631515946990.html
13-09-2021||Chandigarh||Highway accident: 43 injured as bus rams into truck in Dera Bassi||Five members of a family headed towards Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine were seriously injured while 38 other passengers suffered minor injuries when a Haryana Roadways bus travelling from Gurugram to Chandigarh rammed into a truck parked on the highway at Dera Bassi in the wee hours of Monday. “Of the 43 injured people, eight were taken to the civil hospital in Dera Bassi, from where five were referred to Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32, Chandigarh,” said Narpinder Singh, police post in-charge, Mubarakpur.The five include two minor twins, two men and one woman, all from the same family. Both the twins suffered head injuries. They all are stated to be out of danger. Meanwhile, rest of the passengers were administered first aid.Singh said the accident took place at 3am. “The truck’s engine broke down at night and the driver parked it on the side without any reflectors. The bus driver could not see it in the dark and rammed into it at high speed,” he said.Naresh Kumar, one of the injured passengers, said: “The bus was fully packed and most of us were sleeping. There was a sudden crash, leaving us injured. While police were late to arrive, locals arranged ambulances and the injured were shifted to hospitals.” The truck has been impounded and its driver, Mahesh Kumar, has been arrested after being booked under Section 283 (danger or obstruction in public way or line of navigation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).20-year-old killed in another Dera Bassi accidentA 20-year-old boy was killed while his three friends suffered injuries in an accident on the Dera Bassi-Barwala road. The deceased has been identified as Anam of Karnal district in Haryana. The four had come to Dera Bassi for some work and were heading towards Barwala when the accident took place around 11pm on Sunday. According to witnesses, the victims’ Maruti Swift rammed into an electricity pole after being hit by a Maruti Alto car coming from the wrong side. All four were rushed to the civil hospital in Dera Bassi , where Anam was declared brought dead. The other three were referred to Chandigarh, where the condition of one is stated to be critical while two were discharged after treatment.A case under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 304A (causing death by negligence) has been registered against the unknown driver.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/38-injured-as-bus-rams-into-truck-on-ambala-chandigarh-highway-101631514746969.html
13-09-2021||Mumbai||Moderate to heavy rain to continue in Mumbai and suburbs till Wednesday: IMD||Mumbai and surrounding areas received widespread moderate to heavy rains in the last 24 hours up to 8:30 am on Monday, with most monitoring stations in south Mumbai receiving between 20 to 40 mm rainfall and parts of Thane and Navi Mumbai receiving between 40 to 70 mm rain, as per weather department data.The India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) observatory in Thane recorded the heaviest showers, touching 142 mm in the last 24 hours. IMD’s observatory in Santacruz, considered representative of the city, recorded 39 mm of rain in the same period.As per IMD’s regional forecasting centre in Mumbai, “moderate rain in city and suburbs with possibility of heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places” is likely to continue for the next 48 hours.The department said that the rains were the result of a favourable synoptic situation arising from an active monsoon trough running across the country from east to west, in close proximity to cyclonic circulations associated with low-pressure areas over Rajasthan and the Bay of Bengal. For the north Maharashtra coast, southwesterly winds of 35 to 40 kmph speed will prevail.A spokesperson with the IMD’s regional centre in Mumbai said, “It will be a wet couple of days around Mumbai. As the low pressure area over the Bay of Bengal moves inward, into Odisha, it will sustain the sporadic rains that the MMR region has been receiving. There may be chances of heavier rains in some parts of north Maharashtra on September 14. Please wait for IMD’s update later today for the official forecast.”As per the district-wise forecast released by the IMD's regional centre Monday afternoon, Mumbai has been placed under an orange category weather alert on Monday, September 13 -- indicating likely chances of heavy rain, with very heavy rain at isolated locations -- followed by a yellow category weather alert on September 14, indicating likely chances of heavy rain at isolated locations.The intensity of rainfall is likely to reduce from Wednesday, when Mumbai has been placed under a green category weather alert, indicating only moderate rains. The India Meteorological Department classifies 15.6-64.4 mm as moderate rain while 64.5-115.5 mm rain as heavy, 115.6-204.4 mm as very heavy, over 204.5 mm as extremely heavy rain, and over 300 mm as exceptionally heavy rain.Raigad, Ratnagiri, Thane and Palghar districts, too, have been placed under an orange category weather alert on Monday, while Sindhudurg (the furthest in proximity to prevailing rain-bearing weather systems) has been placed under a yellow category weather alert. Palghar, which is the closest to the active monsoon trough, has been kept under an orange alert for Tuesday. Wednesday onward, all Konkan districts will receive only moderate rain, expect Palghar, when showers will continue to remain between heavy to very heavy.Nashik, Pune, Satara and Kohlapur districts in Madhya Maharashtra, too, have been placed under an orange category weather alert today, but are expected to see lighter rainfall from Tuesday. The entire state has been placed under a green alert September 16 onward.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/moderate-to-heavy-rain-to-continue-in-mumbai-and-suburbs-till-wednesday-imd-101631507426039.html
13-09-2021||Patna||Rajgir’s international sports stadium, academy may be inaugurated on Bihar Diwas||The state government is aiming to inaugurate the sports academy- cum- international stadium being developed over more than 90-acres at Rajgir on March 22 next year on the occasion of Bihar Diwas, the state culture minister said. The upcoming facility in Bihar’s heritage city is estimated to cost ₹740 crore. “Almost 60% work of the international stadium- cum- sports academy has already been done and the agency working on the project has been asked to finish the remaining work before March 2022,” Dr Alok Ranjan, culture minister said on Saturday after visiting the construction site with a team of officials. He said the facility will be the first of its kind in the state and is likely to be inaugurated on March 22, 2022, when Bihar will celebrate its 110th formation day. “We want to host some sports activities at this stadium on that day,” the minister said. He added that the contractor has been asked to engage more workers to achieve the target The stadium has been designed to house 40,000 spectators at a time and is divided into six blocks and will support 25 games including cricket, football and swimming. Besides, it will have a hall to seat 1,500 persons, a sports library, a well-equipped hospital, a wellness centre, motivational centre, sports stores and other basic amenities, officials said. The sports academy will have office and accommodation facilities for officials, students, players and coaches. The minister said the swimming pool at the stadium will be Olympic standard.The minister added that special attention was being given to ensuring basic amenities like drinking water. “As the stadium has the capacity to seat 40,000 spectators, proper drinking water facility for the entire gathering is very important. Apart from the visitors, the players and their coaches will also be there during the games,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/rajgirs-international-sports-stadium-academy-may-be-inaugurated-on-bihar-diwas-101631505625679.html
13-09-2021||Patna||2 killed, 3 seriously injured in firing, clash over land dispute in Bihar’s Purnia||Two were killed and three seriously injured in a firing incident followed by a clash over a land dispute at Bela Prasadi village about 50 km from Purnia district headquarters in Bihar on Sunday. All the three injured are women, who are undergoing treatment at Purnia Government Medical College and Hospital (PGMCH), a police officer said.Police have identified the deceased as Mohammed Jahangir, 24 and Mohammed Mursalin, 45, both members of rival groups who died during treatment at PGMCH.“The incident is related to a dispute between Mohammed Irshad and Mohammed Mursalin over one bigha land in the village,” Rupauli station house officer (SHO) Manoj Kumar said, adding, “Both the sides had called village panchayats several times to sort out their dispute but that hadn’t helped,” Kumar said. One of the deceased, Mohammed Jahangir, was the son of Mohammed Irshad. Rupauli and Bhawanipur police reached the spot soon after the clashes and recovered a country made pistol and used cartridges from the site. “A manhunt has been launched to arrest Mohammed Kaushar, brother-in-law of Mursalin, who allegedly shot Jahangir in his chest, leading to his death in the hospital during treatment,” the SHO saidPolice said the firing incident led to a fierce fighting between the two sides, resulting in grievous injuries to Mursalin, Angoori Khatun, Sameena Khatun, Jaynam Khatun after they were attacked with conventional weapons to avenge Jahangir’s death. Mursalin died in the hospital during treatment.Police said a few days ago, Rupauli police had tried to settle their land dispute amicably at a janta darbar (court for people) organised at Rupauli police station. “Even Rupauli circle officer (CO) tried to sort out the issue and when the two sides didn’t agree, the CO asked them to take the matter to the court. Police have carried out raids to arrest the accused who have been absconding since the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/2-killed-3-seriously-injured-in-firing-clash-over-land-dispute-in-bihar-s-purnia-101631503345521.html
13-09-2021||Patna||North Bihar likely to receive widespread rain till Sept 16||Bihar’s northern districts are likely to receive widespread or scattered rain for next four days due to on-going weather disturbance in neighbouring states, said officials of Patna Meteorological Centre on Sunday. The centre has also issued a yellow-colour warning for thunderstorm activities in the northern region of the state till September 15.As per the weather bulletin, Goshi in Jahanabad received 53.4mm, Bihar Sharif 37mm, Sono in Jamui 36.4mm and Islampur in Nalanda 30.4mm rain since Saturday.Meteorologist SK Mandal, said, “A well-marked low-pressure area has formed over northwest and west central Bay of Bengal. The monsoon trough is very likely to move west north westwards and concentrate into a depression over Northwest Bay of Bengal and adjoining areas of north Odisha-West Bengal coasts during next 12 hours. Under the influence, northwest and southwest of the state are likely to receive scattered rain.”“Thunderstorm and lightning activities are likely to occur at several places including Buxar, Bhojpur, Rohtas, Bhabhua, Aurangabad, Arwal, Siwan, Saran, Gopalganj, Patna and Gaya. Intensity of rain may increase on Wednesday,” he cautioned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/north-bihar-likely-to-receive-widespread-rain-till-sept-16-101631502565394.html
13-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi weather: Cloudy sky with a chance of light rainfall today||The national Capital is likely to witness a generally cloudy sky with light rain on Monday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast that has also predicted that the maximum temperature is expected to remain around 33 degrees Celsius (°C). Delhi has witnessed rains since Saturday, leading to waterlogging and traffic jam situations across the city.IMD has predicted that the minimum temperature is likely to be 25°C, nearly two degrees more than what was recorded on Sunday by the Safdarjung weather station, which is considered the official weather market for the city. According to the IMD, the minimum temperature on Sunday was 23.4°C, two notches below normal and the maximum temperature was 33.4°C, which is considered normal for this time of the year.Also Read | Delhiwale: Why so happy, ma’am?Delhi’s air quality remained in the satisfactory category on Monday morning. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 94, which is in the higher-end of the satisfactory category. On Sunday, the average 24-hour AQI was 60.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.On Monday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “Delhi’s AQI is in good category as predicted by SAFAR due to rainfall, will be in good category with due to no dust re-suspension from moist surfaces and scattered rainfall for the next three days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-weather-cloudy-sky-with-a-chance-of-light-rainfall-today-101631501245274.html
13-09-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Why so happy, ma’am?||She is grinning. Her smile is sparkling brighter than her tiny nose ring. Munawar Begum’s only son has successfully completed his 10th standard. “See, this is Azimuddin’s certificate,” she says, flashing her mobile phone screen. Her hands are trembling with nervous excitement, making it impossible to read the online document.Somebody else in Ms Begum’s place might have grown used to the thrill by now; after all this happy development took place last month. But this is an extremely special occasion for her. “Nobody else in my family has achieved this feat.” The day the result came out, she cooked her son’s favourite meal—chicken korma and egg bhujji. In her 40s, Ms Begum runs a small street-side kiosk selling mouthfreshners in central Delhi’s Hazrat Nizamuddin Basti. Sobering down a bit, she admiringly talks of her son. “His father died when he was just four months.” Ms Begum’s husband worked as a driver who succumbed to an accident. Having arrived two decades ago from her village in Assam, she singlehandedly raised her three children. “One of my daughters lives with her husband in Guwahati, the other lives with me… she is blind from both eyes.”The son has already started attending the 11th standard; his government-run school in nearby Jangpura has finally opened its doors following the easing of Covid restrictions. “The education is free but I have to pay for his course books and uniforms,” she observes. Now tapping her fingers with her thumb, as if making calculations, she talks of having spent 2,000 rupees in buying books “but I have to get 3,000 rupees worth of more books for Azimuddin.”That is an anxiety, but she believes she will manage it with the earnings from her kiosk. “My dream is that my son completes his 12th standard.”Ms Begum is aware of her son’s dream, too. “He wants to be in the police.” Even so, the lady won’t be completely at peace even if he realises his ambition. “My daughter’s daughter lives with me. She is in fifth standard and wants to be a school ma’am… I’ll be completely happy only if she attains her dream too,” she says, again flashing her infectious grin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-why-so-happy-maam-101631480741243.html
13-09-2021||Delhi||Arvind Kejriwal re-elected AAP chief||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal was on Sunday re-elected the Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) national convenor, the top post in the party. Pankaj Gupta was re-elected party secretary and Rajya Sabha member ND Gupta, treasurer, said a senior party functionary.The party held its national council’s annual meeting on Saturday, when a 34-member executive council was elected. On Sunday, it held the first meeting of the newly-elected executive council. Both meetings were held over video conference.The decision comes at a time when the party is looking to expand beyond the Capital and preparing for assembly elections in six states — Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Goa and Gujarat – in the next two years. Delhi also goes to the municipal polls next year with the three civic bodies in the city currently ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Earlier this year, the AAP won 27 seats in the municipal polls in Gujarat’s Surat. It continues to be the ruling party in Delhi and is also the principal opposition party in Punjab.In January this year, the party held its previous national council meeting, which was delayed because of the Covid-19 pandemic. In that meeting, it passed resolutions extending tenures for the posts of national convenor and secretary from three years to five years, and removed a provision that prohibited re-election of the same person in these posts for more than two consecutive terms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/arvind-kejriwal-re-elected-aap-chief-101631480613354.html
13-09-2021||Chandigarh||Public bike sharing in Chandigarh registers 2,700 rides per day||A month since the first phase of the public bicycle sharing (PBS) project started in the city, 76,786 rides have been recorded, an average of 2,742 per day. There are 1,250 cycles and 155 docking stations in use currently and each bicycle was used 2.19 times a day on average.Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL) officials say this is an encouraging start, with numbers likely to rise in the coming days, as the second phase will be launched.As per data obtained from CSCL officials, the average distance for each ride was 7 kilometres and average time was 1.6 hours. Overall, it has reduced carbon dioxide from vehicular emissions by 1,34,375.5 grams till now. In just under a month, the total numbers recorded are higher compared to when the Cycles4Change challenge programme was rolled out on December 10, 2020, with 250 cycles. Between December 10 and May 31, 61,296 total rides were booked and 53,450 people registered to use the service under the challenge. The bikes were ridden for 52,067 hours and 4,90,368 kilometres were covered. Calling the results encouraging, chief general manager of CSCL, NP Sharma, said, “With more bikes added under phase 1, we were expecting the numbers to go up, although we didn’t have any target. The second phase will be completed by October end and 1,250 more cycles and around 155 more docking stations will be added. By the end of the four phase project in 2022, we plan to add 5,000 cycles and make 617 docking stations, making it India’s densest PBS system.”The project is being implemented and operated by the concessionaire Smart Bike Tech Private Limited, Hyderabad, for a period of 10 years on public private partnership (PPP) basis with no cost to the administration.Vandalism plays spoilsportHowever, It hasn’t been all smooth sailing, with 193 cases of vandalism reported over the last month. As per officials, mostly the front basket of the bike, its seat and pedal were damaged. Some residents had even taken six cycles home in Burail about a week back. Sharma said, “These cycles are a part of the city’s infrastructure. Damaging them is hurting the city and is unfair to those who genuinely need them. We urge people to responsibly use this facility.”There were also glitches in the software in the beginning while booking rides and ending them. Usage charges were stopped till September 12 due to this and Sharma said that now these issues have mostly been resolved.Speaking about how to make the project more successful, Umesh Sharma from the civil engineering department of Punjab Engineering College, said, “Around 2,700 rides per day is a good number. Next, the authorities must focus on improving cycle tracks. At many places, the tracks have obstacles and aren’t properly lit, due to which cyclists have to drive on the main roads. This can lead to accidents.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/public-bike-sharing-in-chandigarh-registers-2-700-rides-per-day-101631481864021.html
13-09-2021||Delhi||22 new covid-19 cases in delhi, no new deaths||The national capital on Sunday recorded just 22 fresh Covid-19 cases and no additional deaths of the viral infection, showed data from the state’s daily health bulletin.Delhi added an average of 36 cases each day over the past week.Sunday’s fresh infections came on the back of nearly 62,000 tests, at a positivity rate of 0.04%.Just one Covid-19 death was recorded in the city all month, showed data from the bulletins over the past 12 days.The city added 15 deaths of the viral infection over the past month. So far, 25,083 people have succumbed to the infection.As on Sunday, 390 people in the Capital were battling the disease, which has so far infected 1,438,233 people, according to state government data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/22-new-covid-19-cases-in-delhi-no-new-deaths-101631478327110.html
13-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 33 new Covid cases||Chandigarh Punjab recorded 33 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday that took the infection tally to 6,01,040, according to a medical bulletin of the state government. No Covid-related death was reported on Sunday. The death toll stands at 16,453, it said. The number of active cases in the state dropped to 306 from 319 on Saturday. Of the new cases, Ludhiana reported nine, followed by seven in Patiala and five in Gurdaspur, according to the bulletin. Forty-four people recovered from the infection, taking the number of those who have been cured to 5,84,281, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-33-new-covid-cases-101631477605763.html
13-09-2021||Chandigarh||Two snatchers nabbed by Ludhiana police, four phones recovered||Police have nabbed two snatchers who used to target migrant labourers after threatening them with sharp-edged weapons.As many as four stolen mobile phones, a motorcycle and a sharp weapon have been recovered from the accused, identified as Dharamjit Singh, alias Dhami, and Satnam Singh of Sahabana village, Jamalpur.“They were arrested from a check post in Sarpanch Colony following a tip-off. They were found riding a motorcycle with no number plate. As many as four cases of snatching are registered against the duo at different police stations in the city,” said assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Surjit Singh, in-charge, Ramgarh police post.The accused have been booked under a fresh case under Sections 379B (snatching), 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property) and 34 (acts done in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code at the Jamalpur police station.Scooter stolen in 2019 recovered with arrest of two The Division Number 1 police have cracked a 2019 scooter theft case with the arrest of two men.The accused have been identified as Deepak Kumar, alias Deepu, of Janta Nagar and Raju Kumar of Peeru Banda Mohalla, Salem Tabri.They were arrested from Clock Tower Road after being found in possession of a stolen Honda Activa scooter that had a fake number plate. On further questioning, police recovered a stolen motorcycle as well.Investigators said Deepak confessed to have stolen the scooter from near Kaind Bridge in July 2019. He had also found ₹3.12 lakh in the scooter. A case of snatching was registered regarding this incident at the Dehlon police station on July 2, 2019.The Division Number 1 police have lodged another FIR against the two accused under Sections 379 (theft), 411 and 473 (making or possessing counterfeit seal, etc., with intent to commit forgery punishable otherwise) of the IPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-snatchers-nabbed-by-ludhiana-police-four-phones-recovered-101631476288649.html
13-09-2021||Chandigarh||Month after transfer to Abohar, MC secretary reinstated in Ludhiana||Over a month after he was transferred to the Abohar municipal corporation on August 6, MC secretary Jasdev Sekhon has been posted back in Ludhiana.The order was issued by the Punjab local bodies department on Friday and received on Saturday evening.Notably, since August 2, Sekhon had been leading a 13-member team to enforce the ban on plastic carry bags, announced by mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu on July 21.But four days after the beginning of the drive, a solitary order was issued for the official’s transfer, raising several eyebrows, with MC employees also terming it a “punishment posting”.The transfer order, issued on July 30, was received only on August 6, while Sekhon was away to Prayagraj (Allahabad) on an official visit to study solid waste management.Following his transfer, the drive to enforce the Solid Waste Management and Cleanliness and Sanitation Bylaws, came to a halt, eliciting protests by Municipal Employees Sangharsh Committee.More recently, the MC employees’ union met the mayor and cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, seeking rollback of the transfer orders.Following Sekhon’s reinstatement in Ludhiana, union chairman Ashwani Sahota appreciated the decision by the local bodies department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/month-after-transfer-to-abohar-mc-secretary-reinstated-in-ludhiana-101631476287634.html
13-09-2021||Chandigarh||Fugitive nabbed with 450gm heroin in Ludhiana||A proclaimed offender was caught with 450gm heroin near Kot Mangal Singh Chowk on Saturday night.The accused, identified as Kaka Singh, alias K Deep, 35, of Mohalla Janta Colony of Gill village, had been living in Kot Mangal Singh.Inspector Harbans Singh, in-charge, special task force, Ludhiana, that made the arrest, said the accused was a drug addict and unemployed. He is already facing trial in at least five cases of drug peddling and has been declared a proclaimed offender in one of these cases.On Saturday, police received a tip that he will be delivering a drug consignment in the city, following which he was nabbed from Kot Mangal Singh Chowk and found in possession of 450gm heroin.He was arrested and booked under Sections 21, 61 and 85 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. Police are hoping for more revelations about his network through further questioning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fugitive-nabbed-with-450gm-heroin-in-ludhiana-101631476286604.html
13-09-2021||Chandigarh||Deadly potholes return on Ludhiana roads after showers||Amid tall claims of development by the municipal corporation (MC) and Congress leadership, deep potholes on city roads continue to make driving a nightmare for commuters. Incessant rain over the past few days has further exposed the authorities’ apathy towards civic infrastructure, with several broken roads deteriorating further.Rainwater failing to clear out hours after showers cease, further puts commuters’ lives in jeopardy.MC’s expenditure of ₹212 crore on repair of roads in the five years between April 2015 to March 2020, as revealed through an RTI application, has failed to change much on ground, with roads getting run-down in no time.While its hot mix plant on Hambran Road has not been made functional due to the monsoon season, authorities have also failed to commence repair work using readymade hot mix material, despite directions to this effect by MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal in the past.Consequently, deep potholes dot roads in almost every part of the city, including Jagraon Bridge, Gill Road, Model Town-Jawaddi Road, Ferozepur Road, Focal Point and Railway Station road, all busy stretches. Internal streets in residential areas, including Model Town Extension, Field Ganj, Model Town, SBS Nagar, BRS Nagar, also remain in poor shape.While slamming the authorities for their failure in repairing the roads in time, residents have also raised questions over the quality of road repair works taken up by the corporation.A resident of Shastri Nagar, Balpreet Singh said, “Not even a single road in the city is in a good shape at present. Potholes can be witnessed on every road. Despite paying taxes, residents continue to suffer the consequences of broken roads, while MC continues to turn a blind eye.”Field Ganj resident Taranjit Singh, who owns a shop on Gill Road, said, “Waterlogging on potholed roads adds to commuters’ woes, as chances of accidents multiply. If MC cannot operationalise the hot mix plant in the rainy season, it should find an alternative. At some points, including the traffic signal near Arora Palace, there is always a fear that heavy vehicles may overturn due to deep potholes, a major risk to passing commuters.”On MC’s part, superintending engineer Tirath Bansal said the repair works were delayed as the readymade hot mix material was still being procured. “The material is now available and MC will begin repairs on Monday. However, it is not feasible to fix wide potholes with this material, so the focus currently will be on smaller repairs. Larger potholes will be addressed once the hot mix plant becomes operational after the rainy season. The plant cannot be used amid the rains, as quality of material is affected at large,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/deadly-potholes-return-on-ludhiana-roads-after-showers-101631476285488.html
13-09-2021||Chandigarh||Auto driver thrashed for molesting Ludhiana woman||Residents of Galib Kalan village thrashed a three-wheeler driver for molesting a woman before handing him over to the police on Saturday.The accused was identified as Chamkaur Singh of Galib Khurd village.In her complaint to the police, the woman said she had hailed the auto-rickshaw at the Jagraon bus stand to reach Galib Kalan village and was the only passenger. On the way, the driver stopped the vehicle and molested her.Hearing her screams, villagers rushed to her rescue and nabbed the driver, who was given a beating before being handed over to the police.ASI Jarnail Singh, who is investigating the case, said the driver had been booked under Section 354B of the Indian Penal Code at the Jagraon Sadar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/auto-driver-thrashed-for-molesting-ludhiana-woman-101631476283591.html
13-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana’s daily Covid cases shoot up to nine again||In a sudden spike in daily Covid-19 cases, as many as nine people tested positive for the virus in the district on Sunday.This is the second time this month that the cases shot up to nine after September 2, following which the figure had remained five or lower, even dropping to one as many as four times in the 10 days since.Since August 21, when 10 cases had surfaced in Ludhiana, the daily count has remained in single digits for 22 straight days, with the district even achieving the zero-case milestone thrice, on August 24, 28 and 29. Meanwhile, no death was recorded for the sixth consecutive day. The last fatality, that took Ludhiana’s toll to 2,098 was reported on September 6, the only casualty this month. Of the 87,506 positive cases in the district since the pandemic broke out last year, currently, 27 people are still fighting the infection and 85,381 have successfully beaten it.76K people inoculatedA week after the district health department inoculated 1.31 lakh people during a mega vaccination drive on September 5, another 76,992 people were administered the jab on Sunday. Civil surgeon Dr Kiran Ahluwalia said the department was looking forward to a higher vaccination coverage by conducting more such camps. So far, 23,78,643 people have received the jab in Ludhiana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhianas-daily-covid-cases-shoot-up-to-nine-again-101631476223475.html
13-09-2021||Chandigarh||Court must enquire into antecedents of accused while considering bail, says Supreme Court||Courts should enquire into the antecedents of an accused to find out if he has a bad record and is likely to commit serious offences while out on bail, the Supreme Court has observed. A bench comprising justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and M R Shah made the remarks while setting aside the bail granted by the Punjab and Haryana high court to a man facing a murder and criminal conspiracy case. The nature of the charge and the evidence are also vital factors while deciding on bail pleas, the bench said, adding the severity of the punishment in case of conviction also bears upon the issue. Referring to its earlier decisions, the bench said the deprivation of freedom by refusal of bail is not for punitive purposes but for the bifocal interests of justice. “Another relevant factor is whether the course of justice would be thwarted by him who seeks the benignant jurisdiction of the court to be freed for the time being. The court has also to consider the likelihood of the applicant interfering with the witnesses for the prosecution or otherwise polluting the process of justice. “It is further observed that it is rational to enquire into the antecedents of the man who is applying for bail to find out whether he has a bad record, particularly a record which suggests that he is likely to commit serious offences while on bail,” the bench said. The top court said that while granting of bail, the factors among other circumstances which are required to be considered are -- the nature of accusation, the severity of punishment in case of conviction and the nature of supporting evidence, reasonable apprehension of tampering with the witness or the apprehension of threat to the complainant, and prima facie satisfaction of the court in support of the charge. The SC’s observations came while it was hearing an appeal against a Punjab & Haryana high court granting bail to an accused in connection with an FIR at police station Sadar, Jalandhar, under Sections 302 (murder), 120-B (criminal conspiracy.), 34 (common intention), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence) of Indian Penal Code and section 25 of the Arms Act, 1959. The bench said the high court has failed to appreciate and consider the nature of the accusation and the severity of the punishment in case of conviction and the nature of supporting evidence. “The high court has also failed to appreciate the facts of the case; the nature of allegations; gravity of offence and the role attributed to the accused. As per the allegations, the accused Inderpreet Singh, respondent no.1 herein is the main conspirator who hatched the conspiracy along with other co-accused and that too from the jail. “The HC has also failed to notice the serious allegation of hatching conspiracy from the jail. The HC ought to have considered that if respondent no.1 – accused Inderpreet Singh -- can hatch the conspiracy from jail, what he will not do if he is released on bail,” the bench said. The apex court said that in the facts and circumstances of the case, the HC has committed a grave error in releasing Singh on bail and therefore the impugned judgment and order passed by the HC is unsustainable and the same deserves to be quashed and set aside.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/court-must-enquire-into-antecedents-of-accused-while-considering-bail-says-supreme-court-101631476044160.html
13-09-2021||Other||Kin protest after woman dies during childbirth at Karnal hospital||A day after a woman died during childbirth at Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC) in Karnal, her family members held a protest alleging negligence by doctors.The deceased has been identified as Reena, 24, of Phoosgarh village of Karnal. The protesters refused to hand over the body for post-mortem examination and placed it on the road during the protest. A police team, led by Karnal deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Mukesh Kumar, had to rush to the spot to pacify the protesters. After high-voltage drama of more than two hours, the family consented to post-mortem by a board of doctors. Two family members will be present during the post-mortem and the procedure will be videographed.The hospital staff, meanwhile, refuted the allegations of negligence and said they have the treatment chart of the deceased to prove it. The staff added that the cause of death will be ascertained after post-mortem. Ravinder Kumar, brother in-law of the deceased, said Reena was admitted at KCGMC three days ago for delivery and she died on late Saturday evening. DSP Mukesh Kumar said action will be taken as per the findings of the post-mortem report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kin-protest-after-woman-dies-during-childbirth-at-karnal-hospital-101631475863708.html
13-09-2021||Lucknow||World Sepsis Day: Ignorance breeds life threatening multi-organ infection, say top doctors||Cases of sepsis, a life-threatening organ dysfunction caused by the dysregulated response of the body to infection, are increasing due to ignorance and lack of awareness among masses, said Dr Ved Prakash, head of department of pulmonary and critical care medicine, at the King George’s Medical University on Sunday.“Sepsis is third most common cause of death after heart disease and cancer and has a a very high mortality rate if not treated early,” Dr Prakash said while addressing a press conference on ‘World Sepsis Day’. “Most common site of infection leading to sepsis is the lungs, which contributes to around 35% of cases of sepsis. It is followed by urinary tract infection which contributes to around 25% of these cases. Other sources of infection can be gut infections and skin infections,” said Prof Apul Goel, senior faculty department of Urology, KGMU.“Cases of diabetic foot and crush injury often have to be treated for long period due to sepsis,” said Dr Vaibhav Khanna, director Healthcity hospital and a microvascular surgeon.“If infection is confined to one organ such as lungs, kidney or brain it is a local infection to an organ but if it spreads to other organs via blood (multi-organ involvement) is called sepsis,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general association of international doctors. Sepsis is very common in old age as elderly fail to understand the medical condition and often think their health issue to be age related. By the time they actually realise the seriousness, the infection spreads to multiple organs causing septicaemia or sepsis, said Dr Shukla, who also conducted an awareness session on the subject on Sunday.“Maintaining good hygiene level, correct use of medicine particularly antibiotics, preparing food hygienically, avoiding close contact with sick people, practising safer sex, and keeping vaccinations up to date are best ways to avoid sepsis,” he said. Risk factors for developing sepsis include old age, diabetes, obesity, cancer, and inappropriate use of antibiotics, said Dr BNBM Prasad, professor in the department of pulmonary and critical care medicine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/world-sepsis-day-ignorance-breeds-life-threatening-multi-organ-infection-say-top-doctors-101631475803494.html
13-09-2021||Chandigarh||Five fresh Covid cases reported in Haryana||No death due to Covid-19 was recorded in Haryana on Sunday, while five new cases pushed the infection count to 7,70,645 in the state.According to the health department’s daily bulletin, the death toll stands at 9,686. Of the new cases, three were reported from Gurgaon while one each was from Karnal and Yamunanagar districts, it said. However, no fresh case was reported from 19 other districts in the state, it said.The total active cases in the state stands at 148, while the overall recoveries from the infection has reached 7,60,467, according to the bulletin.The recovery rate was 98.68%, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/five-fresh-covid-cases-reported-in-haryana-101631475445938.html
13-09-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: Nine dengue cases surface in Dera Bassi locality||After nine dengue cases surfaced at Mubarkpur Camp near Dera Bassi in the past one week, Mohali civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur visited the locality on Sunday to review the situation. She said the health department swung into action soon after cases of fever and vomiting were reported and conducted a survey. Water supply was cut off and samples were also collected for testing. Dengue fever is a painful, debilitating mosquito-borne disease caused by any one of four closely related dengue viruses.Meanwhile, diarrhoea outbreak has been reported at Peermuchalla village in Zirakpur.Soon, QR-based feedback for toilets in ChandigarhThe municipal corporation is in the process to launch a QR-based feedback system for 274 public toilets. Each toilet will have its own unique code. The users on scanning the code will be directed to the feedback page, where they can respond yes or no to seven questions pertaining to cleanliness, water supply, etc.P’kula: Differently-abled to get assistive devicesAs many as 280 assistive equipments worth over ₹14 lakh will be distributed to 155 differently-abled beneficiaries by Haryana Vidhan Sabha speaker Gian Chand Gupta and member of Parliament Rattan Lal Kataria on September 14 during a function organised by the District Red Cross Society at Aggarwal Bhawan in Sector 16. Savita Aggarwal, secretary of the District Red Cross Society, said that measurement camps had been organised in collaboration with the Artificial Limbs Manufacturing Corporation of India (ALIMCO) from March 15 to 19.Chain hunger strike of teachers continues at PUThe teaching faculty of Punjabi University, Patiala, and Panjab University continued their chain hunger strike for the eighth consecutive day on Sunday over implementation of seventh UGC Pay Scales and to withdraw the delinking of UGC pay scales by the Punjab government. The teachers condemned the apathetic attitude of the Punjab government towards university and college teachers.Chandigarh BJP chief shown black flag at eventResidents of Dadu Majra colony and village were left a harried lot as a police barricaded the area for a BJP event on Sunday. The arrangements were anticipating protest by farmers at the event. Despite this, a protester managed to sneak into the gathering and showed black flag to BJP Chandigarh president Arun Sood, who was addressing the gathering. The police rushed there and got him out of the venue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohalinine-dengue-cases-surface-in-dera-bassi-locality-101631475444849.html
13-09-2021||Chandigarh||Mercury dips as rains lash many parts of Punjab, Haryana||Rains lashed many parts of Punjab and Haryana on Sunday leading to a dip in the day temperatures. Chandigarh, the common capital of both states, which was lashed by 17 mm of rain during the day, recorded a maximum temperature of 28.4 degrees Celsius, down five notches against normal range, according to the Meteorological Department’s weather report issued here. In Haryana, Ambala was lashed by heavy rains (23.8 mm) after which day temperature dropped by three notches below normal to settle at 29.8 degrees Celsius. Karnal, which received 7.8 mm of rain, recorded a maximum of 30.6 degrees Celsius, down two notches. Hisar’s maximum settled at 32 degrees Celsius, four notches below normal limits, after receiving 0.6 mm rain. Gurugram, which received 4.8 mm rain during the day, recorded a high of 30.6 degrees Celsius, down three notches against normal while Rohtak, which received 7 mm rain, recorded a maximum of 31.8 degrees Celsius, three notches below normal. In Punjab, the holy city of Amritsar, which had received a heavy downpour two days ago, leading to waterlogging in some areas, on Sunday received 4 mm rain and the maximum temperature dropped nine notches below normal limits to settle at 25.7 degrees Celsius. Ludhiana’s maximum temperature settled at 27.9 degrees Celsius, down five notches after being lashed by 12 mm of rain while Patiala, which received 2 mm rain, recorded a high of 30.2 degrees Celsius, down three notches against normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mercury-dips-as-rains-lash-many-parts-of-punjab-haryana-101631475384085.html
13-09-2021||Other||Elderly couple robbed of cash, jewellery at knifepoint in Karnal||An elderly couple was held hostage at their residence for over two hours and robbed of around ₹50,000 cash, jewellery and two mobile phones, in Sector 9 of Karnal on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday. The robbers, five in number, also slit the woman’s ear when she refused to part with her earrings.Her husband, SK Soni, told the police that five masked men had entered their house around 1am by breaking open the locks of the main door. They then grabbed a knife from the kitchen and held the couple hostage. Soni said the accused beat them up when they refused to give them the keys of the locker. He alleged the accused remained in the house for around two hours and took around ₹50,000 cash, jewellery and two mobile phones.They reportedly damaged the mobile phones of the victims before leaving. Later, their neighbours alerted the police and security guard of the locality.Closed-circuit television camera (CCTV) footage retrieved from the locality revealed the miscreants had carried out a recce of the area earlier in the week. Investigating officials said the accused appear to be teenagers, but probe is on.Karnal superintendent of police Ganga Ram Punia said police teams are working to arrest the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/karnal-elderly-couple-robbed-of-cash-jewellery-at-knifepoint-101631475323506.html
13-09-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Woman forced to chain drug addict son finally gets support||Unable to afford treatment for her 28-year-old drug addict son and to ensure his safety, a widow was forced to chain him with a tree in Samrala’s Sehala village.The only caretaker of the youth, who has been suffering from substance abuse symptoms, his 55-year-old mother said she had no other choice but to leave him alone chained to make a living as a domestic help.As villagers realised the family’s plight, they raised the issue on social media, following which the district administration swung into action and shifted the youth to the Samrala civil hospital for de-addiction treatment.The woman said her son appeared psychotic due to drug abuse. He had been assaulting people and stealing things to arrange money for more drugs.Her husband had died a year before he got addicted to drugs two years ago and had since sold most of their household belongings to fuel his addiction.“I sold my television to get him treated at a drug de-addiction centre, and also appealed to the panchayat and NGOs for help, but to no avail,” said the woman, whose two daughters are married.“I had high hopes from my son that he would help bring us out of poverty, but instead he has become a responsibility for me,” she added.She rued that her house was left with nothing but a leaking roof, forcing them to lead a miserable life.Samrala senior medical officer (SMO) Dr Tarikjot Singh said they had rescued the man and started his de-addiction treatment at the civil hospital.Ramesh Kumar, a former sarpanch of the village, said nearly 80 men out of the 3,000-odd population of the village were addicted to drugs amid no check on their supply.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhianawoman-forced-to-chain-drug-addict-son-finally-gets-support-101631475203910.html
13-09-2021||Chandigarh||Boxing Senior National Championship: Chandigarh men’s team named||The Chandigarh men’s team left for the senior (Elite) National Boxing Championship on Sunday, which will be held at Bellary, Karnataka, from September 15 to 22. The Chandigarh Amateur Boxing Association (CABA) named the Chandigarh team on Sunday. All gold medallists of the men’s senior state boxing championship, which was held at Sports Complex, Sector 42, Chandigarh, recently were selected to represent Chandigarh in the fifth men’s boxing senior national championship.Team: Kuldeep Kumar (46-48kg), Harshdeep (48-51 kg), Vishal Sheokand (51-54 kg), Rahul (54-57 kg), Vishal Sharma (57-60 kg), Rohit Kumar (60-63.5 kg), Aman (63.5-67 kg), Sachin (67-71 kg), Aditya (71-75 kg), Harpreet (75-80 kg), Younam Kamboj (80-86 kg), Preetam (86-92 kg), Sagar (+92 kg), coach Om Prakash Verma, manager-cum-coach: Virender Rana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/boxing-senior-national-championship-chandigarh-men-s-team-named-101631475147747.html
13-09-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: Painter dies after accidental fall in Dera Bassi||A 24-year-old painter died after falling from a height of 40 feet while working at Silver City in Mubarakpur area of Dera Bassi, police said on Sunday.Identified as Farman, he was carrying out paint work at a flat on Saturday when he lost balance while shooing away birds and fell down, said police. He was rushed to Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32, Chandigarh, where he was declared brought dead.Farman belonged to Najibabad in Uttar Pardesh and was unmarried. Narpinder Singh, Mubarakpur police post in-charge, said it inquest proceedings have been initiated on the statement of his brother Salman. After the postmortem, the body has been handed over to family members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-painter-dies-after-accidental-fall-in-dera-bassi-101631474966570.html
13-09-2021||Other||Will stand by SKM, but want farmers to contest polls: Charuni||Reiterating his stand on “Mission Punjab”, Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Gurnam Singh Charuni said on Sunday that he will bring farmers, labourers and intellectuals on one platform to fight the assembly elections in the state, slated for next year.Interacting with the media after taking part in a mahapanchayat in Sirsa, Charuni said he will continue to support the farmers’ agitation led by Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM). The SKM had earlier suspended him for his ‘Mission Punjab’ stand. “I have a different view from SKM. I want farmers and labourers to contest the next assembly polls in Punjab. I want to make it clear that I will not contest the polls. There is a lot of resentment against the Bharatiya Janata Party in the country and the massive crowd turning up for our rallies shows that people want to get rid of the party,” he added.The farmer leader also slammed the government over the recent announcement of hike in minimum support price (MSP) for rabi crops. “The announced MSP is not sufficient. The input costs have risen but the government has hiked MSP only a little, which will not help them in gaining profit. We have decided a pan-India shut down on September 27,” Charuni added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/will-stand-by-skm-but-want-farmers-to-contest-polls-charuni-101631474963916.html
13-09-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: PUDA to soon start remaining works at Gateway City||Punjab Urban Planning and Development Authority (PUDA) will soon undertake the remaining development works at Gateway City in Sectors 118-119 here.These works were on hold because of issues pending with the rural development and panchayats department pertaining to transfer of panchayat land in Balongi village as well as fixation of rates of revenue rastas (paths) falling under the project. As per a spokesperson of PUDA, taking into account the problems being faced by the allottees and residents of the project, PUDA took up the matter with the rural development and panchayats department and the latter approved the transfer of panchayat land to PUDA and also intimated the rates fixed for revenue rastas.PUDA spokesperson further said that the non-transfer of revenue land falling under the Gateway City project was proving to be a major hindrance in laying of various services.As approval had been obtained for transfer of revenue land and rates of revenue rastas (path) were fixed, PUDA’s land acquisition branch will make the payment to the village panchayat of land falling under revenue rastas to get it cleared. The land would subsequently be handed over to the engineering wing of PUDA for laying the remaining services in the project. As soon as the engineering wing would get the clearance of land, the remaining services would be laid on priority, said the spokesperson, adding that it would resolve the long-pending concerns of the residents and allottees of the project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gateway-city-mohali-puda-to-soon-start-remaining-development-works-at-project-101631474784340.html
13-09-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula: Five cops suspended for misbehaving with advocate||The Panchkula deputy commissioner of police on Sunday suspended five cops for alleged “inappropriate” behaviour with an advocate. A departmental inquiry has also been marked against them. Earlier in the day, police had booked the advocate for obstructing them from performing their duty, following which he made a counter-complaint.The order issued by DCP Mohit Handa reads that the action has been taken on the basis of recommendations submitted by the assistant commissioner of police. It states that the cops, who were posted with an emergency response vehicle, have been “placed under suspension for negligence and misconduct in their duty”. The ACP will also be conducting a thorough inquiry.The suspended police officials are sub-inspectors Malkit Singh and Anil Kumar, head constable Virender Singh, and constables Dilbag Singh and Iqbal Khan.Earlier during the day, police had registered an FIR against the advocate, identified as Deepak Aggarwal, a resident of Sector 4, Panchkula. It was alleged that he had misbehaved with them and attacked one of them in an inebriated condiction. According to the FIR, police received a call about a fight in Sector 4 around midnight. It was alleged that when a police team reached there, Aggarwal called them inside his house and started misbehaving. Later, when he was made to sit inside the police vehicle, he attacked a cop and tore his uniform, the FIR mentioned. A case was registered under Sections 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 332 (whoever voluntarily causes hurt to any person being a public servant) and 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector 5 police station. However, Aggarwal submitted a counter-complaint, alleging misbehaviour by cops and implication in a false case.“After receiving the complaint, an inquiry was marked to the ACP, who prima facie found the behaviour of officials inappropriate,” said DCP Handa. The inquiry also found that Anil Kumar, in-charge, police post, Sector 2, committed negligence by “not reaching the spot of occurrence.”“The ACP will complete the inquiry by holding day-to-day proceedings and submit his findings expeditiously,” said Handa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkulafive-cops-suspended-for-misbehaving-with-advocate-101631474666503.html
13-09-2021||Other||Nova Cycles chairman Harmohinder Singh Pahwa dies of heart attack||Noted industrialist Harmohinder Singh Pahwa, 77, chairman of Nova Cycles, died of a heart attack at Sutlej Club on Sunday afternoon.The cremation will be held at Model Town Crematorium on Monday.Pahwa, along with others, was celebrating another club member’s birthday at the local club, when he complained of acute chest pain and collapsed on the floor. He was immediately taken to a private hospital where he was declared brought dead. He is survived by his wife, two daughters and a son. Onkar Singh Pahwa, chairman of Avon cycles and Harmohinder Singh Pahwa’s cousin, said, “I am shocked. A few days ago he had visited my house to attend a party. I cannot believe that he left us so soon. His contribution to the growth of family business and the cycle industry was immense. He was a friend, philosopher, and guide to me.”SS Bhogal, former chairman of CII, said, “Pahwa’s business acumen took Avon Cycles to new heights. He was a great friend and a brilliant human being. He was always there to offer help. His death is a personal loss not only to me but many of his admirers.”Born on October 7, 1944, Harmohinder Singh Pahwa joined the Avon Group in 1966. He established Avon Bicycle Components (P) Limited in 1997 and Nova Bicycles in 2003.Charanjit Singh Vishwakarma, former president of United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA), said, “The industry has lost a visionary and experienced person at a time when we all are working on upgrading the local industry towards high-end bicycles.”“The Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisations (FICO) conveys its heartfelt condolence to Pahwa’s family in this hour of grief,” said Gurmeet Singh Kular, president, FICO.FICO chairman KK Seth termed Pahwa’s death as a great loss to the bicycle industry of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nova-cycles-chairman-harmohinder-singh-pahwa-dies-of-heart-attack-101631474664995.html
13-09-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Civil Services exam conducted amid heavy security||At least 74,978 candidates appeared for the preliminary round of Haryana Civil Services (HCS) and allied examination conducted by the Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) at 538 centres in 13 districts across the state on Sunday. The exam was conducted in two shifts. The general studies paper was held from 10am to 12 noon while the CSAT paper was from 3pm to 5pm. Both papers had 100 questions each and only 33% marks are required to pass the CSAT paper but its marks are not considered in the overall result. The commission will declare the cut-off for the preliminary exam on the basis of the general studies exam. Those who clear the preliminary paper will be able to sit in the main exam, which will be followed by an interview. Heavy security arrangements were made to ensure fair conduct of the paper and deter candidates from indulging in unfair means. An official spokesperson said jammers were installed at all centres and the paper was conducted under closed-circuit television camera (CCTV) surveillance. “Live videos from all rooms of the exam centres were monitored at the control room set up at the Panchkula office of HPSC,” the spokesperson added. The HPSC had advertised 155 vacancies of HCS and other allied services in March and 1,48,262 candidates had applied for these posts. The biometric attendance of all candidates was recorded through IRIS scan, while intensive frisking was also done to ensure that no candidate carries any electronic device or other material. “The examination was conducted in a peaceful, smooth, uninterrupted and fair manner,” the spokesperson said. Senior officers of the district administration were appointed as flying squad officers for regular checking of the centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-civil-services-exam-conducted-amid-heavy-security-101631474603466.html
13-09-2021||Other||SAD must repent favouring black laws on September 17, claims AAP||Chandigarh Responding to Shiromani Akali Dal’s (SAD’s) announcement that it will observe a Black Day on September 17, the day the Centre’s three farm laws complete one year, the Aam Aadmi Party has taken a dig at the Akalis by asking them to feel remorse for not opposing the bills for the laws, when they were first introduced. “The Badal family should observe the Black Day with remorse, because if Harsimrat Kaur Badal, as Union minister, had not signed the ordinances, the black day for farmers would never have come,” claimed AAP Punjab Kisan Wing president Kultar Singh Sandhwan.“The SAD has unwittingly declared September 17 as a Black Day; instead they should repent for signing the agriculture ordinances and campaigning for three months in favour of agricultural laws,” he alleged. Sandhwan also appealed to pro-farmer organisations and political parties to observe September 17 as a Black Day at the national level. “The Narendra Modi-led central government has become the most dictatorial government in the history of India; violating rights of the farmers, labourers, employees and students of the country,” he claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sad-must-repent-favouring-black-laws-on-september-17-claims-aap-101631474483512.html
13-09-2021||Other||Ludhiana: 6 Lodhi Club executive members put on notice for misconduct||Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma, who is also the president of the Lodhi Club, has issued show-cause notices to the club’s six executive members for bypassing a tender committee’s chairperson and recommending the second-highest bidder for catering services.Issuing the notices on Saturday evening, Sharma has sought a reply within 48 hours, failing which action will be initiated against the six members, including general secretary Nitin Mahajan, joint secretary Dr Sarju Ralhan, mess secretary Nishit Singhania, finance secretary Munish Gupta, sports secretary Ram Narain Sharma and bar secretary Jagatvir Singh Bittu. As per information, the club had decided to float tenders to hire a caterer. For this, the DC constituted a committee under the chairmanship of PCS officer Neeru Katyal Gupta, with the general secretary, joint secretary, mess secretary and finance secretary as the members. After the tenders were opened on September 6, two bids were received – one from a local caterer and another from a Muktsar-based firm, for ₹1.4 lakh and ₹1.51 lakh per month, respectively.However, as stated in the show-cause notice, the six executive members recommended the local caterer for the contract, while bypassing the committee’s chairperson, despite a better offer by the other bidder. “It is against the financial interests of the club and the members should submit a reply within 48 hours on why action cannot be taken against them for the misconduct,” states the notice. On his part, Mahajan said no contract had been awarded yet, and only a recommendation had been made to the DC, who held the authority to take the final decision. “The Ludhiana-based caterer has worked with the club in the past and was found more appropriate, while the services of the Muktsar caterer were not found up to the mark by the members while evaluating the bids. The chairperson of the committee was also apprised of this before the recommendation was sent to the club president,” said Mahajan, while adding that they will submit a reply on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-6-lodhi-club-executive-members-put-on-notice-for-misconduct-101631474423430.html
13-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Facing a civic issue? Make MC act via Twitter||Now, from getting potholed roads repaired to getting garbage collected from the doorsteps, Chandigarh residents can make the municipal corporation officials act by posting their complaints on Twitter.MC officials, who earlier seldom responded to residents’ posts on Twitter, have been directed to act immediately on such complaints.The working of the MC’s helpline (0172-2787200) has been marred by slow turnaround time. However, residents say MC officials have started responding to their Twitter posts with solutions on the ground.One such resident — PGIMER doctor Pulkit Rastogi, who lives in Sector 40 — on Sunday morning shared a Twitter post about garbage not being picked from his house and mentioned the MC handle. Soon after, the chief sanitary inspector contacted Rastogi and got the garbage collected. “The issue was resolved within half an hour,” said Rastogi.We read and act on all posts: MC chief“With the growing popularity of social media, it was felt that it will be a good medium to receive feedback from citizens. Therefore, we have started sharing our initiatives on Twitter and Facebook. Even citizens have been regularly posting their grievances on these forums,” said MC commissioner Anindita Mitra.Though it is not possible to respond to each Twitter post individually, Mitra said every post is read and action initiated on it through the engineering or enforcement wings. The MC’s Twitter handle is @MCChandigarh. It is also active on Facebook through the page “Chandigarh — My City My Pride”. For compliance of assignments given to the field staff, all officials also have to submit their work progress along with photographs on a Google Form on a daily basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-facing-a-civic-issue-make-mc-act-via-twitter-101631474304369.html
13-09-2021||Chandigarh||Stalked by neighbour, Kaithal girl ends life||A 20-year-old girl in Aanhu village of Kaithal district allegedly ended her life, over constant harassment and stalking by a neighbour.The neighbour has been booked for abetment, on the complaint of the victim’s father.The girl’s father told the police that the accused runs a sweetshop next to their house and had been stalking and harassing his daughter for the past couple of months.The girl’s family members had even raised the issue with the accused’s family, but he did not budge. Instead, he went on threaten the girl’s father and brother of dire consequences “if they tried to stop him”.On Saturday, the BA final-year student allegedly consumed a poisonous substance following which she was taken to a private hospital in Kaithal, where she died during treatment. Investigating officer (IO) Raj Kumar said soon after the police came to know about the incident, a police team rushed to the spot and sent the body to Kaithal civil hospital for post-mortem.The IO said an FIR under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused and investigation is on to arrest him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/stalked-by-neighbour-kaithal-girl-dies-by-suicide-101631474303235.html
13-09-2021||Lucknow||Aam Aadmi Party to take out “Tiranga Yatra” in Ayodhya on September 14||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) will take out a “Tiranga Yatra” in Ayodhya on Tuesday (September 14). Manish Sisodia, deputy chief minister, Delhi, and Sanjay Singh, a Rajya Sabha MP and AAP’s Uttar Pradesh incharge, will land in Ayodhya on Monday for the event.Apart from doing public relations exercise for the party by meeting seers, the duo will also pay obeisance to Ram Lalla at Ram Janmabhoomi and Lord Hanuman at Hanuman Garhi temple. Giving this information, Sabhajeet Singh, state president of AAP, said the yatra will start from Gulab Bari and will end at Gandhi Park. However, AAP leaders’ meeting with seers is most likely to be confined with those men in saffron who are aligned with the non-BJP camp. Mahant Janmejay Saran leads the anti-VHP camp of seers in Ayodhya. “The AAP will present itself as an alternative to the BJP and the Samajwadi Party, the two main contenders in Uttar Pradesh’s political battle,” said Vaibhav Maheshwari, state spokesperson, AAP. “The Delhi model of governance of the Arvind Kejriwal government is before everyone to see,” he added. With assembly polls due in Uttar Pradesh early next year and construction of Ram Mandir going on there, Ayodhya has become the most favoured destination for political parties to launch their campaign. AAP is not the first party to include Ayodhya in its campaign trail for assembly polls. The Bahujan Samaj Party began its Brahmin Sammelan from Ayodhya on July 23. All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen president Asaduddin Owaisi and Jansatta Loktantrik Dal led by Kunda MLA Raghuraj Pratap Singh alias Raja Bhaiya also hit the campaign trail of their parties from Ayodhya.To recall, the AAP was the first political party to raise a question mark on land deals entered into by the Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust. Starting with the AAP, the Samajwadi Party and the Congress had also alleged irregularities in these land purchase deals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/aam-aadmi-party-to-take-out-tiranga-yatra-in-ayodhya-on-september-14-101631474183440.html
13-09-2021||Other||Punjab waives ₹41cr loan of 10,000 SCs||Chandigarh The Punjab government has waived around ₹41.5 crore loan of 10,151 persons belonging to the Scheduled Caste community. Punjab minister for social justice, empowerment and minorities Sadhu Singh Dharamsot disclosed on Sunday that the government had decided to waive ₹50,000 each, from all kinds of loans that these persons had taken for self-employment through the Scheduled Castes Development and Finance Corporation.The minister added that the corporation provides these loans to SCs and Persons with Disabilities at low interest rates to fund their self-employment. The recovery rate of loans provided by the Corporation to the youth of the state at a lower interest rate is about 77%. He said that the youth was finding it difficult to repay these loans under the dire circumstances that had risen due to the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic.“Previously too, the Punjab government has waived loans of 14,260 SC youth, amounting to ₹45.4 crore. Over the past four years, this government has given loan to the tune of around ₹82 crore to 8,662 persons from SCs,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-waives-rs-41cr-loan-of-10-000-scs-101631474003375.html
13-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh records 32 mm rain; more in store, says IMD||Chandigarh received around 32 mm rain on Sunday, which led to a slight dip in temperature. While 14.7 mm of rain was recorded till 8:30 am, 17 mm more was received during the day, according to data available with the India Meteorological Department (IMD). According to the weatherman, chances of rain will continue in the coming days as well.“The two low-pressure systems that led to rain in Delhi on Saturday also affected the city on Sunday. The chances and intensity of rain will fall from Monday, but light rain up to 20 mm will continue,” said an IMD official.At 1162.5 feet, the level of Sukhna Lake is also close to the danger mark of 1,163 feet. However, the Sunday rain didn’t have any impact, as the same level was recorded on Saturday as well. Meanwhile, maximum temperature went down from 29.3°C on Saturday to 28.4°C on Sunday, five notches below normal. Minimum temperature went down from 25.5°C to 23.6°C , still two degrees above normal.In the next three days, maximum temperature will remain around 30-32°C and minimum around 25°C, said the weatherman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-records-32-mm-rain-more-in-store-101631473883929.html
13-09-2021||Other||Ludhiana: 4 Horse regiment pays homage to heroes of Battle of Phillora||The 4 Horse regiment on Sunday remembered the heroes of the Battle of Phillora and conducted a wreath-laying ceremony at the memorial of late Major Bhupinder Singh outside Rose Garden.Adjudant Captain Siddharth Singh from 4 Horse led a small contingent and paid tributes to Singh, who was posthumously bestowed with the Maha Vir Chakra.A two-minute silence was also observed to pay homage to the martyr.The Battle of Phillora was one of the largest tank battles fought during the Indo-Pak 1965 war.Major Bhupinder Singh led his squadron boldly in this war from September 11 to 19 and fought valiantly and also destroyed many tanks of the enemy in Phillora and Sodreke.On September 19, 1965, his tank was badly hit and caught fire. Major Bhupinder Singh was evacuated and shifted to the military hospital, Delhi, where he succumbed to his injuries on October 3, 1965.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana4-horse-regiment-pays-homage-to-heroes-of-battle-of-phillora-101631473825683.html
13-09-2021||Other||Prayagraj: Fake body creates website, tries to cheat job seekers via bogus ad||A case of fraud has come to light in the name of recruitment of 24,178 teachers and employees in government run schools of Uttar Pradesh. The unidentified fraudsters issued a fake advertisement in a leading Hindi daily on Saturday and created a bogus website resembling the official website of Uttar Pradesh Secondary Education Service Selection Board (UPSESSB).They issued the want in the name of a non-existent organisation— Uttar Pradesh School Staff Selection Board— whose office, the website claims, is located in Allenganj in Prayagraj. “An advertisement has been issued for recruitment of teachers and college staff through a website www.upsssb.org closely resembling the official website of Uttar Pradesh Secondary Education Service Selection Board www.upsessb.org. We wish to make clear that Uttar Pradesh Secondary Education Service Selection Board has nothing to do with this advertisement. We have already initiated the process for lodging of an FIR in this regard,” said UPSESSB deputy secretary Naval Kishore in a communiqué.On the complaint of UPSESSB deputy secretary Naval Kishore, Colonelganj police registered an FIR against unidentified people in this connection under relevant sections of fraud and cybercrime late on Saturday night.“We have launched an investigation into the case with the help of cyber police cell and have begun efforts to identify those responsible for making the fake website and issuing a fake recruitment advertisement,” said inspector Suresh Singh, station house officer, Colonelganj police station.Additional director (secondary education) Mahendra Sev and secretary, Basic Shiksha Parishad, Pratap Singh Baghel through public notice have also made clear that no department, office or body by the name of “Uttar Pradesh School Staff Selection Board” is functional in the state and the advertisement issued by this fake board is “fully false and fake”.Claiming to be a UP government body, the website https://www.upsssb.org/ informs that Uttar Pradesh School Staff Selection Board has been formed vide UP Act No. 5 of 1982 passed by the Uttar Pradesh Legislature to establish School Staff (Selection Board) Act 1982, for the selection of teachers and management staff in colleges and institutions recognised under Intermediate Education Act, 1921.Under “Objective and Reasons”, the website informs that the aim of the body is to appoint “teachers and management staff in colleges and institutions recognised by UGC (Under Grant Commission), AICTE (All India Council of Technical Education) and MOE (Ministry of Education) governed by the State Government Education Act B, 1921 and regulations made there under.”It further informs that it was considered necessary to “constitute School Staff Selection Board at the state level to select Principals, Lecturers, Teachers, Accountant, Clerk, Management staff, Group D Staff, LT Grade teachers, and School Staff Selection Board at the regional level, to select and make available suitable candidates for posts in Degree Colleges (include all Art and Science colleges, Engineering Colleges, Hotel Management Colleges, Management Colleges, Women’s Colleges, Distance Education Colleges, Medical Colleges, BEd Colleges, and Teacher’s Training Institutes) and Institutions of the State”.Under the recruitment advertisement, the website that sports the photographs of UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath and UP basic education minister Satish Chandra Dwivedi lists 17,486 posts of teachers, 3,800 posts of staff and 2,892 posts of class 4 employees seeking applications between September 11 and October 10 citing postgraduation, graduation and intermediate as the requisite qualifications for the three categories of posts respectively. It also states that the recruitment would be done through a two-phased selection process comprising a written exam and an interview.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-fake-body-creates-website-tries-to-cheat-job-seekers-via-bogus-ad-101631473707010.html
13-09-2021||Delhi||At Signature Bridge, lifts that didn’t lift off||Radha Mohan doesn’t mind the long hours of his job. A security guard at northwest Delhi’s Signature Bridge, the 50-year-old finds it more difficult to answer questions on when the elevators will start ferrying people to the viewing gallery atop the pylon of the bridge.“Every day, at least 100 people ask me about the observation deck; many of them believe that there is a restaurant up there. For the past one year, I have been telling them that it will open in three months. The truth is I do not when and if at all that lift will open for public,” he says, pointing towards the closed doors of the elevators, up a short flight of stairs from the road.Opened in 2018, the Capital’s Signature Bridge, India’s first asymmetrical cantilever spar cable-stayed bridge spanning the Yamuna river at the Wazirabad section has a viewing deck at a height of about 154 metres. For comparison, the iconic Qutub Minar is about 73 metres high.Delhi Tourism and Transportation Development Corporation (DTTDC), a Delhi government agency that executed the project, plans to transform the bridge into a tourist destination at a cost of ₹200 crore. Facilities such as parking, an open-air plaza, a circular air-conditioned eatery, a children’s play zone, and a park with an open gym on the western end of the bridge (towards the Outer Ring Road) have already come up, and are likely to be inaugurated soon.But a ticketed ride for tourists to this glass viewing gallery, which was touted as an important part of the Signature Bridge experience, has failed to lift off.The reason: elevators that aren’t exactly perpendicular to the ground. Or more accurately, lifts that are tilted.Officials in the electrical inspectorate of the Delhi government’s labour department, responsible for inspecting and granting licences to operate lifts across the city, are not amused at the inclined lifts inside the pylon of the bridge.The Signature Bridge has four lifts, with a capacity of 500kg each, installed at a cost of ₹12 crore on both sides of the pylon. Because the pylon is oblique in shape, two of the lifts in the lower arms of the pylon are inclined at a 60-degree angle; and the other two on the upper ends are at an angle of 81 degrees.A kink in the planSo far, officials in the labour department have inspected and cleared around 50,000 lifts across the city, but they’ve never encountered such a case before.“These lifts defy the very definition of a lift in the law that is followed in Delhi,” says a labour department official, who wished to remain anonymous.The official cited above isn’t referring to a flaw in the design. Inclined lifts are common in modern architecture across the world.Instead, he is referring to the colonial-era law, Bombay Lift Act, 1939, adopted by Delhi in 1942. “It will take nothing sort of an amendment in the law to allow us to give permission to these inclined lifts,” the official adds.Indeed, the Act defines lifts as a “hoisting mechanism” “designed to carry passengers” in a “cage” that “moves in a substantially vertical direction”.The company, which has installed the lifts at the Signature Bridge, says it has installed such lifts across countries, but this is the first in India. “The inclined lifts are very popular abroad... We are now installing another one in Shimla in a housing society on a hill,” says Sandeep Gupta, director of Maspero India. The firm has a joint venture with Maspero Elevatori, an Italian company that makes elevators.The parent company’s website has an entire section on inclined lifts. It cheekily says: “There is no slope our inclined elevators cannot climb...”But Maspero India did not anticipate that a colonial-era law will be a hurdle in operating the lifts for tourists. Currently the lifts are only allowed to be used by engineers for servicing bridge cables and other systems. “We never thought that the inclined lifts would face this kind of an angle-related hurdle. But it is not for us to obtain a licence to use the lift for tourists. We have fulfilled all our contractual obligations, and now we are looking after its maintenance,” says Gupta.Suspended, in betweenNow, DTTDC is hoping for an early resolution. Pawan Kumar, chief project manager at DTTDC, says the agency has sought permission a few times in the last year to use the lifts for tourism.“The labour department says there is no provision under which they can grant the licence to inclined lifts, but they have assured us that they will try to find a solution,” he says.To this, a senior officer in the labour department says there are also other issues that have to be addressed first. “We have pointed out a few other safety-related issues. There are no stairs to evacuate the passengers in case of an emergency. The monkey ladder they have installed simply cannot be used by common people. Let them sort out these issues, and then we will decide what to do next,” the official who wished to remain anonymous says.When asked if the labour department will recommend amending the law, he adds, “I cannot say anything at the moment.”Does it matter?The lifts may or may not open for the public, but the Signature Bridge is already a tourist destination. On a muggy monsoon afternoon, there are youngsters, families and couples thronging the site. One of the visitors is 26-year-old Vineet Chopra, a resident of Rohini, who has come to the bridge with two of his friends to celebrate his birthday. “ We are waiting for some more friends to come; it is my birthday and we will cut the cake here once they come,” he says.“This happens here all the time... I have had a hard time dealing with them. When the lift doors are open, many people want to enter and have a look inside. I keep shouting at them to stay away from the lift,” says another security guard at the bridge.Midway through this conversation, a car stops and its passengers ask Radha Mohan, standing nearby, the question he hates answering.“Is the lift open for people?”“It will open in five months,” says Mohan, who may have just extended his fictional timeline by two months for some reprieve.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/at-signature-bridge-lifts-that-didn-t-lift-off-101631471556766.html
13-09-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: BJP lawmaker meets SP chief Akhilesh Yadav||A first-time BJP lawmaker from Uttar Pradesh, Rakesh Rathore, met Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday, about three months after he had said that he would not dare speak against his party government for fear of being booked under the sedition charge. Rathore is an OBC (Other Backward Classes) leader from Sitapur in Uttar Pradesh.Both the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and SP haven’t made any official comment on the meeting, but sources in the Samajwadi Party said at least eight BJP lawmakers were in touch.In May, the BJP MLA was apparently heard expressing “helplessness” when asked by journalists to comment on why a trauma centre set up in 2016 in Khairabad’s Jamayatpur area was still not functional. It falls in the Sitapur assembly constituency, from where Rathore was elected in 2017.Back in May, Rathore, 55, appeared to say in Hindi: “Hum zyada bolenge toh deshdroh, rajdroh hum pe bhi to lagega (If I say more, I will be booked for sedition too).” He also suggested that MLAs have little standing before the government when he questioned: “…vidhayakon ki haisiyat kya hai? (What is the status of legislators)?”To another query, he said sarcastically, “Bhaiya hum to wahi kahenge jo sarkar keh rahi, wahi sahi maano ... (All I will say is believe all that the government says).”A few days back, SP chief Akhilesh Yadav had said that several BJP lawmakers, who feared losing tickets, would head for his party. Rathore was not available for comment on his meeting which was, however, confirmed by the SP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-bjp-lawmaker-meets-sp-chief-akhilesh-yadav-101631473583331.html
13-09-2021||Other||Schools to be named after Olympians, martyrs: Ludhiana DEO seeks list from school heads||Krishan Kumar, secretary, school education, has directed all government school principals and heads across the state to name their schools after Olympians or martyrs from their respective areas and get new gates installed with their names and paintings.Following the orders, Lakhvir Singh Samra, district education officer (DEO), secondary, Ludhiana, has asked all district school heads to submit details of the Olympic players and the martyrs from their areas with the department by 11 am on Monday.Moreover, the department has asked the school officials to fill a form that includes the details of the estimated finances required for the installation of the new gates.The DEO further stated that the schools that had recently got new gates should not seek grants for the same again.The department has already received responses from few schools in the district including, GHS Giaspura, GSSS Kaunke Kalan, Jagraon, GSSS Dakha, and GHS Chachrari.While Shaheed Colonel Harcharan Singh Sekhon Memorial GSSS Dakha has demanded ₹4 lakh grant for construction of the new gate, Shaheed Sardar Harbhajan Singh GHS Chachrari sought ₹3 lakh grant, and GSSS Hans Kalan, Jagraon asked for ₹2 lakh funds from the department as it already got a grant of ₹30,000 for the same recently.Simaljit Kaur, in-charge of Shaheed Sardar Harbhajan Singh GHS Chachrari, said that though the school is already named after a martyr from their village, it needs to get a new gate with proper BALA work installed.DEO Lakhvir Singh said that the initiative aims to educate and make students familiar with their national heroes.“We have asked the principals to get special BALA (Building as learning aid) paintings of our national heroes and their names on the gates,” said DEO.Meanwhile, Davinder Singh Chhina, nodal officer, education department, Ludhiana added, “This is how we are paying tribute to our martyrs and the Olympic heroes. The idea is to educate students about soldiers who sacrificed their lives for the country and the struggle of our sportspersons.”Ex-serviceman and war veteran Captain Manmohan Singh Bhullar appreciated the initiatives of the state education department.Local hockey Olympic legend Hardeep Singh Grewal also hailed the decision. “It will be a great gesture by the government if the names of the Olympians and the martyrs will be written on the school gates. People tend to forget the old legends but this will help the students to know about and remember them”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/schools-to-be-named-after-olympians-martyrs-ludhiana-deo-seeks-list-from-school-heads-101631473523289.html
13-09-2021||Chandigarh||Har Hith retail stores in Haryana villages from October 2||Haryana is set to open modern retail stores ‘Har-Hith’ in villages from October 2. After the scheme was launched on August 2, at least 1,100 people have applied for the franchisee of stores, Rohit Yadav, managing director, Haryana Agro Industries Corporation, said. He added that 80% of the site surveys of eligible applicants have been made and that 300 sites have been allotted. At least 2,000 Har-Hith retail stores will be opened in the first phase and 3,000 in the second phase. He said under this scheme, the Haryana government is providing a platform for startups as well as about a dozen micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), FPOs (farmer producer organisations), government co-operative institutions, self help groups (SHGs) to increase their business. High-quality products of these groups including Khadi, Vita, Hafed will also be made available in Har-Hith stores. He said district-level ‘Har-Hith’ retail franchisee agreement camps are being organised in Gurugram, Hisar and Pipli. Agreements are being made with franchisee partners in these camps that were started from September 9. Yadav said the purpose of these camps is to facilitate the franchisee partners living in remote areas of the state to get the agreement done in their own city. These camps will now continue at the district-level by Haryana-Agro Department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/har-hith-retail-stores-in-villages-from-october-2-101631473343291.html
13-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Ex-mayor Kulwant Singh to contest from Mohali||Former mayor and real estate baron Kulwant Singh plans to contest the Punjab assembly elections scheduled early next year from the Mohali seat. “I have decided to contest the Vidhan Sabha elections from Mohali. Regarding the party, I will speak to the members of my Azad Group and comply with whatever decision they take,” he said on Sunday.Kulwant had formed the Azad Group after parting ways with the Shiromani Akali Dal ahead of the municipal elections in Mohali earlier this year. Though he lost the election, his group won 11 seats out of the total 50.According to sources, Kulwant Singh is hoping to join the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and even had a couple of meetings with its state chief, Bhagwant Mann. If not successful in getting the AAP ticket from Mohali, he could also contest the assembly elections under the banner of Azad Group, they said.Kulwant Singh is the owner of Janta Land Promoters Limited (JLPL), which has an annual turnover of ₹1,200 crore. His political journey started in 1995, when he won the municipal committee election. In 2014, he unsuccessfully contested the Lok Sabha elections from Fatehgarh Sahib, and later became Mohali’s first mayor with the Congress support in 2015. In 2017, he joined the SAD, but was expelled after he decided to contest the recent civic polls independently. Govinder Mittal, AAP in-charge in Mohali, said: “We have not got any official intimation from the high command regarding Kulwant Singh joining the party.” Taking a dig at the former mayor, Punjab health minister and sitting Mohali MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu said: “What is the credibility of a person who has not even decided the party to contest elections? He is not a political person, but a corporate person.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-ex-mayor-kulwant-singh-to-contest-from-mohali-101631473163351.html
13-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Offered lift, woman loses gold bangles at Palsora||Just a day after a woman’s gold bangles were snatched in Sector 43, another woman was targeted near Palsora village in Sector 56, and two of her gold bangles were stolen while she was offered a lift, the police said on Sunday.This is the third such incident in the tricity area this September. As per the police, Kulwant Kaur, 68, of Palsora village had to go to the civil hospital in Mohali on Saturday afternoon. While she was waiting for an auto with her husband, a passing vehicle stopped and a woman got out and offered her a lift.Even though Kaur declined, the woman in the car struck up a conversation with her and said she was going the same way. Finally Kaur agreed to go with them. The car was driven by a male driver and her husband sat in front with him while the two women sat with Kaur in the back.They drove around for 10 minutes and dropped the couple near a hotel in Sector 55. After they drove away, Kaur noticed that two of her gold bangles were missing. She alerted the police immediately.A case under Section 379 (theft) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered against the three unknown accused.Officials privy to the matter said that it was likely the work of the same gang that had stolen gold bangles from women in the last few days.On September 10, one Sobha of Sector 43A was out with her sister for a walk when a car with four women and a man stopped beside them. One of the women got out and pretended to know her even though she denied it. Later, she found that two of her gold bangles had been stolen.On September 1, one Prem Kaur of Behlana was out for a walk near the old airport light-point when a car driven by a man with three women stopped beside her. One of the women reportedly embraced her pretending to know her. Later, Kaur found that one of her gold bangles had been stolen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/woman-loses-gold-bangles-after-accepting-lift-near-palsora-village-101631473044477.html
13-09-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana varsity student selected to pursue PG course at ISRO||Shivanshi Yadav, a student of the college of agricultural engineering and technology, Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University, Hisar, has been selected to pursue post-graduation at the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO), an official spokesperson said. Shivanshi hails from Khushpura village in Rewari district. She will pursue her post-graduation degree in geo-information science and earth observation from Indian Institute of Remote Sensing (IIRS), a unit of ISRO at Dehradun. It is a two-year programme under which she will complete first year study in ISRO and second year study from University of Twente (ITC), Netherlands. The vice-chancellor of the university, Prof BR Kamboj said Shivanshi is one of the 10 students selected for this course from across the country. He said the university is getting in touch with world-class educational institutions for national and international-level exposure for students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hau-student-selected-to-pursue-pg-course-at-isro-101631472984508.html
13-09-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: Diarrhoea outbreak at Peermuchalla village in Zirakpur||As many as 138 cases of diarrhoea were reported from Peermuchalla village in Zirakpur on Sunday. Around 30 patients have been admitted to the civil hospitals in Dhakoli and Panchkula. Meanwhile, the authorities have stopped the supply of water to the village. In the past two months, three people have died due to cholera outbreak in Zirakpur’s Baltana locality and Panchkula’s Abheypur and Budhanpur villages. All these areas are situated in close proximity. Cholera is a bacterial disease causing severe diarrhoea and dehydration, usually spread through contaminated water.Confirming the development, Dr Adarshpal Kaur, civil surgeon, Mohali, said: “A medical camp has been set up at Peermuchalla village and residents have been told to drink only boiled water.” She said teams of the health department will conduct door-to-door survey to examine the patients on Monday.Girish Verma, executive officer, municipal council, Zirakpur, said: “Water supply from tubewells has been stopped. Water tankers have been stationed for residents. Our teams are working on finding the source of water contamination.”Last month, there was a cholera outbreak in Baltana, another Zirakpur locality situated close to Peermuchalla. While around 400 cases had surfaced, a three-year-old girl and 30-year-old man had succumbed to the infection. In July, a nine-year-old boy had died and around 400 people got infected due to a cholera outbreak in Abheypur and Budhanpur villages in the neighbouring Panchkula district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-diarrhoea-outbreak-at-peermuchalla-village-in-zirakpur-101631472983401.html
13-09-2021||Other||Two alleged poachers nabbed near PTR||Lucknow: Two alleged poachers, said to be active in the terai belt of Uttar Pradesh, were arrested in a joint operation of forest and police departments in Pilibhit on Sunday morning, officials said. The accused Dubey Ram and Kamlesh Pal, both residents of Amariya area of Pilibhit, were suspected to be part of a gang active near Pilibhit Tiger Reserve (PTR), officials said. The police team recovered some body parts of animals from their possession which were sent to the forensic laboratory for analysis. The accused were booked under relevant sections of the Wildlife Protection Act. SP of Pilibhit Dinesh Kumar P said, “The activities of poachers increase in the forest reserve area post monsoon. The duo was arrested after local intelligence inputs.” The two arrested people told the police that they smuggled animal parts into nearby Nepal for sale in illegal markets. Based on the information provided by the accused, police are also on the look-out for other members of the poachers’ gang. The arrest is part of the ongoing crackdown against illegal activities in and around the reserve forest area. In April, the police had busted a poaching nexus in Shahjahanpur district and arrested its mastermind, one Love Kumar who was involved in the death of a tiger in PTR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-alleged-poachers-nabbed-near-ptr-101631472925211.html
13-09-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Barmalipur government school gets new building with aid from 25 NRIs||As many as 25 NRIs have helped transform the Government Middle School in Barmalipur by donating over ₹50 lakh for the construction of its new building.The school’s previous building was in a deplorable state. During monsoons, classrooms used to get flooded, which forced students to attend their classes in a nearby gurdwara.Even though the new building is still under construction, classes have resumed at the school, which has 83 students. The facilities now include projectors, LED screens, computer labs and CCTV cameras.“During monsoons, the ration stored for mid-day meals used to get wet. We had no option but to teach students at the gurdwara located nearby with the help of the local panchayat,” said Charanjit Kaur, a teacher at the school.Disturbed by the sorry state of the children studying there, sarpanch Kuldeep Singh had requested the NRIs to fund the new building.“We had a large panchayat land, which we donated for the construction of the new school building. We approached the NRIs in our village for funds and they agreed to help,” said Singh.Sarbjeet Singh, 59, one of the NRIs who runs a transport business in New Jersey, USA, said, “My son was just five-years-old when we shifted abroad 26 years back, and now, he is a doctor. Whenever I visit my native village, I feel bad to see that there has been no development. Moreover, it is disheartening to see my son’s friends struggling to fulfil the basic needs of their families. Therefore, when Kuldeep sought help, I immediately agreed as it was the only way I could do something for my people.” Devinder Singh, 64, a transporter from the USA, has decided to finance all the bricks that are being used for the construction. “I wish that the school is upgraded to a high school and declared a smart school as all the modern facilities are now available here,” he said.NRIs to be felicitatedMeanwhile, Davinder Singh Chhina, principal of the school, claimed that the education department will soon felicitate these NRIs for their noble work. “We also got financial help from the local villagers. Even the education department allocated funds for the same. A grant of ₹2.5 lakh was also received from the MP fund. DEO Lakhvir Singh Samra has already asked us to arrange a felicitation function to honour them all,” said Chhina.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-barmalipur-government-school-gets-new-building-with-aid-from-25-nris-101631472923323.html
13-09-2021||Mumbai||Headless body of man found in bag in Navi Mumbai||A dismembered, headless body of an unidentified man was found in a blue plastic bag in a nullah in Vashi on Sunday afternoon. The body was discovered after locals around APMC Market began experiencing a stench in the area since morning, following which they alerted the police. APMC police found a blue plastic bag in the nullah alongside the road from Puneet Corner to Mathadi Chowk. The bag contained two hands and body below the waist. The head and torso were not in the bag. The police have sent the body parts for autopsy to Vashi General Hospital. The police are now in search of the other body parts, for which a dog squad was called. Prima facie, the body is suspected to be of a man in early 30s. “We are checking the CCTV footage of the nearby areas and also looking out for the remaining body parts. The investigations is on,” an officer from APMC police station said. A case of murder has been registered against unidentified person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/headless-body-of-man-found-in-bag-in-navi-mumbai-101631472803313.html
13-09-2021||Mumbai||Rape survivor can terminate 29-week pregnancy: Bombay high court||The Bombay high court (HC) recently permitted a minor rape survivor to terminate a 29-week pregnancy even though there were no anomalies in the foetus. The decision came after the medical experts’ panel appointed by HC observed in its post-examination report that the minor was “anguished” by the pregnancy and the continuation of the same could impact her mental health.The division bench of justice Ujjal Bhuyan and justice Madhav Jamdar, while hearing the petition filed by the minor’s mother, was informed by advocate Ashley Cusher that the petitioner’s daughter has become pregnant after she was raped earlier this year. A first information report (FIR) in the case was registered at Tulinj police station, Nallasopara, in Palghar district. Cusher submitted that the minor was not willing to continue with the pregnancy as it would not only stigmatise her but would also have an impact on her mental health in the future. Hence, the termination of pregnancy be allowed. In an earlier hearing on September 7, HC had directed the dean of Sir JJ Hospital to constitute a medical board of experts and examine the minor and submit its recommendations. The report was submitted on September 9.The report observed that though no abnormalities were detected in the foetus, the minor was anguished by the pregnancy and continuation of the pregnancy could lead to pregnancy-related complications, including impacting the mental health of the survivor. In light of this observation, the board recommended medical termination of the pregnancy.After the bench perused the report on September 10, it permitted the petitioner’s daughter to undergo the termination of pregnancy at JJ hospital. HC also directed the authorities to preserve the blood and DNA samples of the foetus after terminating pregnancy and hand over the samples to the investigating agency to enable them to use it to bolster its case against the accused. The court then sought a report on the outcome of the termination and posted hearing of the petition to September 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/rape-survivor-can-terminate-29-week-pregnancy-bombay-high-court-101631472743757.html
13-09-2021||Chandigarh||Leasehold properties the bane of Chandigarh administration||Hundreds of leasehold properties that can fetch the Chandigarh administration revenue in crores are lying vacant for the want of buyers.Nearly 70% commercial and industrial plots in the city are leasehold, allowing occupation for a limited period, mostly 99 years. Ownership rights in the case of such properties are with government agencies, such as the estate office, municipal corporation (MC) and Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB), while the freehold status gives the buyer complete rights over the property.Out of 189 leasehold properties put on auction this year, the CHB could get buyers for only eight. Now, it has decided to reduce their reserve price by 10-50% in yet another attempt to attract buyers.However, the CHB is not the only UT agency stuck with leasehold properties. The MC has failed to monetise more than 200 leasehold properties. Facing an acute fund crunch for long, the MC could generate more than ₹250-crore revenue with their sale.Although the number of vacant leasehold properties was not readily available with the UT estate office, a senior official said: “Despite several attempts, the department has not been able to find buyers for hundreds of leasehold commercial and residential properties.” Futile auctionsThe MC has prepared a list of over 200 commercial properties under its purview that are lying vacant. Several attempts to auction these properties went in vain.For instance, it tried to sell off 105 booths at Mauli Jagran six times, but failed. As many as 51 commercial sites in Sector 17 are also lying vacant despite two auctions. A 24-acre site for a specialty hospital in Manimajra, with a reserve price of ₹81 crore, was offered twice for sale, but found no takers.The UT estate office had conducted its last auction in November 2019 when all 10 freehold properties on offer were sold while there were no takers for 15 leasehold plots. “The department had generated a revenue close to ₹44 crore from the auction of freehold properties, whose total reserve price was around ₹27 crore,” said the estate office official.The CHB, in the past four months, has conducted four e-auctions for its 121 freehold residential properties and has been able to sell 87, earning ₹70.59 crore. In the same period, it has been able to sell only two residential and nine commercial leasehold properties, earning ₹1.74 crore and ₹4.73 crore, respectively.Why the mess“In leasehold properties, the allottee is required to pay yearly ground rent at 2.5% of the consideration amount for 33 years, followed by 3.75% for the next 33 years and 5% for the subsequent 33 years. Since this is a substantial amount and ownership rights are inferior as compared to freehold, people prefer to go for the latter,” said a senior UT official. “In the new business environment, a leasehold property carries inferior title, thereby causing impediments in joint ventures and raising capital. In Chandigarh, for commercial and industrial plots, one can’t even get a leasehold property converted to freehold. For residential properties, conversion charges are too high,” said Pankaj Khanna, president, Industries Association of Chandigarh.The conversion charges for residential leasehold properties vary from 12% to 15% of the consideration amount.“The Chandigarh administration has written to the Union government, seeking approval for allowing conversion of leasehold commercial properties to freehold. We have also recently sent a reminder to them, but have got no response so far,” said UT adviser Dharam Pal.Pal said that one option could be reduction in reserve prices to attract buyers. “The CHB has recently done so; other agencies can also explore it,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/leasehold-properties-the-bane-of-chandigarh-administration-101631472683384.html
13-09-2021||Mumbai||BMC plans additional bypass road to decongest Dahisar check naka||In a bid to decongest the area around Dahisar check naka — one of the five entry and exit points of the city— the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) plans to construct an additional bypass road that will ensure smooth traffic movement in the area.In the past few days, several citizens had taken to social media slamming state authorities over the traffic woes. Following this, city guardian minister Aaditya Thackeray held a joint meeting with officials from traffic police, BMC, Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) and Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC).Each day, thousands of vehicles pass through Dahisar check naka, as along with the south Mumbai-bound traffic, it also handles cargo traffic going to Gujarat and towards Delhi to north of India.According to BMC officials, it has decided to shift the pandal it has set up for the Dahisar jumbo Covid-19 centre in order to free the service road. Additionally, it is also planning to construct a bypass road parallel to the service road on the south-bound lane that will help reduce traffic at Dahisar toll naka.Mridula Andhe, assistant municipal commissioner of BMC’s R-North ward, under whose jurisdiction the area lies, said, “There were a few extension cabins from the Covid-19 jumbo care centre on the service road. They will be removed, and the service road will be handed over [for vehicular traffic]. This will ensure smooth movement of traffic.”Andhe added, “When it comes to long-term planning, we are exploring to construct a bypass road parallel to the current road on the south-bound lane. There are a few structures right now over which litigations have been filed. Once the matter is resolved, we will construct additional roads there, which will further decongest traffic in the area.”MSRDC officials said that currently a substantial amount of traffic is also due to the barricades of metro construction work. An MSRDC official said, “In the meeting, it was discussed that MMRDA will remove barricading from the stretches where work is completed. This will ensure smooth traffic movement. In addition to it, we have directed the toll contractor to ensure a smooth surface of the road.”The MSRDC official added, “Despite being mandatory, several vehicle owners do not have fast-tag or do not recharge it, resulting in traffic jams. We expect citizens to make use of digital mode for payment of toll.”According to Borivli resident Viraj Mamania motorists do not follow lane discipline at the toll naka. “Additionally, the road is full of potholes, which results in traffic even during non-peak hours. Also, the design at the toll naka is such that even adding one more lane will result in traffic. The only solution to this is shifting the toll naka further towards Mira Road.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-plans-additional-bypass-road-to-decongest-dahisar-check-naka-101631472624440.html
13-09-2021||Chandigarh||Covid: Elderly woman dies in Chandigarh||An 80-year-old woman from Sector 20 died of Covid-19 in Chandigarh on Sunday. Apart from this, five new cases were reported from Manimajra and Sector 30.The tricity’s total stood at seven, as Mohali district reported two cases while no new case surfaced in Panchkula.The active caseload stands at 88, with 43 patients in Mohali, 30 in Chandigarh and 15 in Panchkula. While recovery rate is above 98% across all three areas, daily positivity rate was recorded below 0.23%. Chandigarh has reported 65,154 cases, of which 64,307 have been cured and 817 people have died. In Panchkula, 30,701 have tested positive, 30,309 have recovered and 377 have died. In Mohali, 68,665 cases have surfaced, 67,562 have been discharged and 1,060 have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covidelderly-woman-dies-in-chandigarh-101631472623192.html
13-09-2021||Other||Was infuriated at Rajiv’s appointment as PM: Aiyar||Amritsar Former Union minister Mani Shankar Aiyar on Sunday said that he was infuriated when Rajiv Gandhi became the Prime Minister, the same day his mother Indira Gandhi had been assassinated. “What followed was diabolical. There was a massacre of a community going on in India (especially Delhi) and I had decided to not vote for Congress in the election to follow,” he added, speaking about his relationship with Rajiv at an event that Amritsar-based NGO, Phulkari, had organised on Sunday. Former India Today editor and author Kaveree Bamzai was the moderator. Speaking passionately about his childhood, Aiyar said that contrary to popular belief, he had a modest and strict upbringing. “My father passed away when I was very young, so our mother had to raise us on her own. We were almost on the street after my father’s passing. At times, I didn’t have anything else to wear except my school uniform,” he added. When asked about the role of women in the former diplomat’s life by Bamzai, Aiyar spoke about his mother and how, despite the hardships she managed to put her everything into her children’s education. He said, “I had a very privileged childhood without being rich: if we didn’t have new clothes that was never a big deal, but my mother made sure I studied at one of the best schools in India.”Phulkari president Deepa Swani said she was proud of the work her team had done online and very happy to hold their first event, post the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/was-infuriated-at-rajiv-s-appointment-as-pm-aiyar-101631472443808.html
13-09-2021||Delhi||40% patients hospitalised for Covid had low oxygen levels: AIIMS Jhajjar study||Nearly 40% of Covid-19 patients who were hospitalised had oxygen saturations below 94% at the time of admission, according to a pre-print study of 2,080 patients at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS)-Jhajjar. Of those with hypoxia at admission, 21.45% didn’t have breathlessness, while 5.2% didn’t show any symptoms at all, the study said. The researchers said that hypoxia — a condition where the tissues and organs do not get enough oxygen — was one of the most important predictors of death in Covid-19 patients. The outcome was significantly worse in those with silent or happy hypoxia — patients who do not show symptoms like breathlessness and fatigue despite having low oxygen saturation. The case fatality ratio (CFR) — the proportion of deaths — was as high as 45.4% among those with silent hypoxia and 40.03% among those who had shortness of breath along with hypoxia as per pulse oximeter. “What the study shows is that hypoxia is not necessarily clinically evident in Covid-19 patients. Those with silent hypoxia continue working normally and by the time they reach hospital, it’s too late,” said Dr Sushma Bhatnagar, corresponding author of the paper and head of the department of onco-anaesthesia and palliative care at AIIMS. She said, “You know people say that our patient walked into the hospital absolutely fine but they did not return; this is the reason. By the time they reach us, the oxygen saturation is already 70 or 80%.” The normal oxygen saturation is between 95 and 100%, anything less than 94% is a cause for concern. The study, which is being published in journal Chest, also shows that silent hypoxia is more common in women. Of those who reported silent hypoxia, 41% were men and 59% women, which is a statistically significant difference. “We do not yet know why silent hypoxia was higher in women but it could be because women tend to ignore their health issues and hardly report a problem unless it gets too much,” said Dr Bhatnagar. The study also shows that majority of those with silent hypoxia started experiencing it in the first week after getting infected when the virus multiplies. But hypoxia with symptoms such as shortness of breath was mostly reported during the second week of infection when the body’s overactive immune system starts damaging the organs. The study also said that 65% of those with silent hypoxia came to the hospital in the first week of the infection, and 45.2% of those who had hypoxia with symptoms reached the hospital in the second week of infection. “Almost half of the patients with dyspnea (shortness of breath) as a symptom along with hypoxia were brought to the hospital on oxygen. However, only 35% (60) of patients without dyspnea had their hypoxia diagnosed before reaching the hospital,” the study states. With silent hypoxia significantly increasing the risk of death in Covid-19 patients, the researchers suggest that patients keep monitoring their oxygen saturation even when they are in home isolation. “Whenever people start experiencing Covid-19-like symptoms, people should start monitoring their oxygen saturation,” said Dr Bhatnagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/40-patients-hospitalised-for-covid-19-had-low-oxygen-levels-shows-study-by-aiims-jhajjar-101631472383365.html
13-09-2021||Other||Priyanka on Mission Rae Bareli, visits Amethi too||Lucknow: Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who reached Rae Bareli on Sunday to meet party leaders and workers and get feedback about the 2022 poll preparations, remained focused on strengthening of the party organisation both in Rae Bareli and Amethi, that were once considered the party’s bastions in Uttar Pradesh. Rae Bareli is the Lok Sabha seat of her mother and Congress president Sonia Gandhi. Her brother Rahul Gandhi, who lost Amethi Lok Sabha seat to union minister Smriti Irani in 2019, is now an MP from Wayanad Lok Sabha seat of Kerala. Priyanka, who worked as in charge of both the Lok Sabha constituencies till her entry into active politics in 2019, has the two constituencies on top of her agenda, as after winning Amethi the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is now making deep inroads in Rae Bareli too. Her visit to the two constituencies, however, comes after a long gap. After a day-long interaction with party workers in Rae Bareli, she left for Amethi late in the evening. The Congress workers informed her about the activities they carried out in the past and proposed to do in future. Priyanka also visited the family that lost three children in a wall collapse in Dodarpur village in Tiloi area of Amethi and condoled the deaths. “Priyanka Gandhi Vadra met party workers after her arrival in Rae Bareli on Sunday. She came to Rae Bareli after a long gap. Her last visit was in early 2020. Our party leaders have requested her to ensure that candidates are declared early on all the five assembly seats of Rae Bareli. She has assured to do so by later this month or early October. She has asked party workers for active participation in the party’s programmes, including the forthcoming Congress Pratigya Yatra,” said a senior Congress leader. “Priyanka Gandhi Vadra met office- bearers of district and city units and the frontal organisations. She also met the party’s former MLAs and candidates in 2017 assembly elections, as two of the party’s MLAs from Rae Bareli are no more with the Congress,” said another party leader. The Congress had won two of five assembly seats of Rae Bareli in 2017 assembly elections. Congress candidate Aditi Singh had won from Rae Bareli assembly seat while Rakesh Singh won Harchandpur assembly seat of Rae Bareli. Both Aditi Singh and Rakesh Singh have turned rebels and are considered close to the BJP. The Congress failed to win any assembly seat in Amethi in the 2017 assembly elections. “Rae Bareli and Amethi have been priorities areas for the Congress as these constituencies have been the party’s bastions in the past. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra should focus more on these constituencies instead of wasting time in areas where the Congress is weak or has no organisational structure,” said professor SK Dwivedi, former head of the department, political science, Lucknow University. Earlier, after winding up her Lucknow visit, Priyanka left for Rae Bareli on Sunday morning and began by visiting the Hanuman temple at ‘Churwa’ on Lucknow-Rae Bareli road. She was accorded a grand welcome at Churwa and later at various points along her route.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/priyanka-on-mission-rae-bareli-visits-amethi-too-101631472327946.html
13-09-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow Development Authority to e-auction properties to ensure transparency||The Lucknow Development Authority (LDA) will adopt e-auction route for its commercial properties to ensure transparency. Stating this LDA vice-chairman Akshay Tripathi said an e-auction will take place on September 26 and interested can register on the authority’s portal www.eauctionlda.in from September 14 to 20. Only registered people will be allowed to take part in the e-auction. According to LDA official in-charge of e-auction Amit Rathore, shops, commercial plots, health centre in Gomti Nagar scheme, shops near Saraswati Apartment in Sector 4, Gomti Nagar, and shops in CG City will be up for auction. A nursing home in Jankipuram, shopping mall in Basant Kunj on Hardoi road will also be up for auction. Apart from this, the development authority has also decided to organise a separate e-auction for its shops lying vacant in various commercial establishments across the city. To take part in the auction process for shops, interested can register at the LDA’s portal from September 16 to 25. The e-auction of these properties will take place on September 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-development-authority-to-e-auction-properties-to-ensure-transparency-101631472326792.html
13-09-2021||Chandigarh||CHB initiates ₹28-lakh repair work of commercial properties||Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) will be spending ₹28.74 lakh on repairing and face-lifting its commercial properties, which are in a dilapidated state due to non-allotment for the last 30 to 40 years.A survey was recently conducted by a CHB chief engineer, which revealed that the condition of these properties was deteriorating due to lack of allotment and timely repair.A board official said that they had allotted the repair work to Panchkula-based Shiksha Enterprises, which will have to complete the work within 45 days. Work is expected to start from September 14.Apart from this, the board is also getting residential properties repaired for ₹15 lakh. Repair work of booths and shops will be done at the Modern Housing Complex in Manimajra, Sectors 38 (West), 49, 51, 61 and other sectors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chb-initiates-28-lakh-repair-work-of-commercial-properties-101631472146226.html
13-09-2021||Other||Coal crisis hits again, no power plant in Punjab has required stock||Patiala The coal crisis for power plants in Punjab has assumed alarming proportions for the second time in recent months with no power plant having sufficient stock of the raw material. In the private sector, the coal stock at Rajpura Thermal plant will last only 4 days and 20 hours; the Talwandi Sabo plant has coal only for 4 days and 15 hours, with the GVK Goindwal having less than two days of coal in stock. In government-run plants of Ropar and Lehra Mohabbat, coal will last only for 7 days and 15 hours, and 5 days 12 hours, respectively, Standard guidelines of the Central Electricity Authority stipulate that all power plants located at a distance of over 1,000km from a coal mine must maintain a minimum stock of 30 days of coal at all times. All Punjab plants fall in this category. The power demand in the state is less than 10,000 MW. In the private sector two units each are running at Rajpura, Talwandi Sabo and Goindwal Sahib. In the state sector, only one unit at Ropar, which was running till Friday, has been shut to conserve coal, as demand has lowered. At the national-level, 91 thermal plants, of 135 such plants in all, with a capacity of 1.11 lakh MW are facing shortage of coal. Forty-two thermal plants under the supercritical category have less than five days of coal stock. The average coal stock in northern India is only for five days. The Union power ministry has asked Coal India Limited to replenish coal stocks at thermal plants under the critical or supercritical category on priority. Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) chairman and managing director A Venu Prasad said he was monitoring the coal situation, and was in touch with coal ministry officials to get more stock. “Power demand has dipped due to rain and thus we have shut our plants. The loading of coal has started. I hope that the situation will improve over the next few days. There is no need to worry,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/coal-crisis-hits-again-no-power-plant-in-punjab-has-required-stock-101631471964385.html
13-09-2021||Delhi||Nephew arrested for murdering wife of Pakistani spy who lived in old Delhi||Over a week after Pakistani national Mumtaz Parveen, 51, was found dead inside her house in Delhi’s Chandni Mahal area, the police have arrested her nephew from Uttar Pradesh’s Meerut for murdering her, senior police officers privy to the investigation said on Sunday.The police found Parveen’s decomposed body from her house on September 4, and were investigating the case as that of a murder.It was only after her mysterious death that neighbour got to know that Parveen was a Pakistani national who was once arrested for spying, circulating counterfeit currency, and helping operatives of Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence. She was also convicted in related charges in 2007, but was released from the jail a year later on health grounds.Deputy commissioner of police (central) Jasmeet Singh said the accused has been identified as Farman (22). “Keeping in the view the sensitive nature of the case, the special staff of central district was tasked to crack the case. The post-mortem examination showed three deep, sharp cuts behind her head. During further investigation, the CCTV footage was obtained from the locality, and it was noticed that on August 30, a person was moving around suspiciously in the street where she [Parveen] lived. When more CCTV footage was scanned, it was found that at about 8pm the person de-boarded an auto rikshaw and entered the street. It was seen that after half an hour he was again walking back and forth in the street. However, his face was covered,” said Singh.An officer said that the relatives and neighbours along with other suspects were interrogated thoroughly and their call records were obtained but nothing suspicious was found. Police said, on 12 September, a secret information came in from one of their informers.“Subsequently, raids were conducted in Meerut and the culprit was nabbed. Farman has confessed his involvement in the case and said that his ‘khala’ (maternal aunt) Parveen tried to frame him and his family in a double murder case registered at Bara Hindu Rao police station two months ago. They also have property dispute with Parveen. Hence, he killed her,” the officer said.HT reported on September 8 that a copy of Parveen’s 2000 interrogation report after her arrest by Delhi Police’s Special Cell said she was born in Meerut and studied up to Class 5. At 15, she married a man named Sultan from Meerut and had three children with him. But by 1989, they had separated.The report said Parveen first visited Pakistan with her mother around 1990 to meet her maternal aunt in Karachi. There she married a man named Abdul Wahab Khan, a senior leader of the Muhajir Qaumi Movement-Haqiqi. In 1993, she got Pakistani citizenship. But that marriage also lasted only six years because she was unable to have a child.In 1996, while visiting India, Parveen met Kamran Gawhar, an ISI spy deported twice from India, onboard the Samjhauta Express. The police report says Gawhar, during this trip, convinced her to stay with him.On January 24, 2000, when she was arrested with Gawhar, police had also found fake currency of the face value of ₹8,000 on her. Police records show that Gawhar had entered India in 1994 and was deported in April 1999. He re-entered India under a false name in July 1999 and was deported in late 2000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/nephew-arrested-for-murdering-wife-of-pakistani-spy-who-lived-in-old-delhi-101631471963254.html
13-09-2021||Chandigarh||Cricket: HPCA emerge champions of JP Atray Memorial Tournament||Riding on brilliant performances by Prashant Chopra (72 off 48 balls) and Naveen Kanwar (3 for 15), Himachal Pradesh Cricket Association (HPCA) recorded a fine 75-run win over Ran Star Cricket Club in the finals of 26th JP Atray memorial cricket tournament for Trident Cup at the IS Bindra PCA Stadium in Mohali on Sunday. Due to rain, the match turned out to be a 20-over per side affair, instead of 50-overs. The PCA groundsmen did a fine job to make the match happen. On winning the toss, Ran Star captain Puneet Bisht asked HPCA to bat. Openers Shubham Negi and Prashant Chopra batted superbly to stitch an important 84-run opening-wicket stand. Shubham got out for 35 runs off 36 balls. Captain Prashant showed his batting prowess and swatted 72 runs off 48 balls. His knock included five fours and four sixes. Nitin Sharma scored an unbeaten 33 runs to propel HPCA. For Ran Star team, Rahul Choudhary (2 for 24) was the main wicket-taker. In reply, Ran Star team was bowled out for 100 runs in 15.2 overs. Naveen Kanwar (3 for 15) and Ayush Jamwal (3 for 28) bowled brilliantly. The winning team won a cash prize of ₹2 lakh while the runners-up took ₹1 lakh.Punjab cabinet minister OP Soni was chief guest during the finals and announced a grant of ₹5 lakh for the conduct of the tournament. Awards:Man of the series: Prashant Chopra (HPCA)Man of the match: Naveen Kanwar (HPCA)Best bowler: Akash Vashisht (HPCA)Best batsman: Nehal Wadhera (PCC) Brief scores:HPCA: 175/3 in 20 overs (Prashant Chopra 72, Shubham Negi 35, Nitin Sharma 33*, Rahul Choudhary 2/ 24) beat Ran Star Cricket Club: 100 all out in 15.2 overs (Sumeet Verma 36, Pardeep Malik 26, Naveen Kanwar 3/15, Ayush Jamwal 3 for 28) by 75 runs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jp-atray-cricket-meet-hpca-win-finals-by-75-runs-101631471843573.html
13-09-2021||Delhi||Prisoner assaulted by two inmates in Tihar jail||New Delhi: An undertrial prisoner at Tihar jail was stabbed multiple times by two of his fellow inmates in Jail number 2, police said.Deputy commissioner of police Urvija Goel said the matter was reported from Deen Dayal Updhyay hospital, where the injured prisoner was taken for treatment by the jail staff, around 10pm on Saturday. The DCP said the injured prisoner was identified as Sumit Dutt.“A sub-inspector who reached the hospital, was told by the doctors that the inmate suffered several stab injuries,” said Goel. The police also recorded Dutt’s statement.Dutt told the police that he was assaulted with sharp weapons by his fellow inmates Brijesh alias Kalu and another man on Saturday evening. “Dutt received injuries on his thigh, abdomen and ribs. He was referred from DDU hospital to Safdarjung hospital,” the police officer said.Police said Brijesh also suffered an injury, and added that he was also taken to Safdarjung hospital.“A case has been registered at the Hari Nagar police station,” the officer said.HT tried connecting the jail officials but they could not be contacted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/prisoner-assaulted-by-two-inmates-in-tihar-jail-101631471783570.html
13-09-2021||Other||Police rescue trafficked girls from Haryana, Rajasthan; 4 women arrested in case||Four women were arrested for trafficking two girls, including a minor, who were rescued from Rajasthan and Haryana, officials said.Both the girls were reported missing since February and were successfully rescued by a South West Garo Hills team from Rajasthan and Haryana. The girls were handed over to their families, district police chief Siddharth Ambedkar said on Sunday.Ambedkar said during investigation, they got information regarding one girl being taken to Mahendraganj district of Haryana to be sold for marriage and another minor girl being taken to Jhunjhunu district of Rajasthan for the same purpose.Accordingly, South West Garo Hills police, with the assistance of West Garo Hills police, arrested two women from Tura and another from Tikrikilla. These women were involved in the commission of the crime.During their interrogation, all three arrested women admitted to having taken the girls from Tura to Haryana with the help of some others.Ambedkar said another woman, a native of Tura but settled in the state of Haryana, has also been arrested for playing a key role in selling the girls and marrying them.Investigation in the case is in progress and more arrests are likely.Ambedkar described human trafficking as a matter of deep concern and said, “We appeal to the general public to be alert and report any missing person case, in the case of missing children and girls, promptly to the nearest police station”.“Early and prompt reporting will enable us to act quickly for rescuing the victim and bringing the traffickers to justice. Help us help you,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/police-rescue-trafficked-girls-from-haryana-rajasthan-4-women-arrested-in-case-101631471726698.html
13-09-2021||Other||Demand to convert British era Agra city station into heritage structure||Agra: Located in the heart of the city, the Agra city railway station lies barren and unused for most part of the day, with no stoppage of passenger trains. Built in 1903 during the British regime, the station which sports a heritage look stands out in the midst of the congested old city, drawing the attention of passersby. Now the National Chamber of Industries and Commerce (NCIC) has demanded that the station be developed as a heritage structure and a museum be set up to depict the glorious past of the Indian Railways. Built to serve business interests, the Agra city station was the loop line of Gadha Pada station and both were located close to Belanganj – the commercial hub of old Agra. Business thrived through these stations and Agra city railway station was once the pride of the Taj city, although stoppage of trains went down consistently at this station. “I visited the station recently with former chairman of NCIC Sitaram Agarwal and chairman of Railway cell SN Agarwal. The railway staff told us that there was no stoppage for any passenger train although goods trains coming from Tundla junction via Yamuna Bridge station passed through the station,” informed Manish Agarwal, chairman of National Chamber of Industries and Commerce (NCIC). “We have sent a proposal to the railway authorities, Member of Parliament from Agra and others, suggesting that developing Agra city station as a heritage railway station with a museum would be an added tourism attraction in the city of Taj. The station should be kept operational but its conservation could be undertaken on a heritage pattern,” he said. “Cast iron garden Victorian benches should be placed at the railway station and waiting room. It is said that lanterns were used here for lighting in the absence of electricity and this could be revived on one of the platforms, with bulbs placed in these lanterns for better light. The station could have expressive paintings related to the history of the Railways,” he said. “Very often special trains reach Agra with exhibitions and need to be stationed on a platform for long. Agra city station, if developed as a heritage station, could serve the purpose,” he said. “The four acres of land at the railway station could be used for enhancing greenery in the area. We have come to know that repair and maintenance work is being undertaken by the Railways with ₹76 lakh being sanctioned for routine work but proposal for heritage station is yet to be accepted,” said Agarwal. Rajeev Saxena, a veteran journalist well aware of Agra and its past, said that Agra city station had everything to make a heritage railway station and would be an attraction for people. “The railway station, built in 1903 by the British, had all amenities required. The station served the city’s business requirements, as it was located in the heart of old Agra. That was the time when over bridges were not laid for reaching one platform from another and the Agra city railway station has an underpass for this purpose. This underpass could be lit up and developed,” said Saxena. “While developing it as heritage station, a toy train could be added to attract families. The old system that worked for the railway could be illustrated in a museum,” said the veteran journalist. Vice president of Tourism Guild of Agra Rajiv Saxena agreed that the idea to develop Agra city station as a heritage structure would be brilliant. “It could serve as a window to this historical city which was once the capital of the Mughal empire,” he said. Public relations officer, North Central Railways, SK Srivastava admitted that there was no stoppage of passenger trains although they passed through Agra city station. “A letter with suggestion to de4velop Agra city station as heritage was received and has been forwarded to the department concerned of the Railways,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/demand-to-convert-british-era-agra-city-station-into-heritage-structure-101631471544028.html
13-09-2021||Chandigarh||Golf: Jatiwal’s team wins Pro-Am event at PGTI Players C’ship||Rajiv Kumar Jatiwal from Panchkula led his team to victory at the Pro-Am event of the TATA Steel PGTI Players Championship 2021 presented by the Haryana government and Panchkula Golf Club on Sunday.Jatiwal’s winning team comprised amateurs Sanjiv Rathee, Jitender Pal Sihag and Anurag Puri and posted a score of 58.6.Viraj Madappa and his team of amateurs, SN Roy, Anil Sharma and RC Mishra were the runners-up with a score of 58.8.The contest for the Incredible India closest to the pin on hole no. 4 was won by MP Singh, who landed it within five feet and 10 inches of the pin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pgti-players-golf-c-ship-jatiwal-and-team-wins-pro-am-event-101631471487213.html
13-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi: 3 boys drown in Yamuna during Ganesh Chaturthi idol immersion||Three boys allegedly drowned in the Yamuna river during idol immersion on Ganpati Visarjan in north Delhi’s Wazirabad area on Saturday evening, police said on Sunday.The deceased have been identified as Vijay (16), Vivek (15) and Arjun (12), all residents of Ankur Enclave in Karawal Nagar, said police.A senior police officer said divers rescued another teenager, Vijay Rathore (17), who was rushed to a hospital.According to police, the boys came to the river from Sonia Vihar to see the idol immersion. The river was in full spate, due to which the boys allegedly drowned. The families of the boys were informed about the incident and they immediately reached the spot, said police. “Divers tried to fish the bodies from the river. However, it was dark and the operation had to be stalled. The rescue operation continued on Sunday but the three bodies are yet to be found,” said the senior police officer. Officials from the fire department said the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), fire personnel and local divers are carrying out the rescue operation. In another incident, a 29-year-old man died after he fell into a drain in a waterlogged area in north Delhi’s Narela on Saturday.The deceased has been was identified as Salesh Mehto, a native of Chapra in Bihar who worked as a labourer at Delhi State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation Ltd. His body was pulled out and taken to a hospital where he was declared brought dead, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-3-boys-drown-in-yamuna-during-ganesh-chaturthi-idol-immersion-101631471483350.html
13-09-2021||Delhi||Heritage Chandni Chowk opens in new avatar||Inaugurating the revamped section of the Chandni Chowk market on Sunday, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said his government plans to develop the area as a hub for night tourism.As part of the first phase of the redevelopment project, the 1.4-kilometre stretch between Red Fort and Fatehpuri Masjid has been converted into a pedestrian-only zone between 9am and 9pm, besides providing several facilities for shoppers that throng to this heritage market such as benches, public toilets, street lights and specially designed cycle rickshaws for moving around the area.“We have noticed that pedestrians come here at night for a stroll. We plan on further extending the services of street food stalls to develop the area into a night tourism spot. People will be able to enjoy themselves here even after the markets shut till around 12am,” said Kejriwal.Appreciating the makeover, the chief minister said the area has undergone a massive overhaul that stood out in sharp contrast to its previous congestes avatar. The new-look Chandni Chowk was attracting tourists from across the city, he said.“Earlier, Chandni Chowk’s image was that of broken roads, traffic jams and electric wires hanging all around. Overall, Chandni Chowk had the image of a dirty, congested market. In the last three years, the Delhi government has carried out the redevelopment and beautification project in Chandni Chowk, and inaugurated it today. Not just the Chandni Chowk residents but people from all around Delhi are coming to see how Chandni Chowk has transformed beautifully,” said Kejriwal.Conceived by the Congress government in 2006, the ₹99-crore project was launched after a prolonged delay in December 2018 following the directions by the Delhi high court, which was also monitoring the project. The Shahjahanabad Redevelopment Corporation (SRDC) is the nodal agency for the redevelopment project.In December 2018, Delhi’s deputy CM Manish Sisodia laid the foundation stone for the redevelopment project and the transfer of facilities was completed. The Public Works Department (PWD) started work on the main project in March 2019. While the initial deadline was November 2020, it was later revised to March 2021 due to delay on account of the Covid-19 pandemic and legal hurdles in removing encroachments, including some religious structures. The inauguration of the project was scheduled for April 17 this year, but the second wave of Covi-19 halted the plans.In the first phase of the project, utilities such as electric cables and other networks were laid underground and dedicated lanes for non-motorised transport and walkways were constructed. Facilities such as toilets, ATMs, benches for visitors, bollards for seating and other utilities have been provided in the redeveloped space. Over a hundred refurbished cycle rickshaws have been pressed into service on the stretch.In the second phase, the façade restoration will be taken up by SRDC and PWD to provide a uniform facade to the market along the redeveloped stretch.Urban development minister Satyendar Jain, who was also present at the inauguration ceremony, said while major problems pertaining to roads and overhanging wires have been addressed, the area will witness façade improvement in the next stage. “We will further facelift the entire area and give it a splendid look. We will soon operate electrical vehicles that match with the look of the area for the convenience of the people,” said Jain.Sanjay Bhargava, president, Chandni Chowk Sarv Vyapar Mandal, said the groundwork on the project was initiated nearly 20 years ago. “Even before the idea of redeveloping Chandni Chowk was formally floated, we were meeting stakeholders to put forth our ideas for the market square. It has taken a lot of time and money since then, and we hope that the makeover will be a boon for business,” said Bhargava.He said a lot of money has been pumped into the project and sought a greater commitment from stakeholders for further development. “A lot of willpower and political commitment is needed if one wants to develop the area as a hub for night-time tourism,” said Bhargava.Anil Pershad, 77, one of the owners of Chandni Chowk’s iconic Chunnamal Haveli, said while the area’s beautification was welcome, the concerns of residents have not been taken into account. .“The market looks nice but it should be developed in a manner such that old residents and people who moved out are encouraged to return. At the same time, the inconvenience of residents should also be addressed. There is no arrangement for parking due to which residents face trouble while going in and out,” said Pershad.At the inauguration, some local residents and BJP members staged a protest against the implementation of restrictions on the loading and unloading of goods in the market. Ajay Bhardwaj, general secretary, Chandni Chowk district, said the ban on entry of motorised vehicles led to inconvenience for residents and traders in Dariba Kalan and other areas. “Dariba has been cordoned off with barricades on both ends due to which residents are facing a lot of trouble,” said Bhardwaj.Garima Gupta, managing director, SRDC, who has been involved with the project since June 2017, said the project demonstrated that pedestrianisation was the way forward.“The project is the epitome of the concept of creating sustainable urban spaces along with heritage conservation,” said Gupta. She said that while there were challenges, the team successfully faced them. “There is a great sense of satisfaction. The entire period of execution of the project saw massive involvement with different stakeholders. We worked with residents, commuters and business owners and took everyone along. We coordinated with different government agencies. There were obstacles too, such as the NGT ban, then the pandemic due to which workers left for their home towns. All such issues came up but we were able to successfully complete the work,” said Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-heritage-chandni-chowk-market-gets-new-lease-of-life-kejriwal-inaugurates-revamped-stretch-101631471246151.html
13-09-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: Two kids among three hurt as JCB overturns||Three people including two boys, aged 8 and 12, were injured after a JCB machine overturned while draining out water from a pond at Jeorheri village on Sunday.Village sarpanch Manpreet Kaur said the two minors, Ramanpreet Singh (12) and Prabhleen Singh (8) boarded the JCB for a joyride and it then overturned after it slipped in the deep water. The driver of the JCB, Gurpreet Singh, suffered injuries and is admitted to Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32, while the two boys are out of danger and admitted to Fortis Hospital, Mohali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2-kids-among-3-injured-as-jcb-overturns-in-mohali-village-101631471188293.html
13-09-2021||Delhi||ASHA workers in Delhi press demand for fixed remuneration||Screening residents across the city for Covid-19, monitoring patients in home isolation, encouraging people to get vaccinated and carrying out government-ordered surveys, Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA) have been at the forefront of the battle against the pandemic for a year-and-a-half now. But in that time, ASHA workers in the Capital have been fighting a lonely battle for better remuneration or a fixed salary, a demand that has had little yields so far.The Delhi ASHA Workers Association (DAWA) earlier this month wrote to Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal demanding fixed incentive of ₹15,000 a month or to pay minimum wage. They also want the Delhi government to do-away with the point system to their core incentive. The minimum wage in Delhi currently varies between ₹15,000 and ₹20,976, depending on skill and educational qualification. Skilled labourers are paid around ₹19,000 a month.Currently, ASHA workers in Delhi get a core, guaranteed incentive of ₹3,000 per month if they are able to get six or more points, based on the number of institutional deliveries, children’s immunisations assisted by them or surveys carried out in their respective areas. The central government in April last year — days after the nationwide lockdown was put in place — announced an additional ₹1,000 to be given to ASHA workers for Covid-related work.These payments were stopped in April this year.Soni (32), An ASHA worker in west Delhi’s Nangli Vihar and the only earning member of her family, said that while HER workload has increased multi-fold since last year, her income has dropped considerably.“There is so much work load. In the past few months, we were asked to distribute iron supplements and then deworming medicines to children. We have been doing surveys for Covid-19 management. Sometimes, we are not able to meet our targets for incentives, because of which we don’t get paid much. It has become difficult to make ends meet,” she said.Shiksha Rana (46) has been an ASHA worker in east Delhi for the past 10 years. Her husband tested positive for Covid-19 in April this year, she said, for which he was in hospital for nearly a month. This has now left her in debt, and she said she blames herself.“I had to take a loan from relatives to pay the hospital bills. My entire family suffered because of me, because I was on Covid-19 duty,” said Rana.She added, “We all have been working so hard since last year. There is no medical benefit for us despite the fact that we have risked our lives. We should get a fixed salary, like all other government employees,” said Rana.DAWA has laid this demand before the Delhi government for over a year now.Usha Thakur, general secretary, DAWA said, “Our demand is that the Delhi government should give us at least ₹15,000 a month as salary or that we be paid the minimum wage given to skilled workers.”She also said the allotment of localities ensures an unequal payment system for workers.“Localities have not been distributed properly, due to which some ASHAs have areas where there are big low-income residential clusters while others don’t. As a result, some workers are able to get more incentives.”Kavita Yadav, the state coordinator for ASHA workers, All India United Traders Union Centre, said, “We have sought time from Delhi chief minister to discuss our concerns. These women have risked their lives while working during Covid. They should be given the status of government employees and paid accordingly.”The Delhi government declined to comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/asha-workers-in-delhi-press-demand-for-fixed-remuneration-101631471124676.html
13-09-2021||Mumbai||IIT Bombay holds exams in hybrid mode; those on campus take tests offline||The Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) on Saturday announced that it is conducting its mid-semester exams in a hybrid mode – students currently staying on campus are being allowed to appear for exams in physical mode, whereas those off campus are appearing for exams online.“As per the state policy on the pandemic, we are still not allowed to go for physical classroom-based lectures. However, as many of our students are currently on campus, we thought of providing a real feel for the exam to these students by inviting them to write their exams in the classrooms by following all the Covid norms. This will help these students to be less stressed during the exam as we have been able to provide them with an ambience of exam rooms,” said professor Subhashis Chaudhuri, director, IIT-B.“Around 1,500 students who are currently on campus are attending lectures online. Most of them are appearing for the exams in physical mode,” added Chaudhari.The institute shut down completely on March 28 last year owing to the pandemic, with an early summer vacation announced on April 1. On June 25, the institute declared that the entire autumn semester will be conducted online in the interest of students’ safety. Since then, almost all teaching and academic activities, barring research work, have been held online. However, last December, IIT-B put in place a plan for the slow rebooting of research work and to determine which students should be called in first and how. A committee was set up with student and faculty representatives for the decision.While undergraduate students and incoming masters and PhD students can complete their semester remotely, research scholars and senior masters’ students have to mandatorily complete their research projects to complete their course work. Thus, scholars who needed access to laboratories for their work were allowed to come back to the campus on priority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/iitbombay-holds-exams-in-hybrid-mode-those-on-campus-take-tests-offline-101631471064588.html
13-09-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali all set to get second fire station in Sector 78||Finally after a wait of nearly three years, Mohali is all set to get its second fire station in Sector 78. The agenda for the same will be tabled in the General House meeting of the municipal corporation (MC) on September 14.The proposal for a second fire station, which will come up at a cost of ₹2.92 crore, was hanging fire for the last three years.City mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu said, “The resolution has been approved by the Punjab government and we will now bring the agenda in the House meet for approval. The total construction cost has escalated by ₹52 lakh with the passage of time. Soil samples were tested by Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology University in Patiala, and the report has been submitted. The design and drawings of the two buildings have also been finalised for which a Chandigarh-based private architect has been hired.”At present, the one fire station in Phase 1 caters to the entire town, along with periphery areas including Kharar and Mullanpur. Meanwhile, the fire station in Dera Bassi caters to Zirakpur, Lalru and Banur. However, one fire tender has been provided at Kharar now to cater to the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-years-on-mohali-all-set-to-get-second-fire-station-in-sector-78-101631470943595.html
13-09-2021||Chandigarh||NEET conducted at 13 centres in Chandigarh||As many as 8,000 students appeared for the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) at 13 centres in the city on Sunday. Candidates said they expect to score well this year. The exam was conducted by the National Testing Agency (NTA) and centres in the city included five private schools.Raghav Sachdeva from Kurukshetra, who appeared for the exam at Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 33, said the paper was straightforward. “I was able to finish well in time. Biology was the most straightforward.” Himanshu Badoga from Dera Bassi, added, “The paper was along expected lines and manageable. Attendance also remained high with only one or two students absent per class.”32 questions repeatedMany coaching institutes have already started uploading the answer keys, as students were allowed to take the question paper home. Kunal Singh, who runs a coaching centre in Sector 34, said, “All concepts were covered in the paper and the level of questions improved this year. Talented students will surely score well. However, around 32 physics and chemistry questions were directly copied from other competitive exams, including previous year’s Joint Entrance Examination (JEE).”‘Instructions must be clearer’ City based NEET trainer Arvind Goyal added that the biology portion was along expected lines, however, the NTA needs to be more clear in their instructions. “We had to file an RTI for the optional questions to ask what will happen if all questions are attempted. NTA should clarify this, further after answering our RTI they should have put an online notice about this as well. A question was also out of the NTA prescribed syllabus “ he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/students-in-chandigarh-find-neet-scoring-101631470888038.html
13-09-2021||Delhi||Light spells of rain likely in Delhi this week, Met forecasts||The city is likely to get mostly light rain over the coming week, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said in its Sunday forecast, as parts of the Capital received showers for the second straight day.According to IMD, on Sunday, the Safdarjung Observatory, considered representative of Delhi’s weather, received 41.1mm of rain between 8.30am on Saturday and 8.30am on Sunday, and then 1.2 mm rain between 8.30am and 5.30pm.“Light rain or thundershowers will continue till September 15-16. Another spell of moderate intensity rainfall is likely around September 16-17. This month will see rainfall on and off, with monsoon likely to withdraw late from northwest region including Delhi,” said a senior official, who didn’t wish to be named. Delhi on Saturday received 81.3mm rain in just three hours, starting 5.30am, which broke a 46-year-old record, making it the wettest monsoon for the city since 1975.The city has received 1,136.8mm rain so far this monsoon. It last received more rain in 1975, when Delhi recorded 1155.6mm rain.The all-time record, from 1933, stands at 1420.3 mm, according to IMD. The unusual monsoon this year has set another record — after 1944, which had the rainiest September on record, this year’s September has so far reported the most rainfall. With a good part of the month still left, this year’s September could become the rainiest since 1901, the year when earliest rainfall data is available.In just 11 days, the city has recorded 380.2mm rainfall, according to data. In September 1944, the city received 417.3mm rain.Unlike July and August that saw dry phases, September so far has not had any such spells, and the city has seen some rainfall on most days this month. “The continuous rain spells are mainly on account of easterly winds and frequently forming low pressure systems in the Bay of Bengal, which travelling up to north and central India are bringing rainfall,” the official added. According to scientists, Delhi has witnessed seven heavy rain events (64.4mm rainfall and above) this year, the highest ever. Normally, Delhi records just one or two such events in the entire season, between June 1 and September 30.“This monsoon has already featured in the list of the top five wettest seasons. We might break more records but we will have to wait for the final rainfall data,” RK Jenamani, senior IMD scientist, told HT on Saturday.Despite monsoon arriving in Delhi on July 13, making it the most-delayed in 19 years, the capital recorded 16 rainy days in the month, the maximum in the last four years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/light-spells-of-rain-likely-in-delhi-this-week-met-forecasts-101631470823642.html
13-09-2021||Noida||Nearly all in Gautam Budh Nagar have got first vaccine dose, says admin||The Gautam Budh Nagar administration is likely to soon stop administering first doses of Covid-19 vaccines, after jabs to more people than the official adult population count of the district, senior officials said on Sunday.Data from the district’s immunisation programme shows that Gautam Budh Nagar has an adult population of 1,589,815 people, while 1,618,215 got first doses of Covid-19 vaccines till 8pm on Sunday, according to the CoWin dashboard.District magistrate Suhas L Yathiraj however said that around 60,000 people “in some pockets” of Gautam Budh Nagar, mostly aged above 45, are yet to get a single vaccine jab.“Our vaccination teams are identifying the pockets where most of these beneficiaries live. We’ll launch door-to-door schemes and walk-in vaccination programmes for them, so that the entire eligible lot of beneficiaries can be vaccinated with first jabs. Once they are covered, we’ll stop offering first doses in our centres,” he said. These pockets include mostly rural areas in Jewar, Dadri and Bisrakh blocks, said officials. The nationwide Covid-19 vaccination programme began on January 16 this year. In that time, Gautam Budh Nagar has administered a total of 2,230,642 jabs, and 612,427 have received both shots of a vaccine. Over two million of the jabs in the district have been shots of Serum Institute of India’s Covishield jab, and a bulk of the rest are doses of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin.The district has added 63,383 cases so far since the outbreak of the pandemic, of whom 466 have died, showed state government data. The state added no fresh cases on Sunday, and has recorded an average of just one case each day over the past week. The excess vaccinated population in the district may be due to its floating population, officials said.“Being an industrial hub and due to its proximity to the national capital, a lot of people either come here to work every day or travel to other neighbouring places from the district. People from both these groups have received their jabs in the district. And, being a central government programme, we can’t stop anyone from getting their shots,” said Yathiraj. Dr Neeraj Tyagi, the district immunisation officer, said that door-to-door awareness campaigns have also been started, to encourage people aged above 45 to get vaccinated. “To clear their doubts and fear, we’ve have been telling them repeatedly that only vaccination can be the best safeguard against the Covid-19 infection. We’ll soon begin the door-to-door vaccination in their areas,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/nearly-all-in-gautam-budh-nagar-have-got-first-vaccine-dose-says-admin-101631470762610.html
13-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Residents raise issue with timers of traffic lights due to LED installation||At around 40 intersections in Chandigarh, where traffic lights are being upgraded to LED lights, their timers have not been functioning properly, according to residents. The timers indicate how many seconds are left before the light turns green, and if they malfunction, it can lead to mishaps, as per road safety experts.Madan Gupta Spatu, senior executive member of the Second Innings Association, said, “Even though traffic monitoring systems will be put up under the Smart City Project to intelligently control traffic, right now even the digital clock installed earlier on traffic lights have stopped working. When the light turns from green to red without any warning, people who stop their vehicle are in danger of being hit by the vehicle behind them.” Senior deputy mayor Maheshinder Singh Sidhu added that he has received many complaints about the issue. “Sometimes, the timer and the lights aren’t synced properly, which also leads to confusion.”Harman Sidhu, member of the Chandigarh State Road Safety Council, said, “This issue is particularly seen where older traffic lights are being upgraded to silver LED lights. While upgrading the traffic lights is fine, the earlier features must be retained. We as drivers have become used to these timers, and without them, chances of accidents will rise as vehicles speed up to try and pass the lights before they turn green.” He added that officials must solve this issue proactively rather than wait for complaints to pour in.However, chief engineer of the municipal corporation (MC), NP Sharma maintained this is not why the timers are not working properly. “The new LED traffic lights being installed in the city by the MC are maintained by a private contractor and they have a dashboard to check the real-time status of the working of lights and efficiency stays over 90%. Some faults are bound to come up and we request residents to call on the MC complaint number, 0172-2787200 if this happens and the issue will be resolved in a time-based manner,” he said.Officials of the UT administration added that traffic lights malfunction more during the monsoons as water can interfere with their functioning. The maintenance of the traffic lights isn’t done by the traffic police, but the personnel on duty convey complaints to the MC or UT authorities. Some of the timers and traffic lights are also turned off in the morning and evening during the peak time of traffic to manually regulate the traffic.Superintendent of police (SP, traffic) Ketan Bansal, said, “People have sent representations about this and traffic police personnel are deployed to manually direct the traffic wherever this happens. If people face this problem, they can contact the traffic helpline at 1073 or reach out to us on social media and we will get the issue resolved.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-residents-raise-issue-with-timers-of-traffic-lights-due-to-led-installation-101631470644979.html
13-09-2021||Pune||Traffic violations on Pune-Mumbai e-way: speeding tops the charts||PUNE: With traffic returning to normal on the Pune-Mumbai expressway, speeding of vehicles is topping the charts in terms of violations, followed by not wearing seat belts and lane cutting in that order. Data reveals that over the last three years, cases of speeding of vehicles have increased drastically. Between January and August this year, 302,941 people were penalised for speeding at the Vadgaon checkpost. Last year, 55,711 people were penalised for speeding while in 2019, 1,435 people were penalised for the same offence.Sanjay Jadhav, superintendent of police, highway state police (HSP), Pune, who is in charge of the Khandala and Vadgaon checkposts, said, “Speeding is one of the major violations followed by not wearing seat belts and lane cutting. With the help of CCTV cameras and speed guns, we are managing to keep tabs on speeding violations. The incidents of lane cutting are also increasing rapidly.”Around 60,000 vehicles pass through the 94km Mumbai-Pune expressway daily. Accidents on the expressway have been on the rise over the past few years due to non-compliance with traffic rules by drivers.To control undisciplined traffic, curb the rising number of accidents and ensure safe travel for motorists, the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) will activate an ‘Intelligent Traffic Management System (ITMS)’ along the Pune-Mumbai expressway. The project has been stuck for two years due to financial constraints but with Rs40 crore now available from the state government, the two-year-long tender process for implementation of the system will be finalised within a month. The total cost of the project is Rs160 crore. Under the ITMS, an average speed detection system will be installed at 39 spots and a lane discipline violation detection system will be set up at 34 spots to detect traffic violations. A MSRDC official said, “Three tenders have been submitted for it and one of them will be finalised and the company will be appointed. After that, the actual work of installing the system will start in six months by carrying out the next process. The work will be completed within six months from commencement.”Along with penalising people for traffic violations, the highway state police (HSP) has undertaken various initiatives for ensuring safe driving on the Pune-Mumbai expressway. “Under the highway mission, we are creating awareness regarding keeping heavy vehicles in the left lane. If heavy vehicles continue to be in one lane, traffic moves smoothly from other lanes,” Jadhav said.Another initiative of the HSP which is helping save the lives of injured motorists is Mrutunjay Dhoot, which is run by villagers who stay near the expressway. About Mrutyunjay Dhoot, Jadhav said, “We started this initiative under the guidance of Bhushan Kumar Upadhyay, additional director general of police (traffic), Maharashtra. In every village that touches Pune-Mumbai expressway, we have identified people who have been trained to provide first-hand medical aid to the injured. We have provided them with stretchers and a first aid kit. We have also linked them with nearby hospitals so that even before the police can reach the spot, treatment is provided to injured persons.”“A majority of deaths take place as medical help arrives late. With the help of Mrutyunjay Dhoot, we have saved the lives of around 500 people till now. Many people are in the bad habit of shooting videos instead of providing quick help which should be avoided,” Jadhav said.The HSP, with the help of village authorities, is building speed breakers on roads that connect directly to the expressway to avoid accidents. The HSP is also running an awareness drive to keep reflectors on while parking cars during the night.Tanmay Pendse, trustee of the Akshaymarg Foundation which works towards the safety of commuters on the expressway said, “There is a serious need to introduce driving education lessons in textbooks as majority of the people who drive are unaware of driving lessons and tend to speed. As the younger generation will be driving vehicles in future, they should be taught driving etiquette in school. Penalising is important so as to instill fear of breaking traffic rules. There should be a minimum Rs20,000 fine for speeding only then will it change people’s habits.”“Setting up an ITMS is most important for the Mumbai-Pune expressway. We (Akshaymarg Foundation) submitted a report to the government in 2016 after studying the expressway for 21 days. There has been a delay in setting up the system. ITMS becomes more important because the Mumbai-Pune expressway is so long that it needs a system more than humans for monitoring violations. Political will is a must only then will the ITMS be set up at the earliest,” Pendse said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/traffic-violations-on-pune-mumbai-e-way-speeding-tops-the-charts-101631465902311.html
13-09-2021||Pune||Pune district reaches 9 million mark for Covid vaccinations||PUNE In the past 10 days, Pune district has inoculated at least a million people with the Covid-19 vaccine, as a result of which, on Saturday, the overall number of people vaccinated stood at 9 million.Currently, Pune is behind Mumbai in terms of total vaccinations in Maharashtra. Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer, Zilla Parishad, said, “Pune’s vaccination drive is clearly the best in the state as we have been able to pick up the pace in a very short amount of time. The best performing vaccination centres of the state are in rural areas of Pune and we are truly grateful to the incredible nurses, data entry operators, doctors and support staff who left the festivities in their homes and chose to be on duty to vaccinate.”“As the administration, we did not put any pressure on anyone to work on Saturday. On Saturday we could vaccinate 156,000 people of which 82,000 were in rural areas. It also noteworthy that Pune crossed the 9 million vaccination mark,” he added.“As per the Election Commission of India, 7.887 million is the eligible population for vaccination, as per the voter list which is updated from time to time,” Prasad said.Support from private players provided a much-needed boost. In addition to this, the Indian Red Cross Society provided a place for vaccination, cleaning arrangements, crowd control and furniture which helped create more vaccination centres in the rural areas. On Saturday the Pune circle crossed the 200,000 mark when Pune district saw 114,312 vaccinations. On Saturday, Solapur saw 83,505 vaccinations and Satara, 4,944 vaccinations. On August 31, Pune became the only district till day to vaccinate 200,000 people in a day. That was the day total totally, 8.14 million vaccines were administered, of which 5.94 million were first doses and 2.20 million were second doses. Vax supply remains erraticIn September, on multiple occasions, centres had to remain shut because of inconsistent supply of the vaccine.Dr Suryakant Deokar, PMC’s immunisation officer said, “We will not be able to vaccinate at any of our centres on Monday, neither Covishield nor Covaxin, because we have not yet got stock. In September, till now, we have had to keep our centres shut on multiple occasions. In August supply was quite steady and so it became easier for us to plan sessions and for people to ensure they can get their dose on time. However, this month has been a bit slower.” Dr Sanjay Deshmukh, deputy director of health services Pune circle, said that if supply remains consistent as it was in August, then the entire district could be fully vaccinated in the next three months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reaches-9-million-mark-for-covid-vaccinations-101631464043806.html
13-09-2021||Patna||Paswan’s death anniversary: PM, others pay rich tributes, Nitish skips event||Political leaders cutting across party lines and a large number of Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) workers participated in the first death anniversary function of former union minister and party founder Ram Vilas Paswan at his Patna residence on Sunday.Union minister Pashupati Kumar Paras, late Paswan’s younger brother and leader of the faction that broke away from Chirag Paswan-led LJP, arrived early to take part in the puja. Chirag had got the name of Paras printed on the card. Bihar Governor Phagu Chouhan, union minister of state for home Nityanand Rai, former union minister Ram Kripal Yadav, Deputy CM Renu Devi, health minister Mangal Devi, Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha and and chairman of the Legislative Council Avadhesh Narayan Singh also reached there to pay their respect.RJD leader Tej Pratap Yadav also visited Chirag’s house in the evening. Chirag had also met Lalu Prasad in Delhi.Earlier during the day, senior RJD leaders Abdul Bari Siddiqui and Shyam Razak and Congress leaders Shakeel Ahmad and Madan Mohan Jha visited Chirag’s residence.The notable absence was of Bihar Chief minister Nitish Kumar, who issued a two-line press statement in the morning to pay tribute to Ram Vilas Paswan. An LJP leader said no senior JD(U) leader was visible till evening, though it was not a political function.“It would have been better had he come here to pay tribute. Leaders cutting across parry lines have come here to pay their tribute. This is what my father was all about. I had tried to give invitation to Nitish Kumar also, but could not get appointment,” he said.Earlier, in a long emotional message, Prime Minister Narendra Modi described Ram Vilas Paswan as a close friend and a “great son of the nation, Bihar’s pride and a strong voice for social justice”, which Chirag shared on Twitter. Chirag wrote on Twitter that the PM’s message, epitomising his father’s life and work for the society in his words, gave him and his family strength.Nitish Kumar had, however, attended the “shradh” function of Ram Vilas Paswan ahead of the assembly elections despite the LJP announcing candidates against all the JD(U) candidates. The bitterness increased further after JD(U) was relegated to the third position for the first time in Bihar. LJP got reduced to just one seat and the MLA defected to JD(U).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/paswans-death-anniversary-pm-others-pay-rich-tributes-nitish-skips-event-101631463742762.html
13-09-2021||Pune||Experts raise red flag as Covid norms go for toss during festivities in Pune||PUNE Members of the state Covid task force on Sunday sounded the alarm, cautioning about a possible surge in Covid cases due to large crowds gathering for the ongoing Ganesh festival. The state government has made it clear it will not impose any additional restrictions, but has appealed to people to follow all Covid norms Dr Shashank Joshi, member of the state task force, asked for caution as mass gatherings have increased in Pune and Mumbai. “We have to be on the red alert. We have to ensure that Covid-appropriate behaviour is followed. We must delay the third Covid wave for as long as possible,” Dr Joshi said. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, advisor to the Maharashtra government on Covid-19, said that the last week of September will be crucial as Covid cases may increase post the Ganesh immersion. “Covid-appropriate behaviour is nowhere to be seen in semi-urban and rural areas. Even in the urban parts, only a few people have been following the Covid norms such as wearing masks. It is a dangerous sign. We have seen the effects of negligence. We should all be aware,” said Dr Salunkhe. Experts have concurred that that Pune and other districts in the western Maharashtra still remain a matter of concern. Currently, Pune still accounts for 25 per cent of active Covid-19 cases in the state, as per data with the state health department. “In the list of districts of concern, Pune and Ahmednagar are on top. Then comes Satara, Sangli and Solapur. Mumbai and Thane have now been included in this list. Test positivity rates vary here, but there should be a lot of emphasis on vaccination, masks and Covid- appropriate behaviour in these areas,” said Dr Joshi. Pune district saw its first Covid wave peak in September 2020, post the 10-day Ganesh festival. Last year, as per figures released by the state health department, Pune district reported 37,968 fresh Covid cases between August 22 and September 2, the period during which the Ganesh festival was celebrated. The district reported 31,110 cases between August 10 and August 21. As on September 9, Pune accounted for 12,758 active Covid-19 cases of the 50,000 cases in the state. This number is the highest for any district in Maharashtra. After Pune is Thane, with 5,000 fewer active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/experts-raise-red-flag-as-covid-norms-go-for-toss-during-festivities-101631463262171.html
13-09-2021||Mumbai||Sena to contest 20 seats in Goa, looks for MVA-like alliance||The Shiv Sena is set to contest around 20 seats in Goa, in an attempt to gain power in the adjoining state and to get the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) out of power. The Sena is exploring Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA)-like alliance possibilities in Goa.The party is also planning to field candidates in 80-100 seats in Uttar Pradesh election. Both states are due for polls in February-March next year.Senior Sena leader and party chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut said, “In Goa, we are contesting the elections. We plan to contest around 20-21 seats in Goa. In Uttar Pradesh, too, we are planning to contest 80 to 100 seats of the 402 Assembly seats. For Goa, efforts are on to explore a formula like that of MVA. Let’s see if we succeed.” Party insiders said the Sena is exploring options to have alliance with regional parties in Goa. “There are smaller parties there; so, we can have an alliance with them, if not [it doesn’t happen] then we will contest solo,” Raut said.A Sena functionary said the party is looking to increase its presence in other states as well. With a sizable Marathi-speaking population and its Hindutva agenda, the party aims to take a step towards getting more legislators. “It is not that we are contesting elections after MVA or when Uddhav ji became the chief minister. We have fielded candidates in many states [polls] before, but now we can explore alliances with smaller parties and increase our base there,” said a leader. The Sena had fielded three candidates in 2017 polls in Goa, but lost deposit on all three seats and got 1.3% votes on the seats contested.Raut added that the Sena is expected to get support from local political outfits and farmers’ organisations in western UP. “In western UP, there are some farmers’ organisations who have said that they will back us. Smaller parties in UP have also extended support to the Shiv Sena,” he said, expressing confidence in the party’s chances in 2022. In 2017, Sena had fielded 57 candidates in UP, of which 56 lost their deposits. It secured 88,595 votes or 0.1% of the vote share.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sena-to-contest-20-seats-in-goa-looks-for-mva-like-alliance-101631462482892.html
13-09-2021||Pune||Monday musings: Rent seeking through Contractor-raj||Earlier this month, when Parivartan, a non-governmental organisation, released a report card on public representatives in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), an interesting fact came out: purchasing jute and cloth bags to distribute them to citizens in the past five years was the priority for most corporators in the city, besides focusing on drainage work. Of the ₹90.90 crore funds utilised by the corporators, nearly ₹15.31 crore was spent on drainage cleaning during the past four years followed by ₹12.57 crore on distribution of these bags, according to report by Parivartan. The distribution began after the state government imposed a ban on plastic bags in 2017, opening another door of opportunity for public representatives to “serve” people in their own way. For a civic body with an annual budget of ₹8,370 crore during 2021-22, spending ₹12.57 crore in four years may seem pittance. It, however, raises an important issue of misplaced priorities that PMC and many other civic bodies in the country are dealing with. But there’s a bigger question people residing in bigger cities need to answer: How likely are they going to react to such spending, which indicates mis-governance? People living in major cities are apathetic to it as they are busy with their life, which may involve more important things even if they keep grumbling about outlays not getting translated into outcomes. The assumption that the purpose of outlays is to produce outcomes may not necessarily translates into reality. “The purpose of the outlay is to create a broad justification for expanding the reach of the contracting state. The end is the awarding of the contract. But the nature of contracting is now producing systematic misalignments,” wrote Indian academician and former president at Centre for Policy Research, Pratap Bhanu Mehta in one of his articles. In Pune, awarding contracts at discretion has currently become a bone of contention between the BJP members and Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar. The municipal commissioner has been firm on his stand of cutting down ward level budget for elected members. These ward level works are often carried out by contractors selected by corporators. As seen in the case of distribution of jute bags, most ward level work is either duplication or spending on unnecessary stuff at taxpayers’ expense. Whether distributing bags or building roads or reconstructing the fairly new footpaths, the main interest for corporators – not just of the BJP but for all parties - is in awarding the contracts. These contracts, as we all know, have much to do with rent-seeking, which allow people in power to use their clouts to make money, which is another form of corruption. No wonder when the standing committee chairman Nitin Landge, his PA and three other civic officers at Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation were caught red-handed while accepting bribe, it raised no eyebrows. The bribe was for awarding contracts, said police officials. Yet the form of this level of corruption is so taken for granted, it did not generate any hullaballoo. The state anti-corruption bureau (ACB) arrested them soon after a meeting of the civic standing committee in August. The three civic employees were allegedly caught while accepting ₹1.18 lakh from the contractor, who was initially asked to pay ₹10 lakh for a work order for installing advertising hoardings. The amount was later brought down to ₹6 lakh, according to the ACB. It is because everyone loves contracts, big cities often see construction activity underway in one part or another, even as it may not add into city’s infrastructure neither it underlines social utility. Such contracts neither benefit cities or citizens, thus resulting in zero-sum game. Yogesh Joshi can be contacted at yogesh.joshi@htlive.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/monday-musings-rent-seeking-through-contractorraj-101631459841923.html
13-09-2021||Mumbai||12 Air India Airbus aircraft remain grounded due to want of engines||At least a dozen Airbus aircraft of the disinvestment-bound Air India are grounded since the past few years for engine replacement, but the airline is unable to perform the task due to shortage of funds.Airline sources said that with the national carrier almost set to go to private hands, whether these aircraft are put back into operation or not will depend on the outcome of the privatisation process.Despite repeated attempts, Air India spokesperson did not comment on the matter.An airline source said, “At least 12 Airbus 320 aircraft continue to remain grounded. The airline needs over ₹1100 crore to make them operational, which the management is unlikely to spend considering the ongoing privatisation process.”“Unless the new bidder comes in, fate of these aircraft will remain undecided,” the source added.In August 2019, the airline’s narrow-body fleet pilots’ body — Indian Commercial Pilots Association (ICPA) — had alleged that 19 planes were on ground for want of spares, resulting not only in huge revenue loss but also massive flight cancellations. The pilots’ body had questioned the airline management over this.In terms of the bidding process for privatisation of the airline, final bidders will submit their bids, marking the completion of the bidding stage, by September 15. Divesting Air India includes selling off government’s 100% stake in the state-owned airline that is incurring losses since 2007. As part of the exercise, the government also plans to sell its entire stake in Air India Express and 50% stake in Air India SATS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/12-air-india-airbus-aircraft-remain-grounded-due-to-want-of-engines-101631455942157.html
13-09-2021||World||‘Men and women cannot work together’: Taliban say Sharia law doesn't allow it||Afghan women should not be allowed to work alongside men, a senior figure in the ruling Taliban said, a position which, if formally implemented, would effectively bar them from employment in government offices, banks, media companies and beyond.Waheedullah Hashimi, a senior figure in the Taliban who is close to the leadership, told Reuters the group would fully implement its version of sharia, or Islamic law, despite pressure from the international community to allow women the right to work where they want.Since the movement swept to power last month, Taliban officials have said women would be able to work and study within the limits laid down by sharia.But there has been widespread uncertainty about what practical effect that will have on their ability to keep their jobs. When the Taliban last ruled Afghanistan from 1996-2001, women were barred from employment and education.The issue is of major importance to the international community and could impact the amount of aid economic crisis."We have fought for almost 40 years to bring (the) sharia law system to Afghanistan," Hashimi said in an interview. "Sharia ... does not allow men and women to get together or sit together under one roof."Men and women cannot work together. That is clear. They are not allowed to come to our offices and work in our ministries."It was unclear to what extent Hashimi's comments reflected the new government's policies, although they appeared to go further than public comments made by some other officials.In the days following the Taliban's conquest of Kabul, Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid told reporters that women were an important part of the community and they would work "in different sectors".He also specifically included women employees in a call for government bureaucrats to return to their jobs.All-men cabinetHowever, the cabinet appointments announced on September 7 did not include any women and there have been widespread reports of women being sent back home from their workplaces.Hashimi said the ban on women would also apply to sectors like media, where women have become increasingly prominent since the Taliban fell in 2001 and a Western-backed government was installed.Contact between men and women outside the home will be allowed in certain circumstances, for example when seeing a male doctor, he added.Women should also be allowed to study and work in the education and medical sectors, where separate facilities can be set up for their exclusive use."We will of course need women, for example in medicine, in education. We will have separate institutions for them, separate hospitals, separate universities maybe, separate schools, separate madrassas."On Sunday, the Taliban's new education minister said women could study at university, but must be segregated from men.Women have staged several protests across Afghanistan, demanding that the rights they won over the last two decades be preserved. Some rallies have been broken up by Taliban gunmen firing shots into the air.Improved women's rights - more noticeable in urban centres than deeply conservative rural areas - were repeatedly cited by the United States as one of the biggest successes of its 20-year operation in the country that officially ended on Aug. 31.The female labour participation rate stood at 23% in 2020, according to the World Bank, up from effectively zero when the Taliban last ruled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/men-and-women-cannot-work-together-taliban-say-sharia-law-doesn-t-allow-it-101631554700173.html
13-09-2021||World||‘Brace for more’: Experts on what Covid-19 will bring in the next 6 months||For anyone hoping to see light at the end of the Covid-19 tunnel over the next three to six months, scientists have some bad news: Brace for more of what we’ve already been through. Outbreaks will close schools and cancel classes. Vaccinated nursing home residents will face renewed fears of infection. Workers will weigh the danger of returning to the office as hospitals are overwhelmed, once again.Almost everyone will be either infected or vaccinated before the pandemic ends, experts agree. Maybe both. An unlucky few will contract the virus more than once. The race between the waves of transmission that lead to  new variants and the battle to get the globe inoculated won’t be over until the coronavirus has touched all of us. “I see these continued surges occurring throughout the world,” said Michael Osterholm, director of the Center for Infectious Disease Research and Policy at the University of Minnesota in Minneapolis, and an adviser to US President Joe Biden. “Then it will drop, potentially somewhat precipitously,” he said. “And then I think we very easily could see another surge in the fall and winter” of this year, he added. With billions of people around the world yet to be vaccinated and little chance now of eliminating the virus, we can expect more outbreaks in classrooms, on public transport and in workplaces over the coming months, as economies push ahead with reopening. Even as immunization rates rise, there will always be people who are vulnerable to the virus: Newborn babies, people who can’t or won’t get inoculated, and those who get vaccinated but suffer breakthrough infections as their protection levels ebb. The next few months will be rough. One key danger is if a vaccine-resistant variant develops, although it is not the only risk ahead. In the coming months, Bloomberg will explore the pandemic’s long-term impact on economies and markets, the pharmaceutical industry, travel and more.“We’re going to see hills and valleys, at least for the next several years as we get more vaccine out. That’s going to help. But the challenge is going to be: How big will the hills and valleys be, in terms of their distance?” Osterholm said. “We don’t know. But I can just tell you, this is a coronavirus forest fire that will not stop until it finds all the human wood that it can burn.”Covid Compared to Other PandemicsThe five well-documented influenza pandemics of the past 130 years offer some blueprint for how Covid might play out, according to Lone Simonsen, an epidemiologist and professor of population health sciences at Roskilde University in Denmark. She is an expert on the ebb and flow of such events.While the longest global flu outbreak lasted five years, they mostly consisted of two to four waves of infection over an average of two or three years, she said. Covid is already shaping up to be among the more severe pandemics, as its second year concludes with the world in the middle of a third wave — and no end in sight. It’s possible that the virus known as SARS-CoV-2 won’t follow the path set by the pandemics of the past. After all, it is a different, novel and potentially more transmissible pathogen. And with a death toll of more than 4.6 million people so far, it’s already more than twice as deadly as any outbreak since the 1918 Spanish flu.Despite brutal initial waves and relatively high vaccination rates, countries including the US, UK, Russia and Israel are flirting with record numbers of cases. Immunization is helping to moderate incidences of severe cases and deaths, but surging infections mean the virus is reaching the young and others who remain unvaccinated, leading to rising rates of serious disease in those groups.Nations where vaccination has been sparse — including Malaysia, Mexico, Iran and Australia — are in the midst of their biggest outbreaks yet, fueled by the contagious delta strain. With the virus still spreading out of control in vast swathes of the planet, another novel variant could quite feasibly emerge.History shows the commonly held belief that viruses automatically get milder over time — to avoid completely wiping out their host population — is wrong, according to Simonsen. Although new mutations aren’t always more severe than their predecessors, “pandemics can in fact get more deadly during the pandemic period, as the virus is adapting to its new host,” she said.Early in the Covid outbreak, there was good reason to hope that vaccines would provide long-term protection, much like childhood shots that stop diseases such as polio. Coronaviruses have a “proof-reading” mechanism that fixes the in-born errors caused when the virus replicates, reducing the likelihood of variants emerging when the virus is transmitted from one person to another. The number of global cases has been so vast, however, that mutations are occurring anyway.“With the pandemic, we have this enormous force of infection,” said Kanta Subbarao, director of the WHO Collaborating Center for Reference and Research on Influenza at the Peter Doherty Institute for Infection and Immunity in Melbourne. “That has counterbalanced the ability of the virus to proof-read.”As a result, Covid could be like the flu, requiring regular vaccine top-ups to remain effective as the virus evolves. Some researchers say SARS-CoV-2 is poised to become completely resistant to the first generation of vaccines. A study from Japan, which has yet to be published or peer-reviewed, suggests that potentially dangerous mutations in the delta variant are already being picked up in a global database used to track such developments. Reports of current strains breaking through vaccinations or triggering higher fatality rates have not held up to rigorous scrutiny thus far.“This is a scenario we hope won’t happen,” Simonsen said. “My God, we would have to do it all again.”Other even grimmer possibilities for the coming months include the emergence of a novel influenza virus or another coronavirus making the leap from animals into humans.“As long as there are animal reservoirs of coronavirus there is still the possibility that another zoonotic coronavirus could emerge in the future,” Subbarao said. “There is that in the background, the risk of still dealing with this one when another one emerges.”How Will Covid End?What seems clear is that the pandemic will not be over in six months. Experts generally agree that the current outbreak will be tamed once most people — perhaps 90% to 95% of the global population — have a degree of immunity thanks to immunization or previous infection. The key element should be vaccination, they say.“Without vaccination, one is like a sitting duck, because the virus will spread widely and find most everybody this autumn and winter,” said Simonsen. More than 5.66 billion doses of vaccine have been administered around the world, according to Bloomberg’s vaccine tracker. But the success of rollouts in some regions, such as the European Union, North America and China, masks the failure in others. Most countries in Africa have only given enough vaccine to cover less than 5% of their populations with a two-dose shot. India has administered enough to cover only about 26%. The pandemic will end at different times in different places, just as previous outbreaks have, said Erica Charters, associate professor of the history of medicine at Oxford University and the coordinator of a project on how epidemics end. Governments will have to decide how much of the disease they are comfortable living with, she said.Approaches vary. While some countries are still shooting for zero Covid cases, the world is unlikely to eradicate the virus completely.Nations like Denmark and Singapore, which have managed to keep cases relatively contained, are already moving toward a post-pandemic future with fewer safety restrictions. Others, such as the U.S. and U.K., are opening up even as infection numbers near records. Meanwhile, China, Hong Kong and New Zealand have vowed to keep vigilantly working to eliminate the virus locally. As a result, they are likely to be among the last places to leave behind the disruption wrought by walling out the pandemic.“The end process is not going to be uniform,” Charters said. The pandemic “is a biological phenomenon, but it’s also a political and social phenomenon.” “Even now we have different approaches to it.” It’s likely to be messy, leaving a lasting legacy for years to come. Until then, most of us will need to brace for many more months in the pandemic’s grip. “We have to approach it with our eyes wide open and with a great deal of humility,” Osterholm said. “Anybody that thinks we're going to be over this in the next few days or a few months is sorely mistaken.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brace-for-more-experts-on-what-covid-19-will-bring-in-the-next-6-months-101631554777604.html
13-09-2021||World||S Jaishankar calls for ‘unrestricted’ access to Afghanistan for aid work||Reaffirming India’s long and historical ties with Afghanistan and its people, external affairs minister S Jaishankar on Monday called for humanitarian assistance providers to be accorded “unimpeded, unrestricted” access to the country” saying it faces a grave situation that could imperil global fight against poverty and regional stability.Participating virtually or in person in a high-level meeting of the United Nations on humanitarian situation in Afghanistan, representatives from other donor countries expressed similar sentiments and stressed the need for keeping a close eye on the Taliban to ensure they delivered on their commitments.“Among the challenges that the current situation poses, is that of efficient logistics,” S Jaishankar said in an intervention in the high level meeting called by UN secretary-general Antonio Guterres. “It is therefore essential that humanitarian assistance providers are accorded unimpeded, unrestricted, and direct access to Afghanistan.”He added: “Once relief materials reach that country, the world will naturally expect a non-discriminatory distribution of humanitarian assistance, across all sections.”To draw attention to the urgency of the situation in Afghanistan, S Jaishankar cited recent United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) numbers that show Afghanistan’s poverty level could shoot from the current 72% to 97%, which, he added, “would have catastrophic consequences not just in our collective fight against poverty, but also for regional stability”.S Jaishankar underscored India’s interest - and concern - in Afghanistan as an immediate neighbour with long-time ties to the people of that country. “India’s own approach to Afghanistan has always been guided by its historical friendship with its people,” he said, adding, “This will continue to be the case.”S Jaishankar cited some of the more than 500 projects India undertook and carried out in Afghanistan, with footprints in all of its 34 provinces. In all, India provided assistance worth more than $3 billion in Afghanistan since the fall of the first Taliban regime in 2001.Shut out of Afghanistan by the Pakistan-backed Taliban now, as it was during the first Taliban regime from 1996 to 2001, India is recalibrating its approach to Afghanistan, and has sought to focus the future of its ties with the country on its people.“Today, I wish to underline that in the face of a grave, emerging situation. India is willing to stand by the Afghan people, just as in the past, to ensure that this (aid and humanitarian work) happens speedily and effectively,” S Jaishankar said, adding, “We believe that the international community must come together to create the best possible enabling environment.”Similar concerns and reservations were expressed by other countries, mainly those who have provided aid to Afghanistan and have committed to continue doing so, irrespective of the regime change in Kabul.The United States, for instance, announced $64 million additional aid to Afghanistan but called for the Taliban to assure safe passage and security of aid workers as they have promised. “Words are not good enough. We must see action,” said US permanent representatives to the UN Linda Thomas-Greenfield. “The international community is unified in this message - humanitarian aid agencies cannot do their job if the Taliban does not uphold those core commitments and humanitarian principles.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/s-jaishankar-calls-for-unrestricted-access-to-afghanistan-for-aid-work-101631552011028.html
13-09-2021||World||UK medical officers give nod for Covid-19 vaccines for children aged 12 to 15||Children aged 12 to 15 should be offered a COVID vaccine, the UK's chief medical officers (CMOs) have decided on Monday.The medical officers said their recommendation to the government was made after considering "what effect this will have on transmission in schools and effects on education"."It's a useful tool to reduce the disruption," they said.According to the decision, healthy children should be offered a single dose of the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine and the rollout should begin "as soon as possible".Also Read | US could authorise Pfizer Covid-19 shot for kids aged 5 to 11 in OctoberThe move means around 3 million children could be eligible for the jab, which is expected to be given through schools.It follows the Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation (JCVI) decision against such a rollout purely on health grounds, leaving the final call in the hands of the CMOs after considering wider implications.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-medical-officers-give-nod-for-covid-19-vaccines-for-children-aged-12-to-15-101631549883406.html
13-09-2021||World||Xi Jinping praises ‘model’ PLA battalion in Tibet||President Xi Jinping has paid glowing tributes to a border battalion of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) deployed in the Tibet Autonomous Region (TAR), which shares a long and disputed boundary with India.Responding to a letter from the battalion on the work they have done in the past five years, Xi Jinping said that the soldiers have done a great job and encouraged them to do more for the Communist Party of China (CPC) and the people.The battalion located above 4,000m, state media reported, is under the Xizang or the Tibet Military Command, which falls under the jurisdiction of the PLA’s vast Western Theatre Command, which is responsible for the entire Sino-India disputed border.The tribute to PLA border troops comes in the background of the ongoing Sino-India military face-off in eastern Ladakh.The brief write-up on Xi Jinping’s letter that appeared in official Chinese media did not specify where the battalion was deployed but only said it is considered a “model” battalion.However, in 2016, Xi Jinping in his role as chairperson of the Central Military Commission, had signed orders to give honorary titles to two military units for their outstanding services.One was “Troop 77656”, which was then titled as a “model plateau battalion” - plateau being an indication of its deployment on the Tibetan plateau - for its “outstanding performance in safeguarding borders, ensuring stability and helping disaster relief”, according to an official statement released then.The other unit honoured in 2016 was Navy Submarine 372 as a “model submarine” for its excellent performance in marine missions.It is likely that Xi Jinping in his new letter praised the same “Troop 77656” battalion under the Tibet Military Command – the battalion is said to be stationed near Arunachal Pradesh, which China claims as south Tibet.“President Xi writes back to a plateau-stationed border-guard model battalion, saying they have done a great job in the past five years and encouraging them to make new contributions to the party and the people,” the Global Times said in a report on Monday evening.“The model battalion is under the People’s Liberation Army’s Xizang Military Command, according to previous reports,” the brief report said.In his letter, Xi Jinping wrote that it is hoped that the soldiers will strengthen their mission, carry forward their fine traditions, strengthen their military training and preparation for war, faithfully perform their duties of defending the country, and strive to make new achievements for the party and the people.In July, Xi Jinping visited TAR, the first time as the country’s head, beginning his three-day tour at a strategic border city near the Sino-India Arunachal Pradesh boundary.Xi Jinping first visited Nyingchi in southeast TAR, near the McMahon Line dividing India and China, before he took an electric train on the newly inaugurated strategic railway route to Lhasa, the regional capital.During his TAR visit, Xi Jinping had stressed on developing border areas, emphasising on the four major issues of stability, development, ecology and border-area consolidation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/xi-jinping-praises-model-pla-battalion-in-tibet-101631543430261.html
13-09-2021||World||Negative in 9 Covid tests, man may be source of new outbreak in China||A Chinese national who completed 28 days in quarantine including three weeks at a centralised isolation, after returning from Singapore and tested negative for nine nucleic acid and one serum tests during the four weeks, has been identified as the likely source of the new Covid-19 outbreak spreading in eastern China’s Fujian province.At least 75 positive infections including asymptomatic ones have been detected in Putian, Quanzhou and provincial capital, Xiamen in Fujian.Authorities have ordered mass Covid-19 testing for students and teachers in the province to be completed within a week, state media reported.The outbreak was spreading for 10 days in a school - where the two children of the first patient were students - before the first cases were detected, health authorities said on Monday about the fresh cluster that has now spread to more cities.More than a dozen school students have tested Covid-19 positive.According to state media, Lin Moujie, who returned from Singapore, is being considered to be the starting point of the outbreak.According to a state media report, Lin entered the Xiamen Airport from Singapore on August 4. After being isolated for 14 days in Xiamen, he was transferred to the Xianyou county’s centralised isolation point on August 19 to continue the quarantineAccording to Fujian province’s epidemic prevention and control measures, Lin started a 7-day home health surveillance on August 26 after completing 21 days of centralised quarantine. “The official notification showed that during the 21-day quarantine period after entry, Lin Moujie conducted a total of nine nucleic acid tests and one serum test, and the results were all negative,” the report said.“The epidemic situation in the city of Putian is ‘serious and complex’ and it is very likely more new cases will emerge in communities, schools and factories,” state broadcaster CCTV said on Monday.“Authorities have traced 841 close contacts of the positive cases and further 1,690 close contacts of the aforesaid close contacts. A total of 1,293 people have been put under medical observation in designated places,” the Xinhua news agency reported on Monday.Local authorities are now scrambling to contain the latest flare-up before the mid-Autumn festival (September 21) and the National Day holidays in October.Authorities in Putian, a manufacturing hub for sneakers, clothing, and electronic components, has closed cinemas and gyms, sealed off some entries and exits to highways and told residents not to leave the town until the outbreak is controlled.Offline lessons in all schools in Putian have been suspended and China’s national health authority has sent a team of experts to the city, which has a population of 3.2mn.Since the latest resurgence emerged on Friday, the county of Xianyou has conducted extensive nucleic acid testing in Fengting township and five neighbouring townships. “By 4pm on Sunday, 196,758 people had been tested, of which 121,087 samples returned results,” the report said.As of September 12, mainland China, where Covid-19 first emerged in late 2019, had recorded 95,248 confirmed cases with a cumulative death toll of 4,636.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/negative-in-9-covid-tests-man-may-be-source-of-new-outbreak-in-china-101631540009685.html
13-09-2021||World||WHO envoy warns of increasing risk of Covid variants evading vaccines||Variants that can eventually evade Covid vaccines are increasingly likely with vast parts of the world unprotected, and rich countries should hold back on booster doses until others catch up, according to a special envoy to the World Health Organisation (WHO).“Variants that can beat the protection offered by vaccines are bound to emerge all over the world in the coming months and years,” David Nabarro, the WHO envoy, said in an interview Monday with Bloomberg Television. “This is an ongoing battle, and we need to work together.”Nabarro issued the warning as some countries such as the UK prepare to give an extra dose to people already vaccinated. With thousands of Covid deaths occurring each day 20 months into the pandemic, health advocates are urging governments and manufacturers to take action to narrow a glaring gap in access to shots.The envoy called for prioritising global needs over national agendas. Rich countries could use up all the manufacturing capacity for their booster programs, leaving minimal supplies for the rest of the planet, he said. The WHO has said that while in most instances the variants of concern lead to a reduction in vaccine effectiveness of varying degrees, the shots mostly retain their ability to protect against severe disease. Nabarro said he worries about the threat rising as the virus continues to spread.“This world is struggling with a dangerous virus that is constantly evolving and new variants are emerging, and there will be more,” he said. “I think this virus is most definitely here to stay for the foreseeable future.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-envoy-warns-of-increasing-risk-of-covid-variants-evading-vaccines-101631537449577.html
13-09-2021||World||Chinese man enters Taiwan territorial waters in ‘pursuit of freedom and democracy’||Taiwanese authorities on Sunday held a Chinese man who entered Taiwan's territorial waters in a small rubber dingy in search of 'freedom and democracy'.The man was spotted near the Coast of Lieyu Township by the guards, Focus Taiwan reported citing the Coast Guard Administration (CGA).The man informed that he had "Sailed from the nearby Chinese city of Xiamen in pursuit of freedom and democracy in Taiwan."The man has been taken to a quarantine facility in Kinmen after which he will be handed over to the Kinmen District Prosecutors Office, Focus Taiwan reported.One of the most militarised territorial waters of the world, the Taiwan Strait is patrolled by both the Chinese and Taiwanese navies. China alone has more than 255 Coast Guard ships and dozens of heavily-armed naval vessels, in the region, according to a recent US Defense Department assessment.However, Taiwan does not allow people to officially claim asylum, and anyone found guilty of entering the country illegally faces up to three years in prison and a fine of 90,000 New Taiwan dollars.Tensions between Taiwan and China have been growing in recent months, as Beijing has stepped up air and naval drills around the self-ruled island, which the Communist Party regards as part of its territory and has vowed to "reunify" with mainland China, by force if necessary.Taipei, on the other hand, has countered the Chinese aggression by increasing strategic ties with democracies including the US, which has been repeatedly opposed by Beijing. China has threatened that "Taiwan's independence" means war.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-man-enters-taiwan-territorial-waters-in-pursuit-of-freedom-and-democracy-101631526107567.html
13-09-2021||World||PIA becomes first foreign commercial flight to land in Kabul since Taliban takeover||A Pakistan International Airlines (PIA) plane carrying a handful of passengers touched down at Kabul airport Monday, the first international commercial flight to land since the Taliban retook power in Afghanistan on August 15."There was hardly anyone on the plane, around 10 people... maybe more staff than passengers," said an AFP journalist aboard the flight from Islamabad.A PIA spokesman said at the weekend that the airline was keen to resume regular commercial services, but it was too soon to say how frequently flights between the two capitals would operate.Kabul airport was severely damaged during a chaotic evacuation of more than 120,000 people that ended with the withdrawal of US forces on August 30. The Taliban have been scrambling to get it operating again with technical assistance from Qatar and other nations.Qatar Airways operated several charter flights out of Kabul last week, carrying mostly foreigners and Afghans who missed out on the evacuation.An Afghan airline resumed domestic services on September 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pia-becomes-first-foreign-commercial-flight-to-land-in-kabul-since-taliban-takeover-101631514128527.html
13-09-2021||World||Inspiration4: Meet members of SpaceX's upcoming ‘all-civilian’ mission||SpaceX’s Inspiration4, which, the Elon Musk-founded company has described as the world’s “first all-civilian mission to orbit,” will set off aboard a SpaceX rocket on Wednesday, September 15. The four crew members, said SpaceX, together represent the mission pillars of “leadership, hope, generosity and prosperity.”Also Read | SpaceX Inspiration4 to have 1st all civilian space mission with minimal trainingHere’s a look at the crew members as they get ready for an exciting journey ahead:(1.) Jared Isaacman (Leadership): An accomplished jet pilot, Isaacman, who is thirty-eight years old, is the mission commander for Inspiration4. In 1999, Isaacman, then aged only 16, started, from the basement of his home, Shift4Payments, which, today, is the leader in integrated payment processing solutions. He has participated in more than 100 air shows, and dedicated each performance to charitable causes. In 2011, Isaacman co-founded Draken International, the world’s largest private air force, which trains pilots for the United States Armed Forces.He described this mission as a “personal and lifelong dream.” Isaacman said, “I recognise the tremendous responsibility which comes with commanding this mission. I hope it reinforces how far inspiration can take us, and the extraordinary achievements it leads to here on Earth.”(2.) Hayley Arceneaux (Hope): At the age of 10, Arceneaux was diagnosed with osteosarcoma, a type of bone cancer. Now fully cured, she obtained an undergraduate degree in Spanish in 2014, and, in 2016, completed her Physician Assistant (PA) degree. Arceneaux currently works as a PA with leukemia and lymphoma patients at St. Jude Children’s Hospital, where she received treatment for cancer. “The mission is not only raising crucial funds for the lifesaving work of St. Jude, but also showing cancer survivors that anything is possible,” Arceneaux said of Inspiration4.(3.) Chris Sembroski (Generosity): A former member of the US Air Force, Sembroski always had a natural curiousity about outer space. In his college days, he served as a volunteer with ProSpace, a grassroot lobbying effort that called for legislation to help open space travel, and allow companies (such as SpaceX) to exist. After retiring from service in 2007, Sembroski earned Bachelor of Science (BS) in Professional Aeronautics.About Inspiration4, Sembroski said, “It’s a dream come true. I hope that this flight will inspire kids to dream the impossible, ushering in a new era of space exploration open to all.”(4.) Dr Sian Proctor (Prosperity): Born in Guam, an unincorporated territory of the United States, while her father was working with NASA, Dr Proctor is a geoscientist, explorer and science communication specialist. She has completed four analog missions (activities in simulated space conditions), and was a finalist at NASA’s Astronaut Program in 2009. Dr Proctor has a pilot licence, is SCUBA certified, and has been teaching geoscience for more than 20 years at the South Mountain Community College, in Phoenix, Arizona.“Going to space has always been a dream of mine, and being able to inspire the world makes it even more special for me,” Dr Proctor said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/inspiration4-meet-members-of-spacex-s-upcoming-all-civilian-mission-101631504752097.html
13-09-2021||World||Taliban hold talks with Qatar foreign minister. Here’s what they discussed||Taliban government's acting prime minister Mullah Mohammad Hassan Akhund met with Qatari foreign minister on Sunday, in the highest-level foreign visit to Afghanistan since the hardline Islamist group captured the capital last month. Qatar's foreign ministry said that Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman Al-Thani called upon the country's new rulers to "involve all Afghan parties in national reconciliation" when he met Mullah Muhammad Hasan Akhund.Reports that the two sides discussed “bilateral relations, humanitarian assistance, economic development and interaction with the world” during the meeting held in the presidential palace. According to the Qatar foreign ministry, Sheikh Mohammed and Taliban prime minister Hassan Akhund also discussed "concerted efforts to combat terrorist organisations that threaten the stability of Afghanistan", ways to enhance peace in the country and the safe passage of people.Also read | India, Australia converges on Kabul, Indo-Pacific, set stage for QUAD summitQatar foreign ministry said Sheikh Mohammed "urged the Afghan officials to engage all Afghan parties in the national reconciliation", it said. The ministry also said in a statement that talks covered "latest developments regarding the operation of Kabul airport and ensuring freedom of passage and travel for all".Also watch | Qatar's deputy premier, foreign minister holds high-level talks with Taliban
13-09-2021||World||North Korea missile test poses 'threats to neighbors and beyond': Pentagon||The United States military said Sunday missile tests conducted by North Korea over the weekend posed 'threats' to the country's neighbors and beyond."This activity highlights DPRK's continuing focus on developing its military program and the threats that poses to its neighbors and the international community," the US Indo-Pacific Command said in a statement, using the North's official name.North Korean state media reported on Monday morning local time the country had test-fired a new "long-range cruise missile" on Saturday and Sunday, amid a long standoff with the United States over its nuclear program.The missiles travelled 1,500-kilometer (about 930 miles) flight paths -- including figure-of-8 patterns -- above North Korea and its territorial waters to hit their targets, according to the official Korean Central News Agency.Its report called the missile a "strategic weapon of great significance," adding the tests were successful and it gave the country "another effective deterrence means" against "hostile forces."The North is under international sanctions for its nuclear weapons and ballistic missile programs, which it says it needs to defend against a US invasion.But Pyongyang is not banned from developing cruise missiles, which it has tested previously.The US Indo-Pacific Command statement said the United States would "continue to monitor the situation and are consulting closely with our allies and partners."It reiterated the United States' "commitment to the defense" of the North's neighbors South Korea and Japan "remains ironclad."Seoul and Washington are treaty allies, with around 28,500 US troops stationed in South Korea to defend it against its neighbour, which invaded in 1950.The reported launches are the first since March by the North, which has not carried out a nuclear test or an intercontinental ballistic missile launch since 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/north-korea-missile-test-poses-threats-to-neighbors-and-beyond-pentagon-101631498574445.html
13-09-2021||World||Hundreds protest Brazil's Bolsonaro after week of tension||Several hundred Brazilians protested against President Jair Bolsonaro and demanded his impeachment in Sunday demonstrations called by conservative groups, days after a massive mobilization supporting the country's embattled far-right leader.The street protests in Rio de Janeiro, Sao Paulo and Belo Horizonte, among other cities, were convened by conservative-leaning social organizations like Movimento Brasil Livre (Free Brazil Movement, or MBL), which pressed for the impeachment of leftwing president Dilma Rousseff in 2016.MBL now advocates a third way for Brazil's 2022 presidential elections, under the slogan "Neither Bolsonaro nor Lula," referring to the current president's political nemesis Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva.Organizers expected large crowds, but without the support of groups like Lula's Workers' Party (PT) the demonstrations were smaller than anticipated.In Rio a few hundred demonstrators gathered early Sunday on Copacabana beach. Many wore white as a sign of political neutrality but waved Brazilian flags -- often identified with the right -- or the rainbow colors of the LGBT movement, or wore "Lula 2022" t-shirts.A single message resounded through the crowd: "Out with Bolsonaro."Hundreds of white-clad protesters gathered in downtown Sao Paulo, the nation's economic engine, for a rally that was dwarfed by the 125,000 Bolsonaro supporters who converged on the same streets last Tuesday."We don't favor Lula or Bolsonaro here," civil engineer Ivete Ramalho, age 64, told AFP."But I'm scared about how many people came out to support a president (Bolsonaro) who has done nothing for the country, who has only brought conflict."Almost a year out from the election, polls show Lula, a former union leader who served as president from 2003 to 2010, with a sizeable lead over the incumbent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hundreds-protest-brazil-s-bolsonaro-after-week-of-tension-101631495471278.html
13-09-2021||World||UN seeks to raise $600 million for Afghanistan amid growing humanitarian crisis||The UN chief Antonio Guterres will convene a high-level humanitarian conference on Monday in an attempt to raise more than $600 million for Afghanistan amid the growing crisis in the war-torn nation. The country was thrown into turmoil after the Taliban seized power in a military takeover following the US drawdown in August.Even before the Taliban's seizure of Kabul last month, half the population of Afghanistan—or 18 million people—was dependent on aid. The figure looks set to increase due to drought, shortages of cash and food, with the United Nations officials warning about an impending crisis since the US withdrew its troops from the country.The US pullout also led to an abrupt end of billions of dollars in foreign donations, leading to an increase in pressure on the UN and its humanitarian programmes in Afghanistan.The conference to be held in Geneva, Switzerland, will be attended by top officials of the world body. It will also see participation from the head of the International Committee of the Red Cross Peter Maurer, as well as dozens of government representatives including German foreign minister Heiko Maas."Now more than ever, Afghan children, women & men need support & solidarity from the international community. I will convene a high-level humanitarian conference for Afghanistan on 13 September to advocate for a swift scale-up in funding and full, unimpeded access to those in need," Guterres tweeted last week as he announced the conference.According to a survey by the UN World Food Programme in August and September, 93 per cent of the 1,600 Afghans polled were not consuming sufficient foods, mostly because they could not get access to cash to pay for it. "It's now a race against time and the snow to deliver life-saving assistance to the Afghan people who need it most. We are quite literally begging and borrowing to avoid food stocks running out,” Anthea Webb, deputy regional director of the World Food Programme, said earlier.On September 9, UN special envoy Deborah Lyons warned that Afghanistan was in danger of "a total breakdown of the economy and social order" without an infusion of money. Lyon also cautioned that the crisis could push millions more Afghans into poverty and hunger, as he urged world leaders to come together to help Afghanistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-seeks-to-raise-600-million-for-afghanistan-amid-growing-humanitarian-crisis-101631496518979.html
13-09-2021||World||North Korea tests new long-range cruise missile: Report||North Korea says it successfully test fired what it described as newly developed long-range cruise missiles over the weekend, its first known testing activity in months, underscoring how it continues to expand its military capabilities amid a stalemate in nuclear negotiations with the United States.The Korean Central News Agency said Monday the cruise missiles, which had been under development for two years, successfully hit targets 1,500 kilometers (932 miles) away during flight tests on Saturday and Sunday.The North hailed its new missiles as a “strategic weapon of great significance” that meets leader Kim Jong Un’s call to strengthen the country’s military might, implying that they were being developed with an intent to arm them with nuclear warheads.South Korea's Joint Chiefs of Staff said the military was analyzing the North Korean launches based on US and South Korean intelligence.Kim during a congress of the ruling Workers’ Party in January doubled down on his pledge to bolster his nuclear deterrent in the face of US sanctions and pressure and issued a long wish list of new sophisticated assets, including longer-range intercontinental ballistic missiles, nuclear-powered submarines, spy satellites and tactical nuclear weapons. Kim also said then that his national defense scientists were developing “intermediate-range cruise missiles with the most powerful warheads in the world.”North Korea’s weapons tests are meant to build a nuclear and missile program that can stand up to what it claims as US and South Korean hostility, but they are also considered by outside analysts as ways to make its political demands clear to leaders in Washington and Seoul.The North’s resumption of testing activity is likely an attempt at pressuring the Biden administration over the diplomatic freeze after Kim failed to leverage his arsenal for economic benefits during the the presidency of Donald Trump.North Korea ended a yearlong pause in ballistic tests in March by firing two short-range ballistic missiles into the sea, continuing a tradition of testing new US administrations with weapons demonstrations aimed at measuring Washington’s response and wresting concessions.But there hadn’t been any known test launches for months after that as Kim focused national efforts on fending off the coronavirus and salvaging his economy.KCNA said the missiles tested over the weekend traveled for 126 minutes “along an oval and pattern-8 flight orbits” above North Korean land and waters before hitting their targets.“The test launches showed that the technical indices such as the thrust power of the newly developed turbine-blast engine, the missiles’ navigation control and the end guided hit accuracy by the combined guided mode met the requirements of designs. In all, the efficiency and practicality of the weapon system operation was confirmed to be excellent,” it said.It appeared that Kim wasn’t in attendance to observe the tests. KCNA said Kim’s top military official, Pak Jong Chon, observed the test-firings and called for the country’s defense scientists to go “all out to increase” the North’s military capabilities.Kim’s powerful sister last month hinted that North Korea was ready to resume weapons testing while issuing a statement berating the United States and South Korea for continuing their joint military exercises, which she said was the “most vivid expression of US hostile policy.”She then said the North would boost its pre-emptive strike capabilities while another senior official threatened unspecified countermeasures that would leave the allies facing a “security crisis.”The allies say the drills are defensive in nature, but they have canceled or downsized them in recent years to create space for diplomacy or in response to Covid-19.Talks between the United States and North Korea have stalled since the collapse of a summit between Trump and Kim in 2019, when the Americans rejected the North’s demand for major sanctions relief in exchange for a partial surrender of its nuclear capabilities. Kim’s government has so far rejected the Biden administration’s overtures for dialogue, demanding that Washington abandon its “hostile” policies first.The latest tests came after Kim threw an unusual parade in capital Pyongyang last week that was a marked departure from past militaristic displays, showcasing anti-virus workers in hazmat suits and civil defense organizations involved in industrial work and rebuilding communities destroyed by floods instead of missiles and other provocative weaponry.Experts said that the parade was focused on domestic unity as Kim now faces perhaps his toughest test with North Korea wrestling with US-led economic sanctions over its nuclear weapons, pandemic border closures that are causing further strain to its broken economy, and food shortages worsened by floods in recent summers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/north-korea-tests-new-long-range-cruise-missile-report-101631494856304.html
13-09-2021||World||Canada polls: Man charged with assault for throwing stones at PM Justin Trudeau||Canadian police have arrested and charged an opposition politician over an incident of throwing gravel at Prime Minister Justin Trudeau in the town of London, Ontario earlier this month during a pre-poll campaign stop.Shane Marshall, 25, resident of St Thomas, was charged with “assault with a weapon” on September 6 and appeared before a court in London town on Saturday, local police said.Marshall, until recently, led the association for the People’s Party of Canada (PPC) in his local riding or constituency. He was recently fired from his position by the party.Trudeau was uninjured in the gravel-throwing incident that occurred as he was preparing to board his campaign bus. Mediapersons accompanying him said some of them were also hit by small stones.On Friday, an unidentified man was charged by police for threatening Trudeau while he was campaigning in the town of Cambridge, Ontario in August. Trudeau has faced protests by noisy crowds at several campaign stops ahead of the September 20 snap elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canada-polls-man-charged-with-assault-for-throwing-stones-at-pm-justin-trudeau-101631491453576.html
13-09-2021||World||Afghan women can study in university but mixed classes banned||Women in Afghanistan will be allowed to study in universities as the country seeks to rebuild after decades of war but gender-segregation and Islamic dress code will be mandatory, the Taliban’s new higher education minister said on Sunday.The minister, Abdul Baqi Haqqani, said the new Taliban government would “start building the country on what exists today” and did not want to turn the clock back 20 years to when the movement was last in power.But he remained unapologetic about bringing an end to mixed sex classes. “We have no problems in ending the mixed-education system,” he said. “The people are Muslims and they will accept it.”The issue of women’s education has been one of the central questions facing the Taliban as they seek to persuade the world that they have changed since the harsh fundamentalist rule they imposed in the 1990s when women were largely banned from studying or working outside the home.Taliban have said women will be able to study and work in accordance with sharia law but strict dress rules will apply. Haqqani said hijab religious veils would be mandatory for all female students but did not specify if this meant headscarves or compulsory face coverings.He said female students would be taught by women wherever possible. “Thanks to God we have a high number of women teachers. We will not face any problems in this. All efforts will be made to find and provide women teachers for female students,” he said in Kabul.Some fear the new rules will exclude women because the universities do not have the resources to provide separate classes. “It all depends on the university’s capacity,” he said. “We can also use male teachers to teach from behind a curtain, or use technology.” Classrooms divided by curtains have already been seen in many places since the Western-backed government collapse and the Taliban seized Kabul last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghan-women-can-study-in-university-but-mixed-classes-banned-101631473240038.html
13-09-2021||World||Justin Trudeau denies asking Jody Wilson-Raybould to lie in SNC-Lavalin case||A controversy that dogged Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau in 2019 returned to prominence on Saturday as Jody Wilson-Raybould, a former attorney general in his first government, accused him of asking her to “lie” to cover up for a brewing scandal.Wilson-Raybould, who was AG and justice minister in Trudeau’s first cabinet in 2015, made the allegation in her forthcoming memoir, Indian In the Cabinet: Speaking Truth to Power, to be published on Tuesday.In the excerpts carried by the daily Globe and Mail, Wilson-Raybould recounted meetings with Justin Trudeau early 2019 as controversy swirled over an article in the same newspaper that “inappropriate” pressure was being brought upon her to allow Quebec-based firm SNC-Lavalin to cut a deal over an investigation into the bribery of Libyan officials being undertaken by the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP). In the excerpt, she writes, “In that moment, I knew he wanted me to lie - to attest that what had occurred had not occurred. Lie to protect a Crown government acting badly; a political party; a leader who was not taking responsibility.”Justin Trudeau immediately denied the charge while campaigning in the Greater Toronto Area, as he said, “I did not want her to lie. I would never do that. I would never ask her that. That is simply not true.” Jody Wilson-Raybould’s memoir was originally scheduled for publication in October, but the date was advanced and the book will become available six days before the snap elections on September 20.Jody Wilson-Raybould, the most prominent indigenous leader in Justin Trudeau’s first cabinet, was moved to veterans’ affairs in early 2019 and she resigned thereafter. Later, testifying before a House of Commons justice committee, she said, “I experienced a consistent and sustained effort by many people within the government to seek to politically interfere in the exercise of prosecutorial discretion in my role as the attorney general of Canada.” Trudeau, at that time, denied those allegations and said he “completely disagrees” with her version of events. However, those developments led to the departure of Trudeau’s closest aide in the PMO, principal secretary Gerald Butts.Trudeau was admonished on the matter by Canada’s ethics commissioner Mario Dion. In a report on the SNC-Lavalin affair in August 2019, he noted, “The prime minister, directly and through his senior officials, used various means to exert influence over Ms Wilson-Raybould.” Trudeau denied those charged as well, stating, “The commissioner took the strong view that all contact with the attorney general on this issue was improper. I disagree with that conclusion, especially when so many people’s jobs were at stake.” Trudeau’s argument for the company was that it was a major Canadian multinational and a large employer in Quebec and legal action against it would jeopardise its operations.In the book, Jody Wilson-Raybould also explains the reasons for her resignation - “There was now no trust. I had lost any belief I had in the prime minister. And there is no room in cabinet for someone who thinks the prime minister is untrustworthy. There was also no room for me in a government that would act this way on matters of core principle such as upholding the rule of law.”Trudeau countered those charges on Saturday, as he said, “I genuinely, obviously, regret how it ended up. But I don’t regret the things that I chose to do to stand up for Canadians and move forward; because every step of the way, that’s what has to guide me. That’s my responsibility as prime minister.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/justin-trudeau-denies-asking-jody-wilson-raybould-to-lie-in-snc-lavalin-case-101631472563343.html
13-09-2021||World||Canada elections: Man charged with assault for throwing stones at Justin Trudeau||Canadian police have arrested and charged an opposition politician over an incident of throwing gravel at Prime Minister Justin Trudeau in the town of London, Ontario earlier this month during a pre-poll campaign stop.Shane Marshall, 25, resident of St Thomas, was charged with “assault with a weapon” for the September 6 and appeared before a court in London town on Saturday, local police said.Marshall, until recently, led the association for the People’s Party of Canada (PPC) in his local riding or constituency. He was recently fired from his position by the PPC.Trudeau was uninjured in the September 6 gravel-throwing incident that occurred as he was preparing to board his campaign bus, and mediapersons accompanying him reported that some of them were also hit by small stones.On Friday, an unidentified man was arrested and charged by police for threatening Trudeau while he was campaigning in the town of Cambridge, Ontario in late August.Trudeau has faced protests by noisy crowds at several campaign stops ahead of the September 20 snap elections, mostly over his announcement that Covid-19 vaccines will be mandatory for public sector employees, and for travel on domestic trains and flights. Trudeau faced protests also in Surrey, British Columbia, while a campaign event in the town of Bolton, Ontario was cancelled last month due to the gathering of a large number of protesters. However, previous incidents were limited to hurling of abuses at Trudeau.Trudeau said last week that he will “not allow” such “anti-vaxxer mobs” to “dictate how this country gets through this pandemic”. Those attacks have drawn criticism from the PM’s principal rival, Conservative Party leader Erin O’Toole, who had tweeted, “This is disgusting and I condemn these actions in the strongest terms possible.”Trudeau is not the only leader to have faced an attack during his campaign. Earlier this month, PPC leader Maxime Bernier was hit with an egg at an event in Saskatoon in the province of Saskatchewan. Bernier disavowed the London incident in a tweet the day after it happened, saying, “Someone hit me with an egg last week. I note that none of the other party leaders made any statement. Some idiot threw pebbles at Mr. Trudeau yesterday. I condemn it. Words are our weapons. But physical violence is always wrong.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canada-elections-man-charged-with-assault-for-throwing-stones-at-justin-trudeau-101631426059302.html
13-09-2021||India||Citizenship an essential right: Gauhati HC in plea against foreign tribunal||Guwahati: Citizenship is an essential right and should be decided on the basis of merit by considering the material evidence cited by the person concerned, and not by way of default, the Gauhati high court observed as it set aside an ex-parte order of a foreigners’ tribunal (FT) declaring a man in Morigaon district as foreigner.The high court’s observation came while hearing a petition filed by Asor Uddin, a resident of Moirabari, challenging the decision of an FT order in April 2011 that declared him as foreigner under Section 2(a) of Foreigners Act, 1946, because he failed to submit a written statement by adducing evidence to prove his documents. “Citizenship, being an important right of a person, ordinarily, should be decided on the basis of merit by considering the material evidences that may be adduced by the person concerned and not be way of default as happened in the present case,” a division bench of justices Manish Choudhury and N Kotiswar Singh ruled in an order passed on September 9. In his plea filed through advocate M.A Sheikh, the petitioner said that he is very poor and couldn’t readily collect documents bearing names of his grandfather, father as well as his own for filing written statements before the FT. Hence, he failed to appear before it.He added that in order to earn a livelihood, he had to leave Assam and work in Kerala. The petitioner also said that he couldn’t communicate with his engaged counsel, who also failed to inform him about the subsequent dates fixed by the FT for his appearance. He pointed out that as he had appeared before the FT through his counsel on February 12, 2010, he had no intention of evading proceedings.In his plea, Asor Uddin contended that the FT, in its case, listed him as a ‘D-voter’ (doubtful voter) without proper examination of documents. However, special counsel for FT, A. Verma, said the plea should not be entertained as the petitioner himself is to be blamed for his non-appearance. She added that in the absence of the person concerned, the FT had no option but to carry forward proceedings ex-parte and declare him a foreigner as per law. Taking note of the voter lists of 1965, 1970 and 1971, which included names of the petitioner’s grandparents, parents and also his own, submitted in the court, the bench said: “There were sufficient reasons for the petitioner for not being able to appear before the FT to enable the tribunal to consider his claim on merit and accordingly, we are inclined to afford another opportunity to the petitioner to appear before the FT to prove he is an Indian, not a foreigner.” The court, however, directed Asor Uddin to appear before the Morigaon FT on or before November 8 this year for fresh proceedings. It added that since the petitioner’s citizenship “has come under cloud”, he will remain on bail during proceedings and appear before the superintendent of police within 15 days. He will also have to submit a bail bond of ₹5,000 and a surety of the same amount. If Asor Uddin fails to pay the cost or appear before the FT on or before November 8, the FT order set aside by HC will be revived and “law will take its own course”, the bench observed. The court directed the police to collect fingerprints and biometrics of the petitioner, and asked the petitioner not to leave the jurisdiction of Morigaon district without permission from the superintendent of police. As per the Assam Accord of 1985, anyone who has been staying in the state prior to March 24, 1971, or can establish lineage to people residing on or before that date is considered as an Indian citizen — a requirement also accepted for inclusion in the National Register of Citizens (NRC) updated in 2019. As many as 1.9 million people who failed to prove their or their ancestor’s residency in Assam on that date and those who were declared foreigners by foreigners’ tribunals (as well their relatives) were excluded from the NRC, potentially rendering them “stateless”. The external affairs ministry later said the process of deciding the fate of the 1.9 million people is expected to be “fairly long” and they have the right to appeal to FTs and higher courts.Assam has 100 foreigners’ tribunals, a quasi-judicial body, which adjudicates on citizenship of those people who have been marked as suspected foreigners by the border police or listed as doubtful voters (D-voters) in electoral rolls. “There have been cases where FTs have passed ex-parte orders declaring someone as foreigner. If some one doesn’t appear at hearings or provide evidence to prove citizenship, the FTs have no option but to declare a person as foreigner. But before making such an observation, it should be seen whether the process of issuing summons and other details were followed properly,” senior advocate Nekibur Zaman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/citizenship-an-essential-right-gauhati-hc-in-plea-against-foreign-tribunal-101631557651963.html
13-09-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: Sept 14, 1947 — Troops beat off mob attack on village near Delhi; miscreants snipe from houses in Daryaganj, escape||New Delhi: There was recurrence of trouble in the Daryaganj area this evening when some Muslim rioters entrenched themselves behind a house and a mosque in the Faiz Bazar area and began firing on passersby. One person was killed and two were injured. The police and the military took immediate action, overcame opposition and occupied the house. The rioters beat a hasty retreat through a back-lane. A military picket has been stationed in the area. The police today carried out a number of searches to recover arms and ammunition illegally held. A Muslim house on Barakhamba Road and another on Keeling Road were searched this morning by the police aided by the military. Some weapons are reported to have been recovered, and in one Muslim house a number of guns were found against licences issued by the N.-W.F.P. Government. A shot was fired on the occupants of 6 Keeling Road today, but the identity or the community is not known. This house has been occupied by a refugee family from Lahore. The bullet hit the window glass pane. The police is investigating the incident. Three boxes of shot-guns were recovered by the police near Nizamuddin. They came from Bombay and did not bear the name and address of the sender. They were addressed to “Abdulla.” who is not traced. At Palam aerodrome searches resulted in the confiscation of two wshot-guns which were held without any licences. A mob estimated at 25.000 yes. A military spokesman describing the incident said the mob was armed with all types of weapons. A platoon of troops broke up the mob. Fresh reinforcements have been sent to the area. The area, however, is still disturbed. A Delhi Magistrate advised the Muslims of Mehrauli to evacuated to Red Fort for their own safety, but they refused to do so. A bomb exploded in Phatak Habash Khan resulting in injuries to one person. There were two cases of arson, one in Kucha Natwan and the other in a house on Bahadurgarh Road in the area of police station Sadar Bazar. A few shops were looted in Pertain locality. Stabbing Incidents There were some stray cases of stabbing in the Babar Road area and one person is reported to have been killed. For the rest, New Delhi presented a more or less normal appearance. The shops including those of the Muslims and the shopping centres were all open. In Chandni Chowk, there was a case of booting early this morning. The police had to use tear-gas and a number of arrests were made. Except for Daryaganj, where almost all were open before the shooting incident in the evening, Old Delhi again presented a deserted appearance. Six persons, who, it is believed, took part in the rioting in Paharganj, have been arrested. One car which it is alleged was used in the Paharganj rioting has also been seized. The concentration of Muslim refugees in Jama Masjid has decreased and, as welcome sign of a partial return to normalcy, refugees were seen freely moving about in a wide area around the mosque. Warning To Rioters Stray incidents, it is reported, have occurred in which -miscreants have fired on troops patrolling the city. A major incident of this nature occurred on Thursday night when shots were fired on the troops near Purana Quila. The firing was replied to by the troops but the miscreants managed to escape. The military headquarters of the Delhi Area Command have issued a warning to all such lawbreakers that stern action will be taken to prevent such incidents in future. A similar case of firing from a house has also been reported from Ballimara6 Street in Old Delhi. Casualties admitted into Delhi hospitals on Friday totalled 54. Thirty-four bad characters were rounded up in Old Delhi and 13 in New Delhi on Friday. A large quantity of looted property was recovered. It was reported that most of the telephone operators and staff had turned up for work in Delhi and others had been requisitioned from outside. It is expected that the telephone system would be working satisfactorily in two or three days. Situation Under Control Indian Army Headquarters reported to the Emergency Committee of the Cabinet on Saturday that the Army was in control of the situation in the disturbed areas of East Punjab and Delhi. Prompt action had been taken by troops wherever incidents had occurred. Except for isolated stabbings and some cases of looting, Delhi, on the whole, has been quiet. Patrols have been strengthened in areas where tension still prevails, and in the combing out of localities where disturbances occurred, large quantities of illicit arms and ammunition have been recovered. Regarding East Punjab, the Committee was informed that although there was tension in rural areas, the movement of refugees in both directions was generally proceeding smoothly. The Committee decided that the Pakistan officials and staff, and their families, stranded in Delhi, should have the first priority in moving out. The Committee was informed that transport had been arranged and the Commander-in-Chief reported that protective escorts would be provided. Protection For Refugees The Committee directed the Delhi Emergency Committee, through its chairman, Mr Bhabha, to arrange for all refugees to be accommodated in organized and protected camps, where arrangements for food and medical attention are provided. Pandit Nehru reported that in addition to the provinces and States who have already offered to accept refugees, he had received a number of offers from individuals to receive refugee families. The list of offers has been handed over to the Ministry of Refugees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthisday-sept-14-1947-troops-beat-off-mob-attack-on-village-near-delhi-miscreants-snipe-from-houses-in-daryaganj-escape-101631556752062.html
13-09-2021||India||CRPF recovers 6 Chinese hand grenades in J&K’s Srinagar||Srinagar: The Central Reserve Police Force recovered six Chinese hand grenades from a sandbag at Bemina in Srinagar on Monday, an official said.The grenades, however, were old and were hidden in a bag filled with sand. The CRPF spokesman said: “During routine Road Opening exercise, along NH 44, the alert troopers of 73 Battalion CRPF recovered 6 Chinese grenades from a sandbag placed on the divider of the road in Bemina.” “The alacrity of troops averted an incident on the busy highway. Considering the huge rush on the highway, the grenades were not demolished in-situ,” the spokesman added. He said the grenades were handed over to the Central Reserve Police forces Bomb Disposal squad and state police for disposal adhering to safety protocols and standard operating procedure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crpfrecovers-6-chinese-hand-grenades-in-j-k-s-srinagar-101631555551431.html
13-09-2021||India||UN rights chief criticises restrictions on public gatherings, communications blackouts in J-K||UN human rights chief Michelle Bachelet on Monday criticised the use of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act across India as well as restrictions on public assembly and frequent communication blackouts in Jammu and Kashmir.In her opening statement at the 48th session of the UN Human Rights Council in Geneva, Bachelet largely focused on the impact of the “triple planetary crises of climate change, pollution and nature loss” on human rights, but also raised what she described as a “number of specific and fast-moving situations”.“Indian authorities’ restrictions on public assembly, and frequent temporary communication blackouts, continue in Jammu and Kashmir, while hundreds of people remain in detention for exercising their right to the freedom of expression, and journalists face ever-growing pressure,” the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights said.“Ongoing use of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act throughout India is worrying, with Jammu and Kashmir having among the highest number of cases in the country,” she said. While acknowledging the Indian government’s efforts to counter terrorism and promote development in Jammu and Kashmir, Bachelet said “such restrictive measures can result in human rights violations and foster further tensions and discontent”.There was no immediate response from Indian officials to Bachelet’s remarks. In the past, India has described such criticism as interference in the country’s internal matters based on an inadequate understanding of the ground situation.In the case of China, Bachelet said she was unable to report progress in her efforts to seek “meaningful access to the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region”. She said her office is finalising its assessment of the situation in Xinjiang on the basis of “available information on allegations of serious human rights violations in that region” and the findings will be made public by the end of the year.Bachelet’s speech was largely focused on the impact of climate change, pollution, and nature loss on a broad range of rights, including the “rights to adequate food, water, education, housing, health, development and even life itself”.She described displacement caused by environmental disaster as a “particularly serious phenomenon” in Asia, where the Internal Displacement Monitoring Centre reported that India, China, Bangladesh and the Philippines witnessed “more disaster displacement than all other countries combined” in 2019.The displacement in these four countries amounted to 70% of the global total and the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s report of last month presents a “troubling forecast for South Asia”, she said.“Combating and recovering from the Covid-19 pandemic will require billions of dollars to be spent on rebuilding and supporting national economies. Policy choices can direct that spending into new, green directions that tackle inequalities and stimulate innovative environmental solutions that also uphold and promote human rights,” Bachelet said. Several countries have issued new climate commitments and the European Union adopted a new climate law in June that creates a legal obligation to attain climate neutrality by 2050, and requires a 55% reduction of EU-wide greenhouse gas emissions from their 1990 levels. Bachelet noted it wouldn’t be easy achieving these targets as it would mean that EU member states must reduce emissions in the next eight years by more than what was achieved in the last three decades.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/un-rights-chief-criticises-restrictions-on-public-gatherings-communications-blackouts-in-jk-101631553813706.html
13-09-2021||India||India stands by Afghan people, provided it has unfettered access: Jaishankar||External affairs minister S Jaishankar made it clear at a UN meeting that India is ready to send humanitarian aid to Afghan people as in the past but it should have unrestricted access and the aid should be distributed to all sections of society. He said India had always stood and would stand with Afghan people but humanitarian aid should be unfettered.He said only the United Nations had the capacity to monitor such endeavours and reassure donors.Addressing a high-level meeting of the United Nations on the humanitarian situation in the war-ravaged country, Jaishankar called for the global community to help create the best possible enabling environment in the country.Given the grave emerging situation in the neighbouring country, India was willing to stand by the Afghan people just as it had done in the past, the external affairs minister said. However, among the challenges that the current situation posed was that of efficient logistics, he added.“It is therefore essential that humanitarian assistance providers are accorded unimpeded, unrestricted and direct access to Afghanistan. Once relief materials reach that country, the world will naturally expect a non-discriminatory distribution of humanitarian assistance across all sections of the Afghan society. Only the United Nations has the capacity to monitor such endeavours and reassure donors,” he said.Guided by historical ties, India's friendship with Afghanistan was reflected in the development projects that had been undertaken in all 34 provinces of the country.“In all, we have invested more than $3 billion for the welfare of the people of Afghanistan. We have undertaken 500 projects in critical areas of power, water supply, road connectivity, healthcare, education, agriculture and capacity building,” he added.Jaishankar said India was monitoring developments with “understandable concern” in Afghanistan following its takeover by the Taliban. As the war-torn country was passing through a critical and challenging phase, there was an imminent threat of rising poverty levels and the same could have a catastrophic effect on regional stability, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-stands-by-afghan-people-provided-it-has-unfettered-access-jaishankar-101631547676071.html
13-09-2021||India||‘Samples of 17 close contacts of deceased have tested negative for Nipah’, says Kerala health minister||The samples of 17 close contacts of the 12-year-old boy who succumbed to Nipah virus in Kerala’s Kozhikode have tested negative for the infection, state health minister Veena George said on Monday. George added that with the addition of the 17 samples, a total of 140 samples have tested negative for the virus so far.“17 more people have tested negative for Nipah virus. Samples of a total of 140 people have been found negative,” George told reporters.The minister said that of the 17 samples, five were tested at the Pune-based National Institute of Virology (NIV) while the rest were sent to a special laboratory set up at the Kozhikode Medical College.A special laboratory was set up at the medical college on September 6, a day after the 12-year-old succumbed to the virus. George said the lab at Kozhikode has tested a total of 115 samples in six days. High risk contacts of the deceased have also been isolated in the Kozhikode medical college hospital and their condition is stable.The Kerala government has undertaken a house-to-house survey within a 3km-radius of the house of the deceased. Around 15,000 houses were included in the containment zone and details were sought from around 68,000 people, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan informed last Friday.State health authorities said earlier that they had very little information on the source of the virus but like earlier cases fruit bats were suspected to be the reason.On Saturday, a team from Pune’s NIV had collected samples from fruit-eating bats to find the source of the Nipah Virus in Kozhikode.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/samples-of-17-close-contacts-of-deceased-have-tested-negative-for-nipah-says-kerala-health-minister-101631550338956.html
13-09-2021||India||At UN high-level meeting on Afghanistan, Jaishankar reiterates India’s commitment||India on Monday reiterated its commitment to stand by the people of Afghanistan and called for “non-discriminatory” and direct distribution of humanitarian assistance through the United Nations at a time when the war-torn country is going through a critical phase.Addressing a high-level meeting on the humanitarian situation in Afghanistan convened by UN Secretary-General António Guterres, external affairs minister S Jaishankar underlined the need for humanitarian assistance providers to be given “unimpeded, unrestricted and direct access” to the country.“Once relief materials reach that country, the world will naturally expect a non-discriminatory distribution of humanitarian assistance across all sections of the Afghan society. Only the United Nations has the capacity to monitor such endeavours and reassure donors,” Jaishankar said.“Today, I wish to underline that in the face of a grave emerging situation, India is willing to stand by the Afghan people, just as in the past,” he added.The world community must come together to create the “best possible enabling environment” for helping the Afghan people and addressing challenges such as efficient logistics in the current situation.With no formal recognition yet of the interim setup created by the Taliban following their takeover of Afghanistan on August 15, India and other countries are reluctant to see aid being sent directly to the Taliban. Several nations have called for all aid to be routed through the UN and international bodies.“As the picture becomes clear in respect of the legitimate concerns, I am confident that the world will step forward and assist the Afghan people in their hour of need,” Jaishankar said without giving details. He noted that India has “consistently supported a central role” for the UN in the future of Afghanistan.“A multilateral platform is always more effective than small groups in building global consensus and encouraging united action,” he said, adding that India, as an immediate neighbour, is monitoring developments in Afghanistan with “understandable concern”.Jaishankar noted the issue of travel and safe passage “can emerge as an obstacle to humanitarian assistance” and should be “immediately sorted out”. He said, “Those who wish to travel into and out of Afghanistan should be granted such facilities without obstruction. “The normalisation of regular commercial operations of Kabul airport would not only assist in that regard, but then become the basis for a regular flow of relief material.”Jaishankar said UN Security Council resolution 2593, which was passed at a meeting held under India’s presidency of the body last month, should guide the world community’s approach towards Afghanistan in the coming days. He also recalled India’s role as the largest regional donor for reconstruction and development efforts in Afghanistan, with pledges totalling $3 billion in recent years. India’s approach to Afghanistan has always been guided by its “historical friendship with its people” and this will continue to be the case, he said. India’s contributions to the humanitarian requirements of Afghan society have included providing more than one million metric tonnes of wheat to Afghanistan over the past decade. Last year, India shipped 75,000 metric tonnes of wheat to Afghanistan via Iran’s Chabahar port. India’s efforts are also reflected in some 500 development projects in all 34 provinces of Afghanistan in critical areas such as power, water supply, road connectivity, healthcare, education, agriculture and capacity-building.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-un-high-level-meeting-on-afghanistan-jaishankar-reiterates-india-s-commitment-101631550392308.html
13-09-2021||India||Average daily income from cultivation was ₹27 per day in 2018-19||An Indian farmer earned ₹27 per day on average from cultivation in 2018-19. This is less than what he would have earned doing MGNREGS work through the year.These numbers underline the magnitude of the viability crisis in Indian agriculture.India’s inability to shift a large part of its workforce from agriculture to non-agricultural work, especially manufacturing, is considered one of the biggest failures of its economic policy. Agriculture is considered to be the employment of last resort in India. This became apparent during the lockdown last year, when share of agricultural employment increased for the first time in India (read.ht/J9kZ).Markets, however, always find a way to surprise. The latest Situation Assessment Survey (SAS) – it is the most comprehensive official survey on economic conditions of farmers in the country – published by the National Statistical Office (NSO) on September 10, and first reported by Hindustan Times on September 11, presents one such surprise.SAS – it was conducted in calender year 2019 and collected data for the July 2018-June 2019 period – shows a unique contradiction in the Indian economy. Agriculture continues to be the largest employer . The corresponding Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS) for 2018-19 put the share of agricultural employment at 42.5%. But cultivation of crops – the activity considered synonymous with agriculture by most people – is no longer the largest source of income for the average Indian farmer or agricultural household (more on this later).Experts believe the declining share of cultivation in the overall income of farmers highlights the marginalisation of farming itself within the Indian economy. This is a development that does not bode well for private investment in improving farm yields and ensuring sustainability.Almost half of India’s rural households have insignificant stakes in agricultureSAS estimates that there are 93.1 million agricultural households in rural India. It also lists another 79.3 million non-agricultural households in rural India (SAS is a rural survey). An agricultural household is defined as one which produced field or horticultural crops, livestock, or other specified agricultural products worth more than ₹4,000 and had a member self-employed in agriculture in the 365 days preceding the survey.This means that almost half of India’s rural population does not even have the minimal economic stakes in agriculture, which is what it takes to qualify as an agricultural household. Almost all (99%) of non-agricultural households possess less than one hectare of land and the major source of income for almost half of them is from casual employment. Approximately one in five non-agricultural households reported having salaried work, which might be a sign of economic well-being – salaried employment is the highest paying kind of work in India – rather than distress. Cultivation incomes are losing importance even for agricultural householdsSelf-employment in cultivation and animal farming is the largest source of income for 71% of the estimated 93.1 million agricultural households . An average agricultural household earned a smaller share of its total income from cultivation (38%) than from wages (40%). Unfortunately, SAS surveys are not conducted as regularly as NSO’s employment and consumption surveys. So, a proper historical comparison of the declining importance of cultivation is not possible. However, in the last SAS round, which collected data for the July 2012-June 2013 period, the share of income from cultivation in total income was 48%. While cultivation incomes were not an overwhelming majority of farmers’ incomes even earlier, this is the first instance where cultivation is not even the largest source of income for India’s agricultural households. An MGNREGS worker can earn more than the average farmer in IndiaThe Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) provides guaranteed unskilled work for hundred days in a year in India’s villages on demand. Wages under MGNREGS are slightly below par with unskilled wages in the open market. This makes the programme very good at self-targeting. Only those who find nowhere else to work will ask for manual work under MGNREGS.In the traditional village hierarchy, an MGNREGS worker will be seen as the poorest of the poor. SAS shows that for all but five states, average income from cultivation per agricultural household is actually less than what MGNREGS work would theoretically pay in 365 days.The average wage under the MGNREGS for each month by states is available from the scheme’s public data portal. This can be used to calculate annual earnings for an MGNREGS worker if that work was available on all 365 days in the July 2018-June 2019 period, when SAS was carried out. The potential earning numbers under MGNREGS in 23 out of 28 states is higher than the average annual income from cultivation per agricultural household given in SAS. To be sure, it is higher than the total income of an agricultural household in only Jharkhand and Odisha. At the all-India level, average annual income from cultivation per agricultural household would be 0.7 times potential MGNREGS wages in 365 days. This comparison does not include income from sources other than cultivation. Whither “progressive farmer”?The SAS report gives detailed accounts of receipts and expenses for agricultural households reporting crop production. This balance-sheet, however, does not include investment spending, which is important for augmenting yields.Summary statistics present a dismal picture. Paid out expenses, as a share of receipts, rise as cultivation incomes increase with land-size. This suggests diseconomies, rather than economic of scale in farming, as it is practised in India.Net incomes, i.e. receipts less expenses, left an average of ₹816.5 per person per month or ₹27 per person per day for agricultural households. The average household size for agricultural household given in the SAS report is 4.9. Even if one person of the agricultural household worked on average MGNREGS wages of ₹179.7 a day throughout the year – farming normally occupies more than one member of the household – per person daily incomes would have been ₹36.7. This makes it clear that cultivation leaves very little surplus for long-term investment “The latest SAS report clearly shows that farming is an economic burden rather than a gainful activity. Per person daily earnings of ₹27 from farming makes older poverty lines, which were criticised as being too low, look good” said Himanshu, an associate professor of economics at Jawaharlal Nehru University. “That this has happened under a government that promised to double farm incomes and claims to offer guaranteed returns through Minimum Support Prices, speaks volumes about the efficacy of agricultural policy. These numbers also show the pointlessness of trying to offer small cash transfers instead of focusing on the larger viability crisis in farming.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/average-daily-income-from-cultivation-was-27-per-day-in-201819-101631550090909.html
13-09-2021||India||Indian Army display firepower, air stunts at Zapad 2021; China & Pakistan watch||The Indian Army contingent of personnel from the Naga Regiment and Mechanised Infantry and commandos of the Indian Air Force on Monday participated at the multi-nation strategic drills, Zapad 2021, at Nizhniy in Russia.The Indian Army posted on it official Twitter handle that the contingent carried out a joint rehearsal of the Special Heliborne Operation (SHBO) on Sunday for the final validation of the Zapad 2021 exercise, which will continue till September 16.Exercise #ZAPAD2021#IndianArmy contingent participating in Multi Nation Exercise #ZAPAD2021 carried out a joint rehearsal of Special Heliborne Operation #SHBO for the final validation Exercise of #ZAPAD2021.#IndianArmy#StrongAndCapable pic.twitter.com/VkVakTNl80Russian President Vladimir Putin attended the main stage of the Zapad 2021 Russian-Belarusian joint strategic drills at the Mulino testing ground at Nizhny Novgorod earlier in the day, according to Russian news agency TASS.During the main stage of the exercises, Russian army units, jointly with military contingents from military contingents of the armed forces of Armenia, Belarus, India, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, and Mongolia are taking part in practical actions as part of the coalition group of troops, to conduct flexible defense, to deliver targeted fire attack and crush the enemy.Interestingly, while India showcased its military prowess at the war game, Pakistan and China were among the 'observer' nations along with Vietnam, Malaysia, Bangladesh, Myanmar, Uzbekistan and Sri Lanka.The joint strategic exercise of the armed forces of the Russian Federation and the Republic of Belarus takes place every two years in accordance with the decision taken by the heads of the two states.The Zapad 2021 exercise is the final stage of joint training of the armed forces of the Republic of Belarus and the Russian Federation in 2021.A release by the ministry of defence of the Russian Federation said on Monday elaborated on the methodology of performing combat training tasks. It said that the mehodology is based on the experience of recent armed conflicts, as well as new methods of action of troops and forces that have proven themselves during combat training events.“The draw will use the method of a through attack, which is the most difficult type of training of troops (forces) and requires precise and coordinated actions from the opposing sides. For the first time, reconnaissance and fire support robots Uran-9 multifunctional robotic complexes, prototypes of BMP B-19 infantry fighting vehicles with the Epokha combat module, mixed mobile air defense groups to combat unmanned aerial vehicles will be used,” the Russian military said in the statement.Ex #Zapad: Attack Heptr saying “Hello”.The exercise aims at strengthening long standing strategic partnership between #India and #Russia and also enhance better understanding, cooperation with all other participating Nations.@IndEmbMoscow @adgpi @indiatvnews pic.twitter.com/WFKXLVBHDV“In the fire defeat of a mock enemy, all types of aviation equipment in service with the Russian Aerospace Forces will be involved, attack UAVs, artillery, rocket and multiple launch rocket systems as part of reconnaissance, shock and fire complexes, high-precision ammunition, heavy flamethrower systems TOS-1, an engineering reconnaissance and fire complex of engineering systems for remote mining,” it added.Zapad 2021 will focus primarily on operations against terrorists, the Indian Army said in a recent statement. “The Naga battalion group participating in the exercise will feature an all arms combined task force. The exercise aims to enhance military and strategic ties amongst the participating nations while they plan and execute this exercise,” it further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-army-display-firepower-air-stunts-at-zapad-2021-china-pakistan-watch-101631546972208.html
13-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: India's cumulative Covid-19 vaccine coverage crosses 75 crore and all the latest news||WHO congratulates India for administering over 75 crore Covid-19 vaccine dosesIndia’s cumulative vaccination coverage against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Monday surpassed the 75 crore-mark, an official statement by the Union ministry of health and family welfare read. Read MoreNIA takes over case of bomb attack outside house of Bengal BJP MP Arjun SinghThe National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Monday took over the case of bomb 'attacks' outside the house Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) parliamentarian Arjun Singh's house on the outskirts of Kolkata. Read MoreNegative in 9 Covid tests, man may be source of new outbreak in ChinaA Chinese national who completed 28 days in quarantine including three weeks at a centralised isolation, after returning from Singapore and tested negative for nine nucleic acid and one serum tests during the four weeks. Read MoreIndia captain Virat Kohli opens up for the first time after cancelled 5th Test against EnglandIndia captain Virat Kohli opened up for the first time after the fifth India vs England Test match in Manchester was cancelled due to Covid-19 fears in the Indian camp. Read MoreY The Last Man review: Yawn-inducing post-apocalyptic show disrespects celebrated source materialWith title sequence music that sounds an awful lot like the song Butterfly by Crazy Town, every episode of Y: The Last Man begins by first putting a smirk on your face. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-india-s-cumulative-covid-19-vaccine-coverage-crosses-75-crore-and-all-the-latest-news-101631545357275.html
13-09-2021||India||‘One of the tallest leaders of Congress’: Manmohan Singh condoles Oscar Fernandes’ death, writes to his wife||Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh reached out to erstwhile Union Minister Oscar Fernandes’ wife Blossom Fernandes to condole his death. Fernandes, a Congress veteran, passed away on Monday at a private hospital in Mangalore due to age-related ailments.“I was deeply shocked and saddened to learn about the sudden and untimely demise of our beloved Shri Oscar Fernandes today. With his hard work, pleasant nature and popularity he became one of the tallest leaders of the Congress Party from Karnataka who helped the Congress Party in making many important decisions,” Singh wrote.Fernandes, who served as the Union minister of labour and employment in the first United Progressive Alliance government, was a strong backroom man who also served as the All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary. He was known among the Congress workers for working 16-17 hours a day to get his party ready for elections. “When he was working in the party, the AICC office wouldn’t close before 3am,” senior Congress leader BK Hariprasad said in remembrance of Fernandes.Singh remembered how popular Fernandes was amongst the common people, who elected him to the Lok Sabha as their representatives five times. “His popularity among the common people of Karnataka is evident from the fact that Oscarji was elected five times to the Lok Sabha and two times to the Rajya Sabha,” Singh wrote.“He was a gifted leader and an efficient administrator who served as a minister in the Central Government in the UPA Government. His services to the country, especially to the state of Karnataka, will always be remembered by the people of our country,” the former Prime Minister added.Singh extended his wife Gursharan Kaur’s condolences to the late minister’s family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-of-the-tallest-leaders-of-congress-manmohan-singh-condoles-oscar-fernandes-death-writes-to-his-wife-101631545721667.html
13-09-2021||India||With Covid-19 cases dipping, Kerala eases restrictions||With Covid-19 cases dipping, the Kerala government has decided to open zoos and museums across the state from September 14 after five months and asked government employees to attend their offices six days a week, officials said. When cases peaked, government employees were directed to come to their offices on alternate days which was later increased to five days a week. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will chair the core committee meeting on the pandemic on Tuesday to announce more concessions, a spokesman of the government said. Hotel and bars are likely to be opened with strict restrictions, he said. Meanwhile, the state reported 15,058 Covid-19 cases on Monday with a test positivity rate of 16.69 per cent after 91,885 samples were tested, said the state health ministry. It also reported 99 deaths, taking the total toll to 22,650 while active cases came down to 2,08,773. Among two lakh-odd patients, about 13 per cent are hospitalised and 40 per cent of the state’s ICU beds are vacant, it said. Thrissur district reported the maximum number of cases with 2158 infections followed by Kozhikode at 1800 and Ernakulam at 1694 cases. Northern district Kasaragod reported the lowest with 452 cases. The state has vaccinated about 80 per cent of the eligible population, it said. Covid-19 cases have started dipping in the last week after a peak. About two weeks back, the state reported 28,000 average cases weekly, contributing about 70 per cent of total cases. When in the rest of India cases shrunk considerably, in Kerala cases went up alarmingly affecting the national tally. Experts said cases will further stabilise by the month-end.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-covid-19-cases-dipping-kerala-eases-restrictions-101631545291989.html
13-09-2021||India||WHO congratulates India for administering over 75 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses||India’s cumulative vaccination coverage against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Monday surpassed the 75 crore-mark, an official statement by the Union ministry of health and family welfare read.World Health Organisation’s (WHO) South-East Asia regional director Dr Poonam Khetrapal Singh congratulated India for achieving the feat at an ‘unprecedented pace.’“While it took 85 days to administer the first 100 million (10 crore) doses, India reached 750 million (75 crore) doses from 650 million (65 crore) in just 13 days,” she was quoted as saying in a tweet by WHO South-East Asia.
13-09-2021||India||Afghan crisis can have catastrophic effect on regional stability: Jaishankar||External affairs minister S Jaishankar said India was monitoring developments with “understandable concern” in Afghanistan following its takeover by the Taliban. Stating that the war-torn country was passing through a critical and challenging phase, Jaishankar said there was an imminent threat to rising poverty levels and the same could have a catastrophic effect on regional stability.Jaishankar, who spoke at the United Nations High-Level Meeting on the Humanitarian Situation in Afghanistan on Monday, said, “Afghanistan is passing through a critical and challenging phase. There's been a sea change in its political, economic, social and security situation & consequently, in its humanitarian needs.”Also read | ‘Concern about inclusiveness’: Jaishankar on Afghanistan dispensation“As an immediate neighbour, India is monitoring developments with understandable concern. The UNDP recently assessed that there is an imminent threat of poverty levels rising from 72 per cent to 97 per cent. This would have catastrophic consequences for regional stability,” the EAM was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Jaishankar is slated to travel to Tajikistan later this week to participate in a key meeting on Afghanistan and hold talks with counterparts from several countries, including Iran, on the rapidly evolving situation in the war-torn country.Guided by historical ties, India was willing to stand by the Afghan people in their hour of crisis, as it had done in the past, the external minister further said. He also called on the global community to help create the best possible enabling environment in the country.“Our friendship is reflected in development projects in all 34 (Afghan) provinces. In face of grave emergency situation, India is willing to stand by Afghan people, as in the past.”Also read | India’s only investment in Afghanistan is on its people, will get full-value in return: Jaishankar“India's own approach to Afghanistan has been guided by historical friendship with its people. This will continue to be the case. Even in the past, we have contributed to the humanitarian needs of that society,” Jaishankar said.Speaking on safe passage of those willing to leave the war-ravaged nation, the issue needed to be immediately sorted out having a potential to emerge as an obstacle to humanitarian assistance. “Those who wish to travel in and out of Afghanistan should be granted such facilities without obstruction,” he said at the meeting.“The normalisation of regular commercial operations of Kabul airport would not only assist in that regard but then become the basis of a regular flow of relief material. This would also accelerate activities that would complement domestic relief measures,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afghan-crisis-can-have-catastrophic-effect-on-regional-stability-jaishankar-101631542900351.html
13-09-2021||India||‘Citizenship an important right’: Gauhati HC cancels tribunal’s foreigner order||GUWAHATI: The Gauhati high court has set aside an ex-parte order by a foreigner’s tribunal (FT) declaring a resident of Morigaon district as a foreigner, holding that citizenship was an important right of a person, which the tribunal should have decided on merits.The ruling by the division bench of justices Manish Choudhury and N Kotiswar Singh came on a petition by Asor Uddin, a resident of Moirabari in Morigaon district 70 km from state capital Dispur, against the tribunal’s verdict.The Morigaon tribunal is among Assam’s 100 such quasi-judicial bodies that are mandated to adjudicate on the citizenship of those people who have been marked as suspected foreigners by the border police or listed as doubtful voters (D-voters) in electoral rolls.Asor Uddin pleaded that the Morigaon FT declared him a foreigner under the Foreigners Act 1946 because he missed hearings at the tribunal due to a communication gap and took time to produce evidence to establish his citizenship.“Citizenship, being an important right of a person, ordinarily, should be decided on the basis of merit by considering the material evidence that may be adduced by the person concerned and not by way of default as happened in the present case,” the bench said in its judgment on September 9. HT reviewed the verdict on Monday.The judges gave the petitioner time till November 8 to appear before the foreigners’ tribunal to establish his citizenship. The high court also ordered him to submit a bail bond of ₹5,000 and a surety of the same amount since his citizenship “has come under a cloud”. He was also told to pay ₹5,000 as costs to the tribunal.The high court said if Asor Uddin failed to pay up or appear before the foreigners’ tribunal on or before November 8, the order set aside by the high court will be revived and “law will take its own course”. In Assam, as per the Assam Accord of 1985, anyone who has been staying in the state prior to March 24, 1971, or can establish lineage to people residing on or before that date is considered as Indian citizen—a requirement also accepted for inclusion in the National Register of Citizens (NRC) updated in 2019.Names of around 1.9 million people who failed to prove their or their ancestor’s residency in Assam on that date and those who were declared foreigners by foreigners’ tribunals (as well their relatives) have been excluded from the NRC. In his petition, Asor Uddin said he took time to collect the documents required to prove his citizenship and his lawyer failed to inform him about the dates fixed by the tribunal.Asor Uddin also stressed that he was incorrectly classified as a D-voter since he worked in Kerala to earn his livelihood. The petitioner said he did appear before the tribunal on February 12, 2010 and did not intend to evade its proceedings.A Verma, special counsel appearing for the tribunal, insisted that the tribunal did not have any option but to go ahead with the proceedings due to his continued absence.“There were sufficient reasons for the petitioner for not being able to appear before the FT to enable the tribunal to consider his claim on merit and accordingly, we are inclined to afford another opportunity to the petitioner to appear before the FT to prove he is an Indian, not a foreigner,” the high court ruled setting aside the FT’s order.The court also directed the police to collect fingerprints and biometrics of the petitioner. It also asked the petitioner not to leave the jurisdiction of the Morigaon district without permission from the superintendent of police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/citizenship-an-important-right-gauhati-hc-cancels-tribunal-s-foreigner-order-101631540669659.html
13-09-2021||India||Maha CM Thackeray announces ₹10 lakh aid for family of Sakinaka rape victim||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday announced a compensation of ₹10 lakh for the family of the brutal rape assault victim from Mumbai’s Sakinaka area. The rape and murder of the 32-year-old woman in the country’s financial capital has sent shockwaves across the spectrum.The chief minister has also convened an urgent meeting at the office of director general of police. Besides senior key police officers, home minister Dilip Walse Patil, chief secretary Sitaram Kunte and additional chief secretary Manu Kumar Shrivastava are attending the meeting.The CM is taking stock of the situation as concerns are being raised over the safety of women.The victim who was raped and attacked with an iron rod on Friday night lost her life’s battle on Saturday while undergoing treatment at Rajawadi hospital.Since then, opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has intensified its criticism of the Shiv Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-cm-thackeray-announces-rs-10-lakh-aid-for-family-of-sakinaka-rape-victim-101631538387833.html
13-09-2021||India||Karnataka Cong members arrive on bullock carts in protest against rising fuel, LPG prices||The senior leadership of the Congress party in Karnataka on Monday travelled on bullock carts till Vidhana Soudha on the first day of the monsoon session as a mark of protest against the price of fuel and gas under the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre.Siddaramaiah, the Congress’s leader of the opposition, and state party president DK Shivakumar arrived on bullock carts to the Vidhana Soudha, commuting several kilometres from their respective homes along with other seniors and party workers.Hundreds joined the protest march with no social distancing or masks at a time when the state stares at another wave of Covid-19 infections.“Each morning the BJP government is trying to pick the pockets of the people. This is a pickpocket government,” Shivakumar said.The protest comes at a time when several states and the population, in general, have raised their voices against the increasing prices of all commodities as a result of the increase in petrol and diesel prices that have breached the ₹100 mark.Shivakumar said that the party demands the petrol and diesel prices be reduced by at least ₹25 while LPG rates should be reduced by ₹150.The timing of the increase has dealt a heavy blow on individuals and businesses alike who are yet to recover from the repeated blows due to the pandemic-related lockdowns and increasing restrictions on movement.The BJP government at the Centre and the Basavaraj Bommai-led administration in Karnataka have turned down demands to reduce the prices of fuel and LPG.“We will raise the issue in the assembly and will also continue our struggle against the government of Karnataka and the government of India as well,” Siddaramaiah said.The protests kicked off the monsoon session of the Karnataka legislature on Monday, adding to the pressure on the Bommai government which faces several contentious issues, including the caste census row and increasing threats of agitation by dominated and backward communities over reservation-related demands.B Sriramulu, Karnataka’s transport and Scheduled Tribe Welfare minister, on Monday called the protests by the Congress “gimmicks” done for “free publicity”.“I will ask the Congress leaders one question. They were in power for 60 years and I want to ask them what did they do?” Sriramulu said in Vidhana Soudha on Monday.“If you have any concern for India, whichever states that you are in power, will you be able to reduce VAT in these states?” the minister said, posing a challenge to the Congress party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-cong-members-arrive-on-bullock-carts-in-protest-against-rising-fuel-lpg-prices-101631538571393.html
13-09-2021||India||ED summons Bengal law minister Moloy Ghatak to Delhi in ‘coal smuggling’ case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has summoned West Bengal law minister Moloy Ghatak in connection with an alleged coal smuggling case. The senior Trinamool Congress legislator has been asked to appear before the federal agency on Tuesday.Enforcement Directorate summons West Bengal Law minister Moloy Ghatak on 14th September in an alleged coal smuggling case.The ED has also issued a fresh summon on Trinamool Congress national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee for questioning on September 21 in the smuggling case.The Lok Sabha MP, who was quizzed for nine hours in Delhi on September 6, had earlier said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) would not be able to come to power in Bengal by using probe agencies against leaders of the ruling camp.Also read | CBI questions Bengal industry minister in I-Core chit fund caseThe nephew of chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew was summoned for the second time on September 8 but he had informed the ED that he was unable to travel from Kolkata at such short notice.The ED had initiated a parallel investigation after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) launched a probe in the coal smuggling case last year.It is alleged that illegally mined coal worth crores have been sold in the black market over several years by a racket operating in the western parts of Bengal where the Eastern Coalfields Limited runs several mines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-summons-bengal-law-minister-moloy-ghatak-in-coal-smuggling-case-101631535096104.html
13-09-2021||India||War of words over ‘narcotics jihad’ rages on in Kerala||The war of words over Pala Bishop Joseph Kallarangatt’s ‘narcotics jihad’ jibe continues to rage in Kerala, with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) demanding security for the religious head and the Congress alleging the issue will allow the Sangh Parivar a foothold in the state. Congress has asked the government to convene a meeting of different community leaders before the issue escalates into a flashpoint with VD Satheesan alleging that the government was waiting for Sangh Parivar outfits to hijack the issue. The BJP state unit has written to home minister Amit Shah to provide security to the Bishop. Party national spokesperson Tom Vadakkan said, “He has voiced a genuine concern prevailing in the community. It is the voice of the victims of ‘love jihad’ and narco- terrorism. The state government can’t remain in denial.” Minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan, who hails from the state, also criticised the attack on the Bishop. “Narcotic jihad is not a new term. Even world bodies said proceed from narcotics was a major source of terror funding,” he said, alleging that a planned move to silence the Bishop was afoot. Goa Governor Sreedharan Pillai also supported the religious head. “It seems the Bishop has aired his concern and no one needs to go beyond what he said. I hope CM Pinarayi Vijayan will talk to him and clear his concern,” said Pillai who enjoys a rapport with the heads of many Christian sects and was instrumental in the Centre’s move to broker peace between the warring sects of Jacobites and Orthodox Church last year. Though the Nair Service Society (NSS), a socio-cultural wing of the Nair community, has supported the Bishop, it said the issue shouldn’t have been give a communal colour. “It is a fact that girls are being lured by love and converted subsequently...But it is not fair to attribute it to any religion,” said NSS in a statement, urging the government for an independent investigation into the Bishop’s charges. Addressing a religious congregation in a church in Kuravilangad (Kottayam) last Thursday, Bishop Kallaranghatt said young Catholics were becoming victims of a ‘narcotic jihad’ perpetrated by a section of society. Many, including chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and the Congress, have criticised the Bishop for making a sweeping statement, but the Kerala Catholic Bishops’ Council, the highest body of Catholics in the state, has rallied behind him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/war-of-words-over-narcotics-jihad-rages-on-in-kerala-101631535450053.html
13-09-2021||India||From Modi to Yogi, BJP wishes Bhupendra Patel after he takes oath as Gujarat CM||Bhupendra Patel was on Monday sworn-in as the new chief minister of Gujarat, succeeding Vijay Rupani – who resigned from the chair late on Saturday. Patel has become the 17th chief minister of the state, and at the oath taking ceremony, Union home minister Amit Shah and chief ministers of other Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled states were present. Following the oath-taking ceremony, Prime Minister Narendra Modi took to Twitter to congratulate Patel and expressed confidence that the latter will “certainly enrich Gujarat’s growth trajectory.” Apart from Modi, several other prominent BJP leaders also took to the micro-blogging site to congratulate the first-time legislator for becoming the new chief minister of Gujarat. Here are some of the reactions:1. Besides congratulating Patel, Modi praised the former chief minister of Gujarat Vijay Rupani for “working tirelessly for all sections of society,” and undertaking “people-friendly measures.” “I am certain he will continue to contribute to public service in the times to come,” the Prime Minister’s tweet further read.During his five years as CM, Vijay Rupani Ji has undertaken many people-friendly measures. He worked tirelessly for all sections of society. I am certain he will continue to contribute to public service in the times to come. @vijayrupanibjpCongratulations to Bhupendra Bhai on taking oath as CM of Gujarat. I have known him for years and have seen his exemplary work, be it in the BJP Organisation or in civic administration and community service. He will certainly enrich Gujarat’s growth trajectory. @Bhupendrapbjp2. Shah also took to the micro-blogging site after the oath-taking ceremony of Bhupendra Patel to congratulate him. He said he has faith that under the “leadership” of Modi, Patel will take Gujarat’s development journey to “new heights by working with full devotion and dedication for the welfare of the poor, farmers and underprivileged sections of the state.”
13-09-2021||India||WHO approval for Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin likely this week: Report||The World Health Organization (WHO) is likely to grant approval to India’s indigenously manufactured Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin, for an emergency use listing (EUL), this week, sources told news agency ANI on Monday.Covaxin, which is manufactured by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), has been on the pipeline for approval since July, after the manufacturer submitted all of the documentation needed for WHO's EUL on July 9.“All documents required for EUL of Covaxin have been submitted to WHO as of July 9. The review process has now commenced with the expectation that we will receive EUL from WHO at the earliest," Dr Krishna Ella, chairman and managing director of Bharat Biotech, had said on Twitter.Suchitra Ella, Bharat Biotech's co-founder and joint managing director, had said in early July that the UN health body’s approval is not expected to be a "long-drawn process".After receiving Bharat Biotech’s documentation WHO chief scientist Dr Soumya Swaminathan had said that the final approval will be granted in four to six weeks.“There is a process to be followed for approval. Companies have to submit their safety data, complete trial data, and even manufacturing quality data for approval. Bharat Biotech has already started submitting the data and the dossier is being assessed. It is the next vaccine to be reviewed by our committee. There will be a decision on inclusion in the next four to six weeks,” Swaminathan said during a webinar on July 9.Covaxin was found to be nearly 77.8% effective against symptomatic Covid-19 cases in final phase 3 trials, according to Bharat Biotech. As per the data submitted by the manufacturer, the vaccine was found to be 63% effective against asymptomatic cases, and 65% effective in countering the Delta variant. Swaminathan had remarked that the third phase trial results of Covaxin “looks good” and meets the safety profile of the international public health agency so far.An EUL approval will bring relief to Indians who have travelled or will be travelling abroad and to citizens of at least 12 other countries where the vaccine was administered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-approval-for-bharat-biotech-s-covaxin-likely-this-week-report-101631533717625.html
13-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Jaishankar to participate in key meeting on Afghanistan and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.EAM Jaishankar to participate in key meeting on Afghanistan this weekExternal affairs minister S Jaishankar will travel to Tajikistan this week to participate in a key meeting on Afghanistan and hold talks with counterparts from several countries, including Iran, on the rapidly evolving situation in the war-torn country. Read more.CBI questions Bengal industry minister in I-Core chit fund caseA three-member team of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) questioned West Bengal industry minister Partha Chatterjee for two hours on Monday in connection with the I-Core chit fund case. An officer said on condition of anonymity that the agency was in possession of some video clips showing Chatterjee at a public event with Anukul Maity, the managing director of I-Core, who was arrested over alleged money-laundering of deposits received from investors in 2015. Read more.2,097 govt personnel died of Covid during election duty in UPA fresh tabulation by the Uttar Pradesh government has revealed that 2,097 government personnel died of Covid-19 infections while on duty in the three-tier panchayat election in April in the state, and a large number of them were teachers. Read more.'Players feared they must've contracted the disease, were dead scared': Ganguly on why India didn't play Manchester TestSourav Ganguly, president of the BCCI, has broken his silence over India's decision to sit out the 5th Test of the series against England on Friday. Ganguly dismissed theories and reports that the decision to opt out of the Manchester Test was due to the IPL and instead revealed that it was indeed because of the Covid scare that hit the Indian camp. Read more.BMW India launches X5 xDrive SportX Plus, price starts at ₹77.50 lakhBMW on Monday has announced the launch of its X5 xDrive SportX Plus models in India. Available in xDrive40i and xDrive30d variants, the new model comes priced at ₹77.90 lakh and ₹79.50 lakh (ex-showroom) respectively. Read more.Arjun Kapoor is unstoppable as he exercises to Chokra Jawaan at gym this MondayAll we need this Monday is a peppy song to pump up our drooping energies as we tackle loads of work piling upon our office desk and bring in the right zeal at the start of a new week, is Bhoot Police star Arjun Kapoor. From Russian kettlebell swing to bicep curls, Arjun's robust workout at the gym this morning is enough to brush aside our Monday blues. Read more.Sonam Kapoor is ‘obsessed’ with her wall-mounted toilet, husband Anand Ahuja is unsettled by their bathroom. WatchActor Sonam Kapoor gave fans a tour of her London apartment, where she lives with her husband Anand Ahuja. Sonam has been sharing pictures from her apartment in recent days, and the actor also appeared in a special video feature in which she showed off her sprawling living room and ‘dramatic’ interior design preferences. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-jaishankar-to-participate-in-key-meeting-in-afghanistan-101631531118070.html
13-09-2021||India||BJP, Congress out to woo tribal voters in Madhya Pradesh||Both the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress are out to woo the tribals, who comprise one-fifth of the population of Madhya Pradesh, and would see some of their prominent leaders in Jabalpur on September 18. Gonds celebrate the day as Balidan Diwas every year in the memory of Gond king Shankar Shah and his son Kunwar Raghunath Shah for their contribution during the 1857 mutiny against the British. This year, the BJP has decided to go big and honour prominent tribal leaders and social workers, and Union home minister Amit Shah will attend the programme. The Congress function will be addressed by former chief minister Digvijaya Singh. The party has already launched multiple events even as it accuses the BJP government in the state of “tormenting” the tribals.Rakesh Singh, Member of Parliament of BJP from Jabalpur, said the home minister would address tribals on the day and would also meet their leaders and members of different tribal organisation under ‘Janjatiya Samaj Jodo Abhiyan’ to discuss their problems.“This is part of the BJP exercise to increase outreach among the tribals and tell them how the Congress has cheated them for decades,” he said.Tribals have 47 seats reserved for them. In 2018 assembly polls, the Congress won 30 of these seats. Political experts say tribals have influence over 78 seats and the Congress returning to power in 2018 was primarily because of its good performance in these seats.Bhopal-based political analyst Girija Shankar said about Shah’s interaction with tribal leaders, “The BJP is trying to regain control over the tribal belt, especially the Gonds, which are the majority among tribals in the state.” On its part, the Congress, which has started an Adiwasi Jan Adhikar Yatra on Monday to target the state government over recent crime incidents in tribal areas, will also organised a bike rally on September 18 to pay tribute to the Gond king. Digvijaya Singh will participate in the rally, party leaders said.MP Congress president Kamal Nath said, “Congress will fight for rights of tribal in MP. The BJP-led state government is working to suppress the tribals.” Also Read | MP govt announces financial support for tribal man Kanhaiya Lal Bhil’s familyTribals are a suppressed lot. According to National Crime Records Bureau, the highest number of cases of atrocities against tribals in 2019 were reported from MP and 23 % of cases of rape of tribal women in the country were from the state. Recently, in Nemawar in Dewas district, five members of a family of tribal community was killed and buried while in Neemuch, a 45-year-old tribal man died after being thrashed, and then tied to a moving mini-truck. Experts point out that the two national parties should be alert to the emergence of Jai Adiwasi Yuva Sangathan (JAYS), a social organisation working for tribals, in the past four years. In 2018 assembly polls, JAYS leader Heeralal Alawa contested as a Congress candidate from Manawar and won by a good margin. A rally in Jobat on World Indigenous Day recently attracted at least 5,000 people, the local administration said, while initiating action against JAYS for violating Covid protocol. The organisation has a dedicated platform to raise issues of tribal rights. JAYS spokesperson Anand Rai said, “Tribals have now realised that they are just a vote bank for political parties and no one is interested in raising their issues. We are not a political party... but if they want us to contest elections, we will think about it like Heera Alawa did. For us, tribals are not just voters, but a community facing oppression for years.” JAYS’ rise can also be attributed to the dwindling influence of Gondwana Ganatantra Party (GGP). “JAYS gained popularity due to social media. They don’t know the real issues of tribals. They raise only those issues which are highlighted by media...we are the ones who try to get justice for every tribal,” GGP’s newly appointed president Aman Singh Porthe said.Tribal rights experts say there is a fight over tribal votes as they tend to vote en bloc. “Tribal voters were never afraid of experimenting and know the importance of their votes. They believe in giving s chance to new people and that is why GGP, and now JAYS, has gained popularity. The BJP and Congress need to accept this,” said Gajanand Brahmane, a tribal right expert working in west MP.Congress MLA and former minister Omkar Singh Markam said, “BJP is the biggest threat for tribal as RSS and BJP is trying to change the tradition and history of tribal by calling them a part of Sanatan Dharm. They are organising Ram Leela and Durga festival in tribal belt with distorted facts to misguide them.” However, BJP’s tribal MLA Ram Dangore said, “Congress has failed to uplift the tribals in the past 70 years. They want us to live like vanvasis but now we need development. We don’t want to be forest dwellers only. We want to become IAS and IPS officers too. The BJP is putting in efforts to enhance their education and standard of living.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-congress-out-to-woo-tribal-voters-in-madhya-pradesh-101631532448911.html
13-09-2021||India||Pegasus: SC reserves order on petitions seeking probe into alleged surveillance||The Supreme Court on Monday reserved its order on a clutch of petitions that have demanded a court-monitored investigation into use of Pegasus spyware for the alleged surveillance of citizens after the Union government declined to make public whether its agencies used the Israeli software. A bench, headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana, reserved its order after an 80-minute hearing during which the government refused to share any more information on use of Pegasus by its agencies or hand out specific information on alleged interception of some of the petitioners. The bench, which included justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli, said the court will pass an interim order in the next 3-4 days on constitution of an expert committee and on other ancillary issues related to an independent inquiry after considering the materials placed by the petitioners before it and the submissions made by the counsel for the parties. After taking time on Tuesday last week to reconsider its previous stand against filing a detailed response on the bunch of petitions, solicitor general Tushar Mehta reiterated on Monday that use of a particular software like Pegasus cannot be a subject matter of any affidavit or a public debate. While the government is open to have a committee of independent domain experts who can go into all aspects of the controversy and submit its report before the bench, Mehta emphasised, use of a particular software “cannot be made a part of the public discourse in the larger national interest and in the interest of the security of the nation.” Also Read | Court must enquire into antecedents of accused while considering bail, says Supreme CourtThe law officer said the government stands by its August 16 affidavit filed on the Pegasus snooping matter. This affidavit neither confirmed nor denied the use of the military-grade spyware to hack phones of ministers, politicians, businessmen, activists and journalists and offered to instead set up an expert committee. But the bench said, “We said it very clearly even on the last date that nobody is interested in disclosure of information that could compromise with national security. We wanted a limited affidavit from you because we have petitioners before us, citing violation of their privacy...In the face of the allegations that some software was used to snoop certain individuals like lawyers and journalists, it had to be made known whether there are methods of interception other than lawful means.” Mehta, on his part, maintained that a facade is sought to be created that the government is hiding the truth whereas its stand is clear that it is not evading any inquiry but is rather willing to have it done on its own through a committee of independent experts. This submission was strongly objected to by petitioners’ lawyers, which included senior counsel Kapil Sibal, Shyam Divan, Rakesh Dwivedi, Dinesh Dwivedi, Colin Gonsalves and Meenakshi Arora. All these lawyers condemned the Centre’s refusal to come clean on use of Pegasus while also urging the court to reject the government’s proposal to form a committee by itself. Sibal referred to a statement made by Ravi Shankar Prasad, then Union law minister, in Parliament in response to a question by AIMIM chief and lawmaker Asaduddin Owaisi. Prasad admitted that WhatsApp had notified the government about attempts to hack phones of more than 100 users in India. Sibal said that the government is impeding the course of justice by keeping relevant information hidden from the highest court of the land and it indicates that the government has been using Pegasus against the citizens without any sanction of law. Most of the senior lawyers pointed out that the government, being the “wrongdoer”, cannot be allowed to have a committee by itself and that the court should set up a panel of members of its own choice to go into the issue and report back. While Divan pressed for a directive to the cabinet secretary to file a “disclosure affidavit”, Dinesh Dwivedi asked for an interim order to restrain the government from using Pegasus against anyone. Mehta, at this point, reiterated that the court should allow the government to set up a committee, which, he said, will have experts completely unconnected with the government. “Suppose a committee examines it and places its report before us, then also everything will come into public domain...but ultimately it is your prerogative and you have decided not to file anything. We will now pass an interim order what we have to pass,” replied the bench, reserving its order. The Pegasus row erupted on July 18 after an international investigative consortium reported that the phones of Indian ministers, politicians, activists, businessmen and journalists were among the 50,000 that were potentially targeted by Pegasus, Israeli company NSO Group’s phone hacking software. According to this consortium, Pegasus can switch on a target’s phone camera and microphone, as well as access data on the device, effectively turning a phone into a pocket spy. Responding to a bunch of petitions filed by lawyers, politicians, journalists and civil rights activists, the Union ministry of electronics and information technology filed a three-page affidavit on August 16 that refused to confirm or deny whether it used Pegasus spyware for surveilling Indians. The Centre instead offered to set up an expert committee to look into the controversy and “dispel any wrong narrative spread by certain vested interests”. On August 17, the court observed that it is “not averse” to setting up an expert committee to look into the alleged surveillance of Indian citizens with Pegasus spyware but expects the government to bring sufficient facts on record regarding the interception regime in India. The government, however, said that all interceptions were being done in accordance with the statutory procedure, and it would not wish to put out in the public domain details of the software used for lawful surveillance by filing any additional affidavit. Following the Centre’s refusal, the court on August 17 issued a formal notice to the government on the batch of pleas filed by petitioners in the case, a list that includes advocate ML Sharma, former minister Yashwant Sinha, Rajya Sabha MP John Brittas, the Editors Guild of India, journalists N Ram and Sashi Kumar, journalists Paranjoy Guha Thakurta, Rupesh Kumar Singh, Ipshita Shatakshi, SNM Abdi, and Prem Shankar Jha, and civil rights activists Jagdeep S Chhokar and Narendra Mishra. Deferring the matter for August 17, the bench once again asked SG Mehta to consider filing a detailed reply while observing that the court would ponder over the future course of action in the meantime. On September 7, the S-G asked for some time to reconsider its earlier stand, following which the matter was fixed for a hearing on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pegasus-sc-reserves-order-on-petitions-seeking-probe-into-alleged-surveillance-101631531909159.html
13-09-2021||India||Oscar Fernandes: Multiple-time MP, minister, but always a Congress worker first||In the spring of 2009, as the Congress party was getting ready to face the national elections, party president Sonia Gandhi had conveyed to Prime Minister Manmohan Singh that some ministers are required to join the organisation. The first name in the list was Oscar Fernandes, a soft-mannered politician holding the charge of the Union minister of labour and employment. It was apparently surprising as Fernandes neither had the political skill of someone like Kamal Nath nor a grip on electoral management like Pranab Mukherjee or Ghulam Nabi Azad. Fernandes, who died on Monday at the age of 80, was a diligent backroom man. Someone who would work daily for 16-17 hours in the background to help the party get battle-ready. Senior Congress leader BK Hariprasad remembers, “When he was working in the party, the AICC office wouldn’t close before 3am.” At the time of his death, Fernandes was admitted to a private hospital in Karnataka’s Mangaluru due to age-related ailments. “We are deeply saddened by the demise of Shri Oscar Fernandes ji, our heartfelt condolences to his family. A Congress stalwart, his vision for an inclusive India had a huge influence on the politics of our times. The Congress family will deeply miss his mentorship & guidance,” tweeted the Congress.Expressing his condolences, PM Narendra Modi said, “Saddened by the demise of Rajya Sabha MP Shri Oscar Fernandes Ji. In this sad hour, my thoughts and prayers are with his family and well-wishers. May his soul rest in peace.” Also Read | Congress veteran and ex-Union minister Oscar Fernandes passes away at 80If intellectual prowess clubbed with administrative skills have lifted the likes of Manmohan Singh or Pranab Mukherjee to the highest echelons of public life, for Fernandes, his soft nature and readiness to take up the burden of the backroom made him one of the favourites of Sonia Gandhi. The man from a very humble background had a brush with politics when he joined the youth Congress in his district. In 1980, Fernandes emerged as a giant killer in national politics when he defeated Tonse Ananth Pai, a legendary political leader and a banker (responsible for the rise of the Syndicate Bank). It’s another matter that in an earlier election, Fernandes was the election agent of Pai. Oscar Fernandes’s entry in Lok Sabha took him straight to then PM Rajiv Gandhi’s office and the young leader was appointed as the parliamentary secretary to Gandhi for a year. Fernandes, who started his career as a member of Udipi municipal council, went on to serve the Lok Sabha for five terms and he was the sitting member of the Rajya Sabha in his third term. A trained Kuchipudi dancer, Fernandes and his colleague Veerappa Moily have even performed on stage in a dance recital. While his last outing as the minister was in labour and employment ministry, Fernandes really enjoyed organisational works. His aide BP Singh is now a secretary of the party. Organisational responsibility took him to several places, including the hinterlands of Bihar. Many Congress leaders remembered that in one such meeting, people asked him to speak in Hindi when he introduced himself as “Oscar Fernandes”! A sharp political mind, Fernandes restarted his speech saying, “Main hoon Oscar. Aur meri biwi (Blossom Fernandes) ka naam hai Phoolkumari.” When he was a minister, he once called this correspondent to meet him at 10 o’clock. Upon further enquiry, it was found out that he will meet the reporter in his office at 10pm as he works there till 2am. Finally, the meeting started at 11.50pm and ended at 12.10am. As this correspondent was about to leave the minister’s chamber, a smiling Fernandes said, “Remember, you came here yesterday and are leaving today.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oscar-fernandes-multiple-time-mp-minister-but-always-a-congress-worker-first-101631530649108.html
13-09-2021||India||AICC spokesperson slams govt’s disinvestment strategy for CONCOR||The Congress Party has criticised the government’s disinvestment from Container Corporation of India Ltd. (CONCOR) in a party briefing held on Monday. CONCOR is a Navratna railway public sector undertaking (PSU) and is currently a market leader in domestic container transport.All India Congress Committee (AICC) spokesperson, Gourav Vallabh, raised concerns surrounding the method of the Modi government’s disinvestment from CONCOR and hinted towards possible detrimental implications of this move.CONCOR commenced its operations in 1989, taking over the existing network of seven Inland Container Depots (ICDs) from the Indian Railways. Since then, it is now a market leader with the largest network of sixty ICDs and provides inland rail transport for containers and has expanded to cover management of ports, air cargo complexes, and cold-chains.The Modi government has given its nod to sell a 30.8 per cent stake out of its 54.8 per cent holding in CONCOR to strategic buyers.Vallabh questioned the reason for disinvestment and asked, “Why a Navratna company that is of strategic importance, consistently generating a profit and declaring average dividends of ₹365 crores per year in the last 4 years, is deciding for disinvestment?”CONCOR has over sixty ICDs, and twenty four of them are situated on the railway land. He questioned the government’s decision to reduce the land licensing fees (LLF) from existing 6 per cent to 2-3 per cent, and increase the lease period from 5 years to thirty-five years. He asked, “Is the proposal to reduce the LLF an indirect way to hand over developed government land to private parties for the long term?”In addition, Vallabh remarked, “CONCOR is a zero debt company with consistent total incomes, net profits, and dividends. For paying 99 per cent upfront lease, it has to raise debts of ₹3500 crores. Debts will directly hurt the valuation. Is the entire transaction planned to reduce the valuation of CONCOR?”The AICC spokesperson highlighted the possibility that such haphazard disinvestments by the government can create monopolies and oligopolies with a considerable amount of market power. “How will the government ensure that these giant firms do not exploit this monopoly for commercial gains?” he questioned.In his response to Congress’ criticism, BJP spokesperson Gopal Agarwal said, “BJP’s policy for disinvestment is that the government has no role to be in business. Professional and business decisions of companies, whether private or government, need to be taken on professional considerations.” "You cannot wait for a company to be destroyed and then go for disinvestment, like the Congress did for Air India. In that case, there will be no takers. When the company is a growing concern, only then it gets a proper valuation,” Agarwal told Hindustan Times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aicc-spokesperson-slams-govt-s-disinvestment-strategy-for-container-corporation-of-india-101631529390356.html
13-09-2021||India||Congress veteran and ex-Union minister Oscar Fernandes passes away at 80||Senior Congress leader and former Union minister Oscar Fernandes passed away at a private hospital in Mangaluru on Monday.Fernandes (80) was a sitting member of the Rajya Sabha. He was hospitalised in July after suffering a fall while doing yoga at his house. He had also undergone a surgery to remove a clot in his brain, a PTI report said."We are deeply saddened by the demise of Shri Oscar Fernandes ji, our heartfelt condolences to his family. A Congress stalwart, his vision for an inclusive India had a huge influence on the politics of our times. The Congress family will deeply miss his mentorship & guidance," the party wrote on its official Twitter handle.Known as a trusted aide of Congress president Sonia Gandhi, the five-time Lok Sabha MP from Udupi in Karanatka had handled several tricking situations for the grand old party over the years.In June, he was rushed to a private hospital in Mangalore after he complained of chest pain. He was also fighting kidney and heart related issues.Fernandes was the Cabinet minister for transport, road and highways in the Congress-led UPA government. He was also in charge of the ministry of labour and employment.Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoled the veteran Congressman's demise. “Saddened by the demise of Rajya Sabha MP Shri Oscar Fernandes Ji. In this sad hour, my thoughts and prayers are with his family and well-wishers. May his soul rest in peace,” the PM wrote on Twitter.Extremely saddened by the demise of @INCIndia stalwart Shri Oscar Fernandes.An irreplaceable mentor & hardworking organisational leader, Oscar ji contributed immensely towards the betterment of the nation & the party.Heartfelt condolences to his family, friends & followers. pic.twitter.com/vs9bprhZh8Congress general secretary KC Venugopal said Fernandes was an irreplaceable mentor and hardworking organisational leader. A diligent backroom man, Fernandes was also a trained Kuchipudi dancer, and had even performed on stage with party colleague Veerappa Moily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-veteran-oscar-fernandes-passes-away-in-mangaluru-101631527962709.html
13-09-2021||India||EAM Jaishankar to participate in key meeting on Afghanistan this week||External affairs minister S Jaishankar will travel to Tajikistan this week to participate in a key meeting on Afghanistan and hold talks with counterparts from several countries, including Iran, on the rapidly evolving situation in the war-torn country. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will virtually join the summit of heads of state of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) on September 17, while Jaishankar is set to represent India in the meeting on Afghanistan of heads of state of SCO and the Russia-led Collective Security Treaty Organization (CSTO) the same day. Jaishankar will hold several bilateral meetings while in the Tajikistan capital of Dushanbe during September 16-17, including with his new Iranian counterpart Hossein Amir Abdollahian, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. He is also expected to meet Russian counterpart Sergey Lavrov. Abdollahian, who assumed office last month, was set to travel to India on Monday but deferred his visit because he will meet Jaishankar in Dushanbe, the people said. A fresh date for Abdollahian’s visit is yet to be fixed though he is expected to travel to New Delhi soon. Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi and Pakistani foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi will also be in Dushanbe, though there was no word on whether Jaishankar would meet them. The people cited above ruled out the possibility of a meeting with Qureshi in view of the strained ties with Pakistan. High-ranking delegations from 17 countries and the secretary generals of SCO and CSTO are gathering in Dushanbe for the summit and the meeting on Afghanistan. CSTO is a military alliance of Russia, Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, and Tajikistan. Also Read | PIA first foreign commercial flight to land in Kabul since Taliban takeoverJaishankar’s meetings on the margins of the SCO Summit will be an opportunity to compare notes on the rapidly evolving situation in Afghanistan and the way forward, especially in view of India’s security concerns regarding Pakistan’s role in the country and its military establishment’s close ties with the Taliban. Since the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan on August 15, India has asserted that Afghan territory must not be used for terrorism or anti-India activities. It has repeatedly expressed concern about the lack of inclusiveness of the “dispensation” in Kabul while indicating it is in no rush regarding the recognition of the Taliban regime. Iran has kept open its mission in Kabul and continued interactions with the Taliban leadership, though it has its own security concerns regarding Afghanistan, including the well-being of the Shia Hazara minority. Jaishankar discussed the situation in Afghanistan during a phone call with Abdollahian on September 1. A readout from Iran’s foreign ministry had quoted Abdollahian as saying that the “international community, including regional nations, must join hands to defuse the crisis in Afghanistan”. He added that it was Iran’s policy to “support the formation of an inclusive government in Afghanistan made up of all Afghan ethnic groups”. The readout quoted Jaishankar as saying that “Iran and India need to continue consultations on Afghanistan”. The people cited above added Russia too had informed the Indian side in recent meetings that there should be no rush in recognising the Taliban regime. This was a message conveyed by Nikolay Patrushev, secretary of Russia’s security council, at a meeting with senior Indian security officials in New Delhi on September 8, and in President Vladimir Putin’s interventions during discussions at a virtual Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa (Brics) Summit the following day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-to-travel-to-tajikistan-for-crucial-meeting-on-afghanistan-this-week-101631527648816.html
13-09-2021||India||CBI questions Bengal industry minister in I-Core chit fund case||A three-member team of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) questioned West Bengal industry minister Partha Chatterjee for two hours on Monday in connection with the I-Core chit fund case. An officer said on condition of anonymity that the agency was in possession of some video clips showing Chatterjee at a public event with Anukul Maity, the managing director of I-Core, who was arrested over alleged money-laundering of deposits received from investors in 2015.The I-Core sponsored event in question was held in 2011, the year Trinamool Congress (TMC) party came to power. Maity died in judicial custody in November last year. His company allegedly raised around ₹7,000 crore from the market by promising high returns.CBI and Enforcement Directorate (ED), which is also probing all chit fund cases in Bengal, had summoned Chatterjee in March and April but he did not appear before the agencies saying he was campaigning for the polls. He won the Behala West assembly seat in south-west Kolkata for the fifth time.On September 8, CBI sent fresh summons to Chatterjee, asking him to come to CBI’s office at the CGO Complex in south Kolkata on September 13. The senior Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader wrote to the agency that he was busy with the assembly bypoll at Bhawanipore and would not be able to go anywhere. The probe agency then informed the minister that he would be questioned in his office.The CBI team arrived at the Camac Street office of the industry department at 12.30 pm and left at 2.15 pm. The office is located less than a kilometre away from the CGO complex at Nizam Palace.Chatterjee is the party’s observer for the September 30 by-election in Bhawanipore where Mamata Banerjee is contesting for re-election to assembly so that she can continue as chief minister after losing to Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Suvendu Adhikari from Nandigram seat in East Midnapore district.The fresh summons to Chatterjee was sent 48 hours after TMC national general secretary and the chief minister’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee was questioned for almost nine hours by ED in Delhi in connection with the coal smuggling case that CBI is also probing.The chief minister targeted the Centre on September 8 and accused it of activating the probe agencies before the polls.“They summoned Abhishek and Partha. Why? The agencies have become proactive because of the elections. They are summoning those who did nothing and not touching the one who took money,” the chief minister said at a TMC worker’s meeting in Bhowanipore, indirectly referring to her protégé-turned-adversary Suvendu Adhikari, who is an accused in the Narada and Saradha cases.After the questioning, Chatterjee said, “How was I supposed to know the background of the company and its activities while attending a public programme? I told CBI that I will cooperate in the investigation. The officers were very courteous.” CBI officers refused to comment.The probe into the chit fund cases started in 2014 following an order from the apex court. The other big chit fund companies under investigation are Saradha and Rose Valley.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-questions-bengal-industry-minister-in-i-core-chit-fund-case-101631525068380.html
13-09-2021||India||Bhupendra Patel takes oath as 17th CM of Gujarat, PM Modi tweets wishes||First-time legislator Bhupendra Patel took oath as the 17th chief minister of Gujarat on Monday a day after his name was announced for the top job by the BJP leadership.Earlier in the day, Union home minister Amit Shah reached Ahmedabad to attend Patel’s swearing-in ceremony. Patel met his predecessor Vijay Rupani, who resigned from the post late on Saturday,  at the Chief Minister's residence in Gandhinagar.Fondly addressed as 'Dada' by his supporters, Bhupendrabhai Rajnikanthbhai Patel became the 17th chief minister of Gujarat.Patel (59), unanimously elected BJP legislature party leader on Sunday, was sworn in governor Acharya Devvrat at a simple ceremony in Gandhinagar.Also read | 'Won't let BJP down': Bhupendra Patel promises as he is chosen to be Gujarat CMBesides Shah, chief ministers of some BJP-ruled states were among those present at the Raj Bhavan during the ceremony. Soon after, Prime Minister Narendra Modi congratulated Patel for taking oath as the Gujarat CM. “I have known him for years and have seen his exemplary work, be it in the BJP Organisation or in civic administration and community service. He will certainly enrich Gujarat’s growth trajectory,” he wrote on Twitter.Congratulations to Bhupendra Bhai on taking oath as CM of Gujarat. I have known him for years and have seen his exemplary work, be it in the BJP Organisation or in civic administration and community service. He will certainly enrich Gujarat’s growth trajectory. @BhupendrapbjpRegarding outgoing CM Rupani, Modi said the former had undertaken many people-friendly measures and worked tirelessly for all sections of society. “I am certain he will continue to contribute to public service in the times to come,” he further wrote.Also read | Bhupendra Patel: How first-time MLA rose up political ranks to helm GujaratLater, Shah, Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar, his Madhya Pradesh counterpart Shivraj Singh Chouhan and Goa CM Pramod Sawant were seen congratulating Patel.As decided by the party, only Patel took the oath. The council of ministers will take oath during the next few days after their names are finalised, BJP sources said.At Sunday’s legislature party meeting, the proposal to elect Patel as the legislative party leader was moved by Rupani, whose resignation a day ago, about 15 months ahead of the Assembly polls, surprised many. Rupani, the fourth chief minister to demit office in BJP-ruled states during the coronavirus pandemic, was sworn in as chief minister – his second stint as CM - in December 2017 and completed five years in office on August 7 this year. With state polls scheduled in December 2022, the BJP is banking on Patel, a Patidar, for coming back to power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhupendra-patel-takes-oath-as-17th-chief-minister-of-gujarat-101631523448596.html
13-09-2021||India||Chhattisgarh: 20 IAS, 2 IPS and 94 state officers reshuffled in a day||The Chhattisgarh government late on Sunday reshuffled 20 Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers, 94 Chhattisgarh Administrative Service officers and two Indian Police Service (IPS) officers. Additional chief secretary (ACS) Subrat Kumar Sahoo (1996 batch) was relieved of additional charge of ACS, Water Resource Department, and given responsibility for Public Health and Engineering Department. Similarly, additional charges were given to principal secretary Manoj Kumar Pingua (1994) while Agriculture and Farmer Welfare and BioTechnology Department secretary Dr M Geetha (1997) was given additional charge of resident commissioner, Chhattisgarh Bhawan, New Delhi. The other IAS officers who were either given additional charges or transferred or relieved from charges were Amrit Kumar Khalkho (2002), Siddharth Komal Singh Pardeshi (2003), Avinash Champawat (2003), Prasanna R (2004), Ambalgan P (2004) Dhananjay Dewangan (2004), Neelam Namdev Ekka (2005), Alex V F Paul Menon (2006), Bhuvnesh Yadav (2006), Rajesh Singh Rana (2008), Narendra Kumar Dugga (2008), Abhijeet Singh (2012), Rannbir Sharma (2012), Sudhakar Khalkho (2012), Jagdish Sonkar (2013), Rituraj Raghuvanshi (2014), Chandan Sanjay Tripathi (2016) and Tulika Prajapati (2016) The Chhattisgarh home department also transferred two IPS officers. Ajay Yadav (2004) who was posted as deputy inspector general (IG) in police headquarters has been given additional responsibility of in-charge IG of Surguja range. Similarly, Vivek Shukla (2019) has been relieved from additional charge of superintendent of police (SP) of Janjgir-Champa district and shifted to police headquarters as assistant inspector general. Later on Sunday evening, the state government also issued an order to reshuffle 94 officers of Chhattisgarh Administrative Service posted across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-20-ias-2-ips-and-94-state-officers-reshuffled-in-a-day-101631522427885.html
13-09-2021||India||Prayers, meetings and orders: Bhupendra Patel has a packed day before taking oath as Gujarat CM||Bhupendra Patel, Gujarat chief minister-designate, on Monday offered 'gau puja' at Swaminarayan Temple in Ahmedabad, met with his predecessor Vijay Rupani as well as deputy, Nitin Patel, and instructed officials in Jamnagar to help people stranded after the flood-like situation in the district. Bhupendra Patel, a surprise pick by the Bharatiya Janata Party, will be sworn in as the 17th chief minister of Gujarat at 2.20pm. Union home minister Amit Shah and Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai are among the leaders who are expected to attend the ceremony.Before that, Bhupendra Patel called on Vijay Rupani, who resigned from the top post last week, 15 months ahead of the Gujarat assembly elections scheduled to be held in late 2022. Patel, a first-time legislator who has never held any ministerial position, met Rupani at his official residence in Gandhinagar in the morning and held discussions on various issues, a release issued by the state government said.After Rupani resigned on Saturday, Patel, who represents the Ghatlodia assembly seat in Ahmedabad, was unanimously elected as the BJP legislative party leader on Sunday.Also read | Karnataka CM Bommai to head to Gujarat for Bhupendra Patel’s swearing-in todayPTI reported citing a government release that Bhupendra Patel instructed district authorities in Jamnagar to make necessary arrangements to airlift about 35 people stranded in three villages, which have been inundated and cut off from other parts of the district amid incessant rain. The Jamnagar district's disaster management wing has said that the Indian Air Force has been requested to airlift people stranded in some of the villages of Kalavad and Jamnagar talukas.Also read | 'Won't let BJP down': Bhupendra Patel promises as he is chosen to be Gujarat CMBhupendra Patel called on deputy chief minister Nitin Patel at his residence on Monday morning. Nitin Patel told reporters that Bhupendra Patel and he are friends and they share family relations. "He visited my house to meet me. I greeted him... I am there to offer any help that he requires from me," Nitin Patel added. He said he has known Bhupendra Patel for a long time and had even inaugurated his MLA office in Ghatlodia after he won from that assembly constituency. The deputy chief minister also said he offered his best wishes to Bhupendra Patel on Sunday, soon after he was chosen for the top post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhupendra-patel-has-a-packed-day-before-taking-oath-as-gujarat-cm-101631520807559.html
13-09-2021||India||'A fight against injustice': BJP's Priyanka Tibrewal files nomination for Bhabanipur by-polls||Lawyer Priyanka Tibrewal, who has been fielded by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to take on West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee in the upcoming by-elections to the assembly constituency of Bhabanipur, on Monday filed her nomination papers to contest against the Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo. Alipore, West Bengal: BJP candidate for Bhabanipur by-poll, Priyanka Tibrewal files her nomination. She will face CM and TMC candidate Mamata Banerjee in the by-poll, scheduled for 30th September. pic.twitter.com/M8E3zTtf4jBefore filing her nomination, she described her contest with Banerjee as a “fight against injustice.”Also Read | Bhabanipur by-polls: BJP's Priyanka Tibrewal to file her nomination papers today“This is a fight against injustice, and also a fight for justice, for the people of West Bengal. I would like to tell the people of Bhabanipur that they’ve got a big opportunity. So, they should come forward and make history,” Tibrewal, who joined the BJP in 2014, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. This is a fight against injustice. This is a fight for justice, for the people of West Bengal. I would like to tell the people of Bhabanipur that they've received a big opportunity, they should come forward and make history: Priyanka Tibrewal, BJP candidate for Bhabanipur bypolls pic.twitter.com/NHUxfulnZRTibrewal, who represented her party in the Calcutta high court in hearings over the alleged post-poll violence in the eastern state, is a vice-president of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM), the BJP’s youth wing, in West Bengal. She began her campaign for the by-polls on Sunday by drawing a painting of the lotus, the BJP’s symbol, on a wall in Bhabanipur. Also Read | Why BJP pit youth leader Priyanka Tibrewal against CM Mamata in Bhawanipore?Banerjee, meanwhile, has already filed her nomination papers, doing so last Friday. She contested the West Bengal assembly elections, held across eight phases earlier this year, from Nandigram, where she challenger her former aide, BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari. Though the TMC chief gave Adhikari a tough fight, she was unable to defeat him. Banerjee was sitting, and 2-term legislator from Bhabanipur when she announced her decision to contest from Nandigram against Adhikari, who is now the leader of opposition in the West Bengal assembly.Also Read | West Bengal by-poll: BJP's candidate Priyanka Tibrewal says her fight in Bhabanipur to be against ' 1 particular person'The Bengal chief minister, who took oath on May 5, three days after votes were counted and results declared, has to get elected to the state assembly by November 5 to retain her chair. Sovandeb Chattopadhyay, who contested and won from Bhabanipur in Mamata’s absence, vacated the seat for his party chief to contest by-polls from.The by-elections will take place on September 30. Counting of votes and declaration of results is scheduled to be held on October 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-fight-against-injustice-bjp-s-priyanka-tibrewal-on-bhabanipur-bypolls-101631517070278.html
13-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: ED summons AAP leader in money laundering probe and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.ED issues summons to AAP secretary in money laundering probe against Punjab MLAThe ED has issued summons to AAP national secretary Pankaj Gupta in connection with its probe against former Punjab leader of opposition Sukhpal Singh Khaira. Read moreSitharaman says vaccination must for economic rebound, 3rd wave preventionThe Union finance minister said that vaccination against Covid-19 infection was the only “medicine” which will allow businessmen and farmers to carry out their work. Read more'Franchise that bought you feels cheated, betrayed': Chopra says 'IPL family doesn't forget' following mass ENG pulloutAddressing the mass pullouts by England players, Aakash Chopra remarked that the “IPL family doesn't forget" and that they may have to face the consequences in the future. Read moreOla electric scooter facility to be largest all-women factory in the worldOla Electric will employ 10,000 women to power its electric scooter factory in Tamil Nadu which, at full capacity, will also be the largest in the world for electric scooters. Read moreLeonardo DiCaprio, Bradley Cooper, Brad Pitt, others add Hollywood spice to US Open. See picsLeonardo DiCaprio, Bradley Cooper, Brad Pitt and many other Hollywood actors were seen during the US Open, which ended on Sunday. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-ed-summons-aap-leader-in-money-laundering-probe-and-all-the-latest-news-101631514555185.html
13-09-2021||India||ED issues summons to AAP secretary in money laundering probe against Punjab MLA||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has issued summons to Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national secretary Pankaj Gupta in connection with its probe against former Punjab leader of opposition Sukhpal Singh Khaira who is under investigation in at least two cases of money laundering.Officials familiar with the development said they have summoned Gupta to seek some clarifications in the probe against the Bholath MLA.Khaira is under investigation in two cases registered earlier this year to investigate money laundering – first based on a trans-border drugs smuggling network unearthed in Fazilka, Punjab in 2015, and the second pertaining to a fake passport racket in Delhi. The agency even raided Khaira and his son-in-law Inderveer Singh Johal in March this year and they have been questioned a few times.Officials cited above didn’t divulge further details on why Pankaj Gupta is required for examination in the probe against Khaira or the date when he has been issued the summons.Also Read | Abhishek Banerjee summoned again by ED for questioning in coal smuggling caseAAP leader Raghav Chadha tweeted that the party will hold a press conference on the ED notice. “In a first, AAP receives a love letter from Modi Government’s favorite agency -- the Enforcement Directorate. I will address an important press conference today, 1.30pm at AAP headquarters in Delhi -- to expose the political witch hunt of AAP by a rattled BJP,” he said in the tweet.
13-09-2021||India||Sitharaman says vaccination must for economic rebound, 3rd wave prevention||Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Sunday said that vaccination against Covid-19 infection was the only “medicine”, which, when taken, will allow businessmen and farmers to carry out their work, enabling growth of the economy. She also said that it was the only way to prevent a third wave of the disease.“Vaccination is the only medicine for [the growth of the] economy. For people to buy and sell or farmers to carry out farming in their land,” Sitharaman said at the centenary celebrations of Tamilnad Mercantile Bank Limited in Thoothukudi district. She added that 730 million eligible beneficiaries have received at least one dose for free across the country.Sitharaman’s comments came on a day when Tamil Nadu administered at least one dose of a Covid-19 vaccine to 2.5 billion people through 40,000 camps across the state.Sitharaman said that hospitals located in rural areas were able to spruce-up facilities during the second wave of the disease by availing of the schemes announced by her ministry and were praying for the third wave not to happen. “But if it does occur, we are looking into the availability of hospitals. Do they have an ICU and even if there is an ICU, do they have oxygen support? For all these questions, the ministry announced a scheme on June 28, allowing hospitals to expand capabilities during the second wave,” she said.Sitharaman praised the Nadars-- a powerful backward trading community-- for creating the bank, which, she said, had gained wide acceptance. “It has a countrywide presence and deposits of more than ₹41,000 crore….Through the report by Tamilnad Mercantile Bank, we are able to see that they take the schemes announced by the ministry to the beneficiaries (hospitals). It is necessary that not only the public sector banks, private sector banks also follow suit,” she said.The finance minister also spoke on the banking sector’s role in bringing about financial inclusion as championed by the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana. “It’s only because of the Jan Dhan Yojana that a poor woman can set up a small idly business, even without a shop, on a pushcart,” Sitharaman said.“Businesses are not just for the rich. The Prime Minister understood that banking is the right of every citizen, that’s why he implemented the Jan Dhan Yojana,” Sitharaman said, and added that the opening of these bank accounts had helped the Union government in giving direct financial assistance to those affected by Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sitharaman-says-vaccination-must-for-economic-rebound-3rd-wave-prevention-101631515167131.html
13-09-2021||India||Pests attack popular Yongchak trees in Manipur village||Almost all Yongchak trees in Manipur’s Willong Khunou village have been infested with caterpillar-like pests, also known as looper, threatening the livelihood of many households. Both the flower and beans of Yongchak (Parkia Speciosa) are consumed, as is its pod. Yongchak Eromba or Singju, prepared with fermented fish, is one of the most sought after dishes of Manipur during winters.However, this village in Senapati district, which borders Nagaland, has now reported that almost all its trees are under attack by looper.A joint team of Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) Senapati and e-loumee, a platform for farming experts, visited the hill village located about 150km north west of Imphal on Sunday and confirmed the development.Also Read | In joint op with Assam Rifles, Manipur police kill self-styled SDFK commander“We’ve visited the village to oversee the situation arising out of pest attack on Yongchak (tree bean) trees,” says Homen Kangjam,farm manager of KVK Senapati. “We’ve also collected pest samples for further study.”Looper can be seen in large numbers in every Yongchak tree and village areas, including house walls, he said. Though the cause of the looper attack is yet to be ascertained, entomologists in the state said the pests will grow into moths. Pungdi P Celestine, a social worker from Senapati, said villagers spotted the looper only recently and the pest has consumed almost all the green portions of Yongchak trees within a short span.A source claimed a similar attack on Yongchak trees has been reported from the Kamjong area in Manipur. However, HT could not confirm this development.Meanwhile, officials of horticulture & soil conservation department have started remedial measures by spraying the trees with organic medicines. “We’ve also sent the collected samples (of loopers) to Indian Council of Agricultural Research for investigation,” Kh Upen,district horticulture officer, said on phone.The state has already survived drying up of Yongchak trees over the years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pests-attack-popular-yongchak-trees-in-manipur-village-101631514146856.html
13-09-2021||India||Stalin moves bill seeking permanent exemption from NEET amid oppn walkout||Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin on Monday tabled a bill in the assembly, seeking a permanent exemption from the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET), for the state as the opposition All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK)  staged a walkout. “Today, I have presented the resolution against NEET. You (AIADMK) also brought this resolution. I urge opposition parties to extend their support to this resolution,” Stalin said in the assembly as he moved the bill, according to news agency ANI.Leader of Opposition Edappadi K Palaniswami alleged that students and their parents were totally confused whether the NEET exam will be held in Tamil Nadu, adding that they were not given the opportunity to discuss a medical aspirant’s death in the assembly. “There is no clear stand taken by the DMK government on NEET,” Palaniswami said, according to news agency ANI as he held the government responsible for the 19-year-old student’s death. “Students didn't prepare well for the exam as DMK-government said that NEET will be scrapped. We have decided to walk out in protest. We will support NEET resolution,” the former Tamil Nadu CM said.Also read | Tamil Nadu student’s suicide ahead of NEET sparks political rowThe medical aspirant was found dead on Sunday at his home in Salem hours before he was to appear for the NEET exam for the third time. The bill seeks to provide for admission to undergraduate courses in medicine, dentistry, Indian medicine and homoeopathy based on the marks obtained by students in the qualifying examination (Class 12). The bill said the government has decided to enact a law to dispense with the requirement of NEET for admission to UG Medical degree courses and to provide admission to such courses on the basis of marks obtained in the qualifying examination, through “normalisation methods”, according to news agency PTI.This is to ensure "social justice, uphold equality and equal opportunity, protect all vulnerable student communities from being discriminated and bring them to the mainstream of medical and dental education and in turn to ensure a robust public health care across the state particularly the rural areas,” reported PTI.On his part, Stalin reminded that NEET was conducted for the first time in Tamil Nadu when Palaniswami was the chief minister and it was not held even when late J Jayalalithaa was the CM. He also talked about student deaths, including that of S Anita, in recent years, saying all of them happened when Palaniswami was the CM. Stalin also targeted the AIADMK over therejection of bills enacted during its regime in 2017 to get the state exempted from the ambit of NEET and also for hiding it from the House.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stalin-moves-bill-seeking-permanent-exemption-from-neet-amid-oppn-walkout-101631513043603.html
13-09-2021||India||Record rainfall in Odisha; two die in separate wall collapse incidents||Two people in Odisha’s Kendrapara district died in wall collapse as the state experience a record rainfall in most of its coastal regions, including state capital Bhubaneswar and pilgrim town of Puri on Monday. Later, a 29-year-old farmer of Khurda district was washed away in floodwater. A 100-year-old building also reportedly collapsed in Behrampur. The downpour is a result of the depression over northwest Bay of Bengal and adjoining Odisha coast intensifying into a deep depression.Bhubaneswar received its highest single-day rain of September in the past 63 years at 195mm over the last 24 hours. Puri received 341mm of rainfall during the same period, its highest in a single day in September, when south-west monsoon is normally on the wane, in 87 years.The port town of Paradip received 219 mm of rainfall in last 24 hours.Meanwhile, the two deceased are a 62-year-old man in Patakura Badabeta village of Kendrapara district, and a 60-year-old woman in Derabis Dihasahi village . Schools have been closed for two days in 12 districts of the state where a red alert has been sounded by the meteorological department, said school and mass education minister Samir Dash.Also Read | Deep depression crosses Odisha coast; heavy rain likely in central, west India“The depression intensified into a deep depression and crossed Odisha coast near Chandbali in Bhadrak district on Monday morning. It is very likely to continue to move west north-westwards across north Odisha, north Chhatisgarh and Madhya Pradesh during the next 48 hours. Districts like Puri, Cuttack, Jagatsinghpur, Dhenkanal, Ganjam, Gajapati, Nayagarh, Kendrapara would witness intense spells of rain,” the regional meteorological department in Bhubaneswar said.Bhubaneswar saw heritage temples and main roads in knee-deep water. Shopping establishments were flooded while government quarters faced a deluge. In Khandagiri, a three-storey house in Dumduma collapsed on one side due to the heavy rains.In Behrampur, a 100-year-old building collapsed late on Sunday, though no casualties were reported. The building, Andhra Bhasa Vibardhani, had several old books of Telugu literature.Noted climatologist and director of Bhubaneswar’s Centre for Environment and Climate Dr Sarat Sahu said the downpour was a result of the system becoming stationary over Bay of Bengal in the last two days. “Though it did not intensify into a cyclone, it packed enough moisture from the Bay of Bengal and was aided by moisture flowing from Arabia sea. When it became stationary, it led to massive amount of rainfall. This kind of rainfall is climate change as it is happening in otehr cities of the country as well as rest of the world,” said Dr Sahu.Officials in IMD Bhubaneswar said, till Sunday, Odisha had 25% deficit of monsoon rainfall. Following the incessant rainfall, the deficiency would drop below 19%. As the weather system will move to Chhattisgarh by around 10-11pm today, the upper Mahanadi basin in Odisha is going to record very heavy rainfall in the range of 5-10cm in the next 48 hours. As per the Central Water Commission data, the water level in Hirakud reservoir stands at 189.91 mt today against the full reservoir level of 192.02 mt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/record-rainfall-in-odisha-two-die-in-separate-wall-collapse-incidents-101631512826574.html
13-09-2021||India||8 killed as jeep rams into lorry in Karnataka's Chintamani||In a tragic accident, eight persons were killed when the jeep they were travelling rammed into a cement laden lorry coming from the opposite direction near Marinayakanahalli under Kencharlahalli police limits in Chintamani taluk on Sunday.According to police, six persons were killed on the spot while two succumbed at the hospital."Around 4.00 PM a jeep with seventeen passengers was heading towards Chintamani from Royalpad in Srinivasapur taluk. The impact of the accident was such that after colliding head-on with the lorry, the jeep was dragged for a distance," police said."Six inmates of the jeep were found dead on the spot while two others succumbed at the Chintamani RN Jalappa Hospital," it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8-killed-as-jeep-rams-into-lorry-in-karnataka-s-chintamani-101631512162239.html
13-09-2021||India||Air India Express flight to Sharjah turns back due to technical glitch||An Air India Express flight which took off from here for Sharjah, in the UAE, on Monday morning with 170 passengers was forced to turn back shortly after taking off due to a technical glitch. The plane, which also had a crew of six, landed safely at Thiruvananthapuram airport and another flight was arranged for the passengers, including five infants, to travel to Sharjah, an Air India Express (AIE) spokesperson told PTI.According to an official of the airport, the incident occurred around 7 AM. The AIE spokesperson said the pilots noticed the technical glitch around half-an-hour after take-off and immediately decided to turn back to Thiruvananthapuram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-express-flight-to-sharjah-turns-back-due-to-technical-glitch-101631510520460.html
13-09-2021||India||Of 27,254 new Covid-19 cases in India, Kerala has added the most||Of the 27,254 new Covid-19 cases and 219 deaths reported in the last 24 hours in India, Kerala contributed the most number of infections and fatalities, according to data. Kerala recorded 20,240 Covid-19 cases and 67 deaths on Sunday, which have taken the southern state's tally to 43,75,431 and death toll to 22,551.India on Monday logged a slight dip in cases of Covid-19 after reporting 28,591 infections on Sunday. The country's infection tally stands at 33,264,175 and the number of active cases has declined to 374,269, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare. The death toll due to the disease has risen to 442,874 with 219 daily fatalities, the data updated at 8am showed.The Kerala government said that the test positivity rate (TPR) was recorded at 17.51 per cent after 115,575 samples were tested in the last 24 hours, according to a state government release. The release added that among the 14 districts, Ernakulam recorded the highest number of Covid-19 cases with 2,572 followed by Thrissur 2,451, Thiruvananthapuram 1,884, Kozhikode 1,805, Kottayam 1,780, Kollam 1,687, Palakkad 1,644, Malappuram 1,546, Kannur 1,217 and Alappuzha 1,197.Also read | Traffic moves without restrictions in Kochi as Kerala repeals Sunday lockdownOf the new Covid-19 cases in Kerala, 101 were health workers, 114 from outside the state and 19,251 infected have been through contact, it said. The source of the contact is not clear in 774 cases, it added. There are 603,315 people under surveillance in various districts, of whom 5,72,761 are at home or institutional quarantine and 30,554 in hospitals currently. The bulletin also said that since Saturday, 29,710 people recovered from the infection taking the total number to 41,30,065 and the number of active cases to 2,22,255.Also read | Kerala begins seroprevalence study on Covid-19 situationMeanwhile, Kerala health minister Veena George said on Sunday that the samples of four close contacts of the 12-year-old child who succumbed to Nipah virus infection on September 5 have returned negative. However, the source was yet to be identified and the government was giving top priority to it, George added. "Four samples of the close contacts of the child were tested again for confirmation. All were tested negative. Our field surveillance is continuing along with the fever surveillance. The sample testing is also continuing in the epicentre of the infection," she told reporters.The minister said that it was important to identify the source of infection and the surveillance team from the National Institute of Virology, Pune, has been collecting samples from various areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/of-27-254-new-covid-19-cases-in-india-kerala-has-added-the-most-101631510187677.html
13-09-2021||India||Don’t pass consequential orders, Assam directs foreigners’ tribunals||The Assam government has asked foreigners tribunals (FTs), which have the power of declaring a person a foreigner or not, to desist from passing consequential orders. The September 4 letter by the political department of the government to members of all 100 FTs in the state followed a ‘performance assessment exercise’ by the state judicial department on the basis of randomly selected opinions given by FT members. FTs are quasi-judicial bodies established in Assam under provisions of Foreigners (Tribunals) Order, 1964 and Foreigners Act, 1946. They are entrusted with the task of declaring whether anyone whose name is missing from the National Register of Citizens (NRC) or has been declared a ‘doubtful voter’ because of questions about their citizenship, is a foreigner or not. In order to arrive at their opinion, FTs can summon and ask for attendance of any person and examine them under oath and ask appellants to submit required documents and examine witnesses. Consequential orders are generally made by courts following orders on cases directing government departments to take some action. But FTs don’t have the power to pass directions such as ordering someone’s arrest, removal or name from voters’ list, deportation etc. “The judicial department has viewed with seriousness the passing of consequential directions/orders by learned members while rendering opinion,” said the letter by Parijat Bhuyan, deputy secretary in the department. The letter cited the judicial department’s assessment where it noted “consequential order for deletion of names from voters list, arrest and detention of declared foreigners” have been passed by FTs. “This may not be necessary,” it said. “FTs have been empowered to give opinion and not pass consequential orders. Therefore, the government move is a correct one. Sometimes, due to consequential orders passed by FTs appellants are immediately arrested and sent to detention centres,” said advocate Santanu Borthakur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-pass-consequential-orders-assam-directs-foreigners-tribunals-101631509886328.html
13-09-2021||India||Karnataka CM Bommai to head to Gujarat for Bhupendra Patel’s swearing-in today||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday afternoon is likely to travel to Gujarat to attend the swearing-in ceremony of Bhupendra Patel. According to the communication from the chief minister’s office, Bommai’s “tentative” plans will include travelling via a special flight to Ahmedabad at 12pm and return at around 5.30pm. Bommai, who faces the monsoon session of the state legislature for the first time since taking oath on July 28, is likely to miss the first day of proceedings where his government is under pressure in the caste census and reservation row. Patel will take oath as the 17th chief minister of Gujarat replacing Vijay Rupani who unexpectedly stepped down past Saturday. Also Read | Karnataka reports 803 new Covid cases, 17 fatalitiesIn Karnataka, the Bommai-led BJP government continues to face pressure over both backward and dominant caste’s demands for reservation and the release of the 2015 caste census data. Bommai also faces a tough task in trying to keep the Panchamasali from going ahead with their agitation from September 15 if the government does not include them in the 2A category for reservation. Then CM BS Yediyurappa had assured to help them with their demands to be pushed up to 2A category (most backward) from their current category of 3B (backward). The Congress is trying to corner the BJP on the issue of price rise and caste census. Siddaramaiah, the Congress’s leader of the opposition, is expected to arrive at the Vidhana Soudha on a bullock cart today as a symbolic protest against the rising prices of fuel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-cm-bommai-to-head-to-gujarat-for-bhupendra-patel-s-swearing-in-today-101631509586312.html
13-09-2021||India||India records 27,254 new Covid-19 infections and 219 deaths; active cases stay below 400,000||Daily infections of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the country remained below the 30,000-mark for a second straight day on Monday, as 27,254 people tested positive for the contagious disease, pushing the nationwide infection tally to 33,264,175, data released by the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) showed. In the same period, 219 related fatalities were also recorded, taking the cumulative toll to 442,874, comprising 1.33% of the overall caseload, the health ministry’s dashboard showed.Also Read | India sees further decline in daily Covid-19 cases with 28,591 infectionsHowever, after rising for two consecutive days, active cases registered a fall, and were recorded at 374,269, down 10,652 from the corresponding figure on September 12. These constitute 1.13% of the total cases. Total recoveries, meanwhile, mounted to 32,447,032, as an additional 37,687 patients were discharged, with the recovery rate comprising 97.54% of the cumulative tally.Also Read | With 3,623 fresh cases, Maharashtra’s Covid tally reaches 6,497,877As the latest positive cases were from 1,208,247 samples which were tested on Sunday, the daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.25%, which means that for the last 14 days, it has been below the 3% mark. Weekly positivity rate stood at 2.11%, making it 80 consecutive days when it has been under 3%.The total number of samples tested for Covid-19 has risen to 543,014,076. COVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes @PIB_India @mygovindia @COVIDNewsByMIB #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/0HL3RvLbibMeanwhile, India’s cumulative vaccination coverage has surpassed 740 million, as more than 743 vaccine doses have been administered since January 16, when the nationwide vaccination drive was launched. Of these, 5,338,945 doses were administered in the last 24 hours. “More than 727 million doses have been provided to states and Union territories, while more than 49 million balance and unutilised doses are still available with state and UT governments,” the health ministry informed.Three states and an equal number of UTs have vaccinated 100% eligible beneficiaries with at least first dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-logs-27-254-new-covid-19-infections-and-219-deaths-active-cases-stay-below-400000-101631508564029.html
13-09-2021||India||Closely monitoring developments in neighbouring countries: BSF as Taliban tighten grip||The Border Security Force (BSF) is closely monitoring the developments in neighbouring countries, inspector general NS Jamwal said on Sunday, amid the Taliban tightening its grip over Afghanistan, prompting fears that it might become a safe haven for terrorist activities. "BSF is keeping constant vigilance at the border areas of Jammu and Kashmir. We have a firm belief in our capabilities and are ready to act towards any untoward activity if any," news agency ANI quoted Jamwal as saying.Speaking about the mounting tension at the border, the senior BSF official said, "The danger at the border areas was there, is there and we will continue to monitor the situation at the border areas."Afghanistan plunged into crisis after the Taliban seized power in a military takeover following the US drawdown. Since last month, the situation in the neighbouring country has been deteriorating, prompting a mass exodus of Afghans trying to flee violence and the Taliban. The group has been designated as a terrorist organisation by the United States over the years, it is responsible for carrying out major attacks in Afghanistan.Last Thursday, the BRICS grouping called for an inclusive intra-Afghan dialogue to ensure stability and peace in Afghanistan. The leaders also asserted that Afghanistan’s territory shouldn’t become a sanctuary for terror groups to mount attacks on other nations.The Delhi Declaration was issued after a virtual summit of Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa (BRICS) expressed concern at developments in Afghanistan and made a call for “refraining from violence and settling the situation by peaceful means”. The grouping highlighted the importance of fighting terror and upholding human rights, including those of women and minorities.Meanwhile, the Taliban unveiled a "caretaker" government in Kabul, which will be led by Mullah Mohammad Hassan Akhund and dominated by 17 leaders sanctioned by the UN Security Council.The new regime comprised mainly members of the group’s veteran leaders and top military commanders such as Sirajuddin Haqqani. This came despite the global calls by leaders to have an inclusive government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/closely-monitoring-developments-in-neighbouring-countries-bsf-as-taliban-tighten-grip-101631508295126.html
13-09-2021||India||India has administered at least 738 million Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered at least 738 million Covid vaccine doses by Sunday, September 12. By the day, the Centre has provided 722,117,085 vaccine doses to the states and Union Territories. Another 5,756,240 doses are in the pipeline. As many as 51,666,835 balance and unutilized doses were still available with states and UTs as on Sunday morning.Meanwhile, by 7am on Sunday, 738,207,378 vaccine doses were given across the states and UTs. As many as 7,286,883 doses were administered on the day.In the 18-45 age group, 296,771,856 people have been given the first dose while 42,838,102 have got their second shot as well.Also Watch| ‘No room for complacency’: PM reviews Covid situation as third wave threat loomsAmong the healthcare workers, 10,363,703 have been given the first dose while 8,587,937 have got their second dose as well. Among the frontline workers, 18,336,456 have got their first dose and 13,991,469 have got their second dose too.
13-09-2021||India||With 3,623 fresh cases, Maharashtra’s Covid tally reaches 6,497,877||Maharashtra on Sunday recorded 3,623 fresh Covid-19 cases, pushing the count to 6,497,877. The tally of active cases again increased to 50,400. However, there is no sign of a rise in Covid-19 cases.The state also saw 46 deaths, taking the toll to 138,142. Pune and Ahmednagar reported the highest toll with nine deaths each. Around 2,972 recoveries were reported in the past 24 hours.The state has been reporting between 4,000 and 5,000 cases for the past 12 days, except four days when daily cases dropped to fewer than 4,000. On Saturday, it reported 3,075 cases, the lowest since February 9. In the past 12 days, it has reported 48,067 cases against the 69,344 cases reported in the corresponding period last month.Also Read | Covid: 6 states, UTs have achieved 100% first dose vaccination. Check list hereAmid the threat of a potential third wave, the state government is not considering re-imposing fresh curbs anywhere in the state as of now, as there is still no rise in daily figures. At the same time, it is also taking decisions on lifting restrictions in a gradual manner, according to the state authorities.According to health experts, the impact of the festivals will be seen only after a period of two weeks and the third wave may hit the state by December or January. State health minister Rajesh Tope said the decision on reopening religious places will be taken only after Diwali.“As the head of the state disaster management authority, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will take the decision on reopening religious places. Ganesh Chaturthi is going on and will be followed by Dussehra and Diwali. Even if the daily cases fall, the decision on religious places will be taken if the situation will be under control after Dussehra and Diwali,” Tope told reporters in Jalna on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-3-623-fresh-cases-maharashtra-s-covid-tally-reaches-6497877-101631506345766.html
13-09-2021||India||'Won't let BJP down': Bhupendra Patel promises as he is chosen to be Gujarat CM||Bhupendra Patel, who has been chosen by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) as the next Gujarat chief minister to replace Vijay Rupani, said he would take the development journey of the state forward. In his first media address after being nominated by the party as the new chief minister, Patel also thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi and several other senior BJP leaders. "First of all, I want to thank Prime Minister Narendra Modi, JP Nadda and Amit Shah from the bottom of my heart. I also want to thank all the leaders of Gujarat BJP, including CR Patil and the team of Vijay Rupani," Patel in his first media address after being nominated by the party as the new chief minister.Patel said he will not let the party down. "The faith that party showed me, I will not let it break. I will take forward the incomplete development work in the state. We will move forward by keeping the organisation along," he added.A BJP spokesperson told news agency PTI that PM Modi called Patel on Sunday and congratulated him. Bhupendra Patel, who is known to keep a low profile, will take oath on Monday at Raj Bhavan. "No one else will take the oath with him as the name of Deputy Chief Minister is not decided yet," Gujarat BJP chief CR Paatil said on Sunday.Also read | ‘New energy to Gujarat’s development’: BJP leaders wish CM-elect Bhupendra PatelBhupendra Patel's predecessor Vijay Rupani, who stepped down as Gujarat chief minister on Saturday, praised him. "Bhupendra Patel is capable. He has a very gentle personality which surely helps in this development work ahead," Rupani told reporters soon after Patel was elected as the new Gujarat chief minister in the BJP's legislative party meeting held on Sunday. "We believe the BJP will win the upcoming elections in the state under his leadership," Vijay Rupani added.Also read | Bhupendra Patel: How first-time MLA rose up political ranks to helm GujaratWith assembly polls in the state scheduled to take place in late 2022, the BJP opted for Patel, a Patidar face as the Gujarat chief minister. The Patidars are a dominant caste in the state Also watch | Bhupendra Patel new Gujarat CM: A surprise pick as Vijay Rupani's successor
13-09-2021||India||Bengal: BJP, CPIM candidates to file nomination for Bhabanipur bypolls today||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate Priyanka Tibrewal and CPIM candidate Srijib Biswas are scheduled to file their nominations for the coming Bhabanipur by-elections in Kolkata today. Today is the last day for filing of nomination for the bypoll scheduled on September 30. The results would be announced on October 3. As of now, only West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has filed her nomination. The Congress has decided not to field any candidate. While Tibrewal is a BJP youth leader and an advocate who played a pivotal role in the legal battle in the Calcutta high court on post-poll violence which led a five-judge bench to order for a CBI probe, CPIM’s Biswas is also a lawyer. Even though the TMC returned to power by winning 213 out of the 292 seats in the recent assembly elections, Banerjee was defeated by her protégé-turned-adversary Suvendu Adhikari from Nandigram in Purba Medinipur by a narrow margin of 1,956 votes. Banerjee took oath as the state’s chief minister on May 5, and needs to win the by-election before November 5 to retain the post. The constituency, in the heart of south Kolkata, is TMC citadel and Banerjee’s home turf. She won the assembly elections twice in 2011 and 2016 from the seat. It has round 206,300 electors out of which 951,43, or around 46%, are women voters. Also Watch | BJP pits Bengal post-poll violence petitioner against Mamata in Bengal by-pollsThe TMC has put senior leaders such as Firhand Hakim, Subrata Mukhrjee and Partha Chatterjee in charge of the campaign in the eight civic wards that come under Bhabanipur. Party MP Mala Roy has been asked to consolidate the women votes. “If you sit at home thinking that Didi would win hands down, the web of conspiracy would have far reaching effects. Don’t blame me then. Everyone has to work as a party worker and ensure 100% voter turnout,” Banerjee said at a recent organisational meeting. The BJP too has hinted that it won’t be a cakewalk for the TMC and has drawn up its own strategy. An election management team with party MP Arjun Singh has been set up. A list of 20 star campaigners, including Union ministers Smriti Irani and Hardeep Singh Puri, has also been prepared. “This fight is against injustice. The chief minister doesn’t belong to any party. She is the chief minister of West Bengal. Despite that, she kept quiet during post-poll violence. I am sure the people of Bhabanipur will understand why Nandigram didn’t vote for Mamata,” Tibrewal told reporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-bjp-cpim-candidates-to-file-nomination-for-bhabanipur-bypolls-today-101631504905935.html
13-09-2021||India||Police officer's killers identified, action will be taken against them: J&K DGP||Police said they have identified the killers of probationary sub-inspector Arshid Ahmad at Khanyar, Srinagar, hours after the officer was shot dead by suspected militants on Sunday.While they did not reveal the identity of the assailants or the group behind the attack, director general of police Dilbag Singh told media said the perpetrators of the crime have been identified and they will be brought to justice. Police have formed a team to investigate the killing of Ahmad who was laid to rest at Kalmona village in Kupwara district late Sunday night. A large number of people participated in his funeral.Also Read | Vaccination rate to be doubled in J&K districts with higher Covid caseloadAhmad was posted at Khanyar police station. A CCTV footage showing an attacker carrying a small weapon and firing at Ahmad from a close range went viral on social media. Ahmad, a resident of Kupwara district, was shot at after he was coming back from a hospital where he had taken an accused for a check up. Ahmad was rushed to SKIMS in Soura, but he succumbed to injuries, officials said.Last few months have seen multiple attacks on policemen in Kashmir, especially in Srinagar city.On August 3, a cop and a civilian were injured in the same area when militants opened fire on a police’s Rakshak vehicle parked at Sheraz Chowk.On August 7, a police personnel was killed in a militant attack in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district, some 70km from Srinagar.On June 22, inspector Pervaiz Ahmad, who worked with the Criminal Investigation Department wing of police, was killed after militants opened fire on him at Nowgam near his home in Srinagar outskirts. On June 17, an off-duty Jammu and Kashmir police personnel was shot dead near his house in the Old City’s Saidapora area. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/those-involved-in-cop-s-killing-identified-says-jkdgp-101631503346792.html
13-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Deep depression crosses Odisha coast; rain likely in central, west India and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Deep depression crosses Odisha coast; heavy rain likely in central, west IndiaA depression had formed over northwest Bay of Bengal and adjoining Odisha coast on Sunday evening which intensified and crossed the Odisha coast as a ‘deep depression’ close to Chandbali early Monday morning between 5.30 and 6.30am. Read MoreBhupendra Patel to take oath as 17th Gujarat CM today, Amit Shah to attend ceremonyBhupendra Patel will on Monday take oath as the 17th chief minister of Gujarat, replacing Vijay Rupani, who unexpectedly stepped down from the top post in the state, ahead of the assembly elections in 2022. Read MoreCovid-19: 3 states, 3 UTs have achieved 100% first dose vaccination. Check list hereIndia’s vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is in full swing, with more than 740 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines administered since January 16, when the nationwide drive began with two vaccines, Covaxin and Covishield. Read MoreUS Open: Daniil Medvedev beats Novak Djokovic to lift maiden Grand Slam title; denies Serb the Calendar SlamNovak Djokovic’s bid for the first calendar-year Grand Slam in men’s tennis since 1969 ended one victory short with a 6-4, 6-4, 6-4 loss to Daniil Medvedev in the U.S. Open final on Sunday. Read MoreMegan Fox dares to bare in bold see-through dress for 2021 MTV VMAs with Machine Gun KellyThe MTV Video Music Awards 2021 red carpet saw the fiercest looks by the biggest celebrities from the industry on Sunday, September 12 (September 13 morning IST) at the Barclays Center in Brooklyn, New York. Read MorePriyanka Chopra on reviews suggesting she 'didn't speak the truth' in Unfinished: 'You wanted gossip in my book'Priyanka Chopra caught everyone's attention with her memoir Unfinished. While the actor shed light on her journey, from growing up in India and the US, from Miss India to Miss World and to becoming a Hollywood star, she chose to not drop names. Read MoreWatch | Qatar's deputy premier & foreign minister holds high-level talks with Taliban||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-deep-depression-crosses-odisha-coast-heavy-rain-likely-in-central-west-india-and-all-the-latest-news-101631502674332.html
13-09-2021||India||Deep depression crosses Odisha coast; heavy rain likely in central, west India||A depression had formed over northwest Bay of Bengal and adjoining Odisha coast on Sunday evening which intensified and crossed the Odisha coast as a ‘deep depression’ close to Chandbali early Monday morning between 5.30 and 6.30am. The deep depression is likely to bring heavy rain in its track, covering several parts of central India and west coast, India Meteorological Department (IMD) has warned.It is likely to move west-northwestwards across North Odisha and north Chhattisgarh and weaken gradually into a depression during the next 24hrs.Deep depression is an intense low pressure system with wind speed from 55 to 61kmph.Also Read | Delhi weather: Cloudy sky with a chance of light rainfall todayAnother low pressure area is lying over southwest Rajasthan and the adjoining Gujarat region. The monsoon trough is lying south of its normal position. It is very likely to be south of its normal position during the next 3-4 days. In association with the depression and its west-northwestward movement , lower level westerlies are very likely to strengthen along the west coast during the next 4-5 days.Widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls is very likely over north Konkan, north Madhya Maharashtra, Gujarat, east Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh during the next five days and over Vidarbha, Chhattisgarh qnd Odisha during the next five days. Isolated extremely heavy rain (over 20cm) is likely over Odisha, north Konkan, madhya Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh today. Scattered to fairly widespread rainfall likely to continue over peninsular India during the next five days. Isolated heavy rain is likely over coastal & south interior Karnataka, Tamilnadu, Puducherry, Karaikal and Kerala during the next three days. Scattered rainfall activity is likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh Delhi and Uttar Pradesh during the next five days. Widespread and isolated heavy rain is likely over Uttarakhand during 12th-16th September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deep-depression-crosses-odisha-coast-heavy-rain-likely-in-central-west-india-101631501785574.html
13-09-2021||India||Covid-19: 3 states, 3 UTs have achieved 100% first dose vaccination. Check list here||India’s vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is in full swing, with more than 740 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines administered since January 16, when the nationwide drive began with two vaccines, Covaxin and Covishield.Till now, over 565 million beneficiaries have received their first shot, while more than 177 million people have received both doses of a Covid-19 jab.According to the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW), there are three states and an equal number of Union territories (UT) where 100 per cent eligible population (18 years and above) have been vaccinated with at least the first dose: Congratulations to these States & UTs for administering the first #COVID19 vaccine dose to 100% of the adult population.Special appreciation for the health workers in these regions for their diligence & commitment 👏 pic.twitter.com/pH89J7lhtFAlso Read | 6 states, UTs vaccinate 100% adult population with at least 1 dose; Health minister Mandaviya lauds feat(1.) Himachal Pradesh: The hill state was the first in the country to achieve this distinction. According to figures provided by the Union health ministry, more than 5.57 million such doses have been administered here thus far. CM Jairam Thakur said last week that all beneficiaries would be fully vaccinated by November 30.Also Read | Himachal administers first dose of Covid vaccine to 100% of its population(2.) Goa: As per official data, over 1.18 million beneficiaries here have been jabbed at least once, though opposition parties in the state have questioned the state government’s claim.(3.) Dadra & Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu: In the UT, more than 626,000 beneficiaries have received their first shot of a Covid-19 vaccine.(4.) Sikkim: The northeastern state achieved this feat by administering over 510,000 doses.In addition to these, the UTs of Ladakh and Lakshadweep have vaccinated 100 per cent beneficiaries with at least first jab, from 197,000 and 53,499 doses respectively.Thus far, six vaccines have received Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA) from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI). Of these, two are indigenously developed: Covaxin and ZyCoV-D.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-3-states-3-uts-have-achieved-100-first-dose-vaccination-check-list-here-101631500402671.html
13-09-2021||India||Goa makes quarantine mandatory for visitors from Kerala||The Goa government has extended the state-level Covid-19 “curfew” by another week up to September 20 and mandated five day quarantine for persons travelling to the state from Kerala. In an order issued by the two district magistrates under Section 144 of the CrPC, “all students and employees coming from Kerala should be subjected to institutional quarantine of five days.” Other visitors from Kerala will have to mandatorily produce a negative RT-PCR test certificate and undergo home quarantine for five days, as per the order. “The arrangement for quarantine of students will be done by the administrators/principals of the educational institutions. For the employees, it shall be done by the respective offices/ companies/firms,” the order reads. “At the end of five days, they shall be tested by RT-PCR,” the order states. The order shall, however, not be applicable to constitutional functionaries, healthcare professionals and their spouses, children below two years, those in a dire emergency like a death in the family and those passing through the state via train or road. Prior to this order, all persons entering the state were required to produce a Covid negative certificate except those who had received their 2nd dose of Covid vaccine at least 14 days ago. As per the order, casinos, auditoriums, community halls, river cruises, water parks, entertainment parks and water sports continue to remain closed. The “curfew” has been in place in Goa since the first week of May as cases and deaths began to mount, but has gradually been relaxed with each passing week until now, when the restrictions on persons arriving from Kerala have been imposed. Late last week Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant said the state had administered 100% of its eligible population with the first dose of Covid vaccine and would achieve full vaccination by October 31. Goa has recorded 174,837 cases of Covid-19 since the pandemic began and 3,217 people have lost their lives to the disease. The state is now recording around 100 cases per day with a positivity rate between 1-2% each day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-makes-quarantine-mandatory-for-visitors-from-kerala-101631498665276.html
13-09-2021||India||Farmer unions in Himachal Pradesh to protest today against falling apple prices||Apple growers in Himachal Pradesh, reeling due to the plummeting price of the fruit in the wholesale market, will on Monday hold a statewide agitation against the government over what they allege is its failure to protect the interests of apple cultivating farmers in the hill state.Also Read | Apple price slide: Farmer unions to stage protest in HP on Sept 13Samyukt Kisan Manch (SKM), an umbrella body of various farmer unions, announced on August 30 that a protest will take place on September 13 against falling prices of apple in the state, as well as various issues pertaining to apple cultivation here. The decision to stage this protest was taken in a meeting which was attended by representatives of around 20 farmer unions and politicians from across party lines, including members of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).While today’s demonstrations will be held at block and subdivisional levels, the SKM has warned of a “mega protest” on September 26 if the Himachal Pradesh government fails to take corrective measures.The SKM has also raised 10 main demands, which include the implementation of the market intervention scheme (MIS) to prevent apple cultivators from being exploited. The forum has demanded that under the MIS, grade A, B and C apples should have a support price of ₹60, ₹44 and ₹24 per kg respectively.Withdrawal of increase in transportation charges, permission to allow sale of apple and other fruit crops on the basis of weight, and reinstating subsidy on fretilisers, seeds, insecticides, fungicides and farm tools are also among the demands raised by farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmer-unions-in-himachal-pradesh-to-protest-today-against-falling-apple-prices-101631495032406.html
13-09-2021||India||Tamil Nadu to bring bill seeking exemption from NEET today||The Tamil Nadu government will on Monday introduce a bill in the assembly that seeks the President’s assent to exempt the state's medical aspirant from taking the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET), a day after the death of a 19-year-old sparked a political storm. Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin said on Sunday that NEET is a major issue in the country. "Another death at the altar of NEET…Tomorrow we will bring a permanent exemption bill for NEET. Let us take NEET as an issue of the Indian subcontinent," Stalin said in a Twitter post in Tamil.The remarks by Stalin came after a 19-year-old medical aspirant was found dead at his home in Salem hours before he was to appear for the NEET exam a third time. The Tamil Nadu government recently said in a policy note that an official committee suggested the enactment of a fresh law to provide for admission to professional degrees like medicine on the basis of marks obtained in the qualifying exam and to get exemption from NEET. Bills adopted in 2017 during the previous AIADMK regime to exempt Tamil Nadu from NEET did not get the President's assent.The student’s death led to a blame game with the AIADMK holding the DMK regime responsible and Stalin targeted the Centre for being "obstinate" on the matter. Stalin alleged that the Centre does not understand the huge difficulties caused by NEET to students and its 'negligence' and 'obstinacy' continues to be responsible for the death of students by suicide.Also read | Tamil Nadu NEET aspirant kills self, CM says will move bill against examCondoling the aspirant's death, Stalin said "our legal struggle against NEET starts now after taking over the reins of the government." The state government has the responsibility and duty to build a good future for students and realising this, "our struggle will continue till the Union government rescinds NEET," he said. The Tamil Nadu chief minister said his government would drum up support of all other states on this issue by reaching out to his counterparts. “I have the confidence that we will win,” he said.Leader of the Opposition K Palaniswami said in the run-up to the April 6 assembly election, the DMK claimed that the party was aware of the ways and means to "cancel NEET." He said the DMK targeted the AIADMK government over this issue, "diverted the people and also won the polls." Palaniswami, who is the AIADMK co-coordinator, said in a statement that the DMK made “tall claims” of getting Tamil Nadu exempted from NEET, mocked his party over the issue and campaigned in a way that deceived the students.Also read | Madras high court sets aside order allowing 16-year-old girl to write NEET this yearThe AIADMK leader said he had time and again asked the government to clarify whether NEET would be conducted in Tamil Nadu since the DMK had made such an assurance. He said that, unlike the DMK, his party is not interested in politicising the NEET issue. "Please tell the students about the true status of NEET," he said.A number of aspirants from Tamil Nadu have allegedly died by suicide fearing the outcome of the national test for admission to medical colleges and opposition to NEET has grown.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-to-bring-bill-seeking-exemption-from-neet-today-101631494532679.html
13-09-2021||India||Bhabanipur by-polls: BJP's Priyanka Tibrewal to file her nomination papers today||The Bharatiya Janata Paty's Priyanka Tibrewal will on Monday file her nomination papers for the by-election to the Bhabanipur seat. A lawyer, Tebriwal has been fielded against West Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee, who has already filed her nomination papers.Tibrewal kickstarted her campaign on Sunday by painting the BJP’s symbol of lotus on a wall in Bhabanipur. "I will file my nomination tomorrow. The people of West Bengal have the right to live. This right is being taken away from them by the Trinamool Congress led by Mamata Banerjee," she said on Sunday. "I am fighting for the people of Bengal," Tibrewal also said.She is currently the state vice president of Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM), the BJP's youth wing. She joined the BJP in 2014.Also Read | Why BJP pit youth leader Priyanka Tibrewal against CM Mamata in Bhawanipore?On Saturday, Tibrewal visited the Kalighat Temple in Kolkata, where she offered her prayers to Goddess Kali ahead of the Bhabanipur fight. During the visit, Tibrewal asserted that her fight is "against the members of the ruling party as they have done injustice to the people of West Bengal."By-polls for Bhabanipur will be held on September 30 along with two other constituencies of Jangipur and Samsherganj. The counting of votes will take place on October 3—the week before Durga Puja celebrations kick off in Bengal.The by-poll at Bhabanipur were necessitated after Sovandeb Chattopadhyay, who originally won the Bhabanipur seat in the assembly elections held this year, vacated the seat to facilitate Banerjee's continuous rule the state following her defeat in Nandigram. Chattopadhyay won from Bhabanipur by a margin of more than 28,000 votes.Banerjee lost to her former aide Suvendu Adhikari by a close margin of 1,956 votes from the Nandigram constituency in the assembly elections. As the TMC came back with a thumping majority, Banerjee was sworn in as the chief minister for the third time. However, as per the Constitution, Mamata has to win on any seat in the state to have the chance of becoming a member of the state assembly. In fact, she has to win before November 5 to remain the chief minister’s position.Meanwhile, Congress has announced that the party will not be fielding any candidate for the Bhabanipur by-polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhabanipur-by-polls-bjp-s-priyanka-tibrewal-to-file-her-nomination-papers-today-101631492980272.html
13-09-2021||India||Light intensity rain in Delhi, neighbouring states today: IMD||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Monday projected light intensity rain/drizzle in parts of Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh while in Odisha, for which the weather department issued a red alert on Sunday, the depression over northwest Bay of Bengal will cross north Odisha coast by early morning body, the IMD said.Also Read | Low pressure over Bay of Bengal to turn into depression, IMD predicts heavy rains in Odisha, Chhattisgarh“Light intensity rain/drizzle would occur over and adjoining areas of isolated places of north Delhi, Garhmukteshwar, Khekra, Baghpat, Narwana, Kaithal, Rohtak, Kharkhonda during the next two hours,” the IMD said in a 4am bulletin. This forecast is for till 6am after which fresh updates are likely to be issued. 13-09-2021; 0400 IST; Light intensity rain/drizzle would occur over and adjoining areas of isolated places of North Delhi, Garhmukteshwar, Khekra, Bagpat, Narwana, Kaithal, Rohtak, Kharkhonda during next 2 hours. pic.twitter.com/yayuyMpbslRain lashed national capital and its adjoining areas for two straight days on Saturday and Sunday. The spell of rain on Saturday was particularly intense, as it led to waterlogging not only on roads, but also at the Indira Gandhi International airport. Also Read | Intense 3-hour rain spell brings Delhi to a grinding halt yet againAccording to the weather body, the city is likely to receive light intensity rain throughout this week.Also Read | Light spells of rain likely in Delhi this week, Met forecastsMeanwhile, for Odisha, the weather bulletin said, “The depression over northwest Bay of Bengal and adjoining Odisha coast moved west-northwestwards at a speed of 5 kmph. It is very likely to move west-northwestwards and cross north Odisha coast close to south of Chandbali by early morning of today, the 13th September, 2021.”
13-09-2021||India||Bhupendra Patel to take oath as 17th Gujarat CM today, Amit Shah to attend ceremony||Bhupendra Patel will on Monday take oath as the 17th chief minister of Gujarat, replacing Vijay Rupani, who unexpectedly stepped down from the top post in the state, ahead of the assembly elections in 2022. The Bharatiya Janata Party’s choice of the 59-year-old as the chief minister at a legislative party meeting on Sunday came as a surprise for many as the low-profile, first-time legislator was not seen to be among the top contenders for the post. The BJP has said the decision regarding the new Gujarat cabinet will be taken later.Gujarat Governor Acharya Devvrat invited Bhupendra Patel to take oath as the new Gujarat chief minister of Gujarat at 2:20pm on Monday. "The newly appointed leader of the Bharatiya Janata Party's Legislature Party, Bhupendrabhai Patel, presented a proposal to form a new government under his leadership at the Raj Bhavan. Accepting the proposal, he was invited to take oath as the Chief Minister on September 13, 2021, at 2:20 pm," tweeted the Governor.Also read | Not at least in next 25 years…: Hardik Patel has a message for new Gujarat CMAccording to news agency ANI, Union home minister Amit Shah is scheduled to attend the swearing-in ceremony of Bhupendra Patel in Gandhinagar as Gujarat CM. “I believe that under the guidance of Narendra Modi, the state’s sustainable development will keep up its momentum,” Amit Shah tweeted on Sunday.Patel met Devvrat at Raj Bhavan in Gandhinagar on Sunday to stake a claim to the top post in the state and was accompanied by his predecessor Vijay Rupani and a delegation of BJP leaders.Also watch | Bhupendra Patel new Gujarat CM: A surprise pick as Vijay Rupani's successorBorn in Ahmedabad, Bhupendra Patel is an MLA from the Ghatlodia seat, previously held by former chief minister and now Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel. Patel is known to be close to Amit Shah as well as Anandiben Patel. Patel won his seat by over 117,000 votes in 2017, the largest margin in that poll defeating Congress candidate Shashikant Patel. Ghatlodia is part of the Gandhinagar Lok Sabha seat represented by Amit Shah.Also read | Who is Bhupendra Patel, Gujarat CM, first-time MLA and minister?Bhupendra Patel has served as the Ahmedabad municipal councillor. Patel, who holds a diploma in civil engineering, also served as the chairperson of the Standing Committee of Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation and Ahmedabad Urban Development Authority (AUDA). He is also a trustee at Patidar organisations Sardar Dham and Vishwa Umiya Foundation.With assembly polls in the state scheduled to be held in 2022, the BJP is banking on Bhupendra Patel, a Patidar, to lead the party. In the last assembly elections held in 2017, the BJP won 99 of the state's 182 seats and Congress got 77.The Patidars are a dominant caste in Gujarat with a sizeable control over the electoral votes and they also dominate the political economy with a stronghold over education, realty and cooperative sectors.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhupendra-patel-to-take-oath-as-gujarat-cm-today-amit-shah-to-attend-ceremony-101631491440141.html
13-09-2021||India||Tamil Nadu NEET aspirant kills self, CM says will move bill against exam||A 19-year-old NEET aspirant appeared to have died by suicide in Tamil Nadu’s Salem district on Sunday, prompting chief minister MK Stalin to say that the legal battle against the national entrance exam was just beginning, and promised to bring a bill against it on Monday.The National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) 2021 for admission in undergraduate medical courses was conducted across 202 cities on Sunday, after the Supreme Court recently rejected a plea by a group of students to postpone the exam. The top court said that it did not want to interfere with the process and it will be “very unfair” to reschedule the test.The medical aspirant, who was the son of a farm labourer, was found dead in his room hours before he was slated to take the exam for the third time in a row, said a senior Salem police officer who asked not to be named.“There is no suicide note, but circumstantial evidence points to suicide due to exam fear as he has failed twice in the past and couldn’t get a medical admission... His parents were compelling him to prepare and clear NEET today and not go for any other course. The family also says that he was under pressure,” the official said, adding that a case of unnatural death under Section 174 of the Indian Penal Code has been registered.The death triggered a political storm, with the Opposition blaming the ruling Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), and the state government attacking the Union government.Chief minister MK Stalin appealed to students to not lose hope and assured them that the DMK government will pass a bill in the state assembly on Monday, seeking permanent exemption from NEET. “Let the injustice end,” he said in a statement, adding that “our legal battle against NEET is just beginning.”“The Union government’s indifference and adamant attitude over NEET continues to be the reason for suicide by promising students,” he added.Since NEET was introduced in Tamil Nadu in 2017, at least a dozen aspirants have died by suicide in the state.Former AIADMK chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami, however, blamed the DMK for not fulfilling its election promise to abolish NEET. “What happened to the promise of the DMK?” he tweeted.The Bharatiya Janata Party’s state unit chief, K Annamalai, said that the DMK should stop playing with students’ lives when the Supreme Court has made the exam mandatory. “Students’ lives are being lost for playing politics,” he said. The BJP is the only party in the state that supports NEET.The National Testing Agency (NTA), which conducts NEET, recently received approval from the Supreme Court to conduct it as per schedule. The court rejected a plea filed by some students, saying NEET was clashing with other exams.Tamil Nadu abolished NEET for nearly a decade, saying that it puts children from rural and poor background at a disadvantage. Before NEET, the state considered Class 12 board exam marks for admissions to medical colleges. However, on August 2017, the Supreme Court directed the TN government to conduct MBBS/BDS admissions solely on the basis of NEET marks. The verdict came after the Centre informed the court that there was no ordinance in the pipeline to exempt Tamil Nadu from the ambit of NEET, even as a one-time measure.Since then, the state has been trying to get exempted from the exam through an ordinance, inside the court halls and through negotiations with the Union government. Protests against the exam have spilt over to the streets, but to no avail. Tamil Nadu has one of the highest medical aspirants in the country--one in eight doctors from India is from Tamil Nadu, according to the data provided by former Union health minister Harsh Vardhan in Parliament in 2019.The staunch resistance to NEET originated from the plight of disadvantaged students from Tamil Nadu’s hinterlands who have to compete with urban and affluent students who have more access to resources. Like any other exam, NEET, too, is marred by the tragedy of students dying by suicide. S Anitha, a Dalit teenager, who died by suicide in 2017 after failing in NEET though she was a school topper with 98% continues to be the face to rally against the exam for politicians.Anitha’s death led to widespread protests across Tamil Nadu. On 22 August, 2017, the Supreme Court did not give Tamil Nadu an exemption from NEET in a case in which Anitha had impleaded herself.Voices opposing NEET have argued that the exam has not led to more meritorious students but it has only helped to mushroom private centres charging exorbitant fees.The AIADMK last year during its regime introduced a 7.5% horizontal reservation in medical colleges for government school students who clear NEET.The DMK government after taking over in May constituted a committee chaired by Justice A K Rajan to study the adverse impact of NEET on socially and economically backward students. The state BJP challenged this in the Madras high court which was disposed of.(If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist.) Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-neet-aspirant-kills-self-cm-says-will-move-bill-against-exam-101631486772220.html
13-09-2021||India||4 of family killed in Baramulla cloudburst, one missing: Officials||Four members of a nomad family, including three minors, were killed and one person went missing when a cloudburst hit Baramulla district of Jammu and Kashmir, officials familiar with the matter said on Sunday.The cloudburst occurred in the upper belt of Dangiwacha at Hamam Marcoot in Sopore area of the north Kashmir district on Saturday night, the officials said.Police and state disaster response force (SDRF) teams rushed to the spot and four bodies have been recovered, they added.The deceased were identified as Mohammad Tariq Khari (8), Shahnaza Begum (30), Naziya Akther (14) and Arif Hussain Khari (5), all residents of Kalsiyan Nowshera area of Rajouri in Jammu region, police said.Another family member, Mohammad Bashir Khari (80), is still missing, and efforts are on to trace him, they added.Deputy Commissioner (DC) Baramulla Bhupinder Kumar reviewed the ground situation and directed authorities concerned to provide every type of assistance to the family members, news agency ANI reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-of-family-killed-in-baramulla-cloudburst-one-missing-officials-101631486960057.html
13-09-2021||India||Forces shoot dead terrorist in J&K gunfight||An unidentified terrorist was killed in an encounter with security forces on Sunday following a search operation in the upper reaches of Jammu and Kashmir’s Rajouri district, officials said.The encounter started when terrorists opened fire on a joint search party of the Army and police in the forest area of Dori Maal near Barote Gali in Manjakote area, they said.The encounter was still going on when last reports were received, the officials said.They said the search operation was launched in the area and in parts of Thanamandi in the early hours of Sunday after intelligence inputs suggested movement by a fresh group of terrorists who managed to sneak into this side and were hiding in the forest area.The identity and group affiliation of the slain terrorist were yet to be ascertained, the officials said.The twin districts of Rajouri and Poonch in Jammu region have witnessed a spurt in infiltration attempts since June this year, resulting in the killing of nine terrorists in separate encounters.Three soldiers also laid down their lives in the earlier operations.The Sunday’s encounter was the latest in a series of gunfights as security forces intensified counter-insurgency operations in the Valley, killing 94 terrorists so far this year. It also comes at a time when Jammu & Kashmir is witnessing a spike in violence and attacks on political leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/forces-shoot-dead-terrorist-in-jkgunfight-101631475443636.html
13-09-2021||India||Sidhu writes to captain, urges him to take action on farmers’ demands||Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday wrote to chief minister Amarinder Singh, seeking action on farmers’ demands including cancellation of “unfair” FIRs registered against growers during their agitation.Asserting that the Congress stood by farmers’ agitation against the farm laws at every stage, Sidhu, however, asked the state government, “we must do more” and “not let the three black laws be implemented in Punjab at any cost.” Sidhu wrote to the chief minister two days after meeting representatives of 32 farm bodies which had raised their demands with him.In a letter to the CM, Sidhu wrote, “This is to bring to your attention and request for necessary action, upon the demands raised by 32 farmer unions at the meeting called by them.” Sidhu said farmer leaders demanded “the cancellation of unjust and unfair” FIRs registered against the farmer unions due to cases of violence during the agitation in the state.” “We must take steps ahead from the farmer agitation’s fight against the three black laws to do more and present the vision for Punjab agriculture, to increase Punjab’s farmers’ income using every resource and power we have to stand with the farmers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sidhu-writes-to-captain-urges-him-to-take-action-on-farmers-demands-101631475149069.html
13-09-2021||India||SC to hear petitions calling for probe into Pegasus row today||The Supreme Court is scheduled to hear on Monday a batch of pleas seeking an independent probe into the alleged snooping on certain people in India involving Israeli spyware Pegasus.A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana had on September 7 had granted more time to the Centre to decide on filing a further response on the petitions after Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said that due to some difficulties he could not meet the officials concerned to take a decision on the filing of the second affidavit.The Centre had earlier filed a limited affidavit in the apex court saying the pleas seeking an independent probe into the Pegasus snooping allegations are based on “conjectures and surmises or on other unsubstantiated media reports or incomplete or uncorroborated material”.On August 17, the top court had issued notice to the Centre on the pleas, making it clear that it did not want the government to disclose anything which compromises national security.In its short affidavit filed in the court earlier, the Centre had said the position on the issue has already been clarified in Parliament by Information Technology Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw.With a view of dispelling any wrong narrative spread by certain vested interests and examining the issues raised, the government will constitute a committee of experts, it had said. The top court, while issuing notice on the pleas, had said that it did not want the government to disclose anything related to the national security and had asked the Centre what is the “problem” if the competent authority files an affidavit before it on the issue.“Our considered response is what we have respectfully stated in our last affidavit. Kindly examine the issue from our point of view as our affidavit is sufficient,” the law officer had told the bench, adding, “The Government of India is before the highest court of the country.” The law officer had said if the government of any country divulges information about which software is used and which is not used, then those involved in terrorist activities may take preemptive measures.The pleas are related to reports of alleged snooping by government agencies on eminent citizens, politicians and scribes by using Israeli firm NSO’s spyware Pegasus. An international media consortium has reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers were on the list of potential targets for surveillance using Pegasus spyware. PTI ABA ABA NSD NSD||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-hear-petitions-calling-for-probe-into-pegasus-row-today-101631474843545.html
13-09-2021||India||Terrorist guns down J&K cop||A Jammu & Kashmir policeman was killed on Sunday after a suspected terrorist fired at him in Srinagar’s old city area, police said.Probationary sub-inspector (SI) Arshid Ahmad was shot at twice from behind in Khanyar area, police said. He was immediately rushed to Sheri Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences (SKIMS) in Soura where he succumbed to injuries, they added.“It is a very tragic incident. We have lost a young and brave officer who was just at the threshold of his service. He was learning the nuances of policing. He was deputed at a hospital for a check up of an accused and while he was coming back, he was shot at. He was rushed to a hospital where he succumbed to injuries. The perpetrators of the crime involved in this case have been identified and they will be brought to justice,” J&K director general of police Dilbag Singh said, refusing to disclose any details on the accused.SKIMS medical superintendent Dr Farooq Jan also said the cop succumbed to injuries during treatment.Ahmad was a resident of Kupwara in north Kashmir and was posted at Khanyar police station.CCTV footage of the incident showed the terrorist using a small weapon to fire at Ahmad from a very close range before fleeing the spot.Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chief Mehbooba Mufti and National Conference leader Omar Abdullah were among those who condemned the attack on the cop.“Saddened to hear about the death of Jammu and Kashmir Police sub inspector Arshid Ahmed killed by militants at Khanyar today. May his soul rest in peace and condolences to his family,” Mufti tweeted.“Sorry to hear about the death in the line of duty of sub inspector Arshid Mir of Jammu and Kashmir Police in a dastardly attack in the heart of Srinagar city. A young life with so much promise, another grieving family. May Allah grant Arshid a place in Jannat,” National Conference leader Omar Abdullah posted on the micro-blogging site.Peoples Conference leader Sajad Lone said: “SI Arshid Ahmed martyred. May Allah grant him Jannat. The terrorists have yet again made an addition to the army of orphans.”Sunday’s incident comes amid an increasing attack on police personnel in the Valley.On August 3, a cop and a civilian were injured when suspected terrorists opened fire at a police rakshak vehicle at Sheraz Chowk.Four days later, another cop was killed in a terrorist attack in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district.In June, inspector Pervaiz Ahmad, who worked with the Criminal Investigation Department (CID), was killed after terrorists opened fire at him at Nowgam, near his residence in the outskirts of Srinagar.Meanwhile, a gun fight between security forces and terrorists broke out in Rajouri district earlier during the day, officials familiar with the matter said.The incident took place after security forces launched a security operation in the upper reaches of the district following inputs about the possible presence of terrorists in the area.The terrorists opened fire on the joint search parties of the Army and police in the forest area of Dori Maal near Barote Gali in Manjakote area, the officials cited above said.The gunfight lasted for several hours but there was no immediate report of any casualty on either side.“The encounter is going on and further details are awaited,” a senior police officer said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terrorist-guns-down-j-k-cop-101631472325382.html
13-09-2021||India||There were issues that tested patience': TN’s outgoing Governor in farewell note||Tamil Nadu’s outgoing Governor Banwarilal Purohit released a farewell message on Sunday acknowledging that there were issues and divided opinions during his four-year-long tenure.“Yes, there were many issues that tested everybody’s patience and perseverance as well as a sense of commitment and goodwill, but the end, the result was always positive for all sections,” Purohit’s farewell note released by the Raj Bhavan read. “Yes, there were points at which different sections stood on the opposite sides of the divide. The State also saw major electoral battles for the Lok Sabha elections and then for the Legislative Assembly elections. Despite all that political acrimony, I found the State of Tamil Nadu and its people very warm and welcoming.”On late Thursday night, the Rashtrapati Bhavan made new appointments and shuffled Governors. Purohit, who held additional charge as Governor of Punjab was appointed regular Governor in poll-bound Punjab. To replace him, RN Ravi, Governor of Nagaland, was appointed the Governor of Tamil Nadu.In October 2017, Purohit was appointed the 14th Governor of Tamil Nadu when the state was reeling under a political crisis following J Jayalalithaa’s death in office as chief minister in December 2016. He has been embroiled in several controversies during his stint. He also leaves the state office having avoided taking a decision on the clemency plea of one of the convicts serving a sentence for former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi’s assassination, and handing the decision over to the President of India stating that he was the right person to rule on this. “Evasion is not a constitutional act,” said political commentator, Ramu Manivannan.In his farewell note, Purhot said, “As custodian of the Constitution in the State’s context, I took certain positions as per the word of the statute. But I am very happy to place on record that the people of all walks of life -- from the streets of Tamil Nadu to the haloed chambers of politics -- understood the correct position and lent their support to my decisions in whatever manner.”Incoming Governor, Ravi, was born in Bihar and joined the Indian Police Service (IPS) in 1976 and was allotted the Kerala Cadre. He has also held positions in the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Intelligence Bureau (IB). He was appointed the Centre’s Interlocutor for the Naga peace talks in August 2014 and Nagaland’s Governor in 2019.There have been mixed political reactions to Ravi’s appointment. Tamil Nadu’s Congress unit has raised doubts over the BJP-led Union government’s “intention”, wondering if the appointment of an ex-IPS officer was an attempt to target the MK Stalin-led DMK government.On Friday, state Congress chief KS Alagiri referred to the case of another former IPS officer Kiran Bedi who, he said, as Lieutenant Governor (L-G) of the neighbouring Union territory of Puducherry, interfered with the functioning of the Congress government there. The Congress government eventually fell earlier this year owing to a spate of resignations of MLAs, some of whom jumped ship to the BJP.The Congress had often met the President to recall Bedi, accusing her of running a parallel administration and not allowing for welfare schemes to be implemented. She was eventually replaced by former Tamil Nadu BJP-chief Tamilisai Soundararajan who was given additional charge as the L-G of Puducherry while she was also the Governor of Telangana.“The appointment of a retired police officer as Tamil Nadu Governor has raised suspicion,” Alagiri said in a statement. “I suspect that Ravi has been appointed to create problems for Chief Minister MK Stalin,” he said.However, Stalin and former chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami expressed gratitude towards Purohit and welcomed the new Governor for the state.“Governors are being seen as instruments of the central ruling party,” Manivannan said, adding, “This office seems to be functioning against the tenets of a federal system and we should address the office of the Governor through political and constitutional reforms to bring in accountability for their actions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/there-were-issues-that-tested-patience-says-tn-s-outgoing-governor-in-farewell-note-101631472144664.html
13-09-2021||India||Bhupendra Patel: How first-time MLA rose up political ranks to helm Gujarat||First-time legislator Bhupendra Patel was on Sunday named the next chief minister of Gujarat, a day after the unexpected resignation of Vijay Rupani. Popularly known as Bhupendrabhai Patel, the 59-year-old is believed to be a close confidante of Union home minister Amit Shah and Uttar Pradesh governor Anandiben Patel.The proposal to elect Patel as the legislative party leader was moved by CM Vijay Rupani, whose resignation just 15 months ahead of the state assembly elections, has surprised many. Most of the 112 MLAs of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the 182-member Assembly were present at Sunday’s legislative party meeting.Patel has never held a ministerial post before.The Patidar leader, who holds a diploma in civil engineering, contested his maiden assembly election in 2017 and won the Ghatlodia constituency in Ahmedabad by over 117,000 votes -- the highest victory margin in the state during that election. Ghatlodia is part of the Gandhinagar Lok Sabha seat represented by Shah.“Patel is very soft-spoken, gentle and gels with everyone,” said a BJP functionary, who did not want to be named. But some in the party have apprehensions about his governance abilities, citing a lack of administrative experience.In the past, Patel served as the chairman of Ahmedabad Urban Development Authority (AUDA) between 2015 and 2017. Before that, he was also the standing committee chairman of Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC), the largest urban local body in Gujarat, between 2010 and 2015. People close to him know Patel as someone well-connected to the grassroots.Before contesting the assembly election, he was active in local politics and became a member of Memnagar Municipality in Ahmedabad district, serving as its president twice. Patel is also a trustee of the Sardardham Vishwa Patidar Kendra, an organisation dedicated to the socio-economic development of the Patidar community.As per the affidavit filed in the last assembly polls, Patel has no criminal case pending against him.Amid allegations and speculations that Bhupendra Patel will be a “remote-controlled” CM, Amit Shah expressed confidence in his leadership. “I believe that under the guidance of Narendra Modi, the state’s sustainable development will keep up its momentum,” Amit Shah said in a Twitter post.“He represents the builder lobby, which is a big source of funding for the BJP. He is also a consensus candidate of Amit Shah and Anandiben groups. And then was chairman of AUDA,” says chief Gujarat Congress spokesperson Manish Doshi.Names of Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya and deputy chief minister Nitin Patel were also doing the rounds as the argument was that the BJP might want to replace soft-spoken Vijay Rupani with a strong, more mainstream politician. Patel’s name was not among the front runners. But in the meeting, his name was unanimously accepted while he was sitting in the last row.Experts termed Patel as someone who “knows how to get things done”.“Bhupendra has a clean slate and has a spotless reputation. His quality is that he is a soft-spoken person and knows how to get things done,” said political analyst Vishnu Pandya.With agency inputs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-first-time-mla-rose-up-political-ranks-to-helm-gujarat-101631472085040.html
13-09-2021||India||Assam announces new rules for ferry services after boat accident on Brahmaputra||GUWAHATI: The Assam government on Sunday announced a new set of regulations for passenger vessels on the Brahmaputra and other rivers in the state in the wake of the accident on September 8 in which two people died and another went missing after two boats collided between Nimatighat (Jorhat) and Majuli and one of them went down. The regulations were drawn up at a review meeting held on Saturday evening by chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma in Guwahati. Overall, these aim to streamline the ferry services and make them safer, but for additional security, two magistrates — one each in Majuli and Jorhat — will have to be present during the arrival and departure of the ferries from now on. According to a statement issued by the government, the ban on single-engine vessels, announced immediately after the accident, will stay. But those boats having ‘marine’ engines — two engines with reverse gear — will be allowed to ply. Boats having marine engines are safer because if one engine fails, the other kicks in. They also have outboard motors and are easier to manoeuvre in difficult conditions. The regulations also said that six vessels operated by the inland water transport department will continue to ferry passengers between Majuli and Jorhat, and a dredging vessel will also be in operation in the dry season to keep the channel clear. The government informed in the statement that all 19 private, single-engine vessels that ply between Majuli and Jorhat will be retrofitted with marine engines within six months, the cost of which will be borne by the government. Altogether the government will provide free marine engines to 850 private passenger vessels in the state under the Jibondinga Scheme, provided these clear the fitness survey. The scheme by the inland water transport department provides financial incentives to registered boat owners to provide safe, secure and sustainable ferry operations.The new rules make it mandatory for all passengers to wear life jackets. There will also be at least two ramps or temporary jetties at each ‘ghat’ (port) of Majuli and Jorhat. Every passenger will be issued a ticket, and his/her name and contact details will be recorded in a separate register. Basic amenities like toilets, drinking water, waiting area, etc., will be provided at each ghat, and safety audits on all vessels will be carried out regularly. Every vessel will need to have a first-aid box and a minimum of two anchors with flexible manila rope that will need replacement if they are more than 10% damaged. There should be one carbon dioxide and one foam-type fire extinguisher in the engine room. Each vessel must have a signboard prominently displaying the load capacity of passengers, bicycle, motorcycle, car, truck, and other permissible items, etc. Overloading will not be allowed under any circumstances, the government decided in the meeting.The vessels will also be inspected for overall fitness, availability of fire-fighting and lifesaving equipment, competence of crew members, etc. These certifications will be recorded in the surveyor declaration form before issuing certificates. Among other measures for safety, a State Disaster Relief Force team will be stationed at Majuli at all times to respond to any emergency. Meanwhile, the police have registered a criminal case in connection with the September 8 incident and arrested six officials of the inland water transport department and four others, including the owner and operators of the capsized private boat. An inquiry by an additional chief secretary has also been instituted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-announces-new-rules-for-ferry-services-after-boat-accident-on-brahmaputra-101631471724841.html
13-09-2021||India||Karnataka reports 803 new Covid cases, 17 fatalities||Karnataka reported 803 new Covid-19 cases and 17 deaths on Sunday, taking the total number of infections to 29,61,735 and the toll to 37,504. The day also saw 802 discharges, taking the total number of recoveries in the state so far to 2,907,548.Out of the 803 new cases reported on Sunday, 255 were from Bengaluru Urban, as the city saw 107 discharges and six deaths. The total number of active cases in the state stood at 16,656. While the positivity rate for the day was 0.80%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) was 2.11%. Coming behind Bengaluru Urban in number of deaths was Dakshina Kannada, Belagavi, Hassan and Mysuru (2 each), followed by others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-reports-803-new-covid-cases-17-fatalities-101631471723212.html
13-09-2021||India||CSIR transfers saline gargle RT-PCR testing tech to MSME industry||The Nagpur-based National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI), under the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), has transferred the technology of indigenously developed saline gargle reverse transcript polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) technique for testing Covid-19 samples, the government announced on Sunday. The technology that also provides instant test results and is well-suited for rural areas with poor connectivity, given its minimal infrastructure requirements, has been transferred to the Union ministry of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME). It is supposed to be simple, cost-effective, patient-friendly, and comfortable.“…the innovation developed by the institute has been ‘dedicated to the nation’ to serve the society. The knowhow has been transferred to the Union Ministry of Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises (MSME), on a non-exclusive basis. This would enable the innovation to be commercialized and licensed to all capable parties, including private, government and various rural development schemes and departments,” said a statement issued by the Press Information Bureau (PIB), government of India. As part of the technology transfer deal, the licensees are expected to set up manufacturing facilities for commercial production in the form of compact, easy-to-use kits. The technology transfer was expedited in view of the pandemic and a probable third wave of Covid-19 coming, said the PIB statement. The principal inventor of this is NEERI scientist Dr Krishna Khairnar and a team of research scholars of environmental virology at CSIR-NEERI, Nagpur.The government had in May announced the development of this technology that was also approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).“Swab collection requires time. Moreover, since it is invasive, it is a bit uncomfortable for patients. Time is also lost in transporting a sample from the collection centre to the laboratory. The saline gargle RT-PCR method is instant, comfortable and patient-friendly. Sampling is done instantly and results are generated within three hours,” Khairnar had said in May. The method is non-invasive and simple enough for a patient to collect his/her own sample for testing. A simple collection tube filled with a saline solution is used. The patient gargles with the solution and rinses it inside the tube. The sample is then taken to a laboratory where it is kept at room temperature in a special buffer solution prepared by NEERI. An RNA template is produced when this solution is heated, which is further processed for RT-PCR test.“This particular method of collecting and processing the sample enables us to save on the otherwise costly infrastructural requirement of RNA extraction. People can also test themselves, since this method allows self-sampling. The method is environment-friendly as well, since waste generation is minimised,” Khairnar had said.The team is hopeful that this innovative testing will be especially beneficial for people living in remote areas that are hard to reach. Experts have welcomed the development, but they also fear that monitoring self-sampling will be a challenge.“What the sensitivity levels of this kind of technology will be remains to be seen as we know with both nasal and oral samples together we get sensitivity levels of close to 70%. Also, a lot will depend on the conscience of the people when the onus of providing test samples lies on them. Monitoring whether the sampling is done as per the rules can be difficult,” said Dr Navin Dang, founder and chairman, Dr Dangs Lab, which was one of the first laboratories to be approved for Covid-19 testing in the country last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/csir-transfers-saline-gargle-rt-pcr-testing-tech-to-msme-industry-101631471484516.html
13-09-2021||India||30-year-old repeat offender hacked to death inside football stadium||A 30-year-old man was hacked to death on Sunday by assailants in Bengaluru’s central business district (CBD), police officials said. “At around 4 pm, a rowdy sheeter of Bharti Nagar police station has been hacked to death by 4-5 assailants. He was managing a football team and had come to play in a 6-a-side football tournament at a BBMP ground located opposite the KSFA (Karnataka State Football Association) stadium,” MN Anucheth, the deputy commissioner of police (central), said.“After 4 to 5 persons surrounded him to assault him, he fled from the spot and entered the KSFA football stadium and went inside the referee’s room and locked himself. The accused then broke the door and hacked him to death using deadly weapons,” Anucheth said. He said a case of murder has been registered and two teams have been formed to nab the accused. The incident happened when the qualifier matches were taking place for the Karnataka senior women’s football teams.The violent murder, especially in one of the busiest localities of Bengaluru, adds to the growing crimes in India’s IT capital. On July 29, four masked men had attacked D Shashi Kumar, the general secretary of the Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka (KAMS). In June this year, former Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) corporator Rekha Kadiresh was brutally murdered outside her home in Cotton pet area, a commercial locality in Bengaluru. In October last year, Manish Shetty (Savatham), a bar owner, was shot and killed with a Single Barrel gun at around 9 pm on Rest house road, one of the biggest commercial shopping spaces in Bengaluru.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/30yearold-repeat-offender-hacked-to-death-inside-football-stadium-101631471425013.html
13-09-2021||India||Karnataka CM Bommai faces 1st assembly session amid caste census, quota row||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai will face the state legislature on Monday, when the monsoon session begins, for the first time since he took oath on July 28.The session, expected to go on at least till September 24, comes at a time when the Bommai government continues to face increasing pressure over both backward and dominant castes’ demands for reservation and the release of the 2015 caste census data.Bommai has so far played it safe by pandering to both sides with assurances to look into their demands. The dominant caste groups, such as Lingayats and Vokkaligas, have demanded that the findings of the 2015 socio-economic and educational survey not be released as it would adversely impact the standing of the two communities, believed to be the two largest in the state.A group of extremely backward castes has also gone to court in August and is demanding that Bommai release the data of the survey, conducted by the Siddaramaiah-led Congress government at a cost of ₹160 crore. The extremely backward caste groups have also demanded that Panchamasali, the biggest sub-sect within the Lingayats, not be included in the 2A category of the state reservation list as it would further deprive small, micro, extremely backward and invisible communities of benefits.Bommai also faces a tough task in trying to keep the Panchamasali community from going ahead with their agitation from September 15, if the government does not include them in the 2A category.The community was asked not to go ahead with its agitation by BS Yediyurappa, then chief minister, who also assured help on their demands to be pushed to 2A category.The two groups are trying to mobilise support for their causes that further adds to the pressure on Bommai who has less than two years left in the top chair before heading to the polls in 2023. Bommai is trying to carve a space for himself and come out of the shadow of his mentor, Yediyurappa, who appears to be still in charge of the government and its functioning.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Congress and Janata Dal (Secular) will be holding their legislature party meetings on Monday to decide the next course of action during the monsoon session.The Congress is trying to corner the BJP on the issue of price rise and caste census.Siddaramaiah, the Congress’s leader of the opposition, will come to the Vidhana Soudha on a bullock cart on Monday, his office said, as a symbolic protest against the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government over the rising prices of fuel.The JD(S) too has its problems as it faces dissent from within its ranks and is contemplating disciplinary action against at least three of its legislators.The JD(S) is in talks with the Congress and the BJP over the formation of the city administration in Kalaburagi after a hung verdict in the September 3 urban local body (ULB) polls.State Congress president DK Shivakumar on Sunday said that there were attempts by the BJP to poach its corporators.“Let them (authorities) announce the Mayor elections then we will see. They (BJP) are trying for operation lotus, let them do what they want. I don’t want to talk about it,” Shivakumar said.Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri, the Speaker of the lower house of the state legislature, on had said on Wednesday that an ethics committee is likely to be formed during the upcoming monsoon session. There would also be an award for the best legislator at the end of the session.Kageri had said that the restrictions on public from attending the sessions would also be lifted after they were barred due to rising concerns over Covid-19 pandemic.He said a total of 18 bills will be tabled in the upcoming session of which 10 are new and four are to replace ordinances issued earlier. Four are pending in the assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-cm-bommai-faces-1st-assembly-session-amid-caste-census-quota-row-101631471423669.html
13-09-2021||India||Erratic rain patterns mark Delhi’s monsoon this year||Delhi has recorded 33% excess rain since June 1, according to weather experts. But this did not happen because of a wholesome monsoon in the last three months but because of an abrupt spike in rain in July and September, and in the latter case, a week before monsoon is normally expected to start receding. Experts said this could be due to climate change.According to India Meteorological Department (IMD) data, Delhi’s Safdarjung observatory recorded 47% rain deficiency in June, 140% excess in July, 13% deficiency in August, and 193% excess till September 11. This monsoon, the observatory, which provides representative data for the city, logged seven heavy rainfall days (precipitation of 64.4mm and above) — the most since 1901 — on July 19, 27, and 29, August 20, September 1, 2 and 11.Weather forecasters said that this year, while there have been fewer rainy days, the intensity of the showers was more. August saw just six rainy days but September has seen eight already.“Seven heavy rain days in Delhi (Safdarjung) this monsoon are the highest ever recorded, beating the earlier record of six heavy rain days in 1964,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist at national weather forecasting centre, IMDThis skewed pattern of rain over Delhi is mainly because there were three phases of subdued monsoon in July and August.Breaks have punctuated monsoon in city this yearMonsoon entered a ‘break’ or a ‘partial break’ phase between June 29 and July 11; it was very weak in the first two weeks of August also, leading to a significant rain deficit across the country. While it revived over northwest India on August 19, it weakened again from August 24 onwards and started reviving very gradually from August 29. These partial breaks were interspersed with only a few days of very heavy rain in Delhi, leading to traffic disruptions, urban flooding and impact on other utilities.Not only were there fewer rainy days this year, Delhi also recorded intense spells of rain in only a few hours — an indicator of climate change. For example, between 5.30 am and 8.30 am on Saturday, Safdarjung station recorded 81.3mm rain while Palam recorded 98mm.“The monsoon trough is in the vicinity of Delhi, there is also a low-pressure area over eastern parts of Rajasthan. Moisture laden winds are also penetrating up to mid-tropospheric levels (8000-10,000 feet), which is aiding the formation of convective clouds. This spell is likely to continue for the next 24 to 36 hours then reduce over Delhi and its neighbourhood,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice president, Skymet Weather, a private weather forecasting company.He also talked about another low-pressure area forming over north Odisha, which is likely to intensify into a depression, triggering another spell of rain over central India, impacting the entire region from Odisha to southeast Rajasthan and Gujarat. “Standing crop is likely to be impacted. Pulses are particularly vulnerable to damage. However the heavy rain spell will fill reservoirs in Gujarat and Rajasthan where there was a very long dry spell in August, which will be useful for the Rabi crop,” Palawat said.Undeniable role of climate crisis: ExpertsActive monsoon conditions coupled with the climate crisis are leading to these intense spells of rain and several dry days. “Certainly, climate change has a role to play in the extreme rainfall we are seeing during a short duration of three to six hours as was the case in Delhi on Saturday morning. With air temperature increasing, the moisture-carrying capacity of the atmosphere has also increased. This mainly leads to the formation of convective clouds that bring thunderstorms, lightning, extremely heavy rain, etc.” Palawat explained.He said that earlier, such convective clouds were commonly seen during the pre-monsoon season while during monsoon, altostratus clouds or thin sheets of clouds were commonly formed. “We don’t see them forming much anymore. Altostratus clouds used to bring continuous slow rain for 2-3 days during monsoon,” Palawat added.M Rajeevan, former secretary, ministry of earth sciences, said there was a long phase of subdued rain in August due to global warming. “Rainfall was also subdued over southeast Asia. Models didn’t perform well and this deficit was not anticipated. But we have been underlining that longer dry periods with intense rain spells are becoming the norm. There is intense convective activity. Convective clouds can produce a lot of rain. Cities like Delhi should prepare for this kind of rainfall pattern,” Rajeevan said.Negative Indian Ocean Dipole over the tropical Indian Ocean — a phenomenon where the western Indian Ocean becomes colder than the eastern one and is unfavourable for monsoon — prevailed throughout August, contributing to deficient rainfall, IMD had said earlier this month. There were also fewer typhoons in the west Pacific and so there was an absence of westward movement of their remnants into the Bay of Bengal. This led to fewer low-pressure systems forming over the Bay of Bengal.Monsoon withdrawal to be delayed in 2021: Met“There were some large-scale features that we are still trying to understand. August was an anomaly for many parts of South Asia,” added Rajeevan. IMD had also acknowledged last week that the multi-model ensemble forecasting system couldn’t pick up the deficit in August rain.“Now there is heavy and widespread rain in many parts of the country because the monsoon is active and monsoon circulation is very strong. We can expect some episodes of heavy rain during such phases of monsoon. It’s also true that with climate change and more water vapour availability, severe localised convective activity takes place, bringing intense rain in a short duration similar to what you are seeing in Delhi,” explained R Krishnan, executive director, Centre for Climate Change Research.“Usually in Delhi, August is the rainiest month, but our recordings show that in July and September we saw excess rain. In August, because of two long break phases, there was a deficit. In just 11 days, the rainfall recordings in Delhi have already reached record levels. This usually doesn’t happen. For instance, in the last two years in September there has been less than 100mm rainfall,” the official said.Monsoon is normally expected to start withdrawing from northwest India on September 17, but is likely to be delayed this year, IMD officials added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/erratic-rain-patterns-mark-delhi-s-monsoon-this-year-101631470524341.html
13-09-2021||India||Use of plasma therapy for Covid may cause adverse events: Study||Even with doubtful efficacy, antibody-rich plasma from recovered Covid-19 patients continued to be used for the treatment of those suffering from the infection during the second wave of the pandemic, with people queuing up at plasma banks and looking for donors online. But a recent Canadian study published in the journal Nature has shown that not only did plasma therapy not help in Covid treatment, it increased the risk of severe adverse events, and the number of deaths was also higher among those who received the therapy.The study titled ‘Convalescent plasma for hospitalized patients with Covid-19: an open-label, randomized controlled trial’ and carried out among 940 patients showed that 33.4% of the participants who received plasma therapy reported serious adverse events like fall in oxygen saturation and respiratory failure as compared to 26.4% in the control group that did not receive the therapy. The proportion of deaths on day 30 was also slightly higher in the people who received plasma therapy — 23% as compared to 20.5% in the control group. But the difference was not significant, according to the study.Also Read| Convalescent plasma did not stop Covid-19 progression, show NIH trial resultsDespite a study by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) showing that the therapy did not reduce mortality or prevent progression to severe disease as early as September 2020, the therapy continued to be on the national treatment protocol till May 2021 albeit with some restrictions. It was to be used only on those with moderate disease, preferably within seven days of symptom onset, and from a plasma donor with a high concentration of antibodies.To be sure, in the Canadian study, on an average, the patients received the therapy on day 8 after showing symptoms.In Delhi, despite the therapy having been dropped from the national treatment protocol, plasma banks that were set up by the state government continue to function. However, they do not actively seek donations anymore.“The plasma bank is still running. It has benefits only if given on time – it has been used extensively not only in India but in the US as well. None of the studies from India have shown an increase in mortality, even if some of them were doubtful of the benefits. The availability of the therapy has become controlled now, but doctors may prescribe it if they think it will benefit the patient,” said Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director, Lok Nayak hospital where one of the plasma banks are located.Also Read| Covid: Mandaviya lauds 6 states & UTs for vaccinating all adults with 1st doseA doctor from the All India Institute of Medical Science, on condition of anonymity, said, “We used to give plasma therapy during the first wave, however, by the second wave we realised that there was no clear-cut benefit of the therapy and stopped giving it. However, the studies we referred to did not talk about any harm from the therapy.”The ICMR’s PLACID trial conducted across 39 cities in over 400 Covid-19 patients last year showed the therapy did not prevent progression to severe disease or reduce the number of deaths on day 28 of enrolment of patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/use-of-plasma-therapy-for-covid-may-cause-adverse-events-study-101631470223165.html
13-09-2021||India||Opposition cold to panel on ruckus in House||After the Congress and the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) turned down the Rajya Sabha secretariat’s request for joining a proposed inquiry committee to investigate the ruckus during the last monsoon session of Parliament, all eyes are on non-Congress and non-Bharatiya Janata Party outfits as their participation will be crucial to maintain the “neutral” character of the panel, according to officials aware of the matter.While the BJP and the Janata Dal (United) are “certain” to join the probe panel, “it is important for parties like the BJD or TRS to join the proposed panel. Otherwise, it might look like an all-NDA affair. Rajya Sabha Chairman Venkaiah Naidu also wants it to be an impartial probe involving as many parties as possible,” a senior functionary said on condition of anonymity.But the second-largest opposition party, the Trinamool Congress, isn’t likely to be invited to the panel. “The complaints are primarily against TMC MPs. So, it is felt that other parties barring the TMC should be invited,” said another functionary, adding that the MPs in question would be given “enough opportunities” to defend themselves, if the panel is finally formed.On the last day of the monsoon session, chaos erupted in the Rajya Sabha as Opposition MPs protested against the government’s push for the general insurance amendment bill, which, according to many Opposition leaders, would pave the road for privatisation of public insurance firms.A committee was proposed to investigate the disruption that took place in the Upper House on August 11, when some opposition MPs got into a scuffle with the marshals. At least two marshals submitted a written account of their injuries to the Chairperson. Two women MPs of the Congress, Phulo Devi and Chayya Varma, also alleged being manhandled in the ruckus that broke out on the floor of the House.But Leader of the Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge rejected the proposal of joining the probe panel and wrote to Naidu, saying that the investigation committee seemed like a “design to intimidate MPs into silence”.In his letter, which HT has seen, Kharge said the proposed inquiry committee will “…not only suppress the voices of the people’s representatives but deliberately brush aside all those that are uncomfortable to the government”.The government has blamed the Opposition for disrupting Parliament, deviating from parliamentary procedure and damaging House property despite the assurance that discussion on issues raised by the Opposition would be taken up.Derek O’Brien, the Trinamool Congress floor leader in the Rajya Sabha, said: “Since the government is running away from the hard questions on Pegasus, and there are still no answers, will an inquiry committee be set up to expose how this government murders parliamentary democracy?”An investigation by a consortium of media houses has alleged that phone hacking software Pegasus was used to target potentially thousands of people around the world, including Indian citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-cold-to-panel-on-ruckus-in-house-101631469983752.html
13-09-2021||India||NSUI resolution seeks appointment of Rahul Gandhi as Congress chief||The National Students’ Union of India (NSUI), the students’ wing of Congress, on Sunday passed a resolution to appoint Rahul Gandhi the national chief of the party.In its two-day National Executive ‘Sankalp’, the NSUI resolved and proposed in “one voice” that Gandhi should be appointed as the next president of Indian National Congress.“Mr. Rahul Gandhi is the foremost and honest leader who took a stand and strengthen the voice of students for their betterment, and also helped in garnering enough support by raising matters of student importance and also looking for adequate justice for the students’ fraternity on varied subjects to fight for democracy and transparency,” the NSUI’s statement read.“We recognise Sri Rahul Gandhi’s dedication to India’s student which empowers us, and re-affirm our faith in his keen leadership abilities and statesmanship under which India can reach the pinnacle of success developing into a more sustainable & peaceful society,” the statement added. The NSUI further said that students feel safe and secure under his guardianship and visionary leadership for socio-political governance.“I support the Resolution passed at the #Sankalp2021-National Executive meeting of @NSUI for Hon’ble Shri @RahulGandhi ji to become president of @INCIndia again. #MyLeaderRahulGandhi,” NSUI general secretary Vishal Chaudhary tweeted. The NSUI’s resolution comes a week after the Youth Congress passed a similar resolution to make Gandhi the party chief once again. Rahul Gandhi, who took over as Congress president from present chief Sonia Gandhi in 2017, quit the post after the party’s poor performance in the 2019 general elections.“Rahul Gandhi called us ‘Babbar Sher’ so now we have to fight the BJP by roaring out the truth and drive them out of the country, for India’s growth and everlasting development,” the NSUI statement quoted Congress national spokesperson Pawan Kheda as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nsui-resolution-seeks-appointment-of-rahul-gandhi-as-congress-chief-101631469929071.html
13-09-2021||India||Bhupendra Patel to be next Gujarat CM||First-time MLA Bhupendra Patel will be the next chief minister of Gujarat, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) announced on Sunday, replacing Vijay Rupani, who surprised many with his resignation a day earlier.The 59-year-old leader, a lawmaker from Ahmedabad, was elected as the BJP legislature party leader in Gandhinagar, a little over a year before assemble elections are to be held in the state. He will be sworn in as the chief minister on Monday, state BJP chief CR Paatil said.The proposal to elect him as the legislature party leader was moved by Rupani.Sunday’s meeting was attended by most of the 112 MLAs of the BJP in the 182-member assembly, according to people aware of the developments. Patel later met Governor Acharya Devvrat at the Raj Bhavan and presented a letter to form the government, the people said.“The BJP government has reached even the last person with its development work and I will continue to do so in coordination with the party organisation,” Patel said. He thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP chief JP Nadda.“I was not aware (about being picked) at all. I just told my family that I was going for the BJP meeting to decide on the new chief minister…,” Patel said.While confirming that Patel will take oath on Monday, Paatil said that no decision has been taken about the deputy chief minister’s post so far. “Only Bhupendra Patel will take oath tomorrow (Monday). The number of ministers and everything else will be decided later.”Patel contested his maiden assembly election from Ghatlodia constituency in Ahmedabad in 2017 and won by over 117,000 votes, the highest victory margin in the state during that election. His assembly constituency is part of the Gandhinagar Lok Sabha seat represented by Shah.Paatil said Patel’s work at the grassroots level, his hold on the cooperative sector, association with party workers and administrative abilities were among the factors that led to his elevation.In a tweet, Shah congratulated Patel, adding he is confident that the CM-designate will work on the path of development under Modi’s leadership.BJP’s central observers Narendra Singh Tomar and Prahlad Joshi and party general secretary Tarun Chaug were present at the legislature party meet.There was talk that Praful Khoda Patel, administrator of the union territories of Lakshadweep and Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, and Mansukh Mandaviya, Union Health Minister, were among the contenders.Rupani resigned from the CM’s post on Saturday. It was not clear what prompted the development in Modi’s home state, where elections to the 182-member assembly are due in December 2022.With the sudden change of the guard, Gujarat joined a list of states where the central BJP brass opted to change the leadership ahead of assembly elections. After Karnataka, where chief minister BS Yeddiyurappa was replaced by Basavaraj Bommai ahead of the 2023 elections, and Uttarakhand, where the incumbent Trivendra Singh Rawat was first replaced by Tirath Singh and later by Pushkar Dhami, Gujarat CM Rupani on Saturday announced his resignation. Both Gujarat and Uttarakhand will pick new assemblies in 2022.“His (Patel’s) candidature from Ghatlodia was by consensus of both Amit Shah and the Anandiben Patel groups in the BJP. So it appears that, as chief minister, he is acceptable to Amit Shah as well as all others,” political analyst Prakash Shah said.With inputs from PTI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhupendra-patel-to-be-next-gujarat-cm-101631469862524.html
13-09-2021||India||US climate envoy John Kerry arrives for 2-day India visit||The US’s Special Presidential Envoy for Climate John Kerry arrived in India on Sunday for his two-day visit that aims to lay the groundwork for American efforts ahead of a key United Nations climate conference scheduled for November.Kerry is expected to meet Union environment minister Bhupender Yadav on Monday, and other government officials regarding New Delhi’s climate ambitions. The special envoy’s visit from September 12 to 14 will involve discussions “to raise global climate ambition and speed India’s clean energy transition,” the US State Department said on Friday, announcing Kerry’s visit.On Monday afternoon, the former US secretary of state and Yadav will also launch the Climate Action and Finance Mobilization Dialogue (CAFMD), one of the two main tracks of the US-India Agenda 2030 Partnership that US President Joe Biden and Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced at the Leaders Summit on Climate in April.Kerry has spoken of the US and allied countries raising a “huge amount” of private sector investment to help India’s efforts to mitigate global warming.On the Indian side, too, officials said talks will largely focus on financing for clean energy projects. “Our discussions will be mainly on clean energy initiatives and financing of these projects. There will be discussion on NDCs (Nationally Determined Contributions) also. We already have an ambitious plan of having 450 GW of renewable energy by 2030. There are several other initiatives that India is taking on,” a senior environment ministry official said on Saturday.Kerry’s visit to New Delhi – the second since his appointment to this role – was also described by the State Department as a part of the US initiative to bolster climate efforts ahead of the 26th Conference of the Parties (COP26) to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). A lot hinges on the COP26 summit, which will be held from October 31 to November 12 in Glasgow, UK.The 1.5°C-global warming threshold is almost certain to be breached by 2040, and it is likely to surpass the mark by 2050 even if carbon emissions rapidly drop to net-zero, scientists warned in the latest Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report released last month. The world needs to act now if there is any hope of mitigating the devastating effect of the climate crisis, they said. Ahead of the summit, several countries such as Denmark, Germany and UK climate chief Alok Sharma have nudged New Delhi to commit to a net-zero carbon emissions target by 2050, and enhance its Paris deal goals.Under the 2015 Paris Agreement, India has pledged to reduce emissions intensity of GDP by 33%-35% below the 2005 level by 2030 and raise the non-fossil share of power generation capacity to 40% by 2030, among other pledges.The Indian government, however, maintains that the developed countries which have historically contributed the most to global warming and reaped the benefits of industrialisation should bear a larger responsibility of battling the climate crisis.The IPCC report “vindicated India’s position that historical cumulative emissions are the source of the climate crisis that the world faces today”, Gaurav Khare, spokesperson of the environment ministry, said last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-climate-envoy-john-kerry-arrives-for-2-day-india-visit-101631469802533.html
13-09-2021||India||Uttarakhand sees rise in weather-linked calamities: Data||Uttarakhand has reported an increase in weather-related calamities over the years with the state registering 7,750 extreme rainfall events and cloud bursts since 2015, most of them over the last three years, that have killed 230 people, state government data revealed. .Data also showed that at least 161 people were killed in over 1,961 landslides reported in the last six years, leading experts to suggest that deteriorating geological conditions, besides climate crisis, were the reasons behind a spike in such incidents in the state.Geologists said that conditions such as an altitude of over 1,200 metres, cliffs, ridges and funnel-shaped valleys with steep slope, cultivated land on the downhill side and dense forest cover on the uphill side prove to be favourable for cloudburst incidents and are found in plenty in the Himalayan state.Geologist CC Pant, a retired professor from Kumaon university said cloudburst incidents, extreme rainfall events and landslides have definitely increased in Uttarakhand Himalayas over the years.“One of the main reasons is climate change which is leading to heavy rain in short durations. When intense rainfall occurs in steep Himalayan terrain, it leads to landslides and cloudbursts. Sometimes, cloudbursts also happen because of heavy rain in a wide area over a hill which has a steep slope. As water and muck funnels towards a particular stream, it creates havoc downstream. The same rain in the plains may not cause that much damage. It may technically not be a cloudburst,” he said.Experts studying cloudburst incidents in Uttarakhand admit that there has been a rise in such incidents, especially in the last one decade, and that such incidents continue to cause disruptions in the state.In February this year, more than 200 people were killed after a glacier burst in Tapovan area led to a sudden rise in the water level of Dhauliganga river in Chamoli district and a flash flood. Many people and structures were swept away, along with a small hydro power plant in the incident.On May 3, several houses were damaged after heavy rainfall triggered landslides and floods in Uttarkashi and Rudraprayag districts.Days later, a cloudburst in Devprayag town in Tehri Garhwal washed away two local municipality buildings. On July 19, three persons, including a three-year-old girl, died following extreme rainfall in Uttarkashi district.Explaining the reasons behind the rise in such incidents, Pant said hill cutting across Uttarakhand for constructions, development projects or activities such as the Char Dham road building causes slope instability, making them vulnerable to landslides.“The actual (number of) landslidesmust be much higher as mostly we count the ones that happen on roads and in and around human habitations,” he said.Speaking on similar lines, Anil Joshi, founder of Himalayan Environmental Studies and Conservation Organization, a Dehradun-based NGO, said: “In the last two decades, the bearing capacity of many mountains and Himalayan regions in the state has been exhausted. Hill cutting for various development projects and roads is destabilising the hill terrains. People are working and settling in vulnerable areas, something which has to stop. The government should also invest in early warning systems in all vulnerable areas of the state,” he said, adding: “The fragile Himalayas are responding to these warnings through extreme events.”DP Dobhal, noted glaciologist and retired scientist from Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology (WIHG), pointed out a change in the rainfall pattern in the Himalayas. “Over the last five decades or so, rainfall is ascending higher into the Himalayas which are witnessing less snow compared to the past. This translates into rain covering more areas in the Himalayas now,” he said.A geologist at the state Disaster Mitigation and Management Centre (DMMC) said cloudburst or cloudburst-like incidents are primarily occurring in Pithoragarh, Rudraprayag and Chamoli districts.“As I said earlier, before 2010, earthquakes were major disasters (in the region). After that, it is cloudbursts or extreme rainfall events which are claiming maximum lives in the Himalayan state,” the geologist, Sushil Khanduri, said.Prof DC Pandey, another Kumaon-based geologist, said more research is required to understand the climatic conditions in the Himalayas and its impact on the state. “Data on various fronts needs to be studied for correlations and their cumulative effect on Himalayas,” he said.However, Piyoosh Rautela, executive director Uttarakhand State Disaster Management Authority, said extreme rainfall, cloudburst events and landslides have been occuring in the Himalayas for millions of years.“Data over a few decades is not enough to arrive at a definite long-term trend in the geological sense of time. We need more data about such events over long periods to understand exactly what is happening. For example, 90 % of the landslides that are reported are road landslides. But human loss from such events can be lessened by creating awareness that people should not settle or work in such vulnerable areas,” he said.Besides the climate crisis, a surge in such weather events and death toll in the state is also partially due to lack of early warning systems, haphazard development projects, muck disposal into rivers, illegal mining activities, encroachment of seasonal streams, and population growth, experts said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-sees-rise-in-weather-linked-calamities-data-101631469743257.html
13-09-2021||India||Fresh influx of Myanmar nationals into Mizoram amid clashes||Over 100 Myanmar nationals entered two border districts of Mizoram -- Champhai and Hnahthial -- in past few days following military offensive across the border, said the state government on Sunday.“I have heard that hundreds of people from Myanmar have entered Mizoram in past few days. But I don’t have the exact figure of how many as I am under quarantine at present,” Mizoram home minister Lalchamliana said.According to news reports, “intense fighting” broke out between armed civilians opposed to the military rule in Myanmar and neighbouring nation’s army in past few days at areas close to the border with Mizoram. The fresh influx is believed to comprise Myanmarese nationals trying to flee the violence.Mizoram and Myanmar share a 510 km border. Most of the refugees who have entered Mizoram are from the Chin state of Myanmar, which borders six districts of the state—Champhai, Hnahthial, Serchhip, Saitual, Siaha and Lawngtlai. Mizos and Chins share close ethnic ties.“There has been fresh influx of Myanmar nationals into Mizoram in recent days due to fighting just across the border. These people have entered Champhai and Hnahthial districts. I believe they will return as soon as situation across the border improves,” Mizoram chief secretary Lalnunmawia Chuaungo said.Since March this year, thousands of Myanmar nationals, especially those residing close to the border with India, have entered Mizoram. According to official figures, over 10,000 of them are residing in the northeastern state at present.“Since the past few days several groups of people in small batches have entered our district through various border points. We don’t have the exact figure of influx in recent days. At present the district has around 730 people who came in during the past few months. They are being accommodated by village elders in 6-7 villages,” said Saizikpuii, additional deputy commissioner Hnahthial.“On Wednesday 35 Myanmar nationals, most of them old and infirm women and small children, have entered our district. Local NGOs have accommodated them in temporary shelters built away from Zawlsei village,” Maria CT Zuali, deputy commissioner of Champhai said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-100-myanmar-nationals-enter-mizoram-following-military-offensive-across-border-101631469146136.html
13-09-2021||India||Varun Gandhi writes to UP CM for increasing sugarcane prices, doubling PM-KISAN aid||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Varun Gandhi on Sunday wrote to Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, seeking more remuneration for sugarcane crop, subsidy in diesel and electricity prices, and doubling of money provided to farmers under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) scheme.Tagging the letter on his Twitter handle, Gandhi said he has written to Adityanath indicating the problems of the farmers. “I hope issues of the sons of the soil will be heard,” he posted on the micro-blogging site. The legislator from Pilibhit pointed out that farmers in his constituency have raised the demand for re-visiting prices of the sugarcane crop on the grounds that the rates have gone up by just ₹10 per quintal in the last four years. The BJP legislator also sought increasing the minimum support price for sugarcane from the present ₹315 per quintal to at least ₹400 per quintal, keeping in view the increased input costs. Cane is mainly grown in western part of Uttar Pradesh, which is the epicentre of the farmers’ protest in the state against the Centre’s contentious farm laws.While the state government has claimed that it has cleared almost 84% of the dues owed to about 45 lakh sugar cane farmers, Gandhi said that a quantum of dues still remains uncleared.The Yogi government claims that it has paid ₹1.42 lakh crore to sugarcane farmers in the past four years.Referring to the economic distress in the farming community, the BJP MP pitched for a ₹200 per quintal-bonus for cultivators who grow wheat and rice. Seeds at cheaper costs and a subsidy of at least ₹20 per litre in diesel prices was also sought from the state government. Gandhi also pitched for doubling the amount that is paid to farmers under the PM Kisan Nidhi scheme and accepting the demand for farmers to be included in works under the MGNREGA. The farmers currently get ₹6,000 per annum under the PM Kisan scheme. This is not the first time that Gandhi has raised issues related to the farmers. Last week, while commenting on the ongoing stir against the three contentious agricultural bills, Gandhi said there is a need for “re-engagement” with the protesting farmers. Referring to farmers’ “own flesh and blood”, Gandhi insisted their hardships should be taken into consideration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/varun-gandhi-writes-to-up-cm-for-increasing-sugarcane-prices-doubling-pm-kisan-aid-101631469083056.html
13-09-2021||India||Before 2017, ration went to those who used to say ‘abba jaan’: UP CM Yogi||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath triggered a fresh row on Sunday after he accused the previous governments of practising “appeasement politics” and claimed that only “people who say ‘Abba Jaan’” received ration in the state, till the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) took over the reins.“As long as appeasement existed, the country faced serious problems like terror, riots, corruption, anarchy and injustice. But today development exists and sabka sath sabka vikas is ensured. Today, the caste of a poor beneficiary is not asked,” Adityanath said at an event to launch several development projects in Kushinagar district.“Have you all got ration? (the crowd replied yes.) Before 2017, the ration for the poor was digested by those who used to say Abba Jaan,” he added.Claiming that not even a single case of death due to starvation has been reported in the state since his government took over, the CM said: “Earlier, Kushinagar’s ration used to go to Nepal and Bangladesh. But today those who dare to think of digesting the ration of the poor would not be able to do so. They will land in jail for sure.”The remarks stirred up a political slugfest, with National Conference leader Omar Abdullah terming it “blatant communalism”.“I’ve always maintained the BJP has no intention of fighting any election with an agenda other than blatant communalism & hatred with all the venom directed towards Muslims. Here is a CM seeking re-election claiming that Muslims ate up all the rations meant for Hindus,” he said in a Twitter post.Slamming the CM, Samajwadi Party spokesperson Abdul Hafiz Gandhi said: “Dozens of corruption scandals have happened during his (Adityanath’s) regime. PDS scam, 69,000 teachers recruitment scam, animal husbandry scam, corona kit scam, DHFL scam, smart meter scam, shoes-shocks scam, homeguard scam and many more were there. He must come clean first before pointing fingers on the previous governments... I would not comment on his language... He is playing divisive politics”.Congress spokesperson Surendra Rajput said chief minister Yogi Adityanath was using words like “abba jaan” to divert attention from the real issues. “Issues like hunger, poverty, unemployment and development would be issues in the polls and there would not be any communal issues,” he said, adding that the chief minister was only pursuing politics of words (Baat Bahadur) and doing nothing for development of Uttar Pradesh. He said Yogi regime has resulted in a jungle rule in the state and even policemen were not feeling secured in this regime.Elections to the 403-member assembly seats in Uttar Pradesh are scheduled for early next year. In the 2017 assembly election, the BJP won a landslide victory, bagging 312 assembly seats on its own.During the event, the chief minister also claimed that hailed his government’s Covid-19 management.“We have put the genie of corona back in the bottle,” he said, amid applause from the crowd. “If there was a Covid epidemic during the tenure of SP, BSP and Congress, then the condition of Uttar Pradesh would have been like Kerala, Maharashtra and Delhi. But we did efficient Covid management,” he added.The Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh has been criticised for its inadequate preparedness for the Covid-19 pandemic which left over 22,874 dead in the state, according to union government data. The state faced an acute shortage of hospital beds, oxygen and other essential medical supplies that exacerbated the pandemic conditions during the second wave.To be sure, UP’s current case fatality rate is, at 1.3%, on par with the national number of 1.3%, and medical infrastructure in almost all states was overwhelmed by the ferocity and intensity of the second wave – caused largely by the delta variant of the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/before-2017-ration-went-to-those-who-used-to-say-abba-jaan-up-cm-yogi-101631468843980.html
13-09-2021||India||Heavy rains, flooding threaten kharif crops; food prices may rise||Moisture-propelling weather patterns across India have re-activated the monsoon system again, flooding several states and threatening key summer-sown or kharif crops, including onion, a widely consumed price-sensitive food item. A cyclonic circulation over the Bay of Bengal, dumping heavy rainfall in West Bengal, moisture drafts due to a low-pressure formation over northern states and a rainy trail across Gujarat, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Odisha has flooded large parts of several states, endangering crops. Rice fields in many districts of the food bowl states of Punjab, Haryana and parts of Uttar Pradesh have gone underwater, growers said, while Delhi witnessed historic rains Saturday. A monsoon going into a hyperactive mode in a month when it should begin tapering off could bring misery to the farm sector, which supports half of India’s population. The India Meteorological Department, the national weather agency, said there could be “damage to horticulture and standing crops in some areas due to inundation” in an alert on Saturday. After hampering sowing of summer-sown crops such as soybean, rice, cotton and vegetables due to a long dry spell from mid-June to mid-July, flooding has now affected crops in states like Uttarakhand, parts of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal and Madhya Pradesh. Lower yields or output can stoke food prices, as job cuts post-Covid has impacted nearly one million Indians, according to data from the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy, a private data firm. “Onions, a staple in most Indian households, are likely to make consumers cry again with erratic monsoon leading to an eventual delay in harvest,” Crisil Ltd, a rating firm, said in a research note Saturday. Maharashtra, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh are the major onion-producing states, accounting for over 75% of total summer onion output. Although harvest time is a month away, Crisil Ltd’s “on-ground report” said onion seed transplantation suffered critical lags due to on-off rains, potentially delaying the time onion crop takes to mature. Summer onions account for no more than 30% of India’s annual supply, but they are critical to prices stability because they replenish supply during the lean September-November, period. Experts hold that longer dry spells followed by short periods of heavy rainfall are tell-tale signs of a changing climate’s impact on the monsoon, which waters 60% of the country’s net-sown area. “If heavy rainfall persists, yields may be affected, although mild rainfall in September is beneficial,” said Ashok Renjen, a former agronomist with the Punjab agriculture department. The IMD on Saturday forecast predicted “fairly widespread” rainfall with “isolated heavy to very heavy falls”, which correlates to hazardous rainfall in many states until September 14, especially in parts of Konkan and Goa, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Odisha. While rice planting stood at normal levels for the current week, at 106 million hectares, farmers have sown oilseeds over 17 million hectares, which is also considered normal, according to official data. Pulses, another essential basket of legumes, have been sown over 13.9 million hectares, marginally higher than normal. “Standing water could cause crops to wilt,” said Gambhir Singh, a farmer from Haryana’s Babbain region, speaking in Hindi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rains-flooding-threaten-kharif-crops-food-prices-may-rise-101631468543106.html
13-09-2021||India||Experts divided over FSSAI’s new proposal for labelling on food packets||India’s food safety authority has decided to mandate labelling on the front of food packets detailing the amount of salt, sugar and fat content and their health impact, but consensus eludes industry and consumer groups about what the labels should say, according to multiple officials and minutes of a meeting of stakeholders called by the authority.The food industry wants the label to be a guideline informing the consumer about the quantity of salt, sugar, sodium and fats in the packet without giving a health warning, saying that the aim should be to enable consumers to make an informed decision and not discourage consumption of packaged food.Consumer and advocacy groups want labels to clearly state whether the food is healthy or not, as most customers would not know how much sugar, salt or fat is good or bad for their health if only the quantity is specified.“We will get a people perception study done by the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad, on what sort of label would people prefer,” Food Safety Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) chief executive Arun Singhal said on the differing views. Once that study comes, draft guidelines and then final ones on the “front of package label” (FOPL) would be issued, he said.The FSSAI has taken close to eight years to reach this stage as the food industry had been reluctant to have these labels as some other countries such as Brazil and Chile have. In those countries, the label clearly states whether consuming the product would be healthy for people or not. In India, the processed food industry is estimated to be worth $44 billion and growing at a rapid pace of about 24% every year.At a meeting with all stakeholders called by the FSSAI in June, the industry said the food safety labelling on salt, sugar and fat should be based on serving size basis rather than quantity in the packet as this is what the consumer eats, according to minutes of the meeting accessed by Hindustan Times.The consumer groups proposed that the label should inform consumers what percentage of food is salt, sugar and fat, and how much higher it is than the permissible limit. And, they said, this should be done by having a reference size of 100g/ml.The FSSAI accepted the consumer group view saying there is no information available at present on serving sizes. “The acceptability and understanding of 100g/ml as a unit is higher and it enables a rational comparison among products,” the minutes said, quoting the FSSAI.The suggestion of the food industry to have information about positive nutrients on the labels was rejected, as FSSAI scientists supported the consumer groups, who said that the “first and foremost” aim of FOPL was to inform consumers about negative nutrients in food products, the minutes revealed.A senior FSSAI scientist, who was not willing to be named, said it was no less than an “achievement” to get the food industry to agree to safety labels on the front of packages, which would be easily readable to consumers.“The reluctance on the part of the industry was high but we pulled them through,” he said.Singhal said five types of labels were being considered, including traffic light signs, nutrition score, health star ratings, warning symbols. The FSSAI asked IIM-Ahmedabad to conduct a consumer survey of which type of label would be most understandable to people after the authority found that most of the consumer surveys conducted in western countries about the impact of labels on people had a “geographical bias”.A 2018 study in Brazil and Chile on the impact of food safety labelling on people had shown that it leads to a reduction in consumption of ultra-processed food products, which are considered bad for human health. Around half of the processed food sold in the United States is ultra-processed, meaning very few natural products are used.Meeta Kapoor, executive director of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), who represented the industry body at the meeting, said they have nothing more to add than what has already been saying. Earlier, the CII had said that it would abide by the FSSAI’s decision on food safety labelling.Dr Arun Gupta, convener of the Nutrition Advocacy in India in Public Interest (NAPi), said there is a need for proper health safety labelling on processed food products as consumption was increasing and so were the related health hazards.The WHO has said high consumption of processed food can lead to obesity and non-communicable diseases, which account for 71% i.e 41 million deaths, every year, globally.“The increase in diabetes and heart ailments among young people can be directly linked with an increase in consumption of highly addictive processed foods and beverages. We are not asking for a ban on them but only to inform people about the food’s health impact. It would help people in taking a more informed decision about what they eat,” Gupta said.The FSSAI’s 2020 study on pre-packaged food products said that India would become the third biggest consumer of processed food by the end of 2021, after China and the United States, with sales volumes of over 34 million tonnes.“Factors like increase in per capita income, globalisation, lower prices, evolving preferences and beliefs of the consumer and rapid urbanisation have resulted in changes in diet patterns of the consumer and an increase in the acceptance of processed and pre-packaged foods and beverages,” the study said.It added that 53% of children consume salted packaged food such as chips and noodles and 56% sweetened ones such as chocolates and ice creams, apart from sugar-sweetened beverages. “Sugar is added to these products to make them addictive,” Gupta said.To see how many food products adhere to food safety norms, the FSSAI got an evaluation done of major processed foods with baseline nutrient value for 100g/ml, which is also the base for the food safety labels, for fats (total fats, saturated fats and trans fats), sugar (sugar produced by food and added sugar) and sodium (natural salt and added salt) for 1,306 samples of pre-packaged foods and beverages, from 36 food categories.The study found that 62.8% of the samples failed on all three counts, meaning they had higher sugar, salt and fat than the prescribed levels. If one looks at failure on one ingredient, then 90% of the samples failed to meet the threshold limit prescribed by the FSSAI. “Maximum categories failed on thresholds for energy, total sugar, added sugar, total fat, saturated fat and sodium,” the study said.Most of the processed foods being sold come under the category of ultra-processed foods, the Global Food Research Programme of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill said in a 2018 study.“UPFs have rapidly displaced unprocessed or minimally processed foods, freshly prepared meals, and traditional cooking in the diet in most countries, causing significant nutritional, social, economic, and environmental disruption and damage worldwide,” the study said, adding it accounts for roughly half or more of total calories consumed in the United States.FSSAI chairperson and retired Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer, Rita Teotia, at the meeting said the journey towards FOPL has been long and most of the aspects have been decided upon to the satisfaction of all stakeholders. “Informed choices of consumer need to be the central point in all decisions undertaken on this subject and the label should be easy to understand,” she said while concluding the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/experts-divided-over-fssai-s-new-proposal-for-labelling-on-food-packets-101631468517594.html
13-09-2021||India||Police reshuffle before UP assembly polls: Changes in screening process likely||Changes are likely in the screening process for police inspectors and sub-inspectors (S-Is) for a reshuffle ahead of the 2022 Uttar Pradesh (UP) assembly election, said a police official privy to the development here on Sunday.The rethink comes as some senior police officials feel that the existing screening criteria will disturb the distribution of the police force across the state before the Uttar Pradesh assembly election and affect routine police work, the official said.The official said a discussion is on among top officials for transferring sub-inspectors and inspectors from one Vidhan Sabha constituency to another. He said the present order was for shifting the inspectors and the sub-inspectors from one district to another if they complete three years of their posting till March 2022.“Only those police personnel are likely to be transferred to other districts in case there is a complaint or inquiry pending against them or there are complaints related to election duties in the past,” he said.Also Read| Before 2017, ration went to those who used to say ‘abba jaan’: UP CM YogiHe also said the amendments in the screening process were being discussed as the primary screening suggested that almost 90 per cent of the police personnel in every district across the state will be new police if the existing criteria is applied and it may cause a major problem in routine policing as well as the election process.Earlier, the state government constituted two committees to screen officers from sub-inspector to ASP rank posted in different districts, said senior police officials here.One committee headed by additional director general (law and order) Prashant Kumar and comprising two other members will screen inspectors and S-Is.The purpose of the screening committee is to list the police personnel who have remained posted in one district for three or more years as well as those who have inquiries and complaints pending against them. Police personnel with an allegedly tainted background would be shunted out from the districts (of their current posting), said the official. Another three-member screening committee headed by director general (intelligence) DS Chauhan will screen ASPs and deputy superintendents of police (DySPs) on the same lines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/police-reshuffle-before-uttar-pradesh-assembly-election-changes-in-screening-process-likely-101631467523605.html
13-09-2021||NA||Breaking news highlights: IMD issues red alert in 7 districts of Odisha||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:Vaccination rate to be doubled in J&K districts with higher Covid caseloadThe Jammu and Kashmir government on Sunday asked the administration to double the vaccination rate in districts reporting a higher number of coronavirus cases. Read moreVice President dedicates Puducherry solar power plant ‘to the nation’Vice President Venkaiah Naidu dedicated a 1.5MW solar power plant in Puducherry “to the nation”. "Solar power generation is eco-friendly and should be tested by all federal, state, and local government departments," he said on Sunday, reported news agency ANI. Assam reports 259 Covid-19 cases, 11 deathsAssam reported 259 cases of Covid-19 on Sunday after the state conducted 31,906 tests in the last 24 hours. A total of 11 deaths were also reported in the state, said the government health bulletin.IMD issues red alert in 7 districts of OdishaThe India Meteorological Department (IMD) issued red alert in 7 districts, orange alert in 6 districts, and yellow alert in 8 districts  of Odisha, for the next 24 hours predicting heavy rains. NSUI elects Rahul Gandhi as Congress president In a resolution of its two-day national executive 'Sankalp', the National Students' Union of India (NSUI) proposed to appoint Rahul Gandhi as Congress president. pic.twitter.com/oYm6euUdiCDelhi and NCR might witness light to moderate intensity, thunderstorm: IMDThe India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Sunday that Delhi and the adjoining areas of Noida, Greater Noida, Hapur, Ghaziabad, Indrapuram, Dadri, Gurugram are likely to receive light to moderate rainfall and thunderstorm.Kerala reports 20,240 Covid-19 cases, 67 deathsKerala recorded 20,240 cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the total number of cases to 4,375,431. In the last 24 hours the state also reported 67 fatalities, the death toll now stands at 22,551. Number of active cases in state now stands at 222,255 according to the state health bulletin.Karnataka reports 803 Covid-19 cases, 17 deathsKarnataka recorded 803 cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the total number of cases to 2,961,735. In the last 24 hours the state also reported 17 deaths, the death toll now stands at 37,504, according to the state health bulletin.Bhupendra Patel to take oath as Gujarat CM tomorrowGujarat CM-elect Bhupendra Patel to take oath tomorrow, no one else: State BJP chief CR Patil in a press conference pic.twitter.com/pPO9Yg16OSDelhi records 22 Covid-19 cases, zero deathsDelhi recorded 22 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the total tally of cases to 1,438,233. The national capital did not record any fatalities in the last 24 hours, the death toll currently stands at 25,083, according to the government health bulletin.BJP Legislative Party elects Bhupendra Patel as new Gujarat CMGujarat | Bhupendra Patel elected as the new leader of BJP Legislative Party, says Union Minister & BJP leader Narendra Singh Tomar pic.twitter.com/myVKiW8VB5Officer shot by terrorists in Srinagar succumbs to injuriesProbationary sub inspector Arshid Ahmad, who was fired upon by the militants in Srinagar on Sunday, succumbed to his injuries at Sheri Kashmir Institute of Medical Science, Soura, where he was shifted for treatment. Russians in Thiruvananthapuram vote to elect their state DumaRussian nationals cast their votes in the federal assembly elections to elect their state Duma. A Voting booth set up at Honorary Consulate of Russian Federation in Thiruvananthapuram on Sunday." It's the legislative body of our country. The main day of the election is scheduled on Sept 19. It is generally held in Chennai. But due to COVID, we decided to hold several preliminary voting campaigns in different states," Sergey Lagutin, Consul, Russian consulate in Chennai told news agency ANI.  4 killed, 1 missing in cloudburst in J&K's Baramullah districtFour people, including three minors were killed and one is reported to be missing due to a cloudburst that occurred in Baramulla district of Jammu and Kashmir, Disaster Management Authority, J&K government told news agency ANI.NH 5 blocked due to landslide at Badhal, Shimla districtHimachal Pradesh | National Highway 5 blocked due to landslide at Badhal in Shimla district. The highway is also blocked at Jeori in the district. pic.twitter.com/G2F3WGqiccZydus Cadila to seek approval for two-dose regimen of its approved three-dose Covid-19 vaccine in IndiaConsidering the burden on healthcare and the expense of buying three doses, Zydus Cadila is planning to seek approval for the two-dose regimen of its needle-free Covid-19 vaccine, ZyCoV-D, days after the vaccine was approved by India's drugs regulator for emergency use in India on August 20.Terrorists attack police party at Khanyar in Old Srinagar: PoliceTerrorists attack police party at Khanyar in Old Srinagar city, details awaited: Police.UK PM to set out Covid winter strategy next week, says health ministerBritish Prime Minister Boris Johnson will this week set out plans to manage the Covid-19 pandemic over the colder months, his health minister said on Sunday, suggesting the government could remove some restrictions by relying on vaccines.Afghan police return to work alongside Taliban at airportAfghan police at Kabul airport have returned to work manning checkpoints alongside Taliban security for the first time since the Islamists seized power, officers said Sunday.Women can study in universities, in gender-segregated classrooms: TalibanTaliban set higher education policy, say women can study in universities, in gender-segregated classroomsShiv Sena will contest UP, Goa Assembly polls: Sanjay RautShiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Sunday said his party will contest the Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh and Goa due early next year, and claimed farmers' organisations in western UP are willing to support his party.2 killed, 3 injured after slab falls from 3rd floor of a building in Thane westThree persons received injuries, later rescued by the fire department after a slab fell on them from the third floor of an apartment building in Thane West.Two people lost their lives in the incident. As a precautionary measure, the C wing (24 Rooms out of 73 Rooms) of the Khatri apartment was evacuated. All residents of the C wing temporarily shifted to Khandeshi masjid, Rabodi: Thane Municipal Corporation.One killed, another missing as result of ships collision off Southwestern JapanA dry cargo ship has collided with a small vessel off the coast of the Japanese city of Sasebo in the southwestern Nagasaki prefecture, leaving one person dead and another one missing, the NHK broadcaster reported on Sunday.Arvind Kejriwal has been re-elected as Aam Aadmi Party National ConvenorArvind Kejriwal has been re-elected as Aam Aadmi Party National Convenor in the party's National Executive Meeting. Pankaj Gupta was re-elected as National Secretary and ND Gupta was re-elected as National Treasurer during Aam Aadmi Party's National Executive Meeting today.Cloud burst reported at Kafarnar BahakCloud burst reported at Kafarnar Bahak, in upper reaches of Baramulla district. Five Bakarwals from Rajouri district were reported missing. Details awaited: Disaster Management Authority, J&K Govt.Koo to raise headcount to 500 in 1 yr; hiring for engineering, product, community managementHomegrown microblogging platform Koo expects to raise its headcount to over 500 people in the next one year, as it looks to hire across engineering, product and community management teams.245 children among 1,089 new Covid-19 patients in MizoramMizoram's Covid-19 tally breached the 70,000-mark on Sunday as 1,089 more people, including 245 children, tested positive for the infection, which is 364 more than the previous day's count, a health official said.Teacher held for sexually assaulting girl student in UP's RampurA teacher at a private school has been held and booked under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act on Saturday for allegedly sexually assaulting a girl student on September 5 during Teachers' Day celebrations.BJP legislative party meet to be held at 2.30pmGujarat: BJP legislative party meet to be held at 2.30pm to discuss probable CM candidates.National Highway 305 blocked due to landslide at Shojha in Kullu districtNational Highway 305 blocked due to landslide at Shojha in Kullu district; Road restoration work underway.Covid-19: Gujarat nurse to be conferred Florence Nightingale AwardA nurse of Sir Sayajirao General Hospital of Vadodara, Gujarat will be conferred with the Florence Nightingale Award.Over 72.21 crore doses of vaccines have been provided to States/UTsOver 72.21 crore doses of vaccines have been provided to States/UTs. More than 5.16 crore balance doses are still available with States/UTs with over 57 lakh doses in the pipeline: Government of IndiaWildfire forces closure of part of freeway in CaliforniaA wildfire near Castaic Saturday has led to the closure of a part of a major freeway in Southern California, officials told local media.India logs  28,591 fresh Covid-19 cases, 338 deaths in last 24 hoursIndia recorded 28,591 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, which pushed the nationwide tally to 33,236,921, while the death toll climbed to 442,655 with 338 daily fatalities, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Sunday. Australia buys additional 1 million doses of Moderna's Covid-19 vaccineAustralia has purchased an additional 1 million doses of Moderna's Covid-19 vaccine from the European Union, Prime Minister Scott Morrison said, as the country accelerates its inoculation programme to fight record high infections.China sends health team to Fujian province after Covid casesChina’s National Health Commission sent a special team to the city of Putian in eastern China’s Fujian province after Covid-19 cases were reported, according to broadcaster CGTN.FBI releases newly declassified record on September 11 attacksThe FBI late Saturday released a newly declassified 16-page document related to logistical support provided to two of the Saudi hijackers in the run-up to the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.US former president Bush calls on Americans to confront domestic 'violent extremists'Former US President George W Bush on Saturday called on Americans to confront domestic violent extremists, saying there is "growing evidence that the dangers to our country can come not only across borders but from the violence that gathers within."BJP legislative party meeting to be held todayUnion Ministers Prahlad Joshi and Narendra Singh Tomar will visit Gujarat today as BJP's central observers; BJP legislative party meeting to be held today.Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani submitted his resignation to the Governor on Saturday.Jharkhand reports 7 new Covid-19 cases, zero deathJharkhand reported seven fresh Covid-19 infections and zero deaths in the last 24 hours, as per the state health department on Saturday.John Kerry in India for 3 days; clean energy transition in agendaUS Special Presidential Envoy for Climate, John Kerry will travel to India from September 12-14 in a bid to engage with Indian counterparts to address the climate crisis.SAD to observe September 17 as 'black day' to mark one year of enactment of three farm lawsShiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Saturday decided to observe September 17 as 'Black Day' on completion of one year of enactment of three farm laws.Australia's Victoria state records small decline in Covid-19 infectionsAustralia's second most populous state said on Sunday daily Covid-19 infections fell slightly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-september-12-2021-101631403107271.html
13-09-2021||India||In Telangana, BJP pitch to mark ‘Liberation Day’ gets louder||Ever since Telangana was carved out of Andhra Pradesh in 2014, the Bharatiya Janata Party has been demanding that the state government officially observe ‘Liberation Day’ on September 17 -- the day the princely state of Hyderabad (of which Telangana was a part) was annexed to India in 1948.With each year, BJP’s voice to observe ‘Telangana Liberation Day’ is getting shriller. This year, Union home minister and former BJP national president Amit Shah has been invited to address a public meeting in Telangana’s Nirmal district for the same reason. “There would be a mega rally at Yedi Udala Marri in Nirmal district which the home minister will address and we would again demand celebration of September 17 as Liberation Day from the Nizams,” Telangana BJP president Bandi Sanjay said on September 8.The Hyderabad princely state was the last to join the Indian union on September 17, 1948. It was made a part of India through Operation Polo, a military operation led by JN Choudhuri from the Indian army. What the BJP primarily raises is the violence unleashed on people by the Razakars, a militia led by Qasim Razvi, the then president of the Majilis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (MIM), especially in certain parts of the state before its annexation to India.The demand to observe ‘Liberation Day’ comes from the BJP though the party did not exist at the time of the annexation; nor did its parent organisation, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), have any major role to play in what transpired then. The BJP has been celebrating September 17 as Liberation Day since creation of separate Telangana state and claiming that a large number of Hindus were killed in clashes with militia.Soon after independence, the last Nizam of Hyderabad, Osman Ali Khan (1888-1967), began negotiating with the Indian government about his state’s future. During his rule, the erstwhile state of Hyderabad (which was trifurcated in 1956 on linguistic lines) comprised 16 districts, half of which were in Telangana, five in Maharashtra and three in Karnataka.It was a multilingual state, with half the population speaking Telugu (Telangana). Hindus in the state comprised about 85% of the population, while about 10% were Muslims (with a Muslim elite occupying a good chunk of the administration). Problems arose when Khan refused to join India or Pakistan and tried to stay independent in 1947, a provision which the British government allowed for rulers of princely states. What complicated the matters was a Communist Party of India-led peasant uprising against state-appointed jagirdars (feudal landlords) in 1946, which is called the Telangana Armed Struggle. This continued even after Operation Polo till 1951, when the CPI leadership called it off and decided to participate in the first general elections of 1951-52.“What is this liberation day? Where was the BJP then in 1948? What right do they have to even speak about that? Police action was also set forth as the Nizam and the Indian government stuck a deal, because the Nizam’s government could not handle the Telangana Communist movement. They are now trying to create communal tensions,” said Mohd Khaja Moinuddin, a 93-year-old CPI veteran from Siddipet.Moinuddin had gone underground in 1947-48, as the CPI was banned (along with the Congress) by the Hyderabad state government in the days preceding Operation Polo. The senior citizen, who is a freedom fighter, recalled that Telangana Armed Struggle was very successful, and said that the CPI was banned till 1951. “The Indian army’s troops remained in Telangana after 1948 to suppress the CPI’s movement,” he added.The Armed Struggle (1946-51) is also something that is largely forgotten though it was the CPI which actually fought against the ruling landlords under the Nizam, especially in rural areas, said Moinuddin, who fought alongside CPI legends from Telangana like Ravi Narayan Reddy (former Lok Sabha MP) and Makhdoom Mohiuddin. “In fact, we were the ones fighting with the Razakars in the districts of Telangana,” he claimed.The Indian government, led by then Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru and then home minister Sardar Vallabhai Patel, were wary of the situation with Hyderabad after independence. In fact, both sides even signed the ‘Standstill Agreement’ on November 29 to sort out the issue through negotiations. The Indian government was also aware of the Communists’ challenge in Telangana.Historian and author of ‘VP Menon: The Unsung Architect of Modern India (2020)’, Narayani Basu, whose book goes into the annexation of princely states into India, said everyone on the Indian side, ranging from Nehru to Patel, was wary of the issue regarding Hyderabad.“In fact VP Menon was one of the trustees of the Nizam’s wealth on behalf of the government of India. Sardar Patel deeply mistrusted the Nizam, who was also too weak to deal with what was happening. He had allowed the MIM (and Razakars) to gain a lot of power.,” Basu said. On the discussions between India and Hyderabad that preceded Operation Polo, Basu pointed out that there were several proposals in the early stages during negotiations after independence in 1947.The BJP in Telangana has been taking an aggressive stance, and is now being looked at as a challenger to the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), led by K. Chandrasekhar Rao (KCR).“In Karnataka and Maharashtra, September 17 is celebrated officially, and we are demanding the same be celebrated here. Many people were affected under the Nizam, so officially it should be held as Telangana Liberation Day. People who were killed should be remembered,” said NV Subhash, BJP spokesperson from Telangana.He added that be it CPI leaders or anyone else, whoever fought in the “struggle” for Hyderabad should be remembered. “The whole of Telangana was part of Hyderabad state, so why not? When we come into power…” Subhas added.In the aftermath of Operation Polo, Hyderabad state had a military governor for 18 months, after which the state went to polls during the first general elections of 1951-52. While the Congress, with Burgula Ramakrishna Rao as chief minister, came to power in the 175-member assembly of the state, the CPI (which contested under the banner of People’s Democratic Front) won as many as 42 of 77 seats in Telangana.The Hyderabad state was, however, trifurcated in 1956 on linguistic basis, and Telangana was merged with the Telugu-speaking coastal Andhra and Rayalaseema regions of the Madras Presidency to create the joint Andhra Pradesh state. The joint state of AP existed till 2014, till Telangana was bifurcated as a new state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-telangana-bjp-pitch-to-mark-liberation-day-gets-louder-101631299381541.html
13-09-2021||Today's||Securing the independence of legislative secretariats, the Patel and Naidu way||The recent appointment of an in-house officer as the secretary-general of the Rajya Sabha by the Upper House Chair, and vice-president (V-P), M Venkaiah Naidu, is an important step in restoring the independence of the secretariats of Parliament. This issue has roots in the colonial period.The story begins in 1925 when Vithalbhai Patel, the elder brother of Sardar Patel, was elected the speaker of the Central Legislative Assembly — the first Indian to be elected to this high office. An uncompromising champion of the independence of the office of the speaker, Patel was conscious of the need to have a secretariat that would be independent of the government. Till then, both the Houses of the central legislature were manned and controlled by the secretary to the government in the legislative department.Recognising that this compromised the independence of the office of the speaker as well as the legislature, Patel convened a conference of the presiding officers in 1926. The conference passed a resolution asking the government to create a separate and independent secretariat. But the British government did not pay heed. Patel presented a comprehensive proposal, which was forwarded by the viceroy’s government to the secretary of state in London. He considered and rejected the proposal.Also Read | Delhi University has approved FYUP. What does it mean for students?After this disappointing development, the speaker brought the matter of independent secretariat to the House and declared, “As an elected Speaker I am responsible to the Assembly and to no other authority.” On September 22, 1928, Motilal Nehru moved a resolution in the assembly, seeking to create a separate assembly department. This was adopted unanimously. Finally, the secretary of state relented and the proposal contained in the House Resolution was approved, and, thus an independent secretariat of the central legislative assembly came into existence on January 10, 1929.In order to perform the role of scrutinising the functioning of the government effectively, Parliament must have a secretariat that is not part of the government. The officers-in-charge of the secretariats should not be beholden to the government for their career progression, nor should they be amenable to any kind of pressure from the government. Since it is the secretariats which help the House perform its constitutional functions, their independence needs to be ensured at all times.It is here that the importance of the appointment of an in-house officer, who has grown within the system, to the top position in the Rajya Sabha secretariat assumes importance. The independence of secretariats presupposes appointment of officers at all levels, including to the top position, from within the system. The induction of officers, either serving or retired, from the executive branch, to the top positions in the secretariats of the legislature undermines its independence. Long years of service in the government create in them a certain unsuitability to serve the Houses of Parliament, which critically scrutinise executive performance. Their unfamiliarity with the inner dynamics of the House, the institutional memory, centuries of accumulated wisdom of the House is an undeniable fact.That is why, in a departure from the practice followed in the Rajya Sabha for some time now, the V-P did not choose an officer from the executive as secretary-general, but one from within. This action has, at once, put V-P Naidu in the league of Vithalbhai Patel and other eminent leaders who scrupulously guarded the independence of the legislature.Contemporary politicians are often not aware of the history of the struggles waged by Patel and others to secure the independence of the legislature. But it isn’t just history. The Constitution provides for a separate secretariat and separate rules of recruitment of officials for each House. It mandates that the officials who man the secretariats shall be different from those who man the executive. For this, a separate provision, namely, Article 98 was incorporated in the Constitution. The V-P seems to have fully understood the purpose of this constitutional provision, and has upheld a great tradition.PDT Achary is former secretary general, Lok SabhaThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/securing-the-independence-of-legislative-secretariats-the-patel-and-naidu-way-101631537849817.html
13-09-2021||Today's||Next month, air pollution will be back||Amid growing concern about the climate crisis, the pervasive problem of air pollution has not gone away. Air pollution is costing India lives and livelihoods: 1.67 million killed in 2019 (according to the Global Burden of Disease report) and caused a loss of $95 billion annually to Indian businesses (according to consulting firm Dalberg, Clean Air Fund and Confederation of Indian Industry). Improving the life chances of our citizens needs more dedicated and precise interventions.
13-09-2021||Today's||For China, the challenge has just begun in Afghanistan||China wants the world to give the Afghan Taliban the space that it needs to settle down. The announcement of a $31-million emergency aid package to the interim Afghan government, a day after the formation of a caretaker cabinet, is tantamount to de facto endorsement of the Taliban as Afghanistan’s new rulers. China’s backing for the Taliban is meant to ensure smooth sailing for its new comrades in Kabul.
13-09-2021||Today's||In perspective: If 9/11 happened 20 years later||For most part, the September 11 attacks are remembered through shaky footage. The most searing images are of the moment United Airlines Flight 175 sliced into the second tower of World Trade Centre, and of the 110-storey twin towers collapsing.
13-09-2021||Today's||Platform workers need justice, not charity||The narrative of the platform economy has been dominated by the platforms themselves. Whether it is Uber, Ola, Zomato, or Swiggy, we are told about how platforms are “disruptive”, how they offer flexible working conditions in what has largely become a gig-work economy, and how they make life easy and convenient for us, the consumers.
13-09-2021||Editorials||Don’t communalise UP polls||On Sunday, during a public speech, Uttar Pradesh’s chief minister (CM), Yogi Adityanath, referred to his government’s pro-poor schemes. This was a legitimate claim of what he sees as an achievement. But then, introducing a communal subtext to claims over welfare achievements, particularly the distribution of free ration, the CM said that in earlier governments, it was only those who said “Abba jaan”, an Urdu salutation for one’s father used by Muslims, who absorbed all the ration.
