21-09-2021||News||To vaccinate entire population by Dec 31, India must give 10.4 mn doses a day||On September 17, India administered a record 25 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, nearly doubling its previous record for shots delivered in a single day. The record was achieved as states across the country – led largely by the ones ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) – made a concerted push for a record vaccination day as part of celebrations to mark the Prime Minister’s 71st birthday.
21-09-2021||News||To solve Delhi’s parking crisis, there is a policy. But will it work?||In 2019, the Delhi government notified the Delhi Maintenance and Management of Parking Places Rules to address the parking crisis in the Capital through area-specific planning.
21-09-2021||News||Climate: How Delhi can transition to cleaner, green power||In November 2016, as the national Capital’s air quality dipped severely and the Great Delhi Smog enveloped the city for almost a week, Delhi was sourcing at least 82% of its electricity from polluting coal-fired power stations, commonly known as thermal power plants. About five years later, around 57% of Delhi’s average annual power supply of about 3,700 MW now comes from thermal power houses.
21-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt to scrutinise winter pollution plans submitted by agencies||The Delhi government will scrutinise pollution control action plans for the winter that were submitted by various agencies. A senior government official said the deadline for submitting these plans was 6pm Tuesday.“We had given all the agencies time till 6pm on Tuesday to submit their final action plan and the recommendations they have for the government ahead of the winter pollution season. Now we will be scrutinising their plans and will give them feedback on what can be added,” the official said. The official also added that based on the submitted plans, the environment department along and the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) will formulate a detailed winter action plan that is likely to be released by September 30. Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai announced earlier this month that the government will release a winter action plan this year to ensure that pollution from various sources is kept in check. He said that the individual action plans submitted by agencies will also be evaluated from time to time to ensure that they are sticking to the tasks they have taken up. Every year ahead of the winter season, pollution levels in the national capital start deteriorating till they reach emergency levels. The season starts off with fumes from the crop stubble burning in the neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana and is made worse by Delhi’s local pollution sources such as vehicular emissions, dust and incidents of open waste burning, and cracker-bursting during Diwali time. The unfavourable weather conditions, including low wind speed, also tend to worsen the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-to-scrutinise-winter-pollution-plans-submitted-by-agencies-101632248714821.html
21-09-2021||Other||Ahead of CM’s Dadri visit today, officials go all out to make event a success||Some members of the Rajput community have announced that they will protest against Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath during his visit to Greater Noida’s Dadri on Wednesday, when he comes to unveil a statue of ninth-century king Mihir Bhoj, whom the community claims was a Rajput, and not a Gurjar. Their demand is that the word “Gurjar” must therefore be removed from the statue’s plaque. Elders of both Gurjar and Rajput communities have discussed the contentious issue and agreed to a show of unity during Adityanath’s visit, but some disgruntled members continued with their protest on Tuesday.While the Noida police has made adequate security arrangements, members of the Rajput community have threatened nationwide protests if the text on the plaque is not changed.“Police have threatened our members and asked us not to protest. They said if we protest, our members will have to face the consequences,” said Prithvi Singh, national secretary of Akhil Bharatiya Kshatriya Mahasabha.Gautam Budh Nagar police commissioner Alok Singh was unavailable for comment on the matter.According to the CM’s schedule, he will arrive at Greater Noida’s Expo Mart around 10am. He will reach Dadri around 11am to unveil the statue at Mihir Bhoj Degree College. He will also inaugurate a higher secondary school and a “sadbhav mandap (community centre)” before leaving for Dhaulana in Hapur to inaugurate multiple development projects there.The chief minister is on a two-day visit to western Uttar Pradesh cities, including Greater Noida, Ghaziabad, Hapur and Moradabad, among others.“The chief minister is travelling across the state every day and talking about the development work done in every district in the last four-and-a-half years. He has performed wonderfully well on all fronts, so people also want to listen to him at events,” said Dhirendra Singh, BJP MLA from Jewar.Ahead of Adityanath’s visit, the Noida authority sealed offices and clubhouse buildings inside group housing projects of 11 realtors in different sectors, including 74, 75, 78 and 107.“We have sealed the office spaces and club buildings, which are controlled by the realtors in these 11 projects because the developers are violating the National Green Tribunal orders. Either they have not set up sewage treatment plants (STPs), or the STPs are non-functional, thereby dumping untreated sewage into city drains which eventually pollutes rivers,” said Mukesh Vaish, senior manager, Noida authority.The residents of the housing projects said the action should have been taken long ago-- it is now inconveniencing them rather than the builders.“The authority took this action now to show the chief minister that they are working according to rules. This action should have been taken long ago because almost all realtors have been dumping untreated sewage into drains for a long time now. Also, why did they seal clubhouse buildings meant for residents?” said Amit Gupta, member of Progressive Community Foundation, a residents’ group.“The authority team reached our premises at 12.20pm and sealed our maintenance office without any notice. This has affected our functioning-- it must be de-sealed. The Noida authority wants to make the chief minister happy with this unreasonable action. Junior-level officers are misleading the Noida CEO and acting unlawfully. Our sewer is supposed to be connected to a nearby STP of the Noida authority. They arrested our staff illegally,” said Namit Gautam, president of Prateek Fedora Apartments in Sector 61.However, the authority claimed they only sealed premises controlled by builders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ahead-of-cm-s-dadri-visit-today-officials-go-all-out-to-make-event-a-success-101632248533889.html
21-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Two vehicle theft gangs, with links to criminals in Rajasthan and Uttarakhand, busted; five arrested||New Delhi: The city police on Tuesday claimed to have busted two separate gangs of auto-lifters, with alleged links to liquor and drug smugglers in Rajasthan and stolen car dealers in Uttarakhand, after the arrest of five people and recovery of 12 stolen vehicles, along with electronic gadgets and lock breaking tools, allegedly from their possession.The operation by the anti-auto theft squad (AATS) of Shahdara district police spanned across Delhi and three nearby states over a period of two weeks, officers said.According to police, the gangs stole vehicles from Delhi as per the demand from their clients in Rajasthan and Uttarakhand. Officers aware of the investigation said one gang used to steal CNG-fitted cars and sell them to stolen car dealers in Uttarakhand, while the other targeted SUVs, like Creta, Brezza and Seltos, depending on orders received from Rajasthan-based agents. Officials said the SUVs were subsequently sold to gangs involved in trafficking liquor from Haryana to Gujarat, which is a “dry state”.“The stolen vehicles were also used to smuggle opium poppy into Rajasthan from Madhya Pradesh,” said deputy commissioner of police (Shahdara) R Sathiyasundaram.The DCP said that the AATS was tasked with nabbing auto-lifters following several incidents of vehicle thefts using a similar modus operandi in Shahdara district.The DCP said the suspects wore caps to hide their faces from CCTV cameras, stole cars in the wee hours of the day and used various advanced tools to deactivate the security features of the cars, open doors and start the engine. The police got on one of the gang’s trail while investigating the theft of a CNG-fitted Honda City car from Anand Vihar area on August 14.“Our team collected details about the suspects through technical investigation and human intelligence network and arrested Parvez, 25, from Bilaspur near Rampur in Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday. Two stolen Honda City and a Creta were recovered after his interrogation,” said the DCP.Upon interrogation, Parvez allegedly revealed that his gang is led by one Satish Gangwar, and added that they have contacts in Uttarakhand’s Haldwani and Nainital to receive the stolen cars. The gang either sold parts of the vehicles or used documents of similar vehicles involved in accidents to sell the stolen cars, police said, adding that efforts are on to arrest Gangwar and two other members of the gang.The AATS learned of the second gang after finding four of its members replacing the number plates of two cars -- a Brezza and a Creta -- near CBD ground in Karkardooma in the early hours of September 9. Police arrested two suspects -- Faisal (26) from Nainital, and Azharuddin (39) from Meerut -- after a brief scuffle even as the two others escaped in the Creta car.The Brezza car was later found to be stolen from MS Park area on September 7, the police said.The two arrested men revealed that they allegedly worked for Kuldeep Singh, a habitual criminal from Delhi’s Alipur, and reportedly admitted to stealing over 50 cars from Delhi-NCR in the past few years. Singh was later arrested from northeast Delhi’s Dayalpur and eight more stolen vehicles were recovered after his interrogation. They sold the stolen cars to Manish Kumar, a receiver in Rajasthan who was also arrested, the DCP said.“This gang used electronic gadgets imported from China to decode the engine control module (ECM) of a car and start its engine. They tampered with the car’s engine and chassis numbers and gave a new identity to the vehicle using details of other cars of the same model and make. Singh is an expert in making a digital car key using programming tools,” he added. Police said that Singh and his gang members stole vehicles after received demands from Kumar, who further sold the stolen vehicles to traffickers of liquor and drugs in Rajasthan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhitwo-vehicle-theft-gangs-with-links-to-criminals-in-rajasthan-and-uttarakhand-busted-five-arrested-101632248358859.html
21-09-2021||Lucknow||Documentary film space has a huge potential: Kovid Mittal||After completing his mechanical engineering studies, Kovid Mittal turned to modelling and acting. The youngster feels that one should follow instinct and passion and things automatically fall into place.“My father was in the India Air Force and pursuing engineering was my choice. But, during my college days, I started modelling and soon won Mr Youth Bangalore pageant. It became my passion, so I convinced my parents and since then it has been a decade and I have never been out of work. Even during the pandemic, I was doing short films and documentaries,” says the model-turned-actor.Last year, he shot for a 90-minute documentary, 3687 Metres Black Peak, which bagged many awards. “This is one of the highest peaks (20,960 feet) in Uttarakhand and we scaled it in a record time of six days. It got the cinematography award at the Canadian Film Festival 2021 and was the official selection at the Dada Saheb Phalke Awards 2021. Next, we will do two sequels to it — first 23,212 Ft Mount Satopanth in India followed by Mt Everest. It’s for the first time a mountaineering documentary of this scale is being done in our country,” says the karate black belt and national-level swimmer.Mittal feels documentary space is set to become big. “In India, we need to go big on documentaries. Free Solo, based on rock climbing, went on to win an Academy Award in 2019. So, I feel, films, serials and web-series are fine but documentary films and short films have a huge potential and are going to be the next big things. The audience is relating with realistic space and if we look at OTT platforms, so many documentaries are getting great viewership.”He has done 12 short films as well. “My last short was Kanke Mental Asylum which is in the horror genre. It’s again a part of a three-part series. I will soon make an OTT series debut which is based on Sunil Sihag’s novel Day Turns Dark which stars actor Rahul Dev as my mentor. We will be shooting it on the border of Rajasthan in October.”The actor has also featured in Babbu Maan song Meri Jannat, Altaf Sayeed and Omar Inayat’s song Closed Eyes: Kahan Tum Kho Gaye and will be seen in Awara Hu Banjar Hu which is an ode to Indian Air Force officers. Besides, he is also directing documentaries, ads and short films.Throwing light on his first name, he says, “Kovid is a Sanskrit name derived from Hanuman Chalisa which means wisdom. After the pandemic, I started getting random messages if my name was inspired by Covid-19 and then I educated people about its relevance (laughs).”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/documentary-film-space-has-a-huge-potential-kovid-mittal-101632248354630.html
21-09-2021||Lucknow||Developing Ayodhya: Entries invited for designing city logo||The Ayodhya Development Authority (ADA) has launched a competition, “Ayodhya: The Global Spiritual Capital” inviting entries from both India and abroad for submitting designs for city logo, welcome gates and city signage in which winners will get cash prizes of over ₹10 lakh.There will be no entry fee for submitting designs. Vishal Singh, vice chairman, Ayodhya Development Authority, confirmed that the entries had been invited. The last date for submitting design is October 21 and more details about the competition are available on development authority’s website www.ayodhyada.in. As part of the UP government’s plan to develop Ayodhya as an international religious tourism destination, the Ayodhya Development Authority has taken the initiative to introduce Ayodhya city logo as a mark of identify and brand for the temple town. The development authority has also decided to get a unique design for “city welcome gates” which will come up at multiple entry points. It has also decided to come up with a signage for the city which will highlight its culture and ethos. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has instructed officials to implement vision document for development of Ayodhya. In June this year, Yogi had presented this document before PM Narendra Modi in a virtual meeting. LEA Associates South Asia Private Limited has prepared the vision document with the help of Ayodhya Development Authority. The LEA Associates is an international consultant hired by the state government for preparing Ayodhya’s vision document for the overall development of the temple town. Larsen and Toubro and Kukreja Architects are assisting the international consultant in executing the project. According to ADA officials, the document was finalised after several rounds of meetings between the development authority and the consultant. Before finalising the plan, the consultant had taken the opinion of around 5000 locals, seers and prominent citizens of Ayodhya. The development plan has incorporated 18 big projects. The vision document also includes creation of employment opportunities, branding of local products and promotion of religious tourism and plantation of Ramayana era trees in Ayodhya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/developing-ayodhya-entries-invited-for-designing-city-logo-101632248177406.html
21-09-2021||Other||Yogi launches several projects in Moradabad division||MEERUT Chief minister Yogi Adityanath laid foundation stones and launched different projects worth ₹344 crore in Sambhal and Moradabad districts on Tuesday. He also announced to set up a medical college in Bijnor at a cost of ₹244 crore and claimed that it would be operational within the next 18 months. CM Yogi was on a tour of Moradabad division on Tuesday and addressed public meetings in Sambhal, Moradabad and Bijnor districts in which he announced the launch of some projects and also laid foundation stones of many projects for public welfare. Addressing the gathering in Sambhal, he announced projects worth ₹275 crore and projects worth ₹69 crore in Moradabad . Mentioning the requirement of a medical college in Bijnor, he declared that it would be established in the name of Mahatma Vidur, at a cost of ₹244 crore. “Bijnor is the sacred land of Mahatma Vidur, so the medical college would be in his name,” said Yogi, adding, “ It would help in providing world class health services to the people of Bijnor and local youths would get an opportunity to pursue medical education in their home district.” Targeting previous governments, he said, “Only 12 medical colleges were opened in the state in the past 60 years but under Modiji, 32 medical colleges will be established in UP.” Citing achievements of his government, Yogi claimed that law and order had improved in the state and nobody could dare to commit crime against women. He also said the state was riot-free now. Yogi said that the BJP government was committed to development of all without any discrimination and targeted the Samajwadi Party(without naming) , saying that earlier, development was confined to a family and its members. Yogi said that both the union and state governments were committed to the welfare of Schedule Castes, OBCs, farmers and marginalised people. He reminded that his government waived off loan of over ₹36,000 crore of 86 lakh farmers after forming government and PM Narendra Modi launched ‘ Samman Nidhi’ for farmers. Yogi said that the BJP also fulfilled its promise of constructing Ram Temple in Ayodhya and it would be completed in the next three years. Without naming anyone, he said, “When our government is taking strong action against anti-social, anti-national and anti -women elements, there are people who support Taliban. But we will initiate action against them under the purview of law.” The CM also distributed certificates to beneficiaries of different welfare schemes and gave appointment letters to people recruited in different jobs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/yogi-launches-several-projects-in-moradabad-division-101632248174688.html
21-09-2021||Lucknow||90% UPites to be jabbed by the time polls are held, say officials||LUCKNOW Health department officials on Tuesday assured the Election Commission that around 90% of UPites would be vaccinated when the assembly elections are held early next year.During an important meeting of the health department and election commission to discuss vaccination before the assembly polls, deputy CMO Dr Milind Wardhan said vaccination will provide health cover to the staff on duty. The meeting also discussed the experiences of officials who performed duty in assembly elections of West Bengal, Bihar and ways to keep corona count in during the UP polls. Make O2 plants functional: CSAnother meeting of the state steering committee chaired by chief secretary Rajendra Kumar Tewari was held during the day. The CS directed the district magistrates and CMOs to review the progress of vaccination every week. He asked officials to mark the clusters where vaccination is not up to the mark and also directed officials to ensure vaccination of those who have taken the first shot but have not turned up for the second.The chief secretary also directed officials to make oxygen plants functional which were constructed under the PM Cares Fund. “At the same time, work of training manpower to operate oxygen plants must be completed before September 30,” he added.Till now, 7.87 crore people have received the first dose of vaccine, out of the 15.04 crore marked for vaccination while 1.70 crore received the second dose. The chief secretary was told by officials that more than 52% of people had been inoculated.No fresh Covid case in LkoNo fresh case of Covid was reported from the state capital while no patient was discharged on Tuesday. At present, there were 27 active cases in the city. Till now, 2,36,066 people defeated corona in the state capital while 2,651 lost their lives due to the infection.A couple from Basti, who came to Lucknow for eye surgery, were diagnosed Covid positive before the surgery. The health department collected more than 30 samples from the contacts of the couple in Basti and Lucknow. Deputy CMO Milind Wardhan said, “The couple belongs to Basti and that’s why contact tracing is also going on in Basti.”26 DENGUE CASES As many as 26 fresh dengue cases surfaced in Lucknow on Tuesday. Eleven patients were admitted to the Balrampur Hospital while 11 were found infected with dengue at the Lokbandhu Hospital. Four such patients were admitted to the Civil Hospital. Health department teams surveyed 2,062 houses and served notices to 29 where dengue larvae were found.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/90-upites-to-be-jabbed-by-the-time-polls-are-held-say-officials-101632247874615.html
21-09-2021||Other||11-year-old gang raped in UP’s Gorakhpur district||An 11-year-old girl was gang raped by two men, who also held the victim’s younger sister hostage when she tried to raise an alarm. The incident took place on September 12 in a village under the Gulharia police station of the Gorakhpur district but came to light on Monday when the victim’s father lodged a police complaint.Acting swiftly, the police have arrested the two accused.The father, a painter, who works outside the village, accused two locals Govind and Deendayal for the crime. An FIR was lodged in the case following the complaint.The sisters, whose mother died two years ago, lived with their grandparents. On the night of September 12, the accused stole into the house and climbed the stairs to reach the second storey where the sisters were asleep.As one girl woke up and tried to raise an alarm, the duo threatened to kill them by throwing them off the terrace. Then they tied up the younger sister, and raped the elder one before fleeing. The next day, the girls called up their father and informed him about the incident, following which he came and reported the matter to the police.Inspector Gulharia police station, Vinod Agrahri, said, “Both the accused have been arrested.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/11yearold-gang-raped-in-up-s-gorakhpur-district-101632247214404.html
21-09-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh assembly polls: New BJP panel in Lucknow today to prepare blueprint||The new election panel appointed by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leadership for poll-bound Uttar Pradesh would arrive in Lucknow on Wednesday to finalise the blueprint for the assembly polls in consultation with top leaders in the party and the government. The election panel is headed by Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan, a prominent OBC face of the party, who has been party’s election in-charge of other states like Bihar, Jharkhand, Karnataka and Chhattisgarh. He would be accompanied by seven co-in-charges for UP, including minister for information and broadcasting Anurag Thakur; minister of state for parliamentary affairs Arjun Meghwal; minister of state for agriculture and farmers welfare Shobha Karandlaje; minister of state for education Annpurna Devi; former national general secretary Saroj Pandey; MP Vivek Thakur and former Haryana minister Captain Abhimanyu.The BJP has also appointed six regional in-charges to shore up organisational strength and help with the campaign. They are Lok Sabha MP Sanjay Bhatia (west UP), Bihar MLA Sanjeev Chaurasia (Braj), BJP national secretary Y Satya Kumar (Awadh), national co-treasurer (Kanpur-Bundelkhand), national secretary Arvind Menon (Gorakhpur) and Sunil Ojha (Kashi).“This team will hold discussions with top leaders, including chief minister Yogi Adityanath, deputy chief ministers Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma, UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev, UP BJP general secretary (organisation) Sunil Bansal among others,” a senior BJP leader said. “After meetings in Lucknow on Wednesday, Pradhan along with his team would travel to Gorakhpur on Thursday and would return again to Lucknow for another round of meetings,” party leaders said.Before coming to Lucknow, BJP’s UP in-charge Radha Mohan Singh and election in-charge Dharmendra Pradhan held discussions in Delhi, party leaders said. The BJP is yet to name four MLCs and party leaders hoped that the much-delayed announcement could be made now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-assembly-polls-new-bjp-panel-in-lucknow-today-to-prepare-blueprint-101632246735963.html
21-09-2021||Delhi||SDMC empanels 13 agencies to dispose biomining waste from Okhla landfill||New Delhi: The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has empanelled 13 agencies to lift and dispose of refuse- derived fuel (RDF) and plastic, which are segregated by trommel machines in the process of bio-mining of legacy waste at the Okhla landfill, said officials. The agencies empanelled have been tasked with lifting RDF from the landfill and dispose it in an environment- friendly manner. “At least 5-7% of the total legacy waste processed is RDF, which will be taken to cement manufacturing units and waste to energy (WTE) plants... The empanelled agencies will give ₹200 per metric tonnes of RDF waste to the corporation,” said a senior corporation official, who did not wish to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sdmc-empanels-13-agencies-to-dispose-biomining-waste-from-okhla-landfill-101632246616110.html
21-09-2021||Mumbai||OBC quota in local body polls: Maharashtra sends ordinance to governor for final approval||Faisal MalikThe Maharashtra government has sent the ordinance to provide reservation to the Other Backward Classes (OBC) in the local bodies elections to governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari for final approval. The ordinance can be promulgated only after the governor’s approval. Last week, the state decided to promulgate an ordinance to make amendment to the legislations to provide political reservation to the OBC community in local bodies without breaching the 50% reservation cap mandated by the Supreme Court. The decision was taken in the state cabinet meeting held on Wednesday.An official said Koshyari has raised a query on the ordinance, but there was no official confirmation about it. “In case of a query by the governor, the state government will send a response in a day or two,” said another official from the chief minister’s office (CMO). An ordinance is a temporary law approved by the governor (on the advice of the state government), when the state legislature is not in session. An ordinance becomes a permanent Act (the law of the land) on being approved by the state legislature within six weeks, failing which it lapses.On March 4, the Supreme Court ruled that the reservation in favour of the OBCs in local bodies should not result in exceeding the 50% mandated cap in quota. It has directed the state to appoint a dedicated commission to collect empirical data, based on which the reservation for the community will be fixed and also allowed the state election commission to hold local bodies polls without having reservation for OBCs.This could prove politically damaging for the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government and hence it was decided to take ordinance route to save the OBC reservation.According to the decision, the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe communities will continue to get political reservation quota based on their population in each district, while the OBCs will get the remaining quota within the 50% ceiling. To make it possible, the state rural development department will issue an ordinance to amend two legislations — Maharashtra Zilla Parishads and Panchayat Samitis Act, 1961 and Maharashtra Village Panchayat Act for zilla parishads, panchayat samiti and gram panchayatsThe state believes they will be able to secure around 90% seats of the OBC community with the ordinance. However, it is not clear when the Raj Bhavan will clear the ordinance. The apex court order came in connection with the bypolls in district council elections. The state election commission has already declared bypolls in six district councils on October 5. The new ordinance is unlikely to be useful for the byelections as the schedule is already declared, said a senior MVA minister. Koshyari and the MVA government have been locked in a bitter tussle for quite some time. The governor is yet to clear the 12 names approved by the state cabinet in November last year to be appointed as the members of the legislative council. Every six years, 12 members are nominated to the Upper House of the state legislature by the governor on the recommendation of the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/obc-quota-in-local-body-polls-maharashtra-sends-ordinance-to-governor-for-final-approval-101632246614380.html
21-09-2021||Gurugram||Road rage argument turns violent, man stabbed by group of eight||A shop owner was allegedly waylaid, beaten and stabbed in the face by a group of people in an incident of road rage, as an argument over a collision escalated near Shriram Colony, the police said.A case was registered at the New Colony police station under sections 148, 149, 323, 427, 506 and 379A of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The complainant was treated at a hospital and discharged.According to the complainant, identified as Anirudh Yadav, a scooter hit his car near New Colony on Monday evening when he was returning home after dropping his sister at Shriram Colony. He said that the collision led to a minor argument that turned violent. In his complaint to the police, Yadav said that during the argument, the suspect called his friends on phone and they also tried snatching his car keys when he tried to escape the spot, fearing danger. Yadav said that he and his friend, who was accompanying him, got inside the car and starting moving toward Nai Basti, but they were intercepted by seven to eight men in two cars. Yadav told the police that the suspects tried to break the windows of his car and when he questioned them, they forced him to exit the car. “The accused beat me and also stabbed me in the face. One of them also tried to strangulate me,” Yadav told the police in the complaint.As people started gathering at the spot after noticing the fight, the suspects got unnerved and fled the spot, the police said. However, they snatched Yadav’s mobile phone and wallet, and threatened to kill him if he reported the matter to the police. Yadav was taken to a hospital by his friend and discharged after treatment. Subash Boken, the spokesperson for Gurugram police, said that a case has been registered against the accused, and feed from CCTV cameras is being scanned to identify them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/road-rage-argument-turns-violent-man-stabbed-by-group-of-eight-101632246558308.html
21-09-2021||Gurugram||Air quality management: Old vehicles to be impounded on roads ahead of winter pollution spike||The traffic police will start a drive from Wednesday to impound old vehicles plying in violation of environmental norms ahead of the winter season, officials said.Orders issued by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) in 2015, as well as the Supreme Court in 2018, state that diesel vehicles older than 10 years and petrol vehicles older than 15 years cannot ply in the National Capital Region (NCR) due to high levels of air pollution. In July 2016, the Haryana government also passed a similar order, banning such vehicles in Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat and Jhajjar districts.“Adhering to the NGT directions and ahead of the stubble burning season, from Wednesday onwards, traffic police is going to launch a full-scale drive against petrol and diesel vehicles older than 15 and 10 years, respectively. The drive is being launched keeping air quality management across NCR in mind. Owners of such vehicles have been directed to either replace such vehicles or sell it as scrap material,” Ravinder Singh Tomar, the deputy commissioner of police (DCP), traffic, Gurugram police, said.According to Gurugram traffic police officials, they have impounded 640 such vehicles from 2018 to September 20, 2021. Officials said that 208 vehicles have been impounded for the offence this year.Tomar said that personnel have been directed to impound old vehicles plying on roads and take the same to the nearest police station. In addition, a challan of ₹5,000 will also be generated against the offender on the spot and the owners will only be returned the vehicles if they agree to scrap them.In October and November, air pollution levels in the city surge drastically as farmers in northern states follow a common practice of setting their paddy fields afire to remove the leftover stubble after the harvest to prepare the soil for sowing the next crop. Such is the impact of the stubble burning that air quality levels are often 30-35 times higher than the permissible limit across the NCR.This period coincides with the onset of winter, when particulate matter remains suspended close to the ground due to low wind speeds and smog. Vehicular pollution in the city further compounds the problems during these months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/air-quality-management-old-vehicles-to-be-impounded-on-roads-ahead-of-winter-pollution-spike-101632246557245.html
21-09-2021||Gurugram||Eco-friendly, self-sustainable farmhouses allowed in agriculture zones||The Department of Town and Country Planning (DTCP) has allowed the development of eco-friendly farmhouses in agricultural zones, officials said on Tuesday.Under a new policy approved on September 17, eco-friendly farmhouses can be constructed in agriculture zones of hyper, high, medium and low potentials, at a minimum distance of 500 metres from urban zones. As per the policy, a farmhouse in an agriculture zone can be a house constructed as the main dwelling unit or an ancillary unit. DTCP officials said that as per the new policy, farmhouses would now be allowed in hyper-potential zones of Gurugram and Faridabad, which was not allowed earlier. DTCP officials said that the farmhouse has to be developed as a self-sustainable unit, with solar lighting, ways to ensure 100% treatment of all waste, including water, and no generation of effluents allowed. The policy allows the construction of a swimming pool with a maximum area of 50 square metres (sqm) for personal use, but not for commercial purposes. The farmhouse must also have tree coverage of 15%, according to the policy. According to the policy, farmhouses are allowed only if the minimum area is one acre with a maximum floor-area ratio of 0.12 for farmhouses built on an area of up to two acres. For properties larger than two acres, the department has fixed the maximum size of the building at 1,000 sqm. RS Bhath, district town planner (enforcement) said that the farmhouses under the policy can’t be used for commercial, religious, institutional purposes or as a party/banquet hall. “The purpose of this policy is to allow landowners to develop farmhouses in a regulated manner and to ensure that these properties are developed in an eco-friendly manner. Planned development is crucial in both urban and rural areas,” he said.Officials said that the new policy was announced due to popular demand for the same, due to which several illegal farmhouses have cropped up on the outskirts of Gurugram. The policy aims to curb the development of illegal colonies and allow individual landowners to build farmhouses for personal use. “This, however, does not mean that a person can buy large land and develop multiple farmhouses to sell these,” Ashish Sharma, assistant town planner, said. DTCP officials also said that sites approved under the policy will not come under the purview of the Haryana Apartment Ownership Act. In case of any violation or misuse of the premises, the same shall be sealed and penal action taken against the violators, they said. These properties would be monitored by a district-level committee comprising officials of the DTCP and other departments concerned, and headed by the deputy commissioner. Owners of agricultural land welcomed the move.Suresh Yadav, a landowner, said that the policy will curtail illegal developments and also allow landowners to develop such properties for personal use. “Once these get approved, there would be no harassment either,” he said. Before this, the government had come up with a similar policy for urban areas, aimed at allowing landowners in urban pockets to develop land in a regulated manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/ecofriendly-self-sustainable-farmhouses-allowed-in-agriculture-zones-101632246556158.html
21-09-2021||Gurugram||Building plan violation: Owners of 60 properties in private licensed colonies served notices||The Department of Town and Country Planning on Tuesday issued notices to 60 property owners in private licensed colonies over offences including building plan violations and additional changes, particularly after obtaining occupancy certificates. Officials said that they conducted a detailed survey and found that owners had covered setback areas (open space around a structure) and made rooms in stilt parking, among other illegal extensions. RS Bhath, district town planner (enforcement), said that notices were mainly issued to property owners in Sushant Lok 1 to 3, DLF Phases 1 and 3, South City 1 and 2, and Palam Vihar. “We have found that owners of these 60 properties have violated rules and they must restore the properties, failing which action will be taken. Last year, we had made it easier for house owners to obtain occupancy certificates, but it is being observed that after getting it, owners are frequently violating the plans,” he said. Officials said that violations are continuing despite the state government increasing the floor-area ratio (FAR) and allowing more constructions in plots in the recent past. According to the details shared by the department, notices were served to owners of 57 residential properties and three commercial properties. The maximum violations were in Sushant Lok-3, DLF Phase-1 and South City-1, officials said. DTCP officials said that the stipulated setback, space in the front, and checks on extensions and additional constructions are being done to maintain the sanctity of a planned colony and ensure that people get light, ventilation and space to live comfortably. “What is being seen is that in the greed for more rent, FAR and additional coverage rules are being violated. This also negatively affects the residents who follow rules,” Ashish Sharma, assistant town planner, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/building-plan-violation-owners-of-60-properties-in-private-licensed-colonies-served-notices-101632246554890.html
21-09-2021||Other||Met Mahant Narendra Giri on Sept 19, he was quite normal then: Maurya||PRAYAGRAJ: Deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya said on Tuesday that the death of Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad (ABAP) chief Mahant Narendra Giri would be properly investigated and the culprits given strictest punishment as per law. He said that the state government was ready for any investigation and even a CBI probe, if needed, would be ordered. “The wishes of the Akhara Parishad and the Panch Parmeshwars (heads) of Shri Panchayati Akhara Niranjani (a monastic order of which Narendra Giri was also the secretary) would be honoured in this regard,” he said while interacting with media persons in Prayagraj. Earlier, Maurya arrived here from Lucknow and paid his last respects to Mahant Narendra Giri at the Baghambari Math ashram where his body had been kept for darshan. It is worth mentioning that Maurya had met the 62-year-old Mahant on Sunday. “I cannot believe that Mahant Narendra Giri could have committed suicide. I am shocked, pained and at a loss for words. I knew him since childhood and he was always very brave. I had sought his blessings on the morning of September 19. He was quite normal then,” Maurya had said in his Tweet in Hindi after the news of Narendra Giri’s death had surfaced. The deputy CM said that during his interaction with Narendra Giri, the latter could have shared any problem that he was facing but he did not do so. PHOTO CAPTION: Deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya paying his last respects to Mahant Narendra Giri at Baghambari Math ashram in Prayagraj on Tuesday. (Pix by: Anil Kumar Maurya/HT)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/met-mahant-narendra-giri-on-sept-19-he-was-quite-normal-then-maurya-101632246495546.html
21-09-2021||Gurugram||Jersey barrier arrangements at Shahid Hawaldar Singh Chowk, Faridabad Road cut travel time, reduce congestion||Traffic police officials and commuters said that the placement of jersey barriers to demarcate lanes and block exits along key stretches leading to the Shahid Hawaldar Singh Chowk, and Gurgaon-Faridabad Road traffic signal, at the intersection with Rajesh Pilot Marg, has reduced congestion and travel time.“The jersey barriers have been placed at both these points over the past week to ensure there is signal-free travel in at least one direction. This reduces the convergence of vehicles and saves both wait time and travel time for commuters,” Ravinder Singh Tomar, deputy commissioner police (DCP), traffic, Gurugram police, said.The Shahid Hawaldar Singh Chowk on Ambedkar Road is one of the most congested spots in the city due to the convergence of traffic from St Thomas Marg, Golf Course Road, Golf Course Extension Road, Huda City Centre and Kanhai traffic signal. It takes commuters nearly 15-20 minutes to navigate the section during peak traffic hours.To facilitate smooth vehicular flow, traffic police have placed jersey barriers along the carriageway of the road from the Kanhai traffic signal. Commuters have to take a compulsory left turn towards Huda City Centre and then take a U-turn to head towards St Thomas Marg or Golf Course Extension Road.From January to March 2020, and again from October 2020 to April 2021, the traffic police had placed jersey barriers at the spot. However, these were removed due to the low traffic volume as the Covid-19 pandemic broke out.At the Rajesh Pilot Marg/ Gurgaon-Faridabad Road signal, jersey barriers have been placed in a manner to facilitate signal-free commute on the leftmost lane of the carriageway of the stretch from the Gurgaon-Faridabad Road towards Gwal Pahari. The arrangement ensures that the vehicles turning right from Rajesh Pilot Marg do not converge with the traffic heading straight towards Gwal Pahari.“Earlier, I used to get stuck at the signal for five to 10 minutes. Now, I travel straight through. The jersey barrier arrangement has saved me around 15-20 minutes of daily travelling time,” Gaurav Bansal, a resident of DLF Phase-1, who works in Faridabad, said.Tomar said that on Sunday, the traffic police will place jersey barriers below the Vatika flyover, the first flyover on the National Highway-48 after the Kherki Daula toll, on a trial basis. The junction below the flyover is locally known as Next Vatika Chowk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/jersey-barrier-arrangements-at-shahid-hawaldar-singh-chowk-faridabad-road-cut-travel-time-reduce-congestion-101632246494412.html
21-09-2021||Lucknow||UP got over ₹2 lakh crore aid from Centre due to ‘double engine’ govt||The Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led central government has provided more than ₹2,01,584 crore to the chief minister Yogi Adityanath-led government of Uttar Pradesh between 2018 and August 2021 as opposed to ₹1,36,833 crore during the last regime in the state from 2012 to 2013, and 2016 to 2017, a statement by the state government read.“The convergence of purpose between the State Government headed by the forward-looking chief minister Yogi Adityanath and the Centre under the dynamic leadership of PM Modi, is the ideal metaphor for what is commonly termed as ‘double engine’ governance,” the statement added.During the previous Congress-led UPA regime in Uttar Pradesh, the state government released ₹17,338 crore in 2012-13 and about ₹22,405 crore in 2013-14, according to the government statement.Owing to this “double engine” dispensation, the statement claimed the development of Uttar Pradesh “gained momentum.”“The Centre sent funds for the development to the tune of ₹40,648.44 crore in 2017-18, ₹42,988.48 crore in 2018-19, ₹44,043.96 crore, ₹57,487.59 crore in 2020-21 and over ₹16,415.61 crore in 2021-22 till August 31, 2021,” the statement added.This benefit, the statement added is the reason why time and again PM Modi emphasised on a ‘double engine’ government. It said that due to this benefit, Uttar Pradesh reached the top position in effective implementation of nearly 90% of the central schemes, including PM Awas Yojana, PM employment general programmes, Ujjwala scheme, and construction of personal toilets, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-got-over-rs-2-lakh-crore-aid-from-centre-due-to-double-engine-govt-101632246054844.html
21-09-2021||Other||Let sitting HC judge probe ABAP chief’s death: Akhilesh||Former Uttar Pradesh chief minister and Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav demanded that the death of Akhil Bhartiya Akhara Parishad (ABAP) president Mahant Narendra Giri be probed by a sitting high court judge, on Tuesday. He said that a number of suspicious circumstances surround his death and the truth will come out if the probe was undertaken under a high court judge.Akhilesh Yadav was in Prayagraj to pay his last respects to Mahant Narendra Giri at his Baghambari Math ashram. He termed the senior seer’s death as a huge loss for everyone.Later, talking to mediapersons, Akhilesh said that the Akhara Parishad, Mahant Narendra Giri’s followers and disciples want the whole truth behind the mystery and circumstances in which the Mahant’s death took place, to come to the fore. “If Mahant Narendra Giri was worried, stressed, facing any other problem or his land was being grabbed by someone, it will all come out if an impartial probe is conducted by a sitting high court judge,” the SP chief said.The former UP CM recalled the contributions of Mahant Narendra Giri towards making Kumbh-2019 a success. He specially highlighted the personal interest that the senior seer took in ensuring that every ritual and ceremony during the mega religious fair was conducted as per the norms laid down. “I was lucky to have always received his blessings, including during the Kumbh,” he added.Earlier, Akhilesh Yadav landed at the Bamrauli airport and directly proceeded towards the Baghambari Math.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/let-sitting-hc-judge-probe-abap-chief-s-death-akhilesh-101632246255671.html
21-09-2021||Other||Ludhiana administration to hold 76 camps to create awareness about stubble burning||In view of the upcoming paddy harvesting season, the department of agriculture and farmers’ welfare is set to launch a massive awareness campaign in the district to persuade the farmers to shun stubble burning and adopt crop residue management for making Ludhiana free of this menace.The department will organise as many as 76 awareness camps and farmers’ meetings in October. Various teams comprising experts will sensitise the farmers. Exhibitions of ultra-modern equipment useful in effective paddy straw management would also be held in the fields.Disclosing further details, deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said that these teams would make strenuous efforts to disseminate the information about the hazardous effects of the paddy stubble burning that pose a danger to human health and the environment.He said that these teams along with exhibiting the working of ultra-modern equipment would prove instrumental in awakening the farmers about the need for paddy stubble management.Stubble burning destroys several important nutrients and other micronutrients of soil whereas its health gets improved drastically if the residue of stubble is harvested with the help of ultra-modern equipment, he added.The DC said pamphlets and posters would also be distributed among farmers to make them aware of the pollution caused by paddy burning, besides the ways and means of managing the paddy stubble effectively. He said that the department would also felicitate those farmers who will refrain from burning crop residue.Chief agriculture officer Narinder Singh Benipal said paddy harvesting is expected to commence in the first week of October and appealed to the farmers not to indulge in the burning of paddy stubble.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-administration-to-hold-76-camps-to-create-awareness-about-stubble-burning-101632246014775.html
21-09-2021||Other||Agra girl swept away in overflowing drain, dies||Agra A six-year-old girl died after being swept away in an overflowing drain near her house during heavy rain that lashed the city on Tuesday afternoon. The police found her body about a kilometre away from her house.. There were apprehensions of heavy rain at the end of last week and schools and colleges were closed statewide. However, the weekend passed smoothly but a downpour lashed the city on Tuesday, leading to overflowing drains and water-logging everywhere. The girl Shabnam alias Shannu (6) was playing near her house when she fell in the overflowing drain. There was three ft deep water in the locality (known as Gobar Chowki) in Tajganj and the girl was swept away before her parents could take notice and look for her. “Extensive efforts were made by police by placing nets all through the drain and a team from the Nagar Nigam was called in. She was traced after an hour in a drain near ‘Mughal pulia’ and was rushed to the nearest hospital but was declared brought dead,” informed Udayveer Malik, inspector in charge of Tajganj police station. The girl’s father Vakil Ahmad, a labourer, looked shattered as he held the body of his daughter in his lap. The city was thrown out of gear after the heavy rain when schools ended and students were on the road. Water-logging made the traffic crawl and jams were seen at most crossings and roads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/agra-girl-swept-away-in-overflowing-drain-dies-101632245654606.html
21-09-2021||Other||Keep farmers’ stir above politics, SAD tells Rajewal||Chandigarh The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Tuesday asked farm leader Balbir Singh Rajewal to keep the ‘Kisan Andolan’ (Farmers’ stir) above politics. The party also reiterated its request to him to take action against hooligans (in the garb of farmers), who had targeted Akali workers proceeding to Delhi to participate in its march to Parliament last week (on September 17). Addressing a press conference, senior SAD leader Prem Singh Chandumajra, said it was unfortunate that even after admitting that some wrong elements wanted to defame the Kisan Sangharsh, Rajewal had neither asked for an apology from those guilty nor subjected them to the process of law. Akali leader Maheshinder Singh Grewal also took objected to Rajewal’s statement that only SAD legislators and MPs should have gone to protest in Delhi. “We fail to understand what is his objection to a protest by thousands of people. Previously too, thousands of farmers had marched to Parliament, sending out a message of unity and strength, that attracted worldwide attention,” he asked. Asserting that the SAD held Rajewal in high esteem, the SAD leaders said, “He, however, should not lower his dignity by making political statements. We are ready to debate political issues separately. Farmers’ forum is not to be used for the same.”They added that the speeches made by former union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal in Parliament were a matter of public record, and that she was the lone minister to resign from the ministry in support of the farming community. The SAD leaders also made it clear that the protest organised by it on September 17 was aimed at strengthening the Kisan Andolan and said Rajewal should have appreciated the step, instead of opposing it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/keep-farmers-stir-above-politics-sad-tells-rajewal-101632244694372.html
21-09-2021||Lucknow||2022 Uttar Pradesh polls: Peace Party, Rashtriya Ulama Council launch alliance||The Peace Party led by Dr Mohammad Ayub and the Rashtriya Ulama Council (RUC) of Maulana Aamir Rashadi on Tuesday announced the launch of United Democratic Alliance (UDA) for the 2022 UP assembly election.Addressing a joint press conference, Dr Ayub and Maulana Rashadi said, “Secular political parties are using Muslims as a vote bank. The successive state governments led by secular political parties did not work for the welfare and uplift of the Muslim community.”“The backwardness among the Muslim community has been disclosed in the Sachar committee report. The secular parties have failed to give a share to the Muslim community in power after forming government. The UDA will raise the demand of the rights and justice of the Muslim community in the coming assembly election campaign. The alliance will also fight to free the Muslim community from political slavery. To check division of Muslim votes, the like-minded political parties are welcomed in the UDA fold,” Dr Ayub said.Maulana Rashadi said, “There was a demand from the people that both the Peace Party and the Rashtriya Ulama Council should join hands to fight for the rights of the Muslim community. The alliance will unit people one platform. The other political parties representing the oppressed or deprived sections in the society are welcome to join the alliance.” “The UDA will work to remove the communal forces from power. The people are harassed by the anti–people policies of the BJP government in UP. The alliance will work to resolve the issues, including inflation, unemployment, poverty, corruption, communalism, check discrimination on religion and castes,” he said.The Peace Party has influence among the weavers’ community settled in East UP. In the 2012 assembly election, the Peace Party had secured victory in four assembly segments. The RUC has a support base in Azamgarh district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/2022-uttar-pradesh-polls-peace-party-rashtriya-ulama-council-launch-alliance-101632243614186.html
21-09-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees 3,131 new Covid cases; experts call for caution||Even as the past 10 days have witnessed a drop in the daily caseload of the Covid-19 cases in the state, the experts have cautioned with a potential spurt in the cases in the next two weeks because of the crowding during the Ganesh festival, which ended on September 20. On Tuesday, the state reported 3,131 new infections and 70 deaths taking the case tally to 6,527,629 and the toll to 138,616. Mumbai reported 357 new cases and one death, while Ahmednagar in western Maharashtra reported the highest, 605, cases on Tuesday.State’s daily caseload of Covid-19 cases has dropped to average 333 cases in the past ten days between September 11 and 20 (total 33,319 cases) against the average of 414 during September 1-10 (total 41,369 cases). The number of deaths in 10 days from September 11 to 20 dropped to 485 against 748 in the first 10 days of the month. In Mumbai too, the daily caseload average in the past 10 days (Sept 11-20) dropped slightly to 418 from 434 in the first 10 days of the month. The deaths reported in the city in past 10 days were, however, high at 47 against 34 between September 1 and 10.The number of average daily tests, however, has dropped to 146,177 during September 11-20 from the daily average of 172,574 tests from September 1 to 10. The drop in the testing in the past ten days is also attributed to holidays leading to the non-availability of the facilities during Ganpati festival.Some of the districts, including Ahmednagar, Satara and Pune continue to report a high number of cases. Ahmednagar district reported the highest, 605, cases on Tuesday, followed by Pune district (644), Satara (247) and Sangli (244). Pune has the highest number of active cases — 10,875 —followed by Thane (5,654), Ahmednagar (5,530) and Mumbai (4,966). Divisional commissioner of Western Maharashtra Radhakrishna Game has warned people of the beginning of the third wave from Ahmednagar. “We still have a high number of active cases. People are crowding for wedding ceremonies, funerals and do not follow Covid appropriate behaviour. If this continued, I fear that the third wave may begin from the district,” he said.Out of 61 units of districts and cities in the state, 43 reported no cases on Tuesday. Seven out of 36 districts have less than 10 active cases.Dr Shashank Joshi, member of the state-appointed task force of doctors said that though the present situation looks better, the next two weeks will determine whether there is any spurt owing to the crowding in Ganesh festival. “Since delta strain transmits rapidly, the early trends are seen in the first few days of the festival. It is a good sign that there is no rise seen in the number of cases from the beginning of the festival. But still, it could be a ‘work in progress’ and we will have to wait for two more weeks to get an idea if there would be any spurt in cases. In Mumbai too there is no significant rise in number though we have been witnessing ‘mini blips’ in the ongoing wave. The test positivity rate is less along with the R-value which is 0.89% currently. Besides the satisfactory vaccination in the city, it appears that the citizens have got reasonable exposure to the virus. However, exposure could not be complete protection,” he said.Dr Joshi has the word of caution as he says the drop in number could be a lull before the storm. “The authorities could continue with the aggressive testing and contact tracing and keep isolating asymptomatic patients to keep the spread under control,” he said. He also added that since the recently held sero survey in Mumbai was restricted to the healthcare workers, it does not truly indicate the immunity among Mumbaiites.Dr Subhash Salunke, former advisor to the state government on Covid-19 said that the spurt could be witnessed between October 1 and 10. “Though major parts of the state have developed immunity against the virus, which was seen in the recent sero survey in Mumbai, the risk of spurt in cases is still there. It could be witnessed 15 days after the Ganesh festival which ended on September 20. Many districts in Marathwada and Vidarbha have developed herd immunity,” he said.Maharashtra has 272,098 people in home quarantine and 1,704 in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-3-131-new-covid-cases-experts-call-for-caution-101632243554227.html
21-09-2021||Mumbai||BJP’s Kirit Somaiya lodges complaint against Maharashtra minister Hasan Mushrif||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Kirit Somaiya has lodged a complaint against Maharashtra rural development minister Hasan Mushrif with the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in Mumbai on Tuesday. Somaiya has accused the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) minister of ₹100-crore corruption in Appasaheb Nalawade sugar factory at Kolhapur’s Gadhinglaj through a private firm allegedly owned by his relative.In his complaint to ED, Somaiya has said that the sugar factory was taken over by Brics India Private Limited, in which Mateem Hasin Mangoli, the minister’s relative is a benami owner. He said that the sugar factory was given to Brics to operate for 10 years in 2014 without following any bidding process. Somaiya said that 7,185 shares of the sugar factory are held by SU Corporation, a shell company used by Mushrif to park the money, while 998 shares each are held by Mangoli and a man named Gulam Hussain. He said that 98% shares of the sugar factory are held by the Mushrif family.Mushrif, a senior NCP leader from Kolhapur in western Maharashtra, rubbished the allegations. “The sugar factory in question had been taken over by Brics in 2012 till 2020 and is now being run on cooperative basis by more than 60,000 farmers as its shareholders. The Maharashtra State Central Cooperative Bank had refused to hand over the factory to any private entity. The sugar factory is debt-free now. Neither has my son-in-law [Mangoli] nor do I have anything to do with the factory or Brics. I have been helping the factory as a local legislator,” he said.Mushrif said that he has welcomed Somaiya to visit Kolhapur and was ready to provide him every detail related to the firms. He said he was being targeted because he turned down BJP’s offer to join the party ahead of the 2019 Assembly polls.Somaiya has alleged that the minister diverted his illegal money earned after becoming the minister in 2019 to the sugar factory. This is the second set of allegations by Somaiya against Mushrif. Earlier, he had accused the minister of laundering ₹127 crore through Senapati Santaji Ghorpade sugar factory.“SU Corporation, in which other relatives of the minister are shareholders, hold shares in Brics. Sikandar Desai, a director of SU Corporation, is also the director in CRM Systems and Marubhumi Finance and Developers Pvt Ltd. These three companies are involved in money laundering and benami transactions done in Senapati Santaji Ghorpade sugar factory,” he has stated in the complaint. NCP spokesperson Mahesh Tapase questioned over Somaiya’s silence on the corruption cases against BJP leaders Kripa Shankar Singh, Narayan Rane, Vijaykumar Gavit and Babanrao Pachpute. “Somaiya had levelled allegations of corruption against these leaders when they were in other parties. He does not utter a word about those cases now as they are in BJP. Why is he silent about those cases,” he questioned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bjps-kirit-somaiya-lodges-complaint-against-maharashtra-minister-hasan-mushrif-101632243134437.html
21-09-2021||Other||Aligarh: Minor strangulated to death, kin allege sexual assault||An 8-year-old girl was strangulated to death while on her way to the school in a village in Aligarh district on Monday morning. Family members have raised apprehension of sexual assault on the girl, who was cremated on Tuesday amidst tight police security. Police have sent the slide prepared to a forensic lab to find out if the girl was sexually assaulted before being strangulated. Investigations were on in the case and police teams had been constituted to nab the culprits at the earliest, SSP Aligarh Kalanidhi Naithani said. The girl residing with her family in a village in Aligarh district had left for her school on Monday at 9 am. Her grandmother later left for fields to collect fodder for cattle where she found the victim’s school bag and slippers lying under a tree. The family members in panic contacted the school and came to know that the girl never arrived at the school. A search was launched and the girl’s body was found near the village with bleeding from the nose. Police were informed and the body was sent for post mortem on Monday night. Reliable sources revealed that the cause of death was strangulation. A murder FIR has been lodged against the unidentified accused at Tappal police station of Aligarh. The family members, who have raised apprehensions of a sexual assault, blocked the Tappal-Lalpur road on Monday demanding justice. The girl belongs to the ‘mallah’ (boatmen) community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aligarh-minor-strangulated-to-death-kin-allege-sexual-assault-101632242834127.html
21-09-2021||Other||Sirsa ineligible for co-option into DSGMC, says directorate of gurdwara elections||Chandigarh The Directorate of Gurdwara Elections, New Delhi, on Tuesday disqualified Manjinder Singh Sirsa from being chosen as a co-opted member of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC). The process of co-option means appointment to the membership of a committee or any other body by the invitation of existing members.“The undersigned is constrained to deduce that Manjinder Singh Sirsa is not well-versed with the reading and writing of Gurmukhi and, therefore, does not qualify the eligibility conditions as laid down in Section 10 of the DSGMC Act,” says the order issued on Tuesday of director, gurdwara election, Narinder Singh. Sirsa, a former DSGMC president, had lost the August 22 election to Shiromani Akali Dal (Delhi) candidate Harvinder Singh Sarna. On August 25, when the result of the polls was announced, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal had announced that Sirsa will continue as the DSGMC president. He had added that Sirsa would be co-opted through the quota of Amritsar headquartered Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC). The SAD has majority in the SGPC. The orders of the election director add that while Sirsa might be able to write a few words in Punjabi, but the spirit of the DSGMC Act, 1971, places great importance to recitation from the Sri Guru Granth Sahib and the writing of Gurmukhi, where he has miserably failed.Delhi HC hearing Sarna plea Previously, Sarna had filed a petition in the Delhi high court, seeking Sirsa’s disqualification on the grounds of lack of Gurmukhi knowledge, the script used for writing Punjabi, and also the script in which the Guru Granth Sahib is written.On September 15, the high court had ordered the directorate to submit a report by September 21. Sirsa appeared before the directorate to take a test in Gurmukhi on September 17. After the test, he had said that he had recited the Gurbani, but he refused to write because any inadvertent mistake would amount to sacrilege. The next hearing in the court is fixed for October 15. “I will challenge the orders in the high court. The director is working against my interests and that of my party,” said Sirsa responding to the order, adding that he holds a BA (Honours) degree in Punjabi. “The same directorate has cleared my nominations thrice in the past. Now, it says my knowledge of Gurmukhi is limited. This is unacceptable,” he added. According to the DSGMC Act, 46 elected members would meet on September 24 for the nomination of two members from among 350 Singh Sabha gurdwaras in the national capital that falls under the DSGMC’s jurisdiction. Other than that, four members from the clergy would also be nominated, taking the total strength of the house to 55. In the House, there is one member, who could be co-opted from the SGPC. After Sirsa’s disqualification the directorate has written to the SGPC to send a fresh name for co-option before September 24. Two members, SAD (Delhi) president Paramjit Singh Sarna, and Vikram Singh Rohini, belonging to the Badals-led SAD, were co-opted in the previous meeting on September 9, when Sirsa’s nomination was put on hold.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sirsa-ineligible-for-co-option-into-dsgmc-says-directorate-of-gurdwara-elections-101632242714189.html
21-09-2021||Patna||Minor’s murder in Bihar’s Vaishali: Four, including woman, arrested||A day after the arrest of a suspect in the killing of a minor girl, the Vaishali police on Tuesday claimed to have solved the case with the arrest of four other persons, including a woman. One other accused was currently absconding, police said.The 14-year-old girl, who was missing since September 14, was strangulated to death, police said. Police had recovered her semi-clothed and injured body from a pond at a village under Mahnar police station. Police said the reason behind the murder was “outraging the minor’s modesty”.On Monday, police had arrested one of the five accused and mastermind in the case, Dasrath Manjhi. During interrogation, he revealed the name of four others involved in the incident, and confessed that they abducted the girl and tried to outrage her modesty. When he failed, Manjhi and others strangulated her with a towel and dumped her in a pond. The other arrested persons were identified as Yadunath Rai, Vakil Paswan, Gautam Sahni and Salwa Devi, said Vaishali superintendent of police Maneesh.The accused woman was arrested on charges of destroying evidence, the official said. “On Manjhi’s instruction, she thew the girl’s bicycle and bag in a field. Police later recovered the victim’s belongings after interrogation of the arrested woman. A hunt is on for a sixth person,” the SP said.Meanwhile, Mahnar police lodged a case against 25 named and 200 unknown persons who blocked NH-322 and disrupted vehicular traffic for more than six hours on Saturday against alleged police inaction in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/minors-murder-in-bihar-s-vaishali-four-including-woman-arrested-101632242534207.html
21-09-2021||Patna||Bihar: BEd counselling to start from today; aspirants in a fix||Lalit Narayan Mithila University (LNMU), a nodal university for facilitating admission in BEd course across 14 state varsities, is set to begin the first-round counselling process from Wednesday, which will conclude on September 29. Thousands of students who are aspiring to take admission in BEd course are in a fix as they will get only one chance for participating in the counselling process.As per LMNU, more than 1.12 lakh aspirants qualified BEd Common Entrance Exam this year. Of them, over 73,000 candidates registered for taking admission across 350 BEd colleges in the state.Ashok Mehta, nodal state officer, said, “If any candidate decides not to take admission in the allotted college in the first round, they will not get another chance to participate in the second counselling. However, spot round counselling is open for all qualified candidates.”Earlier, BEd aspirants were free to participate in the multi-round counselling process and upgrade their college choice in the next counselling round as per the availability of vacant seats. An aspirant Prakash Kumar, who scored 92 in the common entrance exam, said, “I have been allotted a private college, which is situated 115km far from my house. It was my sixth college preference.”“Closing window for second-round counselling is unfair for meritorious students. I deserve a better college but it’s risky to leave the first chance. Spot admission is based on a first-come-first-serve policy, which may also lead to the backdoor entry of low scoring students in good colleges”, he added.Meanwhile, another section of students, who were allotted College of Teacher Education (CTE), Saharsa, are in distress as the college’s affiliation has been cancelled after the publication of the college allotment list on September 18. Mehta said, “Those who have been allotted CTE need not panic as we are trying to figure out a solution. Candidates will be informed of the future course of action through SMS.” LMNU has scheduled the second round of counselling from October 16 to October 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-bed-counselling-to-start-from-today-aspirants-in-a-fix-101632242234237.html
21-09-2021||Patna||Six held for Covid norm violation in May: Show cause notice issued to Samastipur SP||The subdivisional judicial magistrate, Dalsinghsarai, has issued a show cause notice to Samastipur superintendent of police (SP) to reply as to why a criminal contempt of court not be initiated against him in a case pertaining to the arrest of six persons by Ujiyarpur police station for alleged violation of Covid-19 protocol in May this year. In an order passed by additional chief judicial magistrate Vivek Vishal Monday, SP Manavjit Singh Dhillon has been asked to reply within 30 days of the receipt of the court order, while directing the inspector general of police, Darbhanga, to inquire into the SP’s conduct and take action against all police officers involved in the case and subsequent investigation. The Ujiyarpur police on May 25 lodged an FIR against six persons and arrested three of them the same day on charges of alleged violation of Covid-19 guidelines at a village haat under various sections of Indian Penal Code (IPC), Endemic Act, Disaster Management (DM) Act and Section 41 of Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), which were not established by the prosecution so far. The remaining three accused were arrested June 7. The arrested persons were granted bail the next day of their production in court. The concerned court, however, observed that the police booked the persons under wrong and non-existent sections, and the responses of the police officers concerned was far from satisfactory. It said that the police applied Section 81 of the DM act, which is non-existent. It further clarified that the police had applied Section 56 of the DM Act in the FIR against the civilians, which is also wrong, as the section empowers the police to arrest government officials only. The court also disputed claims of the SP that the police was empowered to arrest anyone under Section 41 of the CrPC without an arrest warrant in this case. Citing the Supreme Court’s judgement in the Arnesh Kumar versus the state of Bihar case, the SDJM clarified that though the police had the power to arrest anyone indulging in any cognizable offence, they need to specify the grounds for the arrest in writing. The court also pointed out that Section 41 of CrPC would apply, as the arrest of three persons out of six was made 12 days after the alleged incident. Noting that the intent and conduct of the police in the case was improper, the court earlier asked the SP to submit the reply in the case for misuse of the power by the police, but the SP and the SDPO refused to comply. The SP also questioned the authority of the court when it asked him to be ready for contempt of court proceedings. The SDJM, in the aforementioned order, found tone and language of the SP objectionable in his belated reply to the court’s summon. “It appears that the SP Samastipur is either not aware how to submit reply to the court or knowingly trying to demean the authority of the court. This court considers that comparing with the SHO, the SP has intentionally demeaned the authority of the court,” read the judgement. Dhillon, when contacted, said that he would submit the reply to the court in an appropriate legal way.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/six-held-for-covid-norm-violation-in-may-show-cause-notice-issued-to-samastipur-sp-101632242176143.html
21-09-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Ruling Cong hits street for 27% OBC reservation, BJP takes jibe||The ruling Congress, which is the second largest party in the Hemant Soren government after Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM), held a a one-day sit-in protest across the state, demanding 27 percent reservation for other backward classes (OBCs) in Jharkhand. The OBCs currently get 14 percent quota in the state, and increasing it was an electoral promise of all mainstream parties in 2019, including the ruling alliance--JMM-Congress-Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD)---in the current dispensation. The OBC wing of the Congress on Tuesday organised the protests in all district headquarters, while the main event was held near Raj Bhawan in the state capital, and attended by state leadership, including president Rajesh Thakur, ministers Banna Gupta and Badal Patralekh, legislators and other senior office bearers. When asked that why does the Congress have to hit the streets with the demand when its one of the ruling parties and whether it showed fissures in the ruling alliance, the party leaders said it showed the commitment of the party over the issue. “This protest was organised by the OBC wing of the party. We have been raising this issue at all levels, be it the government, Assembly and now even on the ground. Our in-charge had directed us to associate people who would be beneficiaries of it. Giving 27 percent reservation to the OBCs was a poll promise and we are committed to it and will get it done in this tenure. This protest would add to our resolve,” said Thakur.The main opposition Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP), however, dubbed the event as an attempt by the ruling Congress to “fool people of the state” over the issue. “Whom are they protesting against? They are in the government and they can take a decision with one stroke of a pen. Instead of protesting on the street, they should immediately provide the promised 27 percent reservation to the OBCs,” said Jharkhand BJP president Deepak Prakash. Defending the protest, health minister Banna Gupta, who is the OBC face of the Congress in the Hemant Soren Cabinet, said the BJP should not be lecturing them on the issue.“If the BJP is so concerned about the OBCs, why doesn’t the Prime Minister announce increased reservation for them across the country? Why is the BJP opposing caste census? BJP had made Raghubar Das the chief minister for five years. Why didn’t they do anything on the issue then?,” questioned Gupta. Ruling out possibilities of any fissures in the alliance over the issue, JMM principal general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya said the government is committed to fulfil the electoral promise.“Increased OBC reservation is a national issue for the Congress. As far as increasing it in state is concerned, the ruling alliance is committed to it and their is no difference of opinion. The CM said during the recently concluded Monsoon session that the government was working towards it and it would get reflected in the employment policy of the state,” said Bhattacharya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-ruling-cong-hits-street-for-27-obc-reservation-bjp-takes-jibe-101632242174348.html
21-09-2021||Patna||Bihar CM inaugurates Mandar ropeway||Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Tuesday inaugurated the much-awaited ropeway at Mandar hills in Banka, developed by the state tourism for worth over ₹9 crore. The Mandar ropeway is the second such facility in Bihar. The travel length of the Mandar ropeway is 377.36 metres and it can cover the distance from the station at the base to the top of the hill within four minutes approximately. The airlift facility has eight cabins with the capacity of four persons at a time. After reaching the top of Mandar hill in the newly developed cabin ropeway, the CM said there had been a demand for a ropeway at Mandar hill for a long time. “It is over 700- metres high and atop the hill, there are many shrines. Pilgrims have been interested in visiting the temples. However, it’s difficult for senior citizens to travel that far. It used to take more than an hour to reach the top. I too couldn’t go there during my last visit to Banka,” he said. But now, as the ropeway has been developed, it will take hardly four minutes to reach there. It will draw more tourists to Mandar, he said. The chief minister said that considering the high flow of tourists, better tourism amenities have been planned at Mandar too. “The existing guest house for visitors would be expanded and the entire area from the base to the top of Mandar hill would have better light arrangements,” he said. Besides, a pathway would be developed too around Mandar hill for Parikrama. “Special care would be taken to keep intact the archaeological structures and antiquities available in the area,” he said. Kumar said that more ropeways have been planned at many other sites in the state. Deputy chief minister Tarkishor Prasad, also present at the site, said that Banka has a great religious and heritage value. The current government has been committed to develop the place and bring out its tourism potential. Sanjay Kumar Jha, the water resources minister, said the ropeway has enhanced the tourism facility at Mandar and it would woo more domestic and foreign tourists to the site.Meanwhile, chief minister Nitish Kumar also laid foundation stones of a biodiversity park planned near Mandar hill in Banka on Tuesday. Not just that, he also visited the Odhani dam over the Odhani river, a tributary of the Chandan River in Banka and directed the officials to develop tourist facilities at the Odhani dam reservoir and improve greenery around the lake. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-cm-inaugurates-mandar-ropeway-101632241994152.html
21-09-2021||Patna||EOU raids premises of millionaire Bihar cop||The Economic Offences Unit (EOU) on Tuesday raided the houses and business establishments of Bihar policemen’s association president constable Narendra Kumar Dhiraj and found disproportionate assets (DA) worth crores, officials said. Over 200 policemen raided nine locations, including Patna, Bhojpur and Arwal districts and found DA worth ₹9.47 crore, besides other things, like land deeds, passbooks, bank lockers and investment-related papers, till the time of filing of this report. “The investigation is on and more details will be available soon,” said an official.ADG (EOU) N H Khan said, “Based on the information, our officials raided his houses and found properties disproportionate to his known source of income. A case of DA has been lodged under Sections 13(1) and 13(2) of the Disproportionate Assets Act, 1988, against eight persons, including Dhiraj and his brothers Surendra Kumar Singh, Shashi Bhusan Singh, Shyam Bihari Singh, Birendra Singh, Bijendra Kumar Bimal, Ashok Kumar and nephew Dharmendra Kumar.”The EOU unearthed four residential plots, an agriculture plot and a five-storey building owned by Bijendra and 10 residential-agriculture plots, besides four and five-storey buildings owned by Surendra in Bhojpur. Shyam Bihari owns a mall-cum-residential building.As per the officials, the preliminary probe suggested that Dhiraj and his associates bought these properties with ill-gotten money.Narendra joined services on May 13, 1988, and earned about ₹1.5 crore as salary during his 33 years and two months of the service period. The Vigilance Investigation Bureau (VIB) suspects that the constable and his family have hidden a huge amount outside the state.“When people are finding it difficult to buy even a single car, this constable, currently attached with Patna police, managed to buy 20,” said a senior officer, while alleging that he earned this much money by misusing his official position.Apart from the vehicles and other assets, Dhiraj, who turned out to be a crorepati, owns a two-storied building at Mahavir Colony under Beur police station in Patna worth crores and another building at his ancestral village in Muzaffarpur under Sahar police station of Bhojpur district.During the investigation, the EOU found that Dhiraj’s family had only four-bigha ancestral land before he joined the police force, an official said. Meanwhile, no action has been taken so far against the accused policeman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/eou-raids-premises-of-millionaire-bihar-cop-101632241935805.html
21-09-2021||Patna||Eight Covid positive samples in RAD test negative on RT PCR in Bihar’s Madhubani||Madhubani’s district authorities heaved a sigh of relief after eight of the 25 swab samples, positive on the rapid antigen detection (RAD) kits, tested negative on the real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), a confirmatory test for Covid-19 Tuesday evening, said health officials. Results of 17 samples are awaited. The district authorities had sent 25 swab samples for confirmatory RT-PCR tests to the Madhubani Medical College on Monday and Tuesday, after 76 samples had tested Covid-19 positive in the RAD tests, conducted among passengers at the Madhubani railway station over the last four days, raising alarm among district health officials. As many as 22 passengers of the 76 found positive on RAD kit since September 17 were not traceable, said officials. Most had come by train from New Delhi and Mumbai. “Some have given us incorrect mobile number and address. While some mobile numbers belong to people of other districts, most others are either unreachable or switched off. This has made it difficult for us to locate them,” said health officials. The district authorities had reasons to believe that the RAD kit results were false positive after around 12 passengers tested negative during a re-test on the RAD kit at their village in Babu Barhi, Harlakhi, Raj Nagar, Madhepur and Benipatti, said an official. “The sensitivity of RAD kit depends on many factors, the temperature being one. We are getting all the samples re-checked on RT-PCR,” said Dr Sunil Kumar Jha, Madhubani’s civil surgeon. The Bihar Medical Services Infrastructure Corporation Limited, which purchased the RAD kits, has been asked to check them. “The sudden rise in cases, the asymptomatic nature of patients, epidemiological references that false-positive cases go up when the prevalence of a disease goes down, some passengers testing negative during a re-check on RAD kit at their village, as also the fact that no other passenger at any railway station earlier en route Madhubani from New Delhi or Mumbai reported positive, had raised suspicion that these may be false-positive cases,” said Dr Jha. The district has been testing average daily 1600-1800 samples, the results of which were negative for the past few days, said Madhubani civil surgeon. Meanwhile, the district authorities have allowed all Covid-19 suspects to be under home isolation till the results of RT-PCR tests allow for some conclusion on their status. “Our healthcare workers are checking on them on a daily basis to see if their condition deteriorates. We are also pressing on them to opt for institutional isolation. Around 800 beds at Covid care centres, available in our district, are vacant,” added Dr Jha. The Covid-19 bulletin, released by the health department on Monday, reported only seven new cases in the state. Of them, two were from Gopalganj and one each from Patna, Madhubani, Bhojpur, Purnia and Katihar. Madhubani reported only 14 active cases out of the total 18,359 cases and 338 deaths there so far. Bihar has reported 725,901 cases and 9,659 deaths since March 21, 2020, when the first Covid-19 case was reported in the state. Patna, with 146,942 cases and 2,334 deaths, was the worst affected. As many as 716,173 patients have recovered so far, adding to the state’s case recovery rate of 98.65%. The number of active cases in the state has come down to 68.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/eight-covid-positive-samples-in-rad-test-negative-on-rt-pcr-in-bihar-s-madhubani-101632241934008.html
21-09-2021||Mumbai||Removal of caps on airfare, increasing capacity in flights to 85% positive move, say travel experts||After the aviation ministry recently increased the seating capacity in domestic flights to 85%, travel demand has picked up. According to airlines and industry experts, increasing the seating capacity will keep increasing due to the upcoming festive season. Moreover, with the airfare cap being removed and travellers starting to fly more, airlines expect the air traffic to be back to pre-Covid levels by the end of this year.“We expect domestic air travel to reach pre-pandemic level by December 2021,” a spokesperson for IndiGo, India’s largest airline by market share, said.Another important factor, according to industry experts, is that with Canada and the US easing their travel restrictions for Indians, the international market is gradually opening up which will increase the passenger numbers.“We urge the government to allow more bubble flights with fewer travel restrictions to more and more countries. As an industry, our objective should be to be at full scheduled service by summer for all international destinations. It will require a lot of heavy lifting by the government to get us there,” IndiGo said.Capacity caps increasing to 85%, the highest ever in the last seventeen months, will allow more people to travel.“The move will enable airlines to operate more flights and will push up passenger loads significantly. In addition to providing more options on the existing routes, it will also open up more domestic routes. We forecast bookings to increase by over 25% by the end of September 2021. The trend will only be upward moving thereon. Bookings were already on the rise, as per our data, even before the new guidelines kicked in,” said Gaurav Bhatia, executive director, Bird Group- that owns Amadeus (a software for tickets reservation and distribution program) in India.“Changes in fare fixing mechanisms will bring much-needed cheer for the airlines. Cheaper fares will be on offer for flyers, a move that will stimulate the market and strengthen revenue management cycles,” he added.Appreciating the government, IndiGo said that it is pleased with the recent decision of the government to allow airlines to operate with 85% capacity. “The demand has certainly picked up and we are expecting it to strengthen further in the upcoming festive season. We are bullish about the overall growth and demand for domestic travel and increasing the cap to 85% is a welcome move,” said the IndiGo spokesperson.There has been an uptick in passenger growth in the last few months and business travel has also started to slowly inch up, reiterated rating agency- CRISIL. However, according to CRISIL, air traffic in the domestic sector will not be back to pre-Covid levels before March 2022. “With private offices opening up, many of the employees are slowly returning to their base location. While these are the positives, we are still at least two quarters away from getting back to pre-Covid levels in the domestic route. Jagannarayan Padmanabhan, director- transport and logistics, Crisil Infrastructure Advisory said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/removal-of-caps-on-airfare-increasing-capacity-in-flights-to-85-positive-move-say-travel-experts-101632241873989.html
21-09-2021||Mumbai||Koshyari, Thackeray locked in letter war over Sakinaka rape case||Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) are engaged in a letter tussle over the Sakinaka rape and death case with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray telling Koshyari his move to join the opposition in demanding a special session of the state legislature to discuss the incident is “lethal for parliamentary democracy”. Earlier this week, Koshyari had requested Thackeray in a letter to consider the demand of BJP’s women legislators for a special session to discuss the issue of women security, against the backdrop of the Sakinaka case. In response, Thackeray wrote back to Koshyari, saying that since violence against women was a national issue, the latter should request Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah to call a four-day special session of the Parliament to discuss the same. A week ago, a delegation of BJP women legislators met Koshyari and urged him to direct the state government to convene a two-day special session of the state legislature to discuss violence against women. Following this, Koshyari wrote a letter to the chief minister and said that he could consider the demand.Thackeray responded with a strongly-worded four-page letter and referred to the cases of rape and murder of women in BJP-ruled states such as Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Uttarakhand and Jammu and Kashmir (a Union territory) and said that the issue was not only limited to Sakinaka. In the letter sent to Koshyari on Monday, Thackeray also pointed out that the government and Mumbai Police acted swiftly in the case and the culprits were arrested soon after the incident. “As the governor you have expressed concern over violence against women in the backdrop of Sakinaka case. We are also concerned about the same. But the matter is not limited only to Sakinaka, in fact it is a nationwide problem and hence the entire women community is looking at you with big hope. Thus, I want you to demand from Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah to call a four-day special session of the Parliament to discuss it in detail. Sakinaka case can also be discussed during the same session,” stated Thackeray in his letter.“In the Delhi incident, not only the culprits killed the victim, they even burnt her body. The incident happened in the national capital where entire union ministry sits,” Thackeray wrote in the letter. He also pointed out that Mumbai Police had acted swiftly and arrested the suspects in no time. “I have directed that the case will be tried in a fast track court. I have also strictly directed the police to give utmost priority to women security and take all the necessary steps…Government is doing its job hence your directive to convene a special session to discuss the issue can create a new controversy. Honorable Governor’s support to the demand made by those who are against the government can be lethal for parliamentary democracy,” he added.Koshyari and the MVA have been locked in a bitter tussle for quite some time. Last year, Koshyari wrote to the chief minister about reopening places of worship in the state amid the raging Covid-19 pandemic outbreak and asked if Thackeray, who is also the president of the ruling Shiv Sena, had “suddenly turned secular”. Thackeray also reminded the governor that secularism was one of tenets of the Constitution that he swore upon while taking oath as Maharashtra governor.The governor is yet to clear the 12 names approved by the state cabinet in November last year to be appointed as the members of the legislative council. Every six years, 12 members are nominated to the upper house of the state legislature by the governor on the recommendation of the state government.Koshyari was a senior BJP leader before his appointment as governor. He was also chief minister of Uttarakhand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/koshyari-thackeray-locked-in-letter-war-over-sakinaka-rape-case-101632240974043.html
21-09-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 644 new Covid cases, 3 deaths; 101,809 vaccinated on Tuesday||PUNE Pune district reported 644 new Covid cases and three deaths on Monday, according to the state health department.This took the progressive count to 1.13 million out of which 1.10 million have recovered, 19,740 deaths reported and 10,875 are active cases or patients who are currently in hospital undergoing treatment or are in home isolation.The district also saw 101,809 vaccinations on Tuesday.As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 376 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 355,285 and the death toll stood at 6,757 as two more deaths were reported.Pune city reported 166 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 515,778 and the death toll stood at 9,140 as one more death was reported.Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 102 new Covid cases and the progressive count went up to 265,435 and the toll stood at 3,494.Meanwhile, Pune also saw 101,809 vaccinations as per the Co-WIN dashboard on Tuesday.To date, 9,900,425 vaccinations have been administered, out of which 6,882,442 are first doses and 3,017,983 are second doses.A total of 744 sites saw vaccinations out of which 505 were government centres and 239 were private.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-644-new-covid-cases-3-deaths-101-809-vaccinated-on-tuesday-101632240613843.html
21-09-2021||Mumbai||PIL in high court objects to Mumbai Metro 2B overground line near Juhu airport||The Bombay high court (HC) has held that it will be hearing the public interest litigation (PIL) which has challenged the construction of the Metro 2B line passing through SV Road near the Juhu airport. The PIL alleges that the Metro line violates the funnel area stipulations of the airport and will endanger the lives of civilians and flight passengers permanently. The PIL has contended that the no-objection certificate (NOC) granted by the authorities did not take into consideration the potential threat the overground Metro line will pose and hence seeks orders against the same. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni was hearing the public interest litigation filed by Harit Desai, a social worker and a resident of the Juhu Vile Parle Development Scheme (JVPD) through advocate Nishant Thakkar. The bench was informed that the petition challenged the NOC issued by the Airports Authority of India to the Mumbai Metropolitan Regional Development Authority (MMRDA) in 2017 for constructing the overground Metro 2B line. Thakkar submitted that while the elevation for the funnel area for landing and take-off of flights at runway 26 and 8 of the Juhu airport was 3.89 meters above mean sea level, the NOC permitted MMRDA to construct the metro line in the funnel zone which would not only be a permanent hazard to the operation of aircraft but would also endanger the lives of those in the aircraft as well as civilians residing and travelling in the vicinity. In light of these submissions, Thakkar submitted that the NOC was violative and contrary to the Civil Aviation (Height Restrictions for the Safeguarding of Aircraft Operations) Rules, 2015 and hence sought to quash the original NOC as well as subsequent NOCs issued in 2018 and 2019. The MMRDA represented by advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni and advocate Akshay Shinde however submitted that the petitioner had not exhausted the remedy of approaching the appellate committee and hence the court should not intervene in the PIL. However, Thakkar responded stating that the appellate committee comprised of two members who were responsible for issuing the NOC hence the only option was to approach the HC. Advocate Sandeep Marne along with advocate Arsh Mishra for the AAI however submitted that in light of the contention of the petitioner that a member of the committee had been involved in issuing the NOC it was not opposing the PIL. After hearing the submissions the court held, “Since an important public project is involved and the petitioners propose to oppose it on the grounds urged in the writ petition, we expedite its hearing. Let reply affidavits be filed by the respondents by a week from date; rejoinder affidavits thereto, if any, may be filed by 5 (five) days thereafter,” and posted hearing of the PIL to October 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pil-in-high-court-objects-to-mumbai-metro-2b-overground-line-near-juhu-airport-101632239833831.html
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||Dalit women seek implementation of Land Ceiling Act in Punjab||A day after Charanjit Singh Channi took oath as the first Dalit chief minister of Punjab, hundreds of women from the scheduled castes community sought implementation of the Land Ceiling Act in the state during a protest in Sangrur on Tuesday. The Dalit women, under the banner of Zameen Prapti Sangharsh Committee (ZPSC), assembled on the Dhuri road and marched to the district administration complex, raising slogans in favour of land distribution.ZPSC zonal secretary Paramjit Kaur Longowal said that two land reform laws were introduced in Punjab in 1952 and 1972, but Dalits, who comprise 33% of the state population, got only 1.5-2% of the land. A large part of the land went to upper-caste rich landlords, who are still purchasing land from small farmers, he said.Longowal said that as per the Land Ceiling Act, one family could own only 17 acres, and the excess land should be redistributed.“The landless Dalits are facing caste oppression in villages. Only equal distribution of land can bring equality to Dalits in society. Dalit women are the biggest victims of caste oppression and economic oppression,” she said.Raj Kaur, one of the protesters, said government institutes were denying loans to landless Dalits, who end up taking money from private lenders at high interest.ZPSC state chief Mukesh Malaudh said: “Just a CM face will not change the fate of Dalits. Channi promised free water and electricity like Amarinder Singh and Badals but did not touch the issue of land in his first press meet.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dalit-women-seek-implementation-of-land-ceiling-act-in-punjab-101632239593917.html
21-09-2021||Mumbai||Isolated heavy rain likely in Mumbai on Wednesday: IMD||The monsoon made a comeback in the city this week, with an overcast sky, strong winds and widespread rain (along with isolated heavy showers) being observed across the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) on Tuesday evening. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said that isolated heavy showers are likely to continue on Wednesday, placing Mumbai, Thane, Palghar and Raigad districts under a ‘yellow category’ storm warning alert.Though the day started off without much rain (the IMD’s monitoring station in Santacruz received 6.6mm of rain during the night), the intensity of showers picked up for a short while in the afternoon, with Santacruz receiving 37.2mm of rain in the nine hours ending 5:30pm Tuesday. Several other monitoring locations in the city and suburbs, Thane, Navi Mumbai and Kalyan-Dombivli, too saw between 20mm to 40mm of rain in a three-hour period on Tuesday afternoon.According to a spokesperson with the IMD’s regional centre in Mumbai, widespread light to moderate rains will continue for the next two days in intermittent spells and will subside thereafter. A low-pressure area is expected to pass over the Bay of Bengal sometime early next week, and rainfall activity will regain intensity around then, IMD said.In September thus far, the city has recorded a total of 536mm of rain in 21 days, as against the normal of 229.7mm. Since June 1 this year, 2,958mm of rain has exceeded the seasonal normal by 849.6mm. Officials at the IMD said it is very likely that seasonal rains may cross the 3,000mm mark by the end of September, particularly as the expected late withdrawal of the monsoon this year will sustain more light to moderate showers before the month is over. Between June and September last year, the city had recorded a total 3,687mm of rain, stopping just 70mm short of 2020 being the wettest monsoon on record.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/isolated-heavy-rain-likely-in-mumbai-on-wednesday-imd-101632239473680.html
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||SC recommends transfer of two Punjab and Haryana HC judges||The Supreme Court collegium has recommended transfer of the two senior-most judges of the Punjab and Haryana high court, justice Jaswant Singh and justice Rajan Gupta. It has also recommended transfer of three more judges to the Punjab and Haryana high court.While Justice Jaswant Singh’s name has been recommended for the Orissa high court, justice Rajan Gupta’s name has been recommended for the Patna high court. The recommendation regarding Justice Gupta, initially made on September 16, was reiterated by the collegium on Tuesday. Both are senior-most judges of the Punjab and Haryana high court (HC) after the chief justice and are collegium members. Justice Rajan Gupta was also presiding over a bench hearing drug trade-related matters in Punjab.Meanwhile, justice Sureshwar Thakur and justice Anoop Chitkara of the Himachal Pradesh HC and justice MSS Ramachandra Rao of the Telangana HC are to be transferred to the Punjab and Haryana HC, according to the recommendations. The final decision on the recommendations will be taken by the central government. If these recommendations are accepted, the number of judges in the Punjab and Haryana HC will stand at 46, including the chief justice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sc-recommends-transfer-of-two-punjab-and-haryana-hc-judges-101632239414061.html
21-09-2021||Mumbai||Fear of stigma forces Covid caregivers to hide identities: ICMR study||Apart from battling the novel coronavirus, healthcare workers (HCWs) attending to patients are facing another challenge – stigma. This often forces the caregivers to hide their identity in order ‘to prevent any social harassment’. This has been revealed in a pan-India study conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) across 10 cities. The study has also revealed various other reasons that are affecting the mental health of the HCWs.The ICMR has conducted the study of 967 participants from the 10 cities —Bhubaneswar (Odisha), Mumbai (Maharashtra), Ahmedabad (Gujarat), Noida (Uttar Pradesh), south Delhi, Pathanamthitta (Kerala), Kasaragod (Kerala), Chennai (Tamil Nadu), Jabalpur (Madhya Pradesh), Kamrup (Assam) and East Khasi Hills (Meghalaya). Among the respondents, 56% were females, while 46% were males who were primarily in the age group between 20 and 40 years (84%).Stigmatisation of HCWsTill August 28, around 87,000 HCWs in India have been infected with Covid-19 on their line of duty. Six states—Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, West Bengal and Gujarat recorded almost 74% of the total cases. In Maharashtra, around 158,000 HCWs were tested for Covid-19, of which, around 24,500 were identified with novel coronavirus— the highest in India, as per the data from the Union health ministry.Since the outbreak of the pandemic, the overwhelmed HCWs have been working round the clock in taking care of the patients and vaccination. Despite this, in repeated instances, they are being subjected to stigmatisation and harassment.Citing a particular instance, the study has published an interview of a 55-year-old male ambulance driver who was responsible for ferrying patients to hospitals. Sharing his experience, he said, “When people see me, they say “here comes Corona!.” They (neighbours) would close their doors and windows if they saw me coming from a distance. At marketplaces, people cover their faces when they see me. They would cross me or supersede me very fast by accelerating their vehicles. Even my relatives walk away when they see me and do not want to be face to face with me. There seems to be so much hatred in their minds.”This is not the only instance where HCWs in service for Covid-19 patients were humiliated. In April 2020, HT reported how a marriage proposal for Dr Reshma Shinde, a resident doctor in pathology department at King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital, Parel did not work out as she was stationed in the Covid-19 ward.The study has found out that the neighbours, friends and relatives of the HCWs made them feel they were the spreaders of the infection and avoided them, made hurtful remarks and also showed reluctance to interact with them. “Some HCWs reported that they also had to conceal their identities to prevent any social harassment as captured in the statement below. There were also some who reported stigma from their own families,” reads the study. “This attitude was mainly because they were considered as vectors for transmission of the virus and not perceived as those whose primary service was to prevent infection and help those infected,” it further reads.Dr Beena E Thomas from the department of social and behavioural research, National Institute for Research in Tuberculosis, Chennai who is the main correspondent of the study said that there is a need to sensitise the public. “The stigmatisation adds to the mental health of the already exhausted and burn out HCWs. More focus should be paid on educating people,” she added.HCWs need a psychological support systemHCWs are already suffering from burnout. As HT reported earlier, many of them are taking psychiatric help to deal with the trauma in Mumbai. National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS) conducted a survey among 3,083 HCWs across India. They published their findings in April in the Asian Journal of Psychiatry, which revealed that 26.6% and 23.8% of the respondents had anxiety and depression respectively.Against this backdrop, ICMR conducted his study to find out the main reasons for the mental health crisis among the HCWs and make recommendations to the central government.“I am not able to take care of my two-year-old baby and leaving her was difficult for me. My kids are angry with me, and now whenever I call my daughter, she does not talk to me. They are angry because I have to leave them again and again. My elder daughter is studying in Class 9, and as a mother, I should provide her more time in this growing up stage and I should help her with her studies, but I am unable to provide time for her. I am unable to provide them good food in these growing up years and I am unable to take care of them,” a 43-year-old nurse was quoted in the study.Along with the pressure of separation from the family, the researchers also found out that the excessive workload, erratic working hours, challenges of working personal protective equipment (PPE) for hours, fear of infection, sleep deprivation, disruption in eating habits are also contributing to the mental trauma of the HCWs.“Recent reports indicate that health personnel struggled with higher workloads and a swiftly changing workspace milieu that differed greatly from the familiar day-to-day reality while dealing with the social changes and emotional stressors of Covid-19. The longer working hours with erratic timings reported in the present study resulted in sleep deprivation as well as unhealthy eating patterns, which could have long-term consequences,” reads the study.In fact, the researchers have found out that female caregivers are more affected than male counterparts as along with workload, they also have the responsibility at home. “As the triple burden of being caregivers in the hospital, at home and balancing these dual roles which took a toll on their mental well-being…(sic),” reads the study.ICMR has suggested improving the working environment for HCWs, allowing them breathing space, filling the staff crunch and providing them more time with facilities.“There is a need for a more holistic approach by focusing on community engagement and support groups in each organisational structure,” said Dr Thomas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fear-of-stigma-forces-covid-caregivers-to-hide-identities-icmr-study-101632239293902.html
21-09-2021||Mumbai||Porn films case: Element of inducement missing from case against Raj Kundra, says magistrate||The metropolitan magistrate court that granted bail to businessman Raj Kundra on Monday, has observed in its detailed order that the element of inducement, a prime ingredient of cheating, appears to be missing from the case. The court also took into consideration that the investigation is completed and there is no possibility of the accused tampering with the evidence.The court granted bail to Kundra, who was arrested in July by the Mumbai crime branch along with his Information Technology (IT) head Ryan Thorpe, on a surety of ₹50,000 each on Monday.Additional chief metropolitan magistrate, Sudhir B Bhajipale further observed that the crime branch has filed a 4,000 pages charge sheet that has 64 witnesses. The investigation officer has taken care of recording statements of witnesses under section 164 of Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). The server, laptops, and mobiles of Viaan Industries are already in the custody of the investigating officer. In such circumstances, it cannot be said that there is a possibility of tampering with the evidence.The court said if statements of witnesses were perused, then the element of inducement which is a prime ingredient of cheating appears to be missing from the case of the prosecution.All the accused in the case are on bail and in such circumstances, only on the grounds that further investigation is in progress, the accused cannot be kept behind bars till the conclusion of the trial. The offences nowhere provide punishment for more than seven years.It is better to mention here that the trial will take its own time and in such circumstances, it will be not proper to keep the accused in custody when they are ready to furnish surety for their appearance and to abide by the conditions imposed by the court, the court added.The agency has already seized my computer, DVD’s, CDs from my office and nothing is left for further investigations or for my further custody. The investigation is complete, there is no chance of tampering with evidence or threatening witnesses as statements have already been recorded before the magistrate, the court added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/porn-films-case-element-of-inducement-missing-from-case-against-raj-kundra-says-magistrate-101632239173887.html
21-09-2021||Pune||Pune’s Giripremi mountaineers scale Mt Manda 1||PUNE The Pune city-based Giripremi mountaineers added one more feather in their cap as they became the first team from India to claim Mt Manda 1, a 6,510-metre mountain which is located at Kedar Ganga Valley in Indian Himalaya on September 18.Overall Giripremi team came second to conquer Mt Manda-1 after Japanese mountaineers completed the expedition in 1984.Giripremi teams had tried climbing the mountain in 1989 and 1991 but couldn’t reach the summit.The Pune-based mountaineer group took the third attempt after 32 years and made it successful.The expedition was completed via the North Ridge route and it was led by Anand Mali and mentored by Umesh Zirpe. Other team members were Sumeet Mandale, Vivek Shivade and Pawan Hadole along with Sherpa Mingam and Nim Dorje.The team reached base camp on September 11, however, a difficult climatic condition did not allow them to move ahead till September 15.“On September 17 we started summit push from camp 2 and the next day we conquered the peak. It was a very challenging peak technically. From base to camp 1 it was more challenging than from camp 1 to 2 it was a little easy. Summit push was challenging (last 1,000 metres) as it has one vertical wall, rock climbing and Ice climbing and a steep climb of 70 to 80 degrees,” said Shivade.The climbers also did route opening and rope fixing along with Sherpas.“Handling the tough weather conditions was the biggest challenge. Before Mt Manda-1, I had climbed three mountains but this was the toughest,” said HadoleZirpe, was a part of two unsuccessful attempts on Mt. Manda-1 in 1989 and 1991.“We had to abandon our attempt due to a shortage of equipment in 1991. Proper management of not only equipment but also of all the resources for the expedition with excess adequate quantity and implementation of our plan with all safety is very important,” said Zirpe, a veteran mountaineer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punes-giripremi-mountaineers-scale-mt-manda-1-101632239008178.html
21-09-2021||Lucknow||UP chief minister flags off cycle rally as part of Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav||LUCKNOW UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath flagged off a cycle rally organized by the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) here on Tuesday as part of the ongoing ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ to commemorate 75 years of India’s independence.The rally, which originated from Tezpur city of Assam, is scheduled to culminate at Rajghat, New Delhi on October 2, after covering a distance of around 2,384 km. The cycle rally had reached UP’s Maharajganj on September 15. “The SSB has played a major role, not only in protecting our borders, but also in building good rapport with neighbouring countries. It also ensured that India continues to share good terms with Nepal and Bhutan,” said Yogi Adityanath. SSB’s cycle rally is a part of the activities, the ministry of home affairs has planned to mark 75 years of freedom. Under this, 75 cycle rallies were planned by Central Armed Police Forces and Assam Rifles. These rallies originated from various parts of the country and would culminate at Rajghat in New Delhi on the occasion of Mahatma Gandhi’s birth anniversary. Addressing the gathering, B Radhika, ADG, SSB said the cycle rally was not only a part of 75 years’ celebrations but also an attempt to commemorate the glorious history and culture of India. “The routes for the cycle rallies have been planned in such a way that they pass through the important places associated with India’s freedom struggle. In UP, the rally had arrived in Maharajganj district on September 15. It would cover all historical points and places in UP districts including Basti, Ayodhya, Barabanki, Unnao, Akbarpur, Auraiyya, Etawah, Shikohabad, Tundla and Mathura,” said Radhika. The ADG said cyclists participating in these rallies would be interacting with people on their way, associating the masses with the ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’ celebrations and spread the message of national unity. Avnish Awasthi, additional chief secretary (home); Mukul Goyal, director general of police; Navneet Sehgal, additional chief secretary (information) and senior government officials were also present on the occasion. The cycle rally left the city after paying floral tribute to the statue of Mahatma Gandhi at GPO, Hazratganj crossing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/azadi-ka-amrit-mahotsav-up-chief-minister-flags-off-ssb-s-cycle-rally-in-lucknow-101632238875492.html
21-09-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra minister Anil Parab files Rs100-cr defamation suit against BJP’s Kirit Somaiya||Maharashtra transport minister Anil Parab has filed a defamation suit against Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Kirit Somaiya in the Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday for allegedly making “malicious and mala fide” statements, and demanded monetary damages of ₹100 crore.The Shiv Sena minister has also requested HC to direct Somaiya to tender an unconditional apology, contending that his reputation has been damaged by the BJP leader. He also sought a permanent injunction against the former BJP parliamentarian from making or publishing any such statement against him in the future.Parab’s lawyer Sushma Singh confirmed to HT that the suit was filed on Tuesday.Responding to the defamation suit, Somaiya said, “This is nothing but diversionary tactics by him [Parab].” He did not wish to comment any further. Over the past few months, Somaiya has been alleging that Parab had built “illegal” resorts in Dapoli at Ratnagiri as well as an “unauthorised” office on the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (Mhada) land in Bandra (East).On September 14, Parab had sent Somaiya a notice, seeking a written apology, ceasure from levelling further allegations and deletion of all the tweets wherein the BJP leader has made accusations against him. Parab had warned that failing this, he would file a defamation suit worth ₹100 crore, the notice against Somaiya, the notice read. Somaiya had not responded to Parab’s notice. In the suit, Parab has listed instances wherein the BJP leader has levelled allegations against him on various social media platforms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-minister-anil-parab-files-rs100-cr-defamation-suit-against-bjp-s-kirit-somaiya-101632238873836.html
21-09-2021||Lucknow||Mahant Giri death: Disciple Anand Giri booked for abetment of suicide, arrested||PRAYAGRAJ Anand Giri, disciple of late Mahant Narendra Giri, president of the Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad (ABAP), was on Tuesday arrested in connection with the alleged suicide of the influential Hindu seer.Taken into custody from Haridwar after the death of ABAP president Mahant Narendra Giri, Anand Giri was arrested by the Prayagraj police after long hours of questioning.An FIR under Section 306 (abetment of suicide) was lodged against Mahant Narendra Giri’s disciple Anand Giri at Georgetown police station on the complaint of sewadar Amar Giri Pawan Maharaj, said Prem Prakash, ADG (zone) Prayagraj. The FIR was based on the purported suicide note found in Mahant Narendra Giri’s room. As per this note, the Mahant had accused Anand Giri, Bade Hanuman temple priest Aadya Tiwari and his son Sandeep Tiwari of harassing him, said police.Meanwhile, a special investigation team was constituted to probe into the death of ABAP chief Mahant Narendra Giri, who was found hanging from the ceiling fan in his room at Baghambari Gaddi Math on Monday. The 18-member SIT will be headed by circle officer, Colonelganj, Ajeet Singh Chauhan and comprise circle officer, Daraganj, Astha Jaiswal along with members of the Prayagraj Crime Branch team. The team will probe into the allegations made by the Mahant against his disciples including Anand Giri.SSP (Prayagraj) Sarvshrestha Tripathi said the SIT will question the accused besides conducting investigations into the circumstances leading to the death of Mahant Narendra Giri. “Statements of sewadars and disciples at the math will be recorded and these will be part of investigations,” he added.“Anand Giri is under arrest while the other people detained in this connection are being questioned,” said ADG (zone) Prem Prakash. He was kept at Prayagraj police Lines where no one was allowed to meet him.The police scanned Mahant Narendra Giri’s mobile phone and found a video of him. In the video reportedly shot before his death, Narendra Giri had repeated the same things which he mentioned in the purported suicide note.In the purported suicide note, which went viral on social media a day after his death, Mahant Narendra Giri also admitted that he had attempted suicide on September 13 but withdrew at the last minute. The note also mentioned his will on the akhada, his successor and his instructions to disciples, said police.‘Anand Giri may release tampered video’In the purported suicide note found by the police, Mahant Narendra Giri also apprehended that his disciple Anand Giri may soon release a tampered video of him with a woman to defame him. “I have received information that Anand Giri will release a fake video to defame me. It is better to die than being defamed in the society in which I have lived with dignity. I have lost courage and committing suicide,” stated Mahant Narendra Giri in the note.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mahant-giri-death-disciple-anand-giri-booked-for-abetment-of-suicide-arrested-101632238453871.html
21-09-2021||Pune||Reduce highway accidents, formulate action plan: Satej Patil to authorities||PUNE A review meeting was held earlier last week to help reduce the number of accidents on national highways passing through western Maharashtra after a survey by the Save Life Foundation (SLF) found that 1.35 million people die in road crashes across the globe out of which 150,000 are in India alone and that more than 30 children die in road accidents every day in India.The virtual meeting was attended by the minister of state for IT and home Satej Patil; divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao; transport commissioner Dr Avinash Dhakne; special inspector general of police Manoj Lohia; district collectors of Pune, Sangli, Satara and Kolhapur; superintendents of police; highway police force officers; and founder-president of SLF Piyush Tiwari. Based on the SLF survey report, Patil instructed the Pune, Sangli, Satara and Kolhapur police chiefs to immediately start patrolling the national highways by constituting dedicated, 24x7 patrolling vehicles and teams for each highway. He also directed that the IT-based infrastructure on the national highways be made more efficient.Among others, the SLF survey revealed that the Pune to Satara highway saw 292 rear-end collisions out of which 95 were fatal; 102 pedestrian accidents in which 34 pedestrians lost their lives; 86 object-related accidents which saw 34 fatalities; 116 self-rollovers or falls which saw 10 fatalities; 48 head-on collisions in which nine people were killed; and 14 other accidents which saw two fatalities.On the Satara to Kagal highway, 360 rear-end collisions were reported which saw 106 fatalities; 251 self-rollovers/falls in which 55 people died; 156 pedestrian accidents in which 44 pedestrians lost their lives; 31 object-related accidents in which 12 people died; 18 head-on collisions which saw 14 fatalities; 52 other accidents with 28 fatalities; and 35 unknown accidents with five fatalities.Twenty-five and 62 incidents of wrong side driving during the day and night were reported on the Pune to Satara and Satara to Kagal highways, respectively. One-hundred-and-nine and 205 incidents of wrong lane usage were reported on the Pune to Satara and Satara to Kagal highways, respectively. Three and 40 incidents of overtaking from the left were reported on the Pune to Satara and Satara to Kagal highways, respectively. One-hundred-and-forty five and 99 incidents of illegal parking were reported on the Pune to Satara and Satara to Kagal highways, respectively. One-hundred-and-three and 160 two-wheeler riders were found riding without helmets on the Pune to Satara and Satara to Kagal highways, respectively.The survey revealed that as many as 125 people have been killed in road accidents on the Pune to Satara and Satara to Kagal highways in the year 2019-20 due to various reasons. The accidents have been caused due to speeding, not wearing seat belts, not wearing helmets, sudden change of lanes, indicators, headlights not being in good condition and so on.The meeting took cognisance of all these matters with SLF suggesting high impact and scaleable solutions to reduce the fatalities and accidents on highways. “Immediate measures need to be taken from re-engineering of roads, bridging gaps between accidents and their treatment with urgent trauma care to engaging motorists and the general public to change behaviours and upgrading national policies that promote safe driving behaviours among people. By working both on the ground and at the system level, we are addressing the problem from the bottom-up and top-down to completely and decisively resolve this public health issue,” the SLF report stated. Earlier, implementation of the zero fatality corridor helped authorities and the SLF to reduce road fatalities by 52% on the Mumbai-Pune Expressway over four years; 54% on NH48 over one year; and 100% at Delhi’s Bhalswa chowk black spot in less than one year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/reduce-highway-accidents-formulate-action-plan-satej-patil-to-authorities-101632238033783.html
21-09-2021||Bhopal||Exhibition of rare ancient coins at Bhopal's State Museum attracts people||Rare ancient coins dating back from the seventh century BC to medieval times are on display in the exhibition hall of the State Museum here.Named the 'The Heritage of Coins', the exhibition will continue till Wednesday.The collection of these rare coins organised by Dr Vishnu Shridhar Wakankar Archaeological Research Institute under the aegis of Directorate Archaeological Archives and Museum, belongs to Dr RC Thakur at Ashwini Shodh Sansthan, Mahidpur, District Ujjain. The exhibition can be viewed free of charge from 11 am to 5 pm. BK Lokhande, former president of the state museum, said that the coins displayed in this exhibition give information about a long period of history and coins of different metals prevalent in it.These coins are of precious metals like gold, silver, zinc, copper etc. These coins give information that there was a technique of minting coins and stamping their emblem on them about 2,700 years ago. This is an indicator of the advancement of science in those times. According to Lokhande, the circulation of coins started in our country from the time of 16 districts. These coins put barter out of circulation.It is noteworthy that currency (coins) have a special place in the cultural history of India. Initially, the common people used the cow for barter. But due to the difficulty in the division of the unit of currency, pieces of metal were used as currency.Coins began in circulation around 800 BC, indicating a systematic history of currency. Coins of metals like copper, silver, gold, zinc, lead etc. were issued. This exhibition of rare coins is useful and informative for students, archaeology enthusiasts and the general public.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/exhibition-of-rare-ancient-coins-at-bhopal-s-state-museum-attracts-people-101632233372567.html
21-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai court acquits late gangster Amar Naik’s kin of kidnapping, extortion charges||A sessions court on Tuesday acquitted Ashwin Naik – brother of late gangster Amar Naik – and his seven aides who were booked for in a 2015 abduction and extortion case under the stringent provisions of the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) and the Arms Act. The other acquitted accused have been identified as Pramod Keluskar, Prathamesh Parab, Janardhan Sakpal, Rajesh Tambe, Avinash Khedekar, Milind Parab and Suraj Govardhan.As per the prosecution’s case, in December 2015, Naik through his seven aides had kidnapped a Dadar-based builder, who was constructing a structure in the central suburbs. The builder was kidnapped at gun point and taken to Naik’s office in Subhash Nagar on NM Joshi Marg, the prosecution claimed. Naik had allegedly threatened the builder and demanded ₹50 lakh as well as 6,000-square-feet flat from him.The builder managed to escape from their custody after he requested that he needed some time to think. He then approached Dadar police, which registered a case under sections 364 (a) (abduction), 384 (punishment for extortion), 387 (putting person in fear of death or of grievous injury in order to commit extortion), 34 (common intention) and 120 (B) (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code. In addition, the police had also applied sections of the Arms Act and later also invoked MCOCA in the case.The builder then agreed to meet Naik to hand over the money. Naik, who is paralysed waist down, waited for him in a car. When he accepted the bag containing cash worth ₹50 lakh, the police detained him, the prosecution alleged. Later, his alleged aides were also picked up from the spot. Naik’s advocates argued that there was hardly any evidence against him and most of the witnesses had turned hostile and that the accused had been framed in the case.After hearing the arguments, sessions judge RR Bhosale acquitted the eight accused.Naik has been acquitted in 16 other cases related to murder and extortion. One of the cases was pertaining to his wife’s murder. He was alleged to have hatched the conspiracy to kill his wife Nita when he was in Delhi’s Tihar Jail. Nita was shot dead outside their house in Chinchpokli on November 13, 2000, despite being under police protection. In 2009, a special MCOCA court had acquitted him in the case.Naik, a London-educated electronic engineer, had taken over the gang run by his Amar, after his brother was gunned down by the police in an encounter in the 1990s.In 1994, rival gang members had shot at Naik in the Mumbai sessions court premises, following which he had become wheelchair-bound.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-court-acquits-late-gangster-amar-naik-s-kin-of-kidnapping-extortion-charges-101632237553896.html
21-09-2021||Mumbai||BMC begins prep for February 2022 polls||To prepare for the upcoming civic polls in February 2022, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has started the process of verification for delimitation (redrawing) of boundaries of the 24 administrative wards. Post this, the BMC will submit the list to the state election commission for suggestions and objections. The BMC is also expected to increase the number of booths in view of Covid-19 to ensure social distancing while conducting voting. The BMC currently has 227 corporators who are elected representatives across 24 administrative wards formed on the basis of the census conducted in 2011. The census for 2021 was delayed amid the pandemic. Delimitation is undertaken to ensure that all electoral wards largely have the same amount of population. The state election commission had last month given permission to several municipal corporations including Mumbai civic body to go ahead with the delimitation process. Vishwas Mote, from the BMC’s election department, said, “Preliminary preparations are going as per the directions of the state election commission.” According to BMC officials, post verification, the data will be sent to the state election commission which will later call for public suggestions and objections. The process is being done considering the pattern of migration of citizens, development, redevelopment in wards of the city, and the data is expected to be ready by mid- October. After the suggestions and objections, the BMC will also conduct a lottery for reservation of the administrative wards to determine the reservation of the ward. For example, R North ward in north Mumbai was reserved for women. Of the total 227, a total of 50% of the seats are reserved for women candidates. From the 50%, there is a parallel reservation in the scheduled caste, scheduled tribe and OBC category. A BMC official said, “From 7,000 polling booths, we plan to increase them to 10,000.” Suresh Kakani, Additional Municipal Commissioner of the BMC, said, “As per the instructions of the state election commission, we have started initial preparation to understand whether delimitation will be required or not. However, this time we will have to increase the number of polling booths keeping Covid-19 into consideration.”The term of the current elected representatives ends on March 7, 2022, and the elections are expected to take place in February 2022. The Shiv Sena has 97 seats, BJP 83, Congress 29, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) 8, Samajwadi Party (SP) 6, AIMIM 2 and MNS 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-begins-prep-for-february-2022-polls-101632237373615.html
21-09-2021||Pune||Maval farmers oppose 30m-wide service road to Pune-Mumbai e-way||PUNE Farmers and locals in the Maval tehsil have raised objections against the 30-meter proposed service road to Pune- Mumbai expressway in the newly published draft development plan (DP) by the Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA).They have demanded to accommodate the service road in the acquired land for the expressway and also to reduce the width of the service road.Locals claimed that this is the fourth time their lands would have to be given up for a developmental project and the same set of landowners are getting affected in these projects.“We gave up land for the expressway and then for the closed water pipeline project. Hyperloop project is also proposed from the area and now PMRDA’s service road. Soon farmers in the area would be left with no land and without any prospect of employment. We have registered our objections against the proposal by PMRDA and have given our suggestions,” said Subhash Dhamankar, a resident of Urse village in Maval tehsil.September 16, was the last day of submitting the suggestions/ objections on the PMRDA’s draft DP.Locals from Maval are hoping that the objections would be considered and suitable changes would be made.“It would be better if the width of the service road would be reduced to 12 metres. Also, the proposed service road should be constructed on the already acquired land my Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) for the expressway. It would save agricultural lands and employments of the locals,” said Vikas Shelar, resident of Urse Village.“We had been demanding the service road but only from the acquired land for the expressway. Also, once the service road is constructed, there would be no development zone around it. So collectively, a huge piece of land would be wasted in that,” he said.Some locals pointed out that though they had to give up their land, the compensation was not enough and locals are not given priority in the employment opportunities created after the completion of the projects.“After the expressway was completed food malls, rest houses were constructed on its side. But the operators of these facilities are not locals. Local youth are neglected,” said Gulab Ghare, resident of Ozarde village.“Locals have lost their lives earlier in the struggle to save their lands. The administration should take us into confidence and listen to our grievances,” he said.PMRDA commissioner Suhas Divase was now available for comments immediately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/maval-farmers-oppose-30m-wide-service-road-to-pune-mumbai-eway-101632236953572.html
21-09-2021||Mumbai||Vartak Nagar police arrest 4 in attempt to murder case friend||Vartak Nagar police arrested four persons in an attempt to murder case on Tuesday. The four assaulted their friend with a chopper over a petty issue and seriously injured him.The incident occurred on Saturday afternoon at around 1pm near Indise Chawl, Shastri Nagar area. The accused were identified as Prajyot Yadav, 23, Keshya Kesarkar, 19, Manish Gurav, 19 and Hritik Pawar, 22. They initially attacked Sandip Machhiwala when the victim, Andhu Verma, 27, another friend of the accused, intervened and tried to stop the fight.The police said, “While Verma was trying to stop the fight, the furious accused got angry at him and attacked him with a rod and knife (chopper). The victim fell unconscious and all of them fled the spot. After receiving information about the same, we immediately took him to a hospital. He has severe injuries on his head, chest and leg. We arrested all the accused from the places they were hiding and filed a case under IPC Section 307.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vartak-nagar-police-arrest-4-in-attempt-to-murder-case-friend-101632235873538.html
21-09-2021||Other||Drone heard along Indo-Pak border; Search operation finds nothing||Tarn Taran A joint team of the Punjab Police and the Border Security Force (BSF) personnel launched a search operation at the international border near Khalra village of Bhikhiwind sub-division in Tarn Taran district on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday, after a drone was heard in the area. The search was launched in Indian territory falling under the Dharma Border Outpost (BoP), but nothing suspicious was found. This is the third incident of suspected drone entry into the Indian territory in Tarn Taran district in three days. On the night of Saturday and Sunday, two similar incidents were reported near BoP Karnail Singh Wala near Khalra. In that instance, BSF had even opened fire. The area falls under the 103-Battalion. In July, the troops of this battalion had gunned down two Pakistani nationals, who were trying to sneak into the Indian territory near Khalra. In February, the battalion personnel had shot dead a Pakistani smuggler and recovered 14-kg of heroin. A BSF official said, “Nobody saw any drone, but we heard sounds similar to it. A search of the area was carried out on Tuesday morning, but nothing suspicious was found. We are yet to confirm if the sound was of a Pakistani drone.”On September 15, Punjab Police had claimed to have busted an Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI-backed) terrorist module with the arrest of four people. The accused had tried to blow up an oil tanker near Ajnala by using an Improvised Explosive Device (IED). Punjab Police believe that the IED was dropped by a drone from Pakistan. Khalra station house officer Jaswant Singh said, “We got a call informing us that a sound of a flying drone was heard in the area. We launched a hunt, but did not find anything.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/drone-heard-along-indo-pak-border-search-operation-finds-nothing-101632235813489.html
21-09-2021||Noida||Farmers protest outside Greater Noida authority for jobs, land promised to them a decade ago||Around 100 farmers, including women, gathered outside the Grater Noida authority office in Knowledge Park IV on Tuesday to demand developed land and jobs to locals ahead of chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s visit to Dadri on Wednesday. The farmers belonged to Kisan Sangharsh Samiti, a farmers’ collective. A number of policemen were deployed at the spot to ensure the enforcement of law and order.Kisan Sangharsh Samiti spokesperson Manvir Bhati said that the authority acquired land from around 2,000 people in 2010 and promised 64% increased compensation, jobs to locals, and 10% developed land. “They gave the compensation to the families. However, the other two promises have not been fulfilled. We recently came to know that the Uttar Pradesh (UP) government has turned down the proposal of giving developed land to farmers. We are protesting so that the UP government meets our demands,” he said.The police had also served notices to some farmer leaders for holding the protest despite Section 144 of the CRPC in effect. However, several farmers defied the notices and joined the protest.Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said that farmers protested from 12pm until the night. “Policemen have been deployed in the area to ensure law and order enforcement. The Greater Noida authority officials are talking to them to resolve the matter,” he said.Neeraj Johar, manager, Greater Noida authority, said the protesting farmers had various demands. “The authority officials are holding a meeting with farmers. We will be able to share details once the meeting is over,” he said.Meanwhile, another group of farmers under the banner of Samyukt Kisan Morcha held a meeting on Monday in Dankaur, and planned to meet the chief minister on Wednesday to discuss their demands with him. “The UP chief minister is visiting Dadri on Wednesday. A farmers’ delegation plans to meet the chief minister and apprise him about the issues. If we are not allowed to meet the CM, we will protest and block the roads on September 27 in Greater Noida,” said Sunil Pradhan, spokesperson of the Morcha.Samyukt Kisan Morcha farmers have been protesting against the three controversial farm laws that were passed in Parliament over a year ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/farmers-protest-outside-greater-noida-authority-101632234612742.html
21-09-2021||Mumbai||Special committee surveying auto rickshaw stands in Kalyan-Dombivli told to submit report by Sep 27||The special committee formed by the Kalyan Regional Transport Authority to survey the auto rickshaw stands in Kalyan-Dombivli has been asked to submit the survey report by September 27.The committee was formed by the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) chief, Vijay Suryavanshi, in a meeting with the traffic police, RTO and auto rickshaw unions in order to decongest the city from illegal auto stands and have a proper plan for the stands.Although the committee was formed in March this year, the work on the survey was delayed further by the committee due to the surge in Covid cases. The report was expected to be submitted by April.This is not the first time a survey would be conducted for the auto stands in the city. Similar surveys were conducted earlier also but there was no implementation done based on the surveys.“The report shall be submitted by September 27 to us by the committee following which it will be sent to the civic body for further permission and implementation,” said an officer of Kalyan RTO. The survey committee members comprises one motor vehicle inspector of RTO, one traffic police officer, one Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Transport officer and one representative from the auto rickshaw union.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/special-committee-surveying-auto-rickshaw-stands-in-kalyan-dombivli-told-to-submit-report-by-sep-27-101632233838792.html
21-09-2021||Delhi||IMD issues warning for extremely bad weather in Delhi on Wednesday||The meteorological department has issued a warning for extremely bad weather in Delhi on Wednesday with the possibility of waterlogging and disruption of traffic.It was a warm Tuesday in Delhi with some parts of the national capital witnessing rain in the latter part of the day, leading to waterlogging and traffic snarls in a few areas.The Safdarjung Observatory, the official marker for the national capital, recorded 3.6 mm of rainfall till 5.30 pm. Lodhi Road, the Ridge area, Noida and Pitampura recorded 1 mm, 17.6 mm, 2 mm and 7 mm of rainfall respectively between 8.30 am and 5.30 pm.There was a massive traffic jam on Rohtak Road owing to waterlogging on the Mundka underpass. Commuters also experienced traffic snarls in central Delhi and Lutyens' Delhi.The maximum temperature was recorded at 35.6 degrees Celsius, a notch above the season's average, while the minimum settled at 25.8 degrees Celsius, a degree above normal.Humidity levels oscillated between 89 per cent and 55 per cent.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued an "orange" alert for Wednesday and a "yellow" alert for Thursday, Saturday and Sunday. For Friday, it has issued a "green" alert.The IMD uses four colour codes -- "green" means all is well, "yellow" indicates severely bad weather. It also suggests that the weather could change for the worse, causing disruptions in the day-to-day activities. An "orange" alert is issued as a warning for extremely bad weather with the potential of disruption in commute with road and drain closures and interruption of power supply. "Red" is when extremely bad weather conditions are certainly going to disrupt travel and power and pose significant risk to life.The weatherman has forecast a generally cloudy sky for Wednesday with the possibility of light rain or thundershowers. The maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to settle around 32 and 25 degrees Celsius respectively.The minimum temperature was 26.5 degrees Celsius on Monday, while the maximum was 35.8 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/imd-issues-warning-for-extremely-bad-weather-in-delhi-on-wednesday-101632233483383.html
21-09-2021||Mumbai||After 2 years, Nallasopara man arrested for stabbing parents with hammer, screwdriver||A 22-year-old stockbroker who was on the run for two years for allegedly hitting his parents with a hammer and then stabbing them with a screwdriver and knife over losing ₹38,000, at their Nallasopara home on January 29, 2019, has been arrested on Monday night from Kolkata. According to the police, after the attack, the accused Janmesh Pawar changed into fresh clothes, leaving behind the bloodstained ones, the weapons and left the building on his motorcycle.Pawar’s father, Narendra, 53, is a stockbroker, while his mother Namrata, 50, worked as an infant masseuse in Nallasopara, Vasai and other areas.Namrata died succumbed to her injuries during treatment, while Narendra survived, and is the complainant in the case.On 29 January 2019 night, the three were having dinner when father and son got into an argument. Narendra said that his son’s wrong advice led to a client losing ₹38,000 in the stock market. Pawar asked Narendra to help him compensate the client, said senior inspector Vilas Supe of Nallasopara police station.According to the police, after the three had gone to sleep, Pawar went into the bedroom where his parents were sleeping, at around 3.30am, hit Narendra on the head with a hammer and then stabbed him with a screwdriver. For trying to save her husband, Namrata too was stabbed with a kitchen knife. Narendra managed to call his nephew who was living nearby, who rushed both of them to Riddhi Vinayak Hospital first and later KEM Hospital.“As per the CCTV footage from the building, Pawar was seen leaving the building on his motorcycle, with a bag containing his laptop and other belongings,” said the officer.“We had seized the bloodstained clothes, knife, hammer and screwdriver of Pawar and sent it for forensic analysis,” said Supe. We arrested Pawar under sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder) and 506 (criminal intimidation) under the Indian Penal Code,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/after-2-years-nallasopara-man-arrested-for-stabbing-parents-with-hammer-screwdriver-101632232933292.html
21-09-2021||Lucknow||Teenage girl sexually assaulted on moving bus on Yamuna Expressway||AGRA A teenage girl was allegedly sexually assaulted on a moving double-decker AC coach private bus between Badarpur border and Jewar on the Yamuna Expressway on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday. An FIR was lodged against two support staff of the bus at Shikohabad police station of Firozabad, said police. The Kanpur-bound bus had left the Badarpur border in Delhi around 11pm on Monday and moved towards the Yamuna Expressway connecting Agra with Noida. The complainant, a 30-year-old woman boarded the bus with her 14-year-old daughter and 18-year-old daughter of her sister. They were seated in the front portion of the bus (near the driver’s seat). In the FIR, the woman stated that two support staff – Bablu and Anshu –offered her liquor when she went into one of the AC cabins of the bus. After she threw the glass out of the window, Bablu caught hold of her hand and broke her bangles. Subsequently, the woman moved out of the cabin and found her daughter missing from the seat.“My daughter was seen coming out of another cabin and was in tears. She said that Anshu outraged her modesty,” stated the complainant in her FIR and revealed that the bus was not stopped despite her request to the driver and fellow passengers. “Both the accused, Bablu and Anshu, got off the bus. Anshu got down at Tappal in Aligarh and Anshu got down at Naujheel area of Mathura. Teams are being sent to these districts and contact has been established with SSP Mathura as we found their location in Mant town. SSP Etawah has also been alerted as the accused belong to the district,” said AK Shukla, SSP (Firozabad). “A case has been registered against the accused under Sections 376 (rape), 354 (molestation) of the Indian Penal Code besides Section ¾ of the Pocso Act as the victim is a minor,” he added. The complainant had registered the FIR at Shikohabad police station after her relatives reached there. Other passengers took other buses to reach Kanpur, the final destination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/teenage-girl-sexually-assaulted-on-moving-bus-on-yamuna-expressway-101632232453402.html
21-09-2021||Mumbai||Khwaja Yunus case: Court raps Maharashtra govt, CID, for failing to appoint spl prosecutor||The sessions court on Tuesday rapped the state crime investigation department (CID) and the state government for their apathetic approach in appointing a special public prosecutor for the trial in Khwaja Yunus custodial death case. “The approach of the investigating agency has been lackadaisical in such a serious offence like custodial death case,” observed the court. The trial against four policemen including suspended cop Sachin Vaze, implicated in the case, a 2002 Ghatkopar blast accused, has been held up since 2018, shortly after it began, for the want of a special public prosecutor.“As I have observed on past two dates, there is a delay at the instance of the prosecution to proceed with the case. The record reveals that despite repeated notices and letters to the police officers as well as the prosecution, no concrete steps are taken,” said additional sessions judge Dr UJ More.Deputy superintendent of police (SP) Irfan Shaikh from state CID informed the court that the appointment has been approved by the additional chief secretary, home. The file, however, is now pending with the law and judiciary department.“We don’t want you to just follow up and write letters or take concrete steps for a speedy trial. The last judge has observed that he was incapacitated before the agency,” the court asked.Advocate Chetan Mali who represented Asiya Begum, mother of the victim - Khwaja Yunus, informed the court that a petition regarding the removal of Dhiraj Mirajkar as the special public prosecutor of the case is pending before the Bombay high court and is likely to be heard on Wednesday. A special leave petition has been filed in the Supreme Court regarding the sanctions to prosecute some more police officers in the case, he added.The state through assistant public prosecutor has made a statement in the high court, that it won’t appoint anybody as a special public prosecutor in the case till the Bombay High Petition is decided, Mali said, adding that, they want Mirajkar to continue as special public prosecutor.Vaze’s counsel told the court he was admitted at Wockhardt Hospital and had undergone bypass surgery.The court asked the counsel for Yunus’s mother to file a status report by the next date about the pending matters before various courts and also asked the state CID to update it in the matter of appointment of special public prosecutor by the next date and adjourned the matter to October 27.On December 2, 2002, a bomb went off in a BEST bus parked outside Ghatkopar railway station, during the evening rush hour, killing two and injuring over 50 people.The Mumbai crime branch, of which Vaze was part, picked up a few persons including Yunus on December 25.On January 7, 2003, Yunus was reported missing from police custody. The police claimed that he escaped with two other accused while they were being taken to Aurangabad when the vehicle carrying them met with an accident in Ahmednagar district.An FIR was registered in connection with the incident at the Parner police station.However, during an enquiry into the so-called accident conducted by the special Prevention of Terrorism Act (POTA) court in Mumbai, Dr Abdul Mateen, who was also one of the accused, revealed that he had heard Yunus being beaten, and later vomiting, in an adjacent cell.Mateen claimed that Yunus had likely died on January 6. This testimony was corroborated by a third accused in the case.Vaze and three police constables - Rajendra Tiwari, Sunil Desai and Rajaram Nikam, are being prosecuted for the custodial death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/khwaja-yunus-case-court-raps-maharashtra-govt-cid-for-failing-to-appoint-spl-prosecutor-101632232033733.html
21-09-2021||Mumbai||Engine failure of goods train disrupts Central Railway services near Asangaon||Train services on the Central Railway were disrupted for one hour on Tuesday afternoon. A locomotive of a goods train failed on the tracks near Asangaon railway station at 2.05pm. Local and outstation train services were impacted due to the failure.The goods train was removed from the railway tracks after an additional engine was attached and the train was moved after an hour. Train services resumed at 3.10pm.Two local trains and two outstation trains were detained near Asangaon due to the engine failure of the goods train. Outstation trains were also delayed owing to the incident.“Goods train stopped on the down line near Asangaon railway station due to some technical issues. The goods train was re-started after an assistant engine was provided. The train stopped at 2.05pm and was cleared by 3.10pm,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relation officer, Central Railway.Railway authorities have, however, stated that the repercussions on the local train services were minimal due to the frequency of train services.“Local train services were not impacted much as there is less frequency of trains in that railway section. Two outstation trains were delayed and few trains were delayed.” said a senior Central Railway official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/engine-failure-of-goods-train-disrupts-central-railway-services-near-asangaon-101632231733194.html
21-09-2021||Lucknow||Dalit sisters burnt alive: Seven get life imprisonment in UP’s Moradabad||A special SC/ST court on Monday awarded life imprisonment to seven people for setting two sisters belonging to the Dalit community on fire in Kothiwal Nagar area of Moradabad in 2010. The sisters, Gita (22) and Monu (20) were burnt alive on December 18, 2010 by a mob protesting a double murder in which their brother was an accused. In a 26-page order, special SC/ST court judge Sandhya Choudhury found the seven accused guilty on the basis of evidences produced by additional district government counsel (ADGC) Anand Pal Singh and charged them under the SC/ST (prevention of atrocities) Act. The court convicted Satish Madan, Sagar Bhandula, Bunty Malik, Asha Sachdeva, Amarjeet Kaur, Vinod Kakkad and Sania Kohli for the incident. The court also imposed a penalty of ₹1.07 lakh each. The convicts were sent to district jail Moradabad later in the evening.During the hearing, the defence claimed that there were no eye witnesses of the incident while the ADGC countered that 19 witnesses have appeared before the court and identified the accused.According to local police, the incident occurred nine days after a 30-year-old woman and her ten-year-old daughter were killed by two men in the same locality on December 9.The girls’ brother Rakesh was named as one of the accused in the case and he went into hiding soon after. An angry mob then held a protest outside their house demanding his arrest on December 18. During the protest, the accused entered the house and set it ablaze. Their mother Rajo, managed to save her life. But Gita and Monu were burnt alive, police had said.Rakesh was later arrested by police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/dalit-sisters-burnt-alive-seven-get-life-imprisonment-in-up-s-moradabad-101632231614341.html
21-09-2021||Other||Varanasi: Religious leaders, saints demand thorough probe into Narendra Giri’s death||VARANASI: Several religious leaders, office-bearers of temple committees and saints in Varanasi have demanded a high-level thorough probe into the death of Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad (ABAP) president Mahant Narendra Giri, who was found dead in his room at Baghambari Muth in Prayagraj, on Monday. Condoling the death of top seer, general secretary of Akhil Bharatiya Sant Samiti, Swami Jitendranand Saraswati, demanded a thorough probe into the death top seer. Giri was surrounded by several controversies, including dispute between Guru and Shishya, besides issues within the akhadas. It has also come to the light that a three-page suicide note was recovered from the room in which Giri’s body was found. Doing his own signature properly was a big thing for Mahant Narendra Giri Ji. When he was not able to write his signature properly, how could such a person write three pages? In such circumstances, it should be probed thoroughly if it was a murder under a deep conspiracy to implicate someone?,” said Saraswati. He said that various other points had come to light in the case too which also needed to be probed. Saraswati said he had full confidence that chief minister Yogi Adityanath would ensure a thorough probe into the matter by a competent investigating agency. “Giri was provided sufficient security by the state government. So, there is no question that he lacked security,” he said. The top seer was a strong-willed person and he couldn’t commit suicide. “There is a deep conspiracy and it should be probed,” he added. Meanwhile, expressing his condolence over Giri’s death, Annapurna Temple Mahant Shankar Giri said, “Narendra Giri had deep attachment with Kashi. He was representative of a number of Akhadas. He extended support to Sadhus during Kumbh. We are extremely sad over his demise.” He also demanded a high-level probe into the incident and said that he would visit Prayagrag to pay tributes to the Akhada Parishad chief. Akhil Bharatiya Vyas Sangh president Mahant Balak Das said that the death of Mahant Narendra Giri was an irreparable loss to the Sant Samaj and followers of Sanatan Dharma. “He was a saint of strong willpower and he couldn’t commit suicide. Something wrong has happened with him somewhere. There are smells of conspiracy behind the incident. Everything will be revealed after a proper investigation,” he said. The Kashi Vidvat Parishad also demanded a high-level inquiry into the sudden demise of Mahant Narendra Giri. General secretary of the Parishad, Prof Ramnarayan Dwivedi, said that there should be a judicial inquiry into the incident to find out the truth. Acharya Ashok Dwivedi, former chairman of Kashi Vishwanath Temple Trust, said that the sudden demise of the Akhara Parishad president Narendra Giri was shocking. He was the flag bearer of Sanatan Dharma and it is difficult to fill the void created after his departure. I pray to Lord Shiva to give him a place at his feet. There should be a high-level inquiry into the incident,” he said. Shankar Dev Chaitanya Brahmachari, the Peethadheeshwar of the Dharmasangha, said that Narendra Giri had a close relationship with the Dharmasangha. He was available at all times whenever the Sangha required him. “May God give him a place at his Shri Charans. This is my personal loss along with Sant Samaj,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/varanasi-religious-leaders-saints-demand-thorough-probe-into-narendra-giri-s-death-101632231373274.html
21-09-2021||Bangalore||Two die after fire breaks out due to gas leakage in Bengaluru building: Report||Two persons have died, while search operations for more casualties are underway after a massive fire broke out at an apartment in Bengaluru’s Devarachikkana Halli area on Tuesday, news agency ANI reported.The incident was reported between 4.35pm and 4.40pm, and the fire tender reached the spot at around 4.55pm, ANI reported quoting the DGP of Fire and Emergency Services Karnataka.He added that the entire apartment complex was evacuated as soon as emergency services reached the spot. “[The] accident appears to have occurred due to domestic gas leakage,” the DGP told ANI.
21-09-2021||Pune||Pune municipal commissioner orders action against illegal hoardings in 23 merged villages||PUNE Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar has instructed the civic administration to serve notices to agencies who have put illegal hoardings and advertising boards in 23 merged villages, asking them to take formal permission from PMC by October 20 or face action.The state government has merged 23 villages in the PMC limits this year.Among those villages merged include Mahaluge, Sus, Bavdhan, Kirkatwadi, Pisoli, Kondwe-Dhawade, Kopre, Nanded, Khadakwasla, Manjari Budruk, Narhe, Holkarwadi, Autade-Handewadi, Vadachi wadi, Shewalewadi, Nandoshi, Sanasnagar, Mangdewadi, Bhilarewadi, Guraj Nimablakarwadi, Jambhulwadi, Kolewadi, Wagoli.To increase the revenue, the municipal commissioner has decided to issue the notices and has instructed ward offices and sky sign department to bring such business activities under their department and asked them to take permission by paying fees approved by PMC.Sky sign department officials said there are many illegal hoardings put up in the merged villages. “Even if we travel by Solapur road there are several illegal commercial hoardings. PMC will get sizeable income through it,” said an official on condition of anonymity.As the municipal commissioner has issued a circular, the municipal administration will need to undertake a survey and issue the notices to their owners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-municipal-commissioner-orders-action-against-illegal-hoardings-in-23-merged-villages-101632230833114.html
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab women commission chief avoids comment on #MeToo charges against Channi||Punjab State Commission for Women chairperson Manisha Gulati showed much discomfiture when asked to comment on any action to be sought in the three-year-old #MeToo allegations against chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi.During a visit to Punjabi University, Patiala, on Tuesday, the women commission chief could be seen avoiding questions related to the complaint, in which Channi was accused of allegedly sending inappropriate text messages to a woman IAS officer in 2018.Also Read: ‘Shocked’: NCW chief demands Channi’s resignation as Punjab CM over #MeToo caseThe issue was resolved following intervention by former Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh. However, in June this year, while taking suo motu notice of the allegations, Manisha Gulati sought a reply from the Punjab government. Gulati also staged a protest against Channi and wanted the Punjab government to remove him from the post of cabinet minister. However, when asked on Tuesday whether she is going to further process the file pertaining to the matter, Manisha Gulati said: “Media should stop putting up such rubbish questions.” Pertinently, Gulati also shared a Twitter post to congratulate Channi on becoming the Punjab chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-women-commission-chief-avoids-comment-on-metoo-case-against-channi-101632230533148.html
21-09-2021||Pune||13 crematoriums in Pune to get PNG||PUNE In a bid to cut down costs, 13 crematoriums in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits will soon get piped natural gas (PNG) with help from Maharashtra Natural Gas Limited (MNGL).Hemant Rasne, the standing committee chairman, said, “Crematoriums in PMC currently work on LPG (liquefied petroleum gas). In the last year, 4,393 bodies were cremated, which cost us Rs5.09 crore.”“The electrical department has decided to take gas directly from pipelines at crematoriums which will help save cost, as well as PMC will not need to manage the gas cylinder supply and tendering process for it,” he said.Traditionally wood is used during cremation but to encourage environment-friendly practices, PMC is now promoting cremation on gas or electric facility.An official from the electric department said, “MNGL has promised to lay gas pipeline free of cost but it will not pay the pipeline laying fee for the work.”Municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar mentioned in the proposal, that MNGL has promised to give gas at a domestic rate for cremation work and PMC will have to pay the gas bill every month to MNGL.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/13-crematoriums-in-pune-to-get-png-101632226993428.html
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||Brush with writing: A drop of ink may make a billion think||Writing is magic. It offers a rare joy and is my favourite companion, wherever I am and wherever I go. Often, it gives the opportunity to relive the simplest pleasures and express the many epiphanies that cross the mind, leading to clarity I had been seeking. I admire how it connects, showing the path to many as Lord Byron aptly observed, “A drop of ink may make a billion think.” A warm thank you to the monthly school magazine at Punjab Public School, Nabha, the boarding school I attended, which planted the seed of writing. A writeup on the festival of Halloween was my first published piece, way back in 1999, when I was in grade 6. The engrossing narration about this festival from one of our guests at home became my inspiration. Seeing the piece in the magazine encouraged me so much that I began contributing an article every month. As I reached grade 10, my letters started finding place in the letters to the editor column of newspapers. Within a short span, my collection of letters grew, and I preserved them in a large glass frame, still hanging in my bedroom. My first piece of 500 words in a newspaper was about a nostalgic visit to the boarding school, years after passing out. I can easily recall the date: December 7, 2012, and also who was first to congratulate me. Interestingly, it was published in the newspaper you are now reading. I wanted to write more, and I did, and will always continue to since it keeps me so alive. Ideas to write come anytime, anywhere – be it while bathing, walking or even while holding conversations. Some of them surprise and I want to jot them down before I forget. No wonder I’ve scribbled on napkins and pamphlets. Ideas crawl to me in the middle of the night. There was a time I kept writing them on papers, never able to find them, when needed. Thankfully the habit of keeping a diary saved me, which stays not only by my bedside but also joins me wherever I go. Its pages on return are always filled with so much new. A unique euphoria awaits me as I wrap up a piece, and it is all set for submission. The moment I hear it’s been selected, my happiness knows no bounds and seeing it in print is a dream come true. However, rejections too are part of the process and despite them one should go on. Sometimes, there’s no reply, while sometimes the same line, ‘Thanks. Regret our inability to carry the piece,” or “Sorry, your piece is not being used,” with no further explanation. As shared in Chicken Soup for Writer’s Soul book, there have been cases when some also received stinging feedback but didn’t give up. In 1889, Rudyard Kipling received the following letter from the San Francisco Examiner: “I am sorry; Mr Kipling but you don’t know how to use the English language.” In 1902, the poetry editor of the Atlantic Monthly returned the poems of a 28-year-old, with these words: “Our magazine has no verse for your vigorous verse.” The poet was Robert Browning. Even Stephen King was rejected a hundred times. So, what makes a good writer? First and foremost, one who lives in the present, an observer, a voracious storyteller with the ability to draw lessons from all kinds of experiences, an open-minded traveller and most importantly an ardent reader. Nearly a decade ago, when I got a chance to meet Ruskin Bond, he too underlined the power of reading. It not only enriches our writings but also our mind and this reminds me of a quote by Spanish writer Miguel de Cervantes, “The pen is the tongue of the mind.” In one word: Absolutely! rameshinder.sandhu@gmail.com The writer is an Amritsar-based freelance contributor||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/brush-with-writing-a-drop-of-ink-may-make-a-billion-think-101632226032731.html
21-09-2021||Dehradun||Leopard that killed 8-year-old girl caught by forest staff||Forest officials in Uttarakhand have caught the leopard that killed an 8-year-old girl in Bajeti village of Pithoragarh on Sunday. “We had installed a cage at a 100 meter distance from the place, where the body of the girl was found on Sunday. When the leopard came to eat the kill, he got trapped in the cage,” said Vinay Bhargava, divisional forest officer, Pithoragarh. Bhargava said the team from the forest department spared no effort to cage the leopard, after Pithoragarh district magistrate Ashish Chauhan ordered them to catch the leopard without harming it. The decision was taken after the body of the girl identified as one Karishma Vishwakarma, was recovered on Monday morning about 60 metres away from her house. The leopard attacked the girl and took her into the forest in the dark. On Monday, state disaster response force (SDRF) personnel recovered her body following an overnight search operation in the forest .Leopard attacks have become frequent in many parts of the state these days. In US Nagar’s Jaspur, a female leopard injured around six people earlier this month, following which camera traps and a cage has been installed there. A leopard was trapped in a cage installed by forest officials in Matena village in Almora earlier this month. Earlier in April this year, forest officials had rescued and caged a leopard that had been roaming in Dehradun’s Nathuwalla area for over a month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/leopard-that-killed-8-year-old-girl-caught-by-forest-staff-101632223632529.html
21-09-2021||Mumbai||Thane: Probe ordered into additional road widening without approval||Thane Municipal Corporation has ordered an inquiry into the unauthorised widening of Pokharan road number 1 between Cadbury junction to Yeoor in 2015-16, done apparently to help real estate projects on the stretch. Thane Mayor Naresh Mhaske has asked for the probe report’s submission in 10 days’ time amid allegations of irregularities in the execution of the project.The general body of the municipal corporation passed a resolution to conduct an inquiry following the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) corporator Archana Manera’s allegation that the Pokharan road was widened to 48 meters, when the development plan (DP) allowed only 40 meters widening. Manera pointed out that any changes in the development plan needed official approval, which was not sought in this case.The town planning department agreed that the width of the road in question exceeded the approved width as per the development plan. Manera alleged that while the corporation would raze small establishments for encroachment of even lesser space, the additional eight meters widening had been done to benefit a large-scale commercial project in the area.During the question-answer session, Manera asked if the civic commissioner has the right to change the DP.TMCs city planning officer Shailendra Bhendale, said, “As per the DP, the road is 40 meters wide, however, it is true that the actual length of the road is 48 meters. The general body’s permission is needed to make any changes in the DP.”Vikrant Chavan, the Congress corporator added that the additional eight meters were only added on one side of the road, ensuring demolition of the shops at Vartak Nagar Naka. “The road was widened by officials only to benefit the real estate projects coming along the route. TMC will also incur additional expenses on maintaining the road henceforth,” Chavan said.The Nationalist Congress Party’s (NCP) corporator Najib Mullah said it needed to be inquired how additional widening was done without seeking the approval of the house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-probe-ordered-into-additional-road-widening-without-approval-101632222252373.html
21-09-2021||Mumbai||Sena hit out at BJP for ‘using’ central agencies against Maharashtra govt||Maharashtra’s ruling Shiv Sena on Tuesday hit out at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for allegedly using central agencies such as the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) against the state government.In an editorial in its mouthpiece Saamana, the Sena referred to BJP state president Chandrakant Patil and said some of the party leaders think the ED, the CBI “are in their pocket” and threaten political opponents.“...Patil has threatened...(Maharashtra minister) Hasan Mushrif...(citing) ED... Former MP (member of Parliament) Kirit Somaiya has made some allegations against Hasan Mushrif. These allegations seem to have been made at the behest of Chandrakant Patil,” it said.Also Read | ‘Hindutva strangulated’: Shiv Sena seeks CBI probe into Narendra Giri’s deathThe Sena accused the leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis and governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari of behaving like “enemies of the Maharashtra government”. “From the governor to the leader of opposition, everyone is behaving like an enemy to the Maharashtra government. The Thackeray government in Maharashtra is not falling even after the central pressure...”BJP spokespersons have said they do not react to Saamana editorials as a policy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sena-hit-out-at-bjp-for-using-central-agencies-against-maharashtra-govt-101632222072292.html
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||Rain in Himachal floods apple orchards, damages houses in Manali||The retreating monsoon caused flooding in Barua village near the tourist town of Manali on Monday night, officials said on Tuesday. Though no loss of life was reported, the flooding from a nearby rivulet after heavy rain in the region inundated apple orchards and farmland besides damaging three houses in the village. Also read: Consider reducing GST rate on ropeways: HP to CentreA flash flood was also reported from Chamyar Karog village on Monday night. The flooding damaged fields of vegetables in the area. Officials from the revenue department have reached the village to assess the damage. The meteorological department has forecast moderate to heavy rain in Una, Hamirpur, Bilaspur, Kangra, Mandi, Shimla, Solan and Sirmaur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rain-in-himachal-floods-apple-orchards-damages-houses-in-manali-101632221472927.html
21-09-2021||Ranchi||Three men arrested for raping 16-yr-old girl in Jharkhand||Three men were arrested on Tuesday for allegedly raping a 16-year-old girl in Jharkhand’s Daru last week. The alleged rape came to light on Monday when the girl was admitted to a Hazaribag hospital.Also Read | Man on the run after raping relative at her Zirakpur house“We were informed by the hospital last evening. Medically the girl is fine now. We recorded the statement of the girl yesterday [Monday] and registered an FIR (First Information Report]. I formed a team to arrest the accused. We have arrested three named accused in the case. We have identified the other two accused as well and they would be arrested soon,” said Hazaribag police superintendent Manoj Ratan Chothe.As per the complaint, the girl was out to attend nature’s call with two other girls from her neighbourhood when they were chased by the five accused. While the other two girls managed to flee, the 16-year-old was abducted, and gang-raped.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/three-men-arrested-for-raping-16-yr-old-girl-in-jharkhand-101632218471789.html
21-09-2021||Mumbai||4 of farmers’ family killed near Nagpur in Maharashtra||Four members of a farmers’ family were brutally murdered on Monday night at Churdi village in Maharashtra’s Gondia district, about 150 kms from Nagpur, police said.Police said Revchandra Bisen (51), his wife Malati (45), daughter Purnima (20) and son Tejas (17) were killed by sharp weapons by unknown assailants on Monday midnight and their blood-soaked bodies were first found by neighbours the next day at around 11am. The aged mother of Revchandra, who was in another room, was found unhurt.A team of Tiroda police was investigating the killings and further details of the case are yet to be ascertained.“We are investigating the matter. Prima facie, enmity appears to be the reason behind the brutal murder of the Bisen family,” said Vishwa Pansare, the superintendent of police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/4-of-farmers-family-killed-near-nagpur-in-maharashtra-101632218411814.html
21-09-2021||Other||Sitting HC judge should probe Mahant Giri’s death: SP chief Akhilesh Yadav||Former Uttar Pradesh chief minister and Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday demanded that the death of Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad president Mahant Narendra Giri be probed by a sitting high court judge. He said many suspicious circumstances surround the Mahant’s death and the truth will come out if the probe was undertaken by a high court judge. Yadav was in Prayagraj to pay his last respects to Mahant Narendra Giri at his Baghambari Math ashram. Talking to media persons later, Yadav said the Akhara Parishad, all of Giri’s followers, and his disciples want the truth behind the mystery to come out. Also Read | FIR against Anand Giri; UP CM pays last respects to ABAP chief“If Mahant Narendra Giri was worried, stressed, facing any other problem or his land was being grabbed by someone, it will all come out if an impartial probe is conducted by a sitting high court judge,” the SP chief said The former UP CM recalled the contributions of the Mahant in making Kumbh-2019 a success. He specially highlighted the personal interest that the seer took in ensuring that every ritual and ceremony during the mega religious fair was conducted as per strict religious norms. “I was lucky to have always received his blessings including during the Kumbh,” he added, terming the death as a huge loss for everyone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sitting-hc-judge-should-probe-mahant-giri-s-death-sp-chief-akhilesh-yadav-101632216373365.html
21-09-2021||Other||UP govt ready for even CBI probe in Mahant Giri’s death: Dy CM||Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya on Tuesday said that the death of Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad (ABAP) chief Mahant Narendra Giri will be investigated and culprits will be given strictest of punishment as per the law. He said the state government was ready even for a CBI investigation, if needed. “The wishes of the Akhara Parishad and the Panch Parmeshwars (heads) of Shri Panchayati Akhara Niranjani (a monastic order of which Narendra Giri was also the secretary) would be honoured in this regard,” he said, while interacting with media persons in Prayagraj. Earlier, Maurya reached the city from Lucknow and paid his last respects to the Mahant at the Baghambari Math ashram where his body has been kept for darshan. Maurya had met the 62-year-old Mahant past Sunday. “I am unable to believe that he could have died by suicide. I am shocked, pained...I knew him since childhood...I sought his blessings on the morning of September 19. He seemed fine then…,” Maurya had said in his tweet in Hindi on Mahant’s death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/upgovt-ready-for-even-cbi-probe-in-mahant-giri-s-death-dy-cm-101632215831737.html
21-09-2021||Noida||Uttar Pradesh govt to set up electronic park in 250 acres near Jewar Airport||The Uttar Pradesh government will set up an electronic park in the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) area that is expected to attract an investment of ₹50,000 crore, according to Yeida CEO Arun Veer Singh. The official said that the growing interest in Uttar Pradesh among electronic industry giants due to “investor-friendly” policies has prompted the government to develop the Electronic Park.Singh said that the Park is likely to be developed in an area of 250 acres either in Sector 14, or Sector 10 of Yeida near Jewar Airport.“National and international companies making mobile phones, TVs and other electronic goods will establish their units in the park. The investors are impressed by the State Government’s policies to promote electronics industry,” he added.The decision to build an electronic park comes weeks after the Uttar Pradesh government announced a sprawling medical device park in Noida. Yeida has earmarked 350 acres of land for the first medical device park in Uttar Pradesh that will be built in two phases. The park is expected to offer employment to more than 20,000 people.Also Read | Noida to get 350-acre medical device park, provide employment to 20,000 people: UP govtApart from medical device park and electronic park, Jewar Airport, Film City, Toy Park and Leather Park are also some of the ambitious projects announced by the Uttar Pradesh government. The government has claimed that Toy Park and Leather Park will provide employment to over 10,000 people.Since the decision to set up Jewar Airport in the Yeida area, about 1,942 investors have been allotted land to establish their units, according to the state government. The industrialists are expected to invest ₹17,272.74 crore to set up their factories and will employ more than 2.65 lakh people.Yeida area, which will be built in two phases, covers about 2,689 square kilometres falling into six districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/uttar-pradesh-govt-to-set-up-electronic-park-in-250-acres-near-jewar-airport-101632215385656.html
21-09-2021||Kolkata||CBI registers another FIR in death of BJP supporter during West Bengal post-poll violence||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Monday registered another FIR in a death case of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) supporter during post-poll violence in West Bengal.The complainant Purnima Dey, wife of the deceased alleged that her husband Narayan Dey who was a BJP supporter was killed by Trinamool Congress (TMC) goons in Nadia district.In her complaint, she alleged that her husband was a Toto driver by profession. On April 18, when post-poll violence was going on in Kanchannagar, he was returning home. He did not have any knowledge about the violence."But as my husband Narayan Dey was known as a BJP supporter in the locality, a group of TMC goons surrounded him and brutally beat him. At that moment, police reached the spot and arrested everyone along with him," she alleged in her complainant.She added that her husband fell sick due to the beating. Thereafter, when he got bail from the court after three days, he was admitted to Burdwan Hospital. His health continued to deteriorate and he was transferred to the Motherland Nursing home in Khojbagan and later to Skylark Nursing Home in Borehat where the doctors gave up on him and he was brought back home and on May 6 he died."I was busy with the last rituals of my husband as per Hindu religion for the last few days, I could not contact any police official. Therefore, I humbly request you to investigate, identify and take legal action against those persons who killed an innocent person," she added.The CBI has registered FIR under IPC section 302 (murder).Further investigation is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/cbi-registers-another-fir-in-death-of-bjp-supporter-during-wb-post-poll-violence-101632213040501.html
21-09-2021||Indore||7 temporary staff of Indore civic body sacked for dumping Ganesh's idols in pond||The Indore Municipal Corporation on Monday terminated services of seven temporary workers after a video clip showed them dumping idols of Lord Ganesh in a pond in an objectionable manner that caused outrage, an official said. Indore municipal commissioner Pratibha Pal terminated the services of seven temporary employees following the incident which occurred at the Jawahar Tekri pond, the official said. He said the IMC had collected idols of Lord Ganesh from various centres on the last day of the ten-day festival on Sunday for immersion at the select water sources. After the video clip went viral, several social media users expressed their anger and hurt. Madhya Pradesh Urban Administration Minister Bhupendra Singh also said in a tweet that he has directed officials to take action in this incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/7-temporary-staff-of-indore-civic-body-sacked-for-dumping-ganesh-s-idols-in-pond-101632206537836.html
21-09-2021||Other||FIR against Anand Giri; UP CM pays last respects to ABAP chief||Anand Giri, whose name was allegedly mentioned in the note recovered from the room of deceased chief of Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad, Mahant Narendra Giri, has been booked for abetment of suicide.The First Information Report under section 306 of the Indian Penal Code was lodged late Monday night. Narendra Giri, also the Mahant of Bade Hanuman Temple, was found hanging by a rope from the ceiling on Monday evening in his Prayagraj ashram. SP City Dinesh Kumar Singh said the case against Anand Giri was registered on the complaint of Baghambari Math ashram sewadar Amar Giri Pawan Maharaj. As per the complaint, Mahant Giri was in stress and used to say that Anand was harassing him, the SP added. Also Read | Akhil Bharatiya Sant Samiti demands probe into Narendra Giri’s deathThe complaint said Mahant Giri’s disciples Sumit Tiwari, and Sarvesh Dwivedi went inside his room when their phone calls to him went unanswered. There, they found him hanging. They cut the rope and brought the body down but the seer had died by then. The disciples then informed the police, it said. Meanwhile, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath arrived in Prayagraj to pay his last respects to the Mahant at his Baghambari math ashram on Tuesday morning. Talking to media persons, Yogi said, “He always strived to ensure coordination among all the 13 akharas (monastic orders) and saints of different orders and sects...Narendra Giri was the first to request the PM to come to Kumbh—2019 and perform the Sangam and Ganga Pujan. I have personally seen how he was always ready to extend his support in any major issue concerning the country, the saints and the monastic orders. His passing away is a huge loss for the religious and the spiritual world.” Adityanath said that the incident would be investigated and the culprits would be punished as per the law. “I would request all to allow the investigation agencies to do their work. A team of five doctors would carry out a postmortem examination on Wednesday,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fir-against-anand-giri-up-cm-pays-last-respects-to-abap-chief-101632211451095.html
21-09-2021||Patna||5 killed, 1 injured in road accident in Bihar’s Araria district||All the 5 passengers of a car were killed after it crashed in a roadside ditch near Dala village in Bihar’s Araria district early on Tuesday when the car’s driver lost control. The driver, the only survivor, is undergoing treatment in a private hospital for critical injuries, police said.The deceased, aged between 20-35 years, were returning from a fair when the accident took place about 40 km from Araria district headquarters. They were identified as Kalanand Mandal of Loukhra village, Sunil Kardar of Gerari village, Sunil Mandal of Majhwa village, Dhananjay Sah and Navin Sah, both of Chouri village. Sonu Yadav, the driver is said to be critical and under treatment at Araria district hospitalThe locals said they tried to pull the passengers out from the ditch but all five had died by then. “We rushed to the site soon after we heard about the accident but it was too late” locals said, adding, “We however rushed them to Palasi primary health centre (PHC), where the doctors declared them dead.”Later, police reached the site and sent the bodies to Araria district hospital for post-mortem. Palasi police station’s station house officer (SHO) Shiv Pujan Kumar said, “The accident took place after the driver lost control over the vehicle in a sharp turn.” He added that it was possible that the driver momentarily dozed off at the wheel.”About a month ago, five people were killed and six injured when a truck and auto collided on Araria-Purnia road in Araria district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/5-killed-and-1-injured-in-road-accident-in-bihar-s-araria-district-101632211091165.html
21-09-2021||Mumbai||Raj Kundra released from Mumbai jail after bail in pornographic films case||Businessman Raj Kundra on Tuesday walked out of a Mumbai jail, a day after a local court in Mumbai granted bail to the key accused in a pornographic films case in which he was arrested two months ago. A jail official said Kundra was released from the Arthur Road Jail shortly after 11.30am, according to news agency PTI. Kundra was seen in a grey t-shirt surrounded by a clutch of reporters as he left the jail in a red car. Chief metropolitan magistrate SB Bhajipale on Monday allowed Kundra's bail application on furnishing a bond of ₹50,000. The 46-year-old businessman's associate and co-accused Ryan Thorpe, who was also arrested along with him on July 19, was also granted bail by the court in the case pertaining to the alleged creation of pornographic films and publishing them through some apps. Raj Kundra was booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code, the Information Technology Act and the Indecent Representation of Women (Prohibition) Act.Also read | Videos shot with consent: Raj Kundra seeks bail, says no evidence against himKundra, who is Bollywood actor Shilpa Shetty’s husband, was lodged in Arthur Road Jail in central Mumbai under judicial custody. Last Saturday, Kundra moved a bail plea before the metropolitan magistrate court after the police filed a supplementary charge sheet in the case. Kundra claimed in the plea, which he filed through advocate Prashant Patil, that there was no evidence to date with the prosecution that would connect the Hotshots mobile application, used in the alleged porn films racket, with an offence under law. The probe agency has said that theHotshots app was being used by theaccused for uploading and streaming obscene content.ALso read | Didn’t know about Raj Kundra’s business, says wife Shilpa ShettyHe claimed there was no evidence of him being "actively" involved in thecreation of alleged questionable porn content. Kundra alleged he was falsely implicated, was not even named in the FIR and was dragged by the respondent (police) in the case. Kundra also claimed that he is being made a "scapegoat" for reasons best known to investigators. He also said that the contents of the complaint in the case do not disclose any prima facie offence against him.The police, in their nearly 1,500-page supplementary charge sheet filed in the court on September 15, claimed Kundra was the "main facilitator" in the pornography case and he along with other accused exploited young women struggling in the film industry. Yash Thakur, a Singapore resident, and London-based Pardeep Bakshi have also been shown as wanted accused in the charge sheet.The public prosecutor opposed Kundra's application and said that just because the charge sheet has been filed, it does not imply bail has to be granted. After hearing both sides, chief metropolitan magistrate Bhajipale granted Kundra bail.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/raj-kundra-released-from-mumbai-jail-after-bail-in-pornographic-films-case-101632209249649.html
21-09-2021||Noida||Nine involved in stealing construction material arrested in Greater Noida||Nine members of a gang allegedly involved in stealing construction material from various sites were arrested following a gunfight with police in Greater Noida, officials said on Tuesday.Two of them suffered bullet injuries during the gunfight that broke out near the Hindon Pusta under the Knowledge Park police station limits late Monday night, Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (Greater Noida), Vishal Pandey, said.Three other members of the gang are absconding and searches are underway to trace them, he said.The officer said the Knowledge Park police team had set up a picket as part of routine check on Monday night when they saw a truck coming in and gestured it to stop.“However, the driver of the truck sped towards Hindon Pusta. They were chased down and soon a gunfight broke out between the truck occupants and the police in which two men suffered bullet injuries in a counter-exchange while some others managed to flee the spot,” Pandey said.“A combing operation was launched immediately that led to the arrest of seven men who had fled during the gunfight. Three more of their partners are absconding but searches are underway to trace them,” he said.Illegal firearms and ammunition were seized from their possession, Pandey said, adding the gang was involved in theft of valuable items from under-construction sites in Greater Noida and Noida.They had recently lifted material from a railway construction site in Greater Noida and efforts are on to dig up their criminal history, he said, adding an FIR was being lodged in the case and further proceedings were underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/nine-involved-in-stealing-construction-material-arrested-in-greater-noida-101632209276141.html
21-09-2021||Other||Couple found dead in Meerut home; police suspect relative||A couple has been found dead at their home in Meerut with police saying a distant relative, who visited them on Monday night, allegedly murdered them. Police said several teams have been formed to track down the suspect. Assistant police superintendent Vivek Yadav said an investigation is underway and the suspect would be arrested soon. “The reason behind the murders is unclear,” he said.Police said the relative, Sameer, arrived at Abad, 40, and his wife Zubeda’s home on Monday and hours later allegedly attacked the couple with a knife besides assaulting their nine-year-old daughter.The nine-year-old told investigators that Sameer allegedly slit her father’s throat before stabbing her mother to death when she rushed to save her husband.Police have sent the bodies for postmortem and named Sameer as the prime suspect.Senior police superintendent Prabhakar Choudhary and other top police officers rushed to the murder scene and spoke to the nine-year-old.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/couple-found-dead-in-meerut-home-police-suspect-relative-101632207791266.html
21-09-2021||Bhopal||After Amit Shah’s visit, Madhya Pradesh CM holds series of meeting||Days after visiting home minister Amit Shah praised Rakesh Singh, a former Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief and a Member of Parliament, Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has set about projecting himself as a tough taskmaster by holding several meetings focused on governance, reminding officers that the state should be a model of good governance.Shah was in Jabalpur on September 18 for Balidan Diwas in the honour of Gond tribal king Shankar Shah and his son Kunwar Raghunath Shah who were prosecuted by the British for participating in the 1857 mutiny.A day after the event, Chouhan met governor Mangubhai Patel, which the Congress leaders said was an “unusual” meeting. The CM said the meeting was held to discuss the development schemes. On Monday, he chaired a meeting of Indian Police Service and Indian Administrative Service officials in districts where he said, “I will rate the officers on their work. We have to adopt a zero-tolerance policy towards corruption. The state should be a model of good governance and any officer failing to discharge their duties will be penalised.”Also Read | ‘Aukat kya hai’: BJP’s Uma Bharti says bureaucrats there to pick up slippers  He also asked the officials to take strict action against mafia and also in cases of irregularities and corruption. During the Balidan Diwas event, while Chouhan was also present, Shah was all praises for Singh, the organiser. “On whose invitation I have come here and one who is truly leading the way, our Rakesh Singh ji,” Shah said. He repeated this at two different functions, make it clear that he was present on the Jabalpur MP’s invitation. At the event, the CM spoke in detail about tribal welfare and announced that Panchayat Extension to Scheduled Area (PESA) Act will be implemented in a phased manner.“The CM was trying to prove something to Shah,” said a senior BJP leader, who didn’t wish to be named. Experts see this as an assertion by Chouhan to show to BJP high command that he was in control and he was a popular mass leader. Political analyst Girja Shankar said, “Amid speculations of change of guard, the CM is looking at an image makeover. He is trying to connect emotionally with people. Reports of scams and irregularities in government is hurting his image and that’s why he is trying to be a hard taskmaster.” Congress lawmaker and spokesperson PC Sharma said, “During the visit of the home minister, the CM was so tense and desperate that he organised six programmes in day to impress him. He is under pressure as he has failed to maintain law and order and crime against women. Nothing is going to happen with this image building, BJP will lose 2023 assembly election.” BJP spokesperson Rajneesh Agrawal, however, said theirs was an organised party and any decision of change is accepted by one and all unlike Congress, where it leads to infighting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/after-amit-shah-s-visit-madhya-pradesh-cm-holds-series-of-meeting-101632206410582.html
21-09-2021||Kolkata||Sukanta Majumdar, new Bengal BJP chief, promises to live up to expectations||Sukanta Majumdar, the Balurghat lawmaker who replaced Dilip Ghosh as the BJP’s West Bengal unit president, has thanked the central leadership for giving "such big responsibility to an ordinary party worker". Sukanta Majumdar’s appointment has come months after the Bharatiya Janata Party lost in the West Bengal assembly elections and several senior leaders defected to the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) in the state. "The party has given such a big responsibility to an ordinary worker like me. This can only be possible in the BJP. No other political party can take such a step. I will try to live up to the expectations of the high command and to the trust, they have shown in me,” Sukanta Majumdar told news agency ANI.Shortly after the announcement, Majumdar said that the BJP is a big family and there can be some differences among its members. “I am confident that those who in the BJP for ideological reasons will not leave. I apologise to our workers who might have felt neglected,” he said. “There are no differences in ideology. The differences in opinions can be resolved," he said and added that he will visit Delhi on September 26.Majumdar said that those who left the BJP joined it with a motive and they left because their motive was not fulfilled when asked about how the patty is coping with the workers resigning from the party. "A political party is like a water body. There is an inflow and outflow of the workers. People joined us with a motive and left us as their motive was not fulfilled. The people who have faith in the ideology of the BJP will never leave the party," Majumdar, who was a member of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, said.Also read | Dilip Ghosh replaced as BJP’s Bengal chief, Sukanta Majumdar takes overSpeaking to ANI over Majumdar’s appointment as the West Bengal BJP chief, Ghosh said: “The party has taken the decision considering the future of the party in the state. The responsibility has been given to the deserving person."Also read | ‘Wait and watch’: TMC says more leaders to join after Babul Supriyo’s entryDilip Ghosh, an MP from Medinipur, has been appointed the national vice president of the BJP. Ghosh thanked the BJP high command for his new responsibility. “I will fulfill the responsibilities given to me by the party high command. I will complete the tasks given to me,” Ghosh, who was the Bengal unit chief for six years, said."The party workers were disappointed over the post-poll violence after the West Bengal polls. But they have gained confidence. As far as the internal strife is concerned, there can be differences in opinion in any political party, but everyone will work together for the success of the party in the state," he said, according to ANI.Majumdar holds a doctoral degree in botany from the North Bengal University and is a first-time MP.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/sukanta-majumdar-new-bengal-bjp-chief-promises-to-live-up-to-expectations-101632204767345.html
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Channi, Sidhu to visit Delhi, hold talks on cabinet expansion||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi will meet Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in New Delhi to hold talks on the expansion of the state cabinet, people familiar with the matter said on Tuesday. Channi will be accompanied by Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu and the two newly appointed deputy chief ministers Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and OP Soni.It is not clear when the meeting with Rahul Gandhi to discuss the names of the ministers in the new Punjab cabinet will take place as he is on a personal visit to Shimla. Upon his arrival at the national capital on Tuesday, the chief minister-led delegation will meet senior Congress leaders Harish Rawat and KC Venugopal and two central observers.There are already hints that several new faces, including a few from the group that spoke out against former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, might be inducted into the new cabinet to give it a fresh look and make a clean break from the previous administration.Charanjit Singh Channi was sworn in as the 16th chief minister of Punjab on Monday to become the first politician from the Dalit community in the state to take charge of the top post. The Congress leadership announced his name as the chief minister last Sunday.Channi served as the minister of technical education in the state government led by Amarinder Singh, who submitted his resignation last Saturday, after a months-long power-sharing tussle with Navjot Singh Sidhu.After taking the oath, CM Charanjit Singh Channi held a press conference where he called himself an ‘aam aadmi’ (common man) and urged the Centre to take back the three new farm laws. Channi made a slew of promises to the people of Punjab which included free water supply to smaller households, reduction in the power tariff and also the elimination of sand mafia in the state.(With inputs from Navneet Sharma, Punjab bureau)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-channi-sidhu-to-visit-delhi-hold-talks-on-cabinet-expansion-101632200909869.html
21-09-2021||Patna||67 samples test Covid-19 positive in 2 days at Madhubani station, retest ordered||Administration of Bihar’s Madhubani district sent 67 swab samples for confirmatory real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests on Monday. These samples had tested Covid-19 positive in the rapid antigen detection (RAD) tests, conducted among passengers at the Madhubani railway station, which alarmed district health officials. As many as 35 passengers from the Swatantrata Senani Express from New Delhi tested positive in RAD tests for Covid-19 on Monday and 32 others from Mumbai tested positive on Sunday, triggering concern.The district authorities, however, have reasons to believe that these could be false positive results since three of these passengers tested negative during a re-test with RAD kits at their village, said officials. “The sudden rise in cases, the asymptomatic nature of patients, epidemiological references that false positive cases go up when the prevalence of a disease goes down, three passengers testing negative during a re-check, as also the fact that no other passenger at any railway station earlier en route Madhubani from New Delhi or Mumbai reported positive, have raised suspicion that these may be false positive cases,” said Dr Sunil Kumar Jha, civil surgeon, Madhubani. He added that the sensitivity of RAD kits depends on many factors, temperature being one. “We are getting all the samples re-checked on RT-PCR,” he added. Meanwhile, the district authorities have allowed all the 67 Covid-19 suspects to be under home isolation till the results from RT-PCR tests allow for some conclusion on their status. “Our healthcare workers are checking on them on a daily basis to see if their condition deteriorates. We are also insisting that they opt for institutional isolation. Around 800 beds at Covid care centres, available in our district, are vacant,” added Dr Jha. The Covid-19 bulletin, released by the state health department on Monday, reported only seven new cases. Of them, two were from Gopalganj and one each from Patna, Bhojpur, Madhubani, Purnia and Katihar. Bihar has reported 725,901 cases and 9,659 deaths since March 21, 2020, when the first Covid-19 case in the state was reported. Patna, with 146,942 cases and 2,334 deaths, was the worst affected. As many as 716,173 patients have recovered so far, taking the state’s case recovery rate to 98.65%. The number of active cases in the state has come down to 68.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/67-samples-test-covid-19-positive-in-2-days-at-madhubani-station-retest-ordered-101632205210669.html
21-09-2021||Kolkata||Heavy rains continue in south Bengal; trains cancelled, flights delayed||Heavy rains, triggered by a cyclonic circulation, continued to lash Kolkata and its surrounding areas for the second consecutive day even as large areas remained inundated. While some trains had to be cancelled, several others had to be rescheduled or their origin stations changed. At least 19 outgoing flights and 13 incoming flights were delayed at the airport in Kolkata by Monday night because of the heavy rains, airport authorities said.On Monday, Kolkata had received 142mm rain in 24 hours by 8.30am, its highest in 14 years. The last time it rained so heavily in a single day in September was on September 25, 2007 when the city registered 174mm rain then. Till 8.30am on Tuesday, Kolkata received 60.6mm rain in the last 24 hours. The rain was, however, pretty intense in the surrounding areas with many stations in North 24 Parganas and South 24 Parganas receiving more than 100mm of rain for the second consecutive day. Canning in South 24 Parganas received 110mm rain in 24 hours till Monday morning and 115mm rain between Monday and Tuesday morning. Likewise Salt Lake, Dum Dum and Diamond Harbour all received at least 100mm rain for the second consecutive day. Also Read | Bangladesh to send 2,000 tonnes of Hilsa fish ahead of Durga PujaWhile at least three trains under the Eastern Railway originating from Kolkata station had to be cancelled, trains such as Kolkata-Jammu Tawi special and Kolkata-Amritsar special had to be rescheduled. Three trains had to be shortly terminated, while one each had to be diverted and its origin station changed. The circular railway that serves Kolkata also had to be cancelled. Many trains under South Eastern Railway too, such as the Howrah-Puri special, Howrah-Hyderabad special, Howrah-Yesvantpur special, Howrah-Ranchi special had to be originated from other stations such as Shalimar, Santragachi and Kharagpur due to waterlogging at Howrah. “There were some delays in flights on Monday. That was, however, not because of waterlogging. Flights got delayed because of an inclement weather. On Tuesday, things seem to be better and no delay has been reported till 11am,” said an airport official. The India Meteorological Department said the intensity of rain is expected to decline in Kolkata on Tuesday even though heavy rain may lash some of the districts in the western parts of the state, such as Bankura, Purulia, Jhargram, Purba Medinipur, Pashchim Medinipur and some parts of South 24 Parganas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/heavy-rains-continue-in-south-bengal-trains-cancelled-flights-delayed-101632203710535.html
21-09-2021||Patna||Preparation for Durga Puja celebration begins in Patna||With only a couple of weeks left for the beginning of Durga Puja celebration, organisers in Patna are finalising designs of pandals and idols along with plans to implement Covid-19 safety protocols. The Durga Puja will begin on October 7 and conclude on October 15.Patna district magistrate (DM) Chandrashekhar Singh has allowed Durga Puja celebration and Ravan Vadh event on Dussehra this year on the condition that Covid-19 containment measures will be followed strictly.“As per the state unlock guidelines, there is no restriction on religious and cultural activities. Puja committees will have to acquire a licence for erecting Puja pandals and strictly follow Covid-19 safety guidelines,” DM Singh said.Several Puja organisers have decided to scale down recognising the need for measured celebrations keeping the Covid-19 threat in view.Singh cautioned that if Covid-19 cases tend to rise in the near future, Puja celebration could be cancelled in view of public health safety.Ranjan Kumar, vice-president of Shri Shri Navyuvak Durga Puja committee, said, “We have opted for low-key celebration fearing the third wave of Covid-19. Durga Puja will be performed with traditional rituals but we will have a simple pandal this year as monitoring huge crowds will not be possible.”In line with the need for social distancing, Chajjubagh Sarbojanin Durga Puja committee is collecting donations through digital platforms this year.“Instead of visiting door to door, we are circulating the donation link on social media for collecting contributions from devotees. Unlike previous years, we will not go for grand pandals and life-size idols,” said a member of the committee. Vijay Vahini Durga Puja committee, Anandpuri has opted for decorations in the rainbow theme to symbolise hope.“We are happy as the government has allowed Durga Puja celebration this year. We will design a pandal based on Kedarnath temple along with rainbow decorations. However, the height of pandals and idols will be less this year,” said Santosh Kumar, a member of the committee.The district administration has also allowed cultural events including Ramleela, Ravan Vadh and Bharat Milap at Kalidas Rangalaya on October 14, 15 and 16 respectively, with a limited number of guests. Earlier, these events were organised at Gandhi Maidan, attracting hundreds of thousands of visitors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/preparation-for-durga-puja-celebration-begins-in-patna-101632202690426.html
21-09-2021||Lucknow||Akhil Bharatiya Sant Samiti demands probe into Narendra Giri’s death||Akhil Bharatiya Sant Samiti general secretary Swami Jitendranand Saraswati has sought a thorough probe into the death of Narendra Giri, the president of the Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad and Mahant of Bade Hanuman temple of Prayagraj. Giri was found hanging from a ceiling fan by a rope on Monday. A purported suicide note was found in his room, and it blamed one of his disciples and two others for pushing him to suicide.Also Read | Lawyer seeks CBI probe into Akhara head Narendra Giri’s deathSaraswati said the three-page note was recovered from the room in which Giri’s body was found. He added Giri could not even sign properly and questioned how he could write three pages. “Under such circumstances, it should be probed if it was a murder as part of a conspiracy to implicate someone? All this should be probed and investigated thoroughly.”Saraswati said he has full confidence that Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath will get a thorough probe done in the matter. “Everything will be clear from the probe.”Saraswati said Giri was provided sufficient security. He added Giri was a strong-willed person. “He could not have died by suicide.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/akhil-bharatiya-sant-samiti-demands-probe-into-seer-s-death-101632201490349.html
21-09-2021||Lucknow||BJP govt wiping out mafias and goons protected earlier in UP: Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday said his government was wiping out goons and mafias that were protected by previous administrations.Yogi was addressing a gathering after launching development projects and distributing certificates of various government-run schemes among the beneficiaries at Saidpur town of Ghazipur district. In an apparent reference to gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari, the CM said that some gangsters, who defamed the name of the district, were being wiped out in action taken by the current administration. “The BJP government knows how to deal with goons, mafia very well. Bulldozers are being run over the properties of goons and mafia in the BJP government. In the previous governments, they used to get government protection,” he said.He added that his government has been cracking down on illegal mining and occupations and removed land encroachments. Yogi said the entire country was developing under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “Today people can do aachman (religious ritual) with Gangajal. Continuous efforts have been made for improving the health infrastructure...,” he said. The CM also claimed there had been a big change in the state in the last four and a half years.“The BJP government is working continuously for the benefit and development of farmers. Many schemes are being launched for their benefit. Government schemes are reaching every village now,” the CM said.Yogi also alleged that while the opposition parties ignored development, it was the key agenda of the BJP.“Development is the agenda of the BJP. The BJP government is dedicated to meeting the interests of the people,” he said.The chief minister also promised to get the Purvanchal Expressway inaugurated soon by PM Modi.“Purvanchal Expressway will change people’s lives. Development will get a new impetus in the entire region. PM Modi has worked to transform the country,” Yogi said. He said the BJP government did not favour any caste, region and face and it worked for all sections of the society.“In earlier governments, there used to be riots at every festival, but this is not happening in the BJP government,” he said.Later in Jaunpur, Yogi alleged that the Samajwadi Party (SP), the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and the Congress never thought about the country and its people. He also alleged that corruption was rampant when the Opposition ruled the state.“Nepotism and graft was rampant in the previous regimes. But the BJP government ended the same and made recruitment process completely transparent,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-adityanath-bjp-govt-wiping-out-mafias-and-goons-protected-earlier-in-up-101632200650204.html
21-09-2021||Kolkata||Kolkata rain: Several areas under water, highest September rainfall since 2007||Several areas in Kolkata have been partially submerged and transport services severely affected after Kolkata received the highest rainfall in September in nearly 14 years. The India Meteorological department (IMD) has predicted all districts of south Bengal will receive light to moderate rainfall with one or two spells of heavy rainfall and thundershowers, till Tuesday.Many areas in the Bengal capital such as Ballygunge, Golf Green, Palmer Bazar, Topsia, Ultadanga, Chetla etc received more than 100 millimeters (mm) of rainfall on Sunday leading to flooding. Rainwater inundated the outpatient department (OPD) of gynaecology section as well as the ticket counter on the ground floor of the SSKM Medical College and hospital building on Monday, and nurses were seen wading in ankle deep water to attend to patients. Rainwater also damaged valuable medicines and oxygen cylinders at the Calcutta School of Tropical Medicine.The IMD regional office said Kolkata received 142mm of rain in a span of 24 hours till 8.30am on Monday, and over 100mm during the six-hour span from 1am to 7am. The city received around 174.4 mm of rainfall on September 25 in 2007.Videos on social media showed severe waterlogging in Kolkata international airport but flight timings remained unaffected. Trinamool Congress MP Saugata Roy was seen wading in knee-deep water in Lake Gardens area while taking stock of the situation. Rain also led to the cancellation of the city’s circular rail for the day, and cancellation or diversion of many long distance trains. Pedestrians were also affected after thoroughfares and subways were inundated.The IMD said the incessant rainfall was caused by the movement of cyclonic circulation from northwest Bay of Bengal to Gangetic parts of the state, and downpour is expected to continue on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/kolkata-rain-several-areas-under-water-highest-september-rainfall-since-2007-101632198912893.html
21-09-2021||Kolkata||Bangladesh to send 2,000 tonnes of Hilsa fish ahead of Durga Puja||With less than a month left for the Durga Puja – the biggest festival in West Bengal – the Sheikh Hasina-government in Bangladesh has decided to send at least 2,000 tonnes of Hilsa fish to West Bengal. This comes at a time when fishermen in the state have been complaining of a poor catch this season. “This year, we would get 2,080 tonnes of Hilsa fish from Bangladesh. We are expecting the first consignment to arrive at the Petrapole border in a day or two. The consignments would continue to come till October 10,” said SA Maqsood, secretary of the Fish Importers’ Association in West Bengal. Hilsa is often tagged as the Queen of Fish for its taste and the Bangladeshi Hilsa, found in River Padma, is considered to be tastier than the ones found in Ganga. Also Read | Uncertainty over Bengal BJP’s Durga Puja celebrations after party’s poll debacleEven though the five-day-long Durga Puja starts this year from October 11, the festival extends for over a week every year. Mahalaya this year would be held on October 6 and the immersion process would continue till 17. “Bangladesh had banned exports of Hilsa fish in 2012. Over the past three years, it has been lifting the ban around this time of the year and issuing special permission to export the fish. In 2019, Bangladesh sent around 500 tonnes of the fish. In 2020, it sent around 1,850 tonnes,” said Maqsood. Fish traders and importers in India have learnt from their Bangladeshi counterparts that the fish would weigh somewhere between 700 and 1200 grams each and the cost would be around ₹900 – ₹1,500 per kilo. Every year during the monsoon, shoals of Hilsa swim several kilometres from the sea into the estuaries and upstream along the rivers for spawning after which they return to the Bay of Bengal. The eggs hatch in freshwater and the sub-adult Hilsa swim downstream into the sea. Another lot comes during February-March. “This migration depends on multiple factors from depth of water at the mouth of rivers, amount of rainfall, river flush and water-pollution among others. The Hilsa, being very sensitive, changes its course and swims in the direction where the conditions are favourable. If they don’t find suitable conditions in Hooghly in West Bengal, they enter Meghna-Padma estuary. Some may even go towards Irrawaddy in Myanmar,” said Shyamsundar Das, joint secretary of West Bengal United Fishermen Association. “The catch has been dwindling over the years. This year, we have managed to catch around 2,700-2,800 tonnes approx., which is slightly better than last year,” said Akhil Giri, state fishery minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bangladesh-to-send-2-000-tonnes-of-hilsa-fish-ahead-of-durga-puja-101632198610314.html
21-09-2021||Lucknow||Lawyer seeks CBI probe into Akhara head Narendra Giri’s death||A lawyer has sent an email to Allahabad high court chief justice seeking a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into the death of Narendra Giri, the president of the Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad and Mahant of Bade Hanuman temple of Prayagraj. Giri was found hanging from a ceiling fan by a rope. A purported suicide note was found in his room, and it blamed one of his disciples and two others for pushing him to suicide.Also Read | Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad chief found dead in his roomIn his email, Sunil Choudhary, the lawyer, cited news portals and linked a high-ranked police officer and land mafia to the death. He added the email be treated as public interest litigation for a fair investigation. Choudhary said the probe must be transferred to the CBI and sought directions for the state government to suspend the district magistrate and senior police superintendent of Prayagraj over inaction. He added he was informed by some residents of Baghambari Gaddi about some related financial misappropriation. “The Mahant was provided security by the state government... how such an incident was possible in the presence of a huge number of disciples and security.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lawyer-seeks-cbi-probe-into-seer-s-death-101632197950018.html
21-09-2021||Lucknow||UP’s 1st tribal museum showcasing Tharu tribe’s history to be ready soon||Uttar Pradesh is likely to get the state’s first tribal museum by March 2022 and it would largely concentrate on displaying the rich and diverse culture of the rare Tharu tribe, said officials. “Tharu tribe is perhaps the most advanced tribe in UP that has evolved with the changing times but are still well connected to their roots and have kept their traditions and culture intact. Our museum would highlight the same and much more about the people of the Tharu tribe,” said AK Singh, director state museum and director in-charge state archaeological department, UP. UP’s first tribal museum or Tharu Janjati Museum, which the officials said was among the pet projects of UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath, will come up at Imilia Koder village—a Tharu populated area in neighbouring Balrampur district. Singh, while highlighting the salient features of the grand museum, said the museum will have everything about the Tharu tribe—starting from their evolution, their culture, religion, tradition, lifestyle, social life and the present life.“There will be different sections for different topics and theme, highlighting the rare pictures, murals, their history and story of evolution, while some will feature their knowledge of medicinal herbs, some would highlight their fashion, attires and jewellery while others will highlight their lifestyle including their clothing, utensils, recipes, food, furniture etc,” said Singh.He said a team from the state museum directorate will visit Tharu populated villages and rope in individuals to make the museum authentic. Spread in around 5.5 acres of land, the construction work of the grand Tharu ethnic museum is in its last phase. “We are done with most of the construction work that largely includes boundary walls and other infrastructure. We expect to complete the finishing in the next couple of months,” said Nitin Kohli, the contractor who is carrying out the construction work. Tharu tribe members have lauded the initiative. “It’s a good step. I believe that efforts should be made to preserve cultures of all such tribes as they are an important part of history,” said Lakshmi Devi, a Tharu and the head of Bela Parsua, a Tharu dominated village in Lakhimpur Kheir district. The project was inaugurated in January 2020 by UP CM but got delayed due to the disruptions caused by the pandemic outbreak. Officials hoped that the Museum, when ready, will boost tourism in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ups-1st-tribal-museum-showcasing-tharu-tribe-s-history-to-be-ready-soon-101632197109980.html
21-09-2021||Patna||Darbhanga parcel blast: Two accused sent on 5-day NIA remand||A special (National Investigation Agency) NIA court in Patna has granted remand to two accused in connection with the Darbhanga parcel blast. NIA had sought 10-day remand for Salim and Kafeel but the court gave the agency the same for five days. “Salim and Kafeel were produced before the court where they granted remand, “ public prosecutor Manoj Kumar Singh said. On July 3, the special court had allowed seven days’ remand for Imran Malik and Nasir Khan and a six-day one for Kafeel. Also Read | ECR sounds alert amid terror attack inputAn officer said the fourth accused, Haji Salim Kashim, could not be taken on remand as he was ill. He was earlier admitted to the hospital over prostate issues. All the four arrested are alleged to be associated with Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) which had planned to blow up a moving train.Malik and Nasir were arrested from Nampally in Hyderabad on June 30 while Kafeel and Salim were taken into custody from Kairana in Shamli district, Uttar Pradesh, on July 2.On June 17, a bundle of clothes exploded while being carried from the parcel van of a train at Darbhanga railway station. However, no one was injured. A bottle containing some liquid was found stashed inside the damaged parcel bundle. It was sent for forensic examination. The consignment had been booked from Secunderbad railway station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/darbhanga-parcel-blast-two-accused-sent-on-5-day-niaremand-101632196089842.html
21-09-2021||Delhi||Delhi may get light rain, drizzle today: IMD||Delhi is likely to get light rain or drizzle on Tuesday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast said. According to the forecast, this may continue for the rest of the week with light rain or thundershowers. “While mostly light rain or drizzle has been predicted till September 27, there could be a spell of light to moderate rainfall on September 22,” said a senior IMD official. With maximum rainfall received during this month in the monsoon, it could be the rainiest September since 1901, IMD officials said. Also Read | 28% households in Delhi have one or more member with flu-like symptoms: Survey“The frequent rain spells are a result of the frequently forming low-pressure systems in the Bay of Bengal. Usually there are two to three such systems forming in the monsoon months, but it had increased to 4-5 during this month,” the official said. The minimum temperature in the national capital on Monday morning settled at 26.5 degrees Celsius, two notches above the season’s average, the India Meteorological Department said. The relative humidity was recorded at 89 per cent, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-may-get-light-rain-drizzle-todayimd-101632194589832.html
21-09-2021||Mumbai||Pornography case: Raj Kundra may walk out of jail today||A day after being granted bail in a case pertaining to creation of porn films, businessman Raj Kundra may walk out of jail on Tuesday. Kundra was named a key accused in a pornography case and was arrested on July 19 along with 10 other people. He was booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the Information Technology Act and Indecent Representation of Women (Prohibition) Act.On Monday, Kundra and his associate Ryan Thorpe were granted bail by a metropolitan magistrate court in Mumbai. Kundra has been ordered to pay ₹50,000 surety for his release.Speaking to news agency PTI, Kundra’s lawyer said on Monday that he is currently lodged in Mumbai’s Arthur Road jail under judicial custody and is likely to walk out at around 9.30 am on Tuesday.Last week, Kundra moved a bail plea before the metropolitan magistrate court, days after the police filed a supplementary charge sheet in the case.In his plea, Kundra alleged that there is not an iota of evidence to date with the prosecution that would connect the app ‘Hotshots’, used in the alleged porn films racket, with an offence under the law. It was earlier reported that Hotshots was developed for streaming adult and pornographic content that Kundra’s firm produced.Kundra claimed that there was no proof of him being “actively” involved in the creation of alleged questionable porn content, and he said he was being made a scapegoat for reasons best known to the investigators. He also told the magistrate court that the videos were shot with the consent of the actors.The public prosecutor, meanwhile, opposed the businessman’s application and said that just because the charge sheet has been filed, it does not imply the accused should be given bail. Chief metropolitan magistrate Bhajipale, after hearing both sides, allowed Kundra’s application on furnishing a bail bond of ₹50,000.In the nearly 1,500-page charge sheet filed on September 16, the Mumbai Police claimed that Raj Kundra was the main facilitator in the case and he along with others exploited young women who were struggling in the movie industry by filming them in obscene ways.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pornography-case-raj-kundra-may-walk-out-of-jail-today-101632185078534.html
21-09-2021||Delhi||28% households in Delhi have one or more member with flu-like symptoms: Survey||A survey carried out in the national capital has said that 28 per cent of households have one or more member showing flu-like symptoms. The survey was carried out online by LocalCircles and based on answers by 7,697 respondents.Those who took part in the survey were asked about the number of individuals in their households currently with one or more flu-like symptoms like fever, running nose, cough, headache or body ache."In response, six per cent of Delhi's residents said there are currently 'four or more individuals' with flu-like symptoms. As many as 11 per cent said they have two-three individuals with similar symptoms."Another 11 per cent said there is only one individual with the symptoms. The majority 72 per cent of Delhi's residents surveyed said no one in their household have flu-like symptoms," the survey noted.It added, "On an aggregate basis, 28 per cent Delhi households have one or more members who are currently down with flu-like symptoms".The rising cases of flu are a concern amid fears of a possible third wave of the coronavirus disease. Health experts at a recent meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) said that as flu and Covid-19 have similar symptoms and that the Delhi government should continue vigorous testing to keep the spread of the coronavirus disease in check during the flu season.The survey also noted that hospitals had been receiving at least 50-60 cases of viral infection cases daily, and have largely been attributing the symptoms to changing weather with extreme heat and excessive rainfall in the city.The online platform carried out another similar survey in July in which 28 per cent respondents said that they plan to travel during August and September even as a threat of the third wave looms. More than 18,000 respondents took part in that survey. They lived in 311 districts; 68 per cent of respondents were men and the rest women.LocalCircles is a platform that allows citizens and organisations to connect with each other, and understand collective issues, challenges, solutions, opportunities, pulse at macro or micro levels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/28-households-in-delhi-have-one-or-more-member-with-flu-like-symptoms-survey-101632184460377.html
21-09-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand to reopen schools for classes 1 to 5 from today||Uttarakhand is all set to reopen schools for classes 1 to 5 from Tuesday, according to a state government directive last week. Students have been taking offline classes since schools closed down due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.The state department of education issued a directive laying down the standard operating procedures (SOPs) for schools. The schools will be allowed to hold classes for three hours a day and students will not be allowed to bring food from home. Students will also be given the option to continue their education online if they do not want to resume physical classes just yet. Students will require a signed permission letter from their parents to resume offline classes.Schools have also been asked to maintain staggered timings of entry and exit for different classes to ensure social distancing norms are followed at the main gate during the time of admission and departure. If students commute to school using any means of public transport the education department has asked schools to ensure the means of transportation is sanitised from time to time.Schools have also been directed to carry out sanitation drives in their premises before allowing students back into classrooms. They have been asked to appoint a nodal officer who will work to ensure all guidelines are properly followed and SOPs are properly implemented, the directive added.Uttarakhand had allowed schools to reopen for students of classes 6 to 12 from August 1 after being closed down due to a raging second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-to-reopen-schools-for-classes-1-to-5-from-today-101632183299213.html
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||Don’t approach higher offices for redress of grievance: J&K admn to government employees||The UT administration has asked the government employees not to approach the higher offices for the redress of their grievances.In a fresh order issued by commissioner/secretary Manoj Dwivedi, employees have been warned against bypassing proper channels and approaching higher offices like the President and Prime Minister’s offices, lieutenant governor’s secretariat or chief secretary for redressal of grievances pertaining to service matters.“It has been observed that some officers/officials working in various government departments of the Jammu and Kashmir are bypassing proper channels and approaching higher offices such as that of the President, PMO, L-G’s secretariat and the office of the chief secretary for redressal of grievances pertaining to service matters,” the order said. The order warned that employees violating the orders will face action.“These acts being in violation of the Jammu and Kashmir Civil Services Conduct Rules, 1956, have been viewed seriously by the authorities,” said the order.The government employees have been asked to follow the prescribed procedures and approach the appropriate authorities for redressal of their genuine grievances.“Any violation of these instructions by any employee will invite strict disciplinary action,” the order added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dont-approach-higher-offices-for-redress-of-grievance-j-k-admn-to-government-employees-101632177068538.html
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||Poonch: 4 employees suspended for embezzlement||The district administration on Monday placed four officials under suspension in connection with alleged misappropriation and embezzlement in five construction projects in Gursai Moori of Mendhar block in Poonch district. According to an order passed by assistant commissioner, development, Poonch, an inquiry committee has also been constituted to look into the allegations. “As reported by Mendhar block development officer, prima facie irregularities, misappropriation and embezzlement were detected at five construction works in halqa panchayat Gursai Moori,” read and order issued by the official. The construction works included a drain at Chatala, Tractor Road at Kalwala to higher secondary school, footpath at Kainwala , tile work from main road to Chatala and work at a graveyard at Chatala. “Consequent to the preliminary inquiry, four officials were found suspicious and doubtful in the irregularities/misappropriation and embezzlement occurred there,” reads the order. The officials suspended are Karamat Hussain Shah, the then panchayat secretary, Mendhar (presently working at Mankote block), Javid Iqbal (panchayat secretary, who is already under suspension), Shabana Jaffari (GRS Mendhar block) and Shajahat Ali Shah (the then technical assistant at Mendhar block). They have been attached with the assistant commissioner, development, office till further orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/poonch-4-employees-suspended-for-embezzlement-101632176468628.html
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||Covid situation: Shops in Jammu to remain open till 10pm||Following some improvement in Covid situation in Jammu district, deputy magistrate Anshul Garg on Monday eased some restrictions. “As Jammu maintains positivity rate below 0.2% and the weekly caseload well below 250 (criteria laid down by SEC), two relaxations are effective today onwards — night curfew from 10pm to 6am and upper limit on gatherings raised from 25 to 50,” he posted on his Twitter handle. He also said that shops and establishments can remain open up to 10pm in Jammu. “Concerns of various stakeholders especially @ChamberJammu addressed. Soliciting cooperation from all for enforcement of CAB and not let the guard down (sic),” he wrote. Meanwhile, Jammu and Kashmir recorded 127 fresh coronavirus infections and one death on Monday as the authorities mulled over imposing restrictions in some areas of Srinagar, where people indulge in violation of SOPs.There were 109 cases in Kashmir, while the Jammu division saw 19 infections. The summer capital Srinagar witnessed 68 cases, 24 cases less than Sunday. For the past 10 days, Srinagar district is witnessing maximum cases that had mounted the worries of the authorities.Srinagar deputy commissioner Ajaz Ahmad and SSP visited several areas in city on Monday to inspect whether Covid-19 protocols were being followed by the people.DC Ahmad said they will be forced to clamp restrictions in the areas where people were violating SOPs or not taking precautions. The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 159 with active cases reaching 1,461. The total number of people who have recovered reached 3,22,191, prompting the recovery rate to climb up to 98.21%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3, 28,069 and the death toll stands at 4,417.Officials said with 68 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections followed by 14 in Budgam and nine in Baramulla. The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,143 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 838 deaths.Himachal logs 234 casesHimachal on Monday recorded 234 fresh Covid infections, taking the state’s tally to 2,17,140 while the death toll mounted to 3,634 after three patients died of the contagion.Of the new cases, 70 were reported in Mandi, 51 in Hamirpur, 39 in Kangra, 36 in Bilaspur, 25 in Shimla, four each in Chamba and Kullu, three in Una and two in Kinnaur.The active cases have gone up to 1,616 while recoveries reached 2,11,871 after 177 people recuperated. Kangra is still the worst-hit district with a total of 48,422 cases reported to date followed by 30,597 in Mandi and 27,052 in Shimla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-situation-shops-in-jammu-to-remain-open-till-10pm-101632176349577.html
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||Woman, 6-year-old son die as car plunges into gorge in J&K’s Doda||A woman and her minor son died while her husband was critically injured when the car they were travelling in plunged into a deep gorge in Doda district on Monday, officials said. The deceased have been identified as Salma Begum, 34, and her son Abu Talha, 6, residents of Khellani. Salma’s husband, Shakeel Ahmed, 35, has been shifted to the government medical college in Doda where his condition is stated to be critical. The accident, prima facie a case of negligent driving, took place near Khellani Nullah in Doda on Monday. The officials said that locals had reached the spot and rushed the victims to the Doda hospital, where two were pronounced dead upon arrival.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/woman-6-year-old-son-die-as-car-plunges-into-gorge-in-j-k-s-doda-101632176228857.html
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana DC restricts working of Lodhi Club executive committee||Amid row over allotment of catering contract of Lodhi Club, deputy commissioner (DC)-cum-club president Varinder Sharma has restricted the working of the executive committee by assigning four nominated members to look after operations.The executive members including the general secretary have also been restricted from conducting meetings without the consent of the president and files regarding the working of the club will move to the president through the offices of nominated members.In the orders dated September 18, it has been stated that the president is the sole authority to call for executive committee meetings as per section 25 of the constitution. General secretary or any three members can only propose a meeting. In the president’s absence, a nominated member will do the same. Any meeting held without the consent of the president will be unconstitutional and invite strict disciplinary action.Additional chief administrator, GLADA, Sandeep Kumar has been appointed to look after sports; land acquisition collector of LIT, Neeru Katyal Gupta, for general matters, new membership, construction/renovation work; SDM (West) Jagdeep Saigal for mess and bar related matters and Assistant Commissioner (G) Parleen Kaur Kaleka for cultural activities. DC Sharma said that appointment of nominated members is part of the constitution and nothing new had been introduced. The executive members had started bypassing the nominated members/chairperson of different committees like it happened during the allotment process of the catering contract wherein the executive had recommended second highest bidder by bypassing the Chairperson of the committee formed for the process.General Secretary of the club, Nitin Mahajan said that there has been some miscommunication or misunderstandings in the past but the executive committee has been working with transparency and the orders issued by the President will further encourage transparency in the system. The procedure might become a little lengthy but the executive will follow the same.Controversy had erupted after the executive committee members failed to formally receive DC Sharma when he reached the club to participate in the food festival in the club on Saturday evening, the day when orders were issued to assign the nominated members. Sharma had returned from the parking lot of the club. Mahajan however stated that there was no issue but the staff of DC failed to inform the executive committee about his arrival. DC Sharma stated that orders have nothing to do with the incident and these have been issued to improve the working.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-dc-restricts-working-of-lodhi-club-executive-committee-101632175448745.html
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||Jai Ram lays foundation stone of projects worth ₹172 crore in HP’s Balh||Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Monday inaugurated and laid foundation stones of development projects worth ₹172.1 crore at Gagal in Balh Vidhan Sabha area of Mandi district. While addressing a meeting at Gagal, the chief minister announced the opening of a HPSEB division at Ner Chowk, Atal Adarsh Vidyalaya in Balh constituency, upgrading of Gagal PHC to CHC, opening of veterinary dispensaries in Seoli and Sakroha gram panchayats, upgrading of health subcentre in Rajgarh to PHC, introduction of science classes in government senior secondary school, Bhangrotu, and renaming of government senior secondary school in Gasanu to Shaheed Naik Pushpraj Government Senior Secondary School, Gasanu as a mark of respect to the braveheart. Jai Ram Thakur also announced ₹10 lakh each for construction of panchayat bhawans in 14 newly created gram panchayats in Balh constituency and ₹10 lakh for construction of stadium at the government senior secondary school in Pauri. He said that matters regarding the setting up of an NCC academy in Balh would also be taken up with the appropriate authority. He announced ₹10,000 from his discretionary fund to each mahila mandal which participated in Monday’s event. He said the matter regarding broadening of Behna road would also be taken up. The chief minister said that his government has always laid special focus on the development of Balh area. He said that during his one-day tour to the area, he would be dedicating and laying foundation stones of development projects worth ₹291.04 crore in Balh. He said that it was during the tenure of the BJP government in the state when the decision of setting up a medical college in Balh area was made as it is the second biggest district of the state after Kangra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jai-ram-lays-foundation-stone-of-projects-worth-172-crore-in-hp-s-balh-101632175328532.html
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||HP high court issues notice to chief secy over stone crusher||The high court of Himachal Pradesh on Monday issued notices to the chief secretary, principal secretary (forest), member secretary of HP State Pollution Control Board, principal chief conservator of forest, Kangra deputy commissioner and Jwalamukhi subdivisional magistrate in a matter related to the installation of a stone crusher in Adhwani village in violation of the norms prescribed by the pollution control board. A division bench comprising acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Jyotsna Rewal Dua passed these orders on a petition taken up suo motu as a PIL on a letter addressed to the chief justice by residents of Adhwani in Kangra. The petitioners have stated that the firm owned by one Gian Chand is installing a stone crusher in their village despite protest from the villagers and are installing it forcibly without following the norms of the pollution control board, which will be injurious to the health and physical comfort of the community. The people have their homes nearby and also have cultivation land and grazing lands for cattle. Children and aged people also go the fields to rear the cattle and cultivation and the dust and pollution will cause harm to everybody, they said. They have alleged that the trees on the land of the villagers in the adjoining areas will be damaged and there will be loss of green environment. The petitioners have alleged that the stone crusher is being installed in violation of the rules and its distance is less than 1km from a government senior secondary school and less than 100 metres from the water reservoir (bawri) used by the villagers for fetching water. Moreover, the crusher is being installed within a distance of 500 metres from settlement. They have prayed that the installation of the stone crusher be stopped immediately to protect the life and health of the villagers and also to safeguard the future generations from the harmful effects of the environmental degradation, which will be brought about by the stone crusher. The court has also issued a notice to the respondent, Gian Chand, and posted the matter after two weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hp-high-court-issues-notice-to-chief-secy-over-stone-crusher-101632175148418.html
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||Consider reducing GST rate on ropeways: HP to Centre||Himachal Pradesh government has urged the Centre to consider reducing the rate of GST from 18% to 5% by adding a specific entry related to ropeways and other unconventional modes of transportation. HP chief minister Jai Ram Thakur has apprised Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman of the state’s decision to use the concept of ropeways for transportation of passengers and goods throughout Himachal. The objective behind this decision is to connect the left-out habitations where construction of roads is not environmentally and economically feasible. It also aims at connecting new places of tourist attraction and exploring new opportunities from a tourism point of view for employment generation and economic growth of the state. Jai Ram Thakur has said that the Himachal government has created ropeways and Rapid Transportation System Development Corporation (RTDC) under the transport department as a single nodal agency for construction of ropeways and other mass rapid transportation systems in the state. Therefore, the ropeways would not act merely as the tourist attraction but would also help in providing sustainable means of transport in rural areas besides considerably solving the traffic congestion in these areas. The CM has also added that the ropeways and other unconventional modes of transportation are not defined separately under the specific entry of GST schedules. The GST is being levied on this service (9% SGST and 9% CGST), thereby increasing the freight on this mode of transportation substantially. He said the ropeways are one of the safest modes of passenger and transport material transportation and are eco-friendly solutions for providing connectivity. He has further mentioned that Himachal Pradesh is one of the revenue deficit states where the revenue gap is more than 50%. The setting of ropeways in a big way in the state would attract a large number of tourists to the state which in turn would help in economic growth and enhance the revenue receipt of the state which might help in reducing the revenue gap.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/consider-reducing-gst-rate-on-ropeways-hp-to-centre-101632175028448.html
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||CT University inaugurates IBM lab on Ludhiana campus||CT University has initiated a new venture along with IBM by offering a joint collaborative specialisation programme.Regarding this, CTU has inaugurated an IBM lab where the latest configuration systems with the trending software have been installed.At the inauguration, IBM officials Rahul Boorji, Shefali Dutta and Aman Bakshi were present along with Manbir Singh, managing director, and Harsh Sadawarti, vice-chancellor, CTU.IBM officials held a guest lecture for students making them familiar with the IBM portal. Kamal Malik, professor of the School of Engineering and Technology, said, “The tools of IBM are totally free of cost for the students who have enrolled with us. They are getting classes from IBM officials along with some sessions. The students are also made ready for future interviews in major companies.”Manbir Singh said that CTU had already signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with IBM for BTech in computer science engineering with specialisation in data science and artificial intelligence, cyber security and forensics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ct-university-inaugurates-ibm-lab-on-ludhiana-campus-101632172808833.html
21-09-2021||Other||Day on, body of man fished out of Yamunanagar canal||A day after a boat capsized in Western Jamuna Canal at Hamida Head in Yamunanagar camp area, the body of one of the men, who had gone missing, was recovered on Monday. He was identified as Vijay alias Vicky Dhawan, who had accompanied a rescue team that had gone to look for his friend, Satinder Singh, who was feared to have accidentally drowned in the canal while immersing the ashes of his relative. There is still no trace of Satinder or the diver, who had gone missing after the boat capsized.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/day-on-body-of-man-fished-out-of-yamunanagar-canal-101632172328199.html
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||4 more Covid cases reported in Ludhiana||Four coronavirus cases were reported on Monday, taking the total number of cases in district to 87,526. There are 31 active cases in the district at present.Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said that the recovery rate of Covid patients is now 97.57%. He appealed the public to be cautious ahead of the festive season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/4-more-covid-cases-reported-in-ludhiana-101632171968173.html
21-09-2021||Other||Haryana schools reopen for Classes 1 to 3, 45% attendance on Day 1||Nearly 45% attendance was recorded as schools in Haryana reopened for classes 1 to 3 on Monday. Of the 6.25 students of classes 1 to 3 in state, around 1.41 lakh turned up for offline classes while 1,026 were sent back due to high body temperature. The government, in an order issued earlier, had allowed schools to resume physical classes with 50% capacity.As per the data provided by the school education department, Kaithal had the highest attendance at 75% followed by Kurukshetra with 68%, Jind 63%, Jhajjar 60%, Sirsa 59%, Yamunanagar 53%, Rohtak 52% and Fatehabad 51%. Nuh witnessed the lowest attendance at 17%, followed by Pawal (25%) and Sonepat (28%). As many as 74% students of classes 4-8 and 52% students of classes 9-12 were also in attendance on the day. Offline teaching had resumed for classes 9 to 12 from July 16, for classes 6 to 8 from July 23 and for classes 4 and 5 from September 1. While students were seen in a cheerful mood as they met their friends after a long gap, the teachers were equally thrilled. Sakshi Dhayal, a government primary teacher from Hisar, said, “It was good to see the students after such a long time. We have sensitised them about the importance of wearing face masks and following Covid-appropriate behaviour at all times.”“We have asked students to refrain from hanging out in groups as these may increase chances of infection,” she said, adding that students have been barred from sharing food, water and even exchanging books and other items.She said the attendance on the first day was encouraging, while adding that taking offline and online classes simultaneously was a challenging task.Some parents also expressed relief at the school reopening, citing that their wards’ studies had been affected due to the lockdown.“My children had to miss online classes as we could not afford the gadgets required for it. I am glad that schools have finally reopened,” said Hawa Singh, a labourer from Rohtak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/haryana-schools-reopen-for-classes-1-to-3-45-attendance-on-day-1-101632171728233.html
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||2 booked for forging signature on cheques, duping partner of ₹1.3 crore in Ludhiana||Around one-and-a-half years after the complaint, the Focal Point police have booked two people for allegedly forging the signatures on cheques and cheating a former partner. The accused are Saurav Goyal and Hipin Arora. Goyal’s former partner Kavita Gupta had registered a case against the dup in January 2020. The complaint in the case was submitted in January 2020 and the FIR was lodged against both the accused on Saturday (September 18) on the complaint of Kavita Gupta.Kavita and her husband Mukesh Gupta on Monday said that Kavita and Goyal were running a cycle parts manufacturing unit in partnership since 2011, but the partnership ended in 2019. Kavita then entered into a partnership with her husband Mukesh and got cheque books issued from the bank. The cheques books were delivered to Goyal, as the address in the bank’s record were not changed after the partnership ended.Mukesh said, “ Goyal and Hipin then signed a number of cheques by forging my signatures as I was partner in the firm and tried to withdraw around ₹1.3 crores from the bank account. However the cheques bounced due to insufficient funds in the account. Goyal then lodged a case against me for bounced cheques.”Goyal’s father Ashwani Goyal however denied the allegations levelled by Gupta and said they will file a plea with the police department to reconsider the action. Ashwini said the allegations were baseless and the police have lodged an FIR without making the bank a party to the case. “The matter needs to be reinvestigated,” said Goyal.Assistant sub-inspector Sohan Singh said a case had been registered under Section 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 465 (forgery), 471 (whoever fraudulently or dishonestly uses as genuine any document or electronic record which he knows or has reason to believe to be a forged) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2-booked-for-forging-signature-on-cheques-duping-partner-of-1-3-crore-in-ludhiana-101632171488203.html
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana mayor conducts surprise check at animal birth control centre||Conducting a surprise inspection at the animal birth control (ABC) centre where a dog sterilisation project is underway in the Haibowal Dairy Complex on Monday, mayor Balkar Sandhu said every thing was above board at the centre. The surprise inspection was carried out after receiving complaints that the dog catchers appointed by the municipal corporation have been catching strays, which have already been sterilised to increase sterilisation bills of the private company appointed under the project.Around 9:10am the mayor checked two vans, which were full of dogs caught from the Shimlapuri area. He urged dog lovers and NGos to get female stray dogs sterilised at centre. He also directed the officials to meet the target of sterilising 1,800 dogs every month Senior veterinary officer Dr Harbans Dhalla said, “We have the biggest centre in north India and the municipal corporation has a target of sterilising all stray dogs in the city by March 2023. Ministry of housing and urban affairs secretary Durga Shanker Mishra had also appreciated the working of the centre during his visit on September 17.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-mayor-conducts-surprise-check-at-animal-birth-control-centre-101632170829241.html
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||Dog blood transfusion training held at Ludhiana vet university||Celebrating Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav—75 years of India’s independence, the department of veterinary medicine, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, organised a three-day training programme on “Practical tips on anaemia and blood transfusion in dogs”, which concluded on Monday.GADVASU authorities claimed that it is the first ever training programme dedicated to transfusion of blood and its components in dogs in North India. The blood transfusion unit at GADVASU is the first in North India to separate the whole blood into different components, such as packed RBCs, platelets and plasma, and transfuse the need-based blood component into the recipient patient. In this way, blood from a single donor dog can be transfused to three different dogs based on their requirements.Course director and blood transfusion unit in-charge Dr Shukriti Sharma stated that the training was specifically designed for field veterinarians, clinicians and young budding postgraduates, involved in pet practice for diagnosis and treatment of anaemia to increase their professional competency.Various lectures and practical demonstrations for diagnosis of anaemia and transfusion of blood and its components following cross-matching, blood typing and screening of donor dogs for infectious pathogens, were carried out. Besides, practical demonstrations on ancillary diagnostic techniques such as echocardiography and blood pressure measurement were also demonstrated.Dean, postgraduate studies, Dr SK Uppal emphasised on the need for blood transfusion in dogs to save the lives of severely anaemic dogs. At the valedictory function, director of research, Dr JPS Gill appreciated the efforts of Tanya Garg of India for Animals and Sudhir Bisht of Global Aid Unlimited, who had arranged at least 100 donor dogs for the blood transfusion unit.Dr Sharma requested all dog owners to come forward and donate the blood as there was still a great scarcity of donor dogs, and many dogs died due to shortage of blood or its components.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dog-blood-transfusion-training-held-at-ludhiana-vet-university-101632170768400.html
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||Revellers gatecrash birthday party in Ludhiana, misbehave with women||Five men gatecrashed a birthday party at a posh locality in Sarabha Nagar on Saturday and misbehaved with the women. The accused, Raman Bagga, Simran Bagga, Twinkle and Sahil, who were in an inebriated state , clicked photographs of the women and also recorded videos. When the women’s family members objected, they assaulted them and fled from the spot. one of the accused persons is yet to be identified. The complainant, Ashish Thapar of Siddhi Apartments, said he had organised a party at a Sarabha Nagar club in honour of his wife’s birthday. “The accused who were also at the club to attend a different party started dancing with our guests. They misbehaved with some women and captured their videos and photographs,” he said. When the host and other guests accompanying the women objected, the accused started throwing crockery at them and assaulted them. Thapar and three other guests were injured. Thereafter, the accused fled in a Toyota Fortuner SUV and Hyundai Creta. Sarabha Nagar station house officer inspector Paramdeep Singh said that the club owner Jasmeet Singh knew the accused and they were there to attend a different birthday party. A case under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 427 (damages), 506 (criminal intimidation), 509 (words, gesture, act intended to insult the modesty of a woman), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapons), and 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence) of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged against the accused. A hunt is on for the arrest of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/revellers-gatecrash-birthday-party-in-ludhiana-misbehave-with-women-101632170410775.html
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||Key accused among four arrested in Punjabi University fake billing scam||Police on Monday arrested four accused, including kingpin Nishu Chaudhary, in the Punjabi University fake billing scam more than a month after registration of FIR in the case. Those arrested are Jatinder Singh, Ashu Kumar and Sonu Kumar besides Nishu. Deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Sourav Jindal said Nishu, a senior assistant in the university, was arrested from Kangra district in Himachal Pradesh.“The accused will be produced in a local court seeking police remand. We will try to find out how they managed to siphon off funds,” he added.A case under sections 420 (cheating), 406 (punishment for criminal breach of trust), 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant), 465 (for making forged documents), 467 (forgery), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged), 201 (tempering of evidences) and 381 (theft) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against the accused. It was in May when the cash-strapped university’s internal audit department and finance wing flagged five bills amounting to ₹6 lakh. The stamp and signatures of a department head were found to be fake and the names of research scholars and assistants against whom the bills were raised also turned out to be bogus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/key-accused-among-four-arrested-in-punjabi-university-fake-billing-scam-101632170408048.html
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||2009 riots over Vienna attack: Jalandhar court turns down plea to withdraw prosecution in violence case||The additional district and sessions court, Jalandhar, on Monday dismissed the Punjab government’s petition to withdraw prosecution against all accused facing trial in a case of attempt to murder and rioting registered in May 2009 in Jalandhar after the assassination of Ravidassia sect preacher Sant Rama Nand in Austrian city of Vienna. Advocate Darshan Singh Dyal, counsel of Dr Baljit Singh Johal, whose hospital and property were damaged by a mob in the riots, said the application was moved by the prosecution under section 321 of the Code of the Criminal Procedure.A case of attempt of murder and other sections of the Indian Penal Code was registered on May 25, 2009, against Mandeep Kumar Jassal, now a Jalandhar councillor, and 7 others. In July this year, the state home department in a letter to the district attorney had said the Punjab government has granted nod to withdraw prosecution in six criminal cases related to violence after the Vienna incident. Dyal said 75 criminal cases of murder, looting, arson and destroying private and public property were registered after the Vienna incident. A gunman was killed by the mob in Philluar on May 5, 2009.“Thirty FIRs were sent to the court as “untraced” while 45 cases were sent for trial. All accused have been freed by court in 19 cases citing “lack of evidence” on the part of police. It is crystal clear that the order has been issued by the government to please a particular community since the assembly elections are around the corner,” Dyal argued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2009-riots-over-vienna-attack-jalandhar-court-turns-down-plea-to-withdraw-prosecution-in-violence-case-101632170228158.html
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee mobilising support for protests outside DC offices in Punjab from Sept 28||The Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) has started holding village-level meetings to ensure maximum participation of farmers and labourers in the protests against the three contentious agriculture laws outside the offices of deputy commissioners in Punjab from September 28. On Monday, committee state general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher visited more than a dozen villages in Amritsar district and appealed to the farmers, labourers and women to ensure their participation in the protests. He is also appealing to the people to be ready for indefinite rail roko protests if their demands are not met before September 30. A day before, KMSC president Satnam Singh Pannu had announced that they would intensify their protests on the rail tracks in the state if their demands, including the repeal of the three farm laws, are not met till September 30. The KMSC, which has a stronghold in the Majha region and parts of Malwa, lifted its rail roko agitation on the Amritsar-Delhi rail track in March after more than 160 days. The agitation had forced the railways to halt most of the passengers and goods trains. It had also led to the shortage of coal at power thermal plants. “In the last few days, we have covered 111 villages in Amritsar district. The protests will then be held on rail tracks if our demands are not considered,” said Pandher. The KMSC’s demands also include a new law ensuring minimum support price (MSP) for 23 crops, implementation of the Swaminathan Commission report, waiving of debt of farmers and government jobs and compensation of ₹5 lakh to the families of the farmers who died during the agitation against the three farm laws at the Delhi border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kisan-mazdoor-sangharsh-committee-mobilising-support-for-protests-outside-dc-offices-in-punjab-from-sept-28-101632170168285.html
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||Samyukt Kisan Morcha appeals to farmers to intensify agitation against agri laws||Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leaders on Monday appealed to the people of Punjab not to shift their focus from the ongoing agitation against the three agriculture laws amid coronation of new chief minister in the state, terming the infighting in the ruling Congress a scramble for political power. The morcha, which has been protesting at the Barnala railway station for 355 day, said the farmers’ movement has nothing to do with “political games”. “All this noise is a part of a plan to win the elections with new faces in 2022. Due to the government’s anti-people and pro-corporate policies, the economic condition of people is deteriorating by the day and politicians have no solution to the issues of the masses,” SKM leader Manjit Singh Dhaner said. He also asked the protesters to focus on preparations for the Bharat Bandh on September 27 and appealed the youth to join a five-day kabaddi tournament at the Delhi borders from Wednesday. Bhupinder Singh Longowal, state committee member of the Kirti Kisan Union, said they have been holding meetings and rallies at villages to mobilise the locals to participate in Bharat Bandh to oppose the new agriculture laws. “We are educating and motivating people from all walks of life to make Bharat Bandh a success. The SKM leaders also held a meeting with all representatives of farmer unions in view of the upcoming strike in Sangrur. We have also decided to meet the vyapar mandal leaders to hold a joint protest on September 27,” added Longowal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/samyukt-kisan-morcha-appeals-to-farmers-to-intensify-agitation-against-agri-laws-101632169988152.html
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||Channi takes over as Punjab CM, but Congress drama continues||Charanjit Singh Channi was sworn in as the Punjab chief minister on Monday, becoming the state’s first Dalit CM, even as a political controversy over the change of guard just months ahead of assembly elections in the state grew with changing power dynamics within the ranks of the Congress. In his first media interaction after taking oath, Channi promised free water supply to smaller homes, a reduction in power tariff and a transparent government for the “common man”, and urged the Centre to repeal the three “black” farm laws. Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and OP Soni, both ministers in the Amarinder cabinet (along with Channi), were also sworn in by Governor Banwarilal Puohit and have been designated as deputy chief ministers. The ceremony was also attended by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, Punjab Congress affairs in-charge Harish Rawat, PPCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu and others. All three took oath in Punjabi. Amarinder skipped the swearing-in at which only 40-odd guests were allowed. Channi and Randhawa were among the four cabinet ministers who had rebelled against Capt Amarinder. Both deputy CMs are from the Majha region. The appointment of Randhawa, a Jat Sikh, and Soni, a Hindu, is being seen as an attempt by the Congress to balance the caste equations ahead of the polls and counter the attempt of rival parties to woo Dalit voters. Hours before the swearing-in ceremony, Rawat said the upcoming state elections will be fought under the leadership of Sidhu. Calling the statement “baffling”, former state unit chief Sunil Jakhar said it could “undermine” the authority of the new CM. Soon, the Congress went into damage control, saying that Channi and Sidhu will both be “our” faces for the Punjab elections in 2022. Brahm Mohindra’s name dropped at the eleventh hour Earlier, senior party leader Brahm Mohindra’s name was finalised for one of the two slots of deputy chief minister. AICC treasurer Pawan Kumar Bansal was the first to tweet about the six-time MLA’s elevation. “Heartiest congratulations to @Charnjit _channi for elevation as @PunjabCM and @BrahmMohindra & @Sukhjinder_INC as deputy CMs,” he tweeted on Sunday night. Bansal expressed regret on Monday afternoon for his earlier post. Rajya Sabha MP Ambika Soni had also called up Mohindra to congratulate him on his appointment. Mohindra’s name was dropped at the eleventh hour. A section of the party, including Sidhu, was not in favour of elevation of the Patiala Rural MLA who was seen to be siding with Amarinder during his (Capt’s) tussle with the disgruntled ministers and legislators, said sources. He had succeeded Sidhu as the local government minister and the two shared uneasy equations. Mohindra said he never asked for the post and gave his consent after the party took the decision regarding the appointment. “Now, they have taken another decision, it is totally fine with me. I am with the party and the high command. I am a Congressman. My father was also a Congressman. Congress is in our DNA,” he said. Meanwhile, Channi is learnt to have started consultations with the state president and other senior leaders for the expansion of his cabinet. There are already indications that several new faces, including a few from the disgruntled group that spoke out against Amarinder, may be inducted to give it a fresh look and make a clean break from the previous administration. Punjab Congress working president Sangat Singh Gilzian has sought due representation for backward classes in the cabinet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/channi-takes-over-as-punjab-cm-but-congress-drama-continues-101632169868565.html
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||Scribe among 3 held for blackmailing dhaba owner in Ludhiana||Three people, including a scribe, have been arrested for blackmailing a dhaba owner in Jagraon. The accused claimed that they had video of his employees disposing of discharge in pits and polluting underground water. They said they would release the video and defame his eatery, unless he paid them ₹1 lakh. The accused are Gursewak Singh of Ferozepur, Harjinder Singh of Moga and Lakhwinder Singh of Ferozepur. The police have recovered ₹70,000 cash and a Hyundai i-20 car from their possession.An FIR was lodged on the statement of Paraminder Singh alias Raja, owner of Raja Dhaba on the Ludhiana-Ferozepur Road near Aligarh village in Jagraon. Parminder said the accused had turned up at his eatery in a car and started recording a video of his dhaba. One of the accused, Harjinder Singh, said he was the editor of a web channel and accused him of polluting underground water by throwing discharge from his eatery in pits. They also claimed that they had filmed his employees while they were throwing the water.Parminder gave them ₹70,000, but also informed the police. Assistant sub-inspector Baljinder Kumar, who is investigating the case, said a case had been registered under Sections 384 (extortion), 383 ( threaten to publish a defamatory libel) , 419 ( cheating by personation) , 420 (cheating) and 506 ( criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/scribe-among-3-held-for-blackmailing-dhaba-owner-in-ludhiana-101632169627952.html
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||Heroin seized from Iranian boat was to be delivered in Punjab: Gujarat ATS||AhmedabadThe heroin seized from an Iranian fishing boat apprehended off the Gujarat coast was meant to be delivered to Punjab via sea routes from Gujarat or Maharashtra, the Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS) said on Monday. The Iranian boat loaded with 30-kg heroin and seven crew members were apprehended in Indian waters off the Gujarat coast, in an operation carried out jointly by the state ATS and the Coast Guard, officials had said on Sunday.The apprehended boat “Jumma”, which was brought to Porbandar on Monday, belongs to an Iranian drug mafia Imam Baksh. It carried a huge consignment of heroin loaded within the Pakistan maritime border by drug mafia Gulam which was initially meant to be smuggled to Sri Lanka, the Gujarat ATS said in a release.“When the boat was on its way to Sri Lanka, the seven Iranian crew members onboard received instructions from Baksh through a satellite phone about a change in the plan. He told the crew members that he was making arrangements for the contraband to be delivered to Punjab via either Gujarat or Maharashtra coast,” it said.The crew members were asked to wait until further instructions, when acting on a tip-off, the Gujarat ATS contacted the Indian Coast Guard (ICG). The ICG interceptor set off to nab the boat and its crew members from a distance of around 185 nautical miles off the Porbandar coast, the ATS said.When the ATS received a tip-off about the boat, a team left for Porbandar where it contacted higher officials of the ICG. “A team of the Coast Guard left on an interceptor boat and around 185 nautical miles off the Porbandar coast they found Iranian boat ‘Jumma’ and seven Iranian nationals, identified as Ibrahim Bakshi, Ismael Prididi, Abdul Sattar, Rahim Bakshi, Khalid Mohammad, Door Mohammad, Hamidullah Bakshi,” it said. The ATS said the initial questioning of the apprehended crew members revealed that the owner of the boat had been involved in the delivery of drugs to Muscat, Yaman, Tanzania, Zanzibar, etc in the past.The ATS said it had seized around 700 kg of contraband being delivered through sea routes along the Gujarat coast between August 2018 and 2021 whose estimated cost in the international markets is ₹3,500 crore. The ATS had arrested Pakistani, Iranian and Afghani nationals involved in smuggling and their counterparts in India, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/heroin-seized-from-iranian-boat-was-to-be-delivered-in-punjab-gujarat-ats-101632169268267.html
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||At first cabinet meet, Punjab CM Channi bats for pro-poor initiatives||At the first cabinet meeting as the chief minister on Monday, Charanjit Singh Channi announced to take pro-poor initiatives. The cabinet decided to launch these initiatives from October 2 to mark the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. The cabinet meeting, which was also attended by deputy chief ministers OP Soni and Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, emphasised to lay special focus on the core sectors of education and health. It directed the housing and urban development department to start the construction of 32,000 EWS houses on priority. Three-member cabinet decided that the free mining of sand by landowners will be allowed so as to abolish the contract system. Under this system, any person can mine sand from his land to ensure its availability to the consumers at affordable rates. The cabinet also discussed to increase free electricity units from the existing 200 units to 300 units for the SC/BC/BPL domestic consumers. It asked the additional chief secretary, power, to bring the proposal in the next cabinet meeting to give relief to the poor and needy. The cabinet also discussed to waive the pending electricity bills of tubewells working under rural water supply schemes and also to provide free water supply to villagers. The cabinet reviewed to give relief to the domestic water and sewerage consumers in urban areas. It was decided that local government department will bring a proposal in the next meeting. It also decided to simplify the process of allotment of 5-marla plots and empowered the panchayat samitis to decide the cases. “A special campaign will be launched by the rural development and panchayats department to finalise the allotment of plots to the eligible beneficiaries within two months,” said a government spokesperson. The cabinet decided to come up with a comprehensive policy for the implementation of the Right to Education Act and providing monetary help to the eligible educational institutes be prepared and put up in the next meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/at-first-cabinet-meet-punjab-cm-channi-bats-for-pro-poor-initiatives-101632169088239.html
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab: Be wary of Cong’s election stunt, Mayawati tells Dalits||With Charanjit Singh Channi taking oath as Punjab’s first Dalit chief minister, BSP president Mayawati on Monday termed it an “election stunt” of the Congress and asked Dalits to be wary of it.Mayawati, whose party has tied up with Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) for the upcoming Punjab assembly polls, also said whatever the “casteist parties” are giving to Dalits and OBCs, whether it is in Punjab, Uttar Pradesh or other states, it is for their votes and to serve selfish motives and not for ameliorating their lot.“Making a person belonging to Dalit caste as the chief minister of Punjab is nothing but an election stunt. I have come to know through the media today that assembly elections in Punjab will be fought under a non-Dalit leader and not under Channi,” Mayawati told newspersons here.Attacking the Congress, she said, “It still does not have faith in Dalits. Dalits need to be very alert to their double standards. I have full faith that Dalits of Punjab will not fall for this stunt.” The former Uttar Pradesh chief minister also claimed the Congress is rattled by the SAD-BSP alliance for the Punjab assembly polls.The BSP and SAD had in June joined hands for the 2022 Punjab assembly elections. SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal had announced that if their alliance wins, the deputy chief minister would be from the Dalit community.“The reality is that Congress and other political parties think of Dalits only in times of crisis,” Mayawati charged.The Congress’ decision to name Channi, who hails from Rupnagar district in Punjab’s Malwa belt, assumes significance as almost 32% population of the state comprises Dalits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-be-wary-of-cong-s-election-stunt-mayawati-tells-dalits-101632168908044.html
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||6 days after former police volunteer’s suicide in Ludhiana, kin demand fiancée’s arrest||Six days after a 22-year-old former police volunteer ended his life in front of his fiancée at the Ludhiana Zoo, his family staged a protest outside the commissioner of police’s office on Monday, demanding that the woman be charged for abetment as well. The protesters said the victim had taken the extreme step a day before he was due to marry the woman he loved, Megha. However, she was also involved with another man Raghav of Gandhi Nagar. The police have booked Raghav but have not registered a case against Megha. Alleging that the victim’s death was a conspiracy, his relatives have demanded that the culprits be charged with murder. Commissioner of police Naunihal Singh has assured them that action will be taken against the accused. On September 14, the victim, also a resident of Gandhi Nagar, had gone to Ludhiana Zoo with his fiancée, whom he was to marry the next day. However, he consumed poison in front of her, after which the woman fled. The police arrested Raghav for abetment as he had told the victim that he was in a relationship with Megha, after which the victim had asked her to meet him at the zoo and ended his life. A cousin of the victim alleged that Megha had given him the poison. A probe has been marked to the assistant commissioner of police (ACP, north), Dharmapal.Salem Tabri station house officer, inspector Gopal Krishan, said the woman had not been let go scot-free, but a probe was on to determine her role in the suicide case.The mobile phones of the victim, his fiancée, and the accused have been seized. As per recordings in the phones of the victim and his fiancée, they were of the belief that Raghav was provoking the victim against Megha. A few major suicide prevention helpline numbers in India are 011-23389090 from Sumaitri (Delhi-based) and 044-24640050 from Sneha Foundation (Chennai-based).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/6-days-after-former-police-volunteer-s-suicide-in-ludhiana-kin-demand-fianc-e-s-arrest-101632168790702.html
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||Opposition AAP, SAD congratulate Punjab CM Channi after swearing-in ceremony||Opposition AAP and SAD on Monday congratulated Congress leader Charanjit Singh Channi on taking oath as Punjab chief minister and hoped that the ruling party will fulfil its poll promises. Congratulating Channi, senior Aam Aadmi Party leader Harpal Singh Cheema hoped that he will fulfil all the Congress’ poll promises made before the 2017 assembly elections. Cheema, who is also the Leader of Opposition, expressed hope that Channi will take action in the alleged multi-crore post-matric SC scholarship scam. He alleged that the Congress had made tall promises to various sections of the society before the previous assembly polls but failed to fulfil them. SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal, while congratulating Channi, said he hopes the new chief minister will fulfil all promises which the Congress party made to the people of Punjab at the time of polls. SAD spokesman Pawan Kumar Tinu said: “Even though Channi was not the automatic choice as a Dalit chief minister by the Congress high command and was a compromise candidate, he should seize this opportunity and right all the wrongs committed against Scheduled Castes, particularly Dalit students”. Tinu also demanded that the new chief minister also order the immediate release of ₹1,800 crore dues to SC students under the scholarship scheme for the last three years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/opposition-aap-sad-congratulate-punjab-cm-channi-after-swearing-in-ceremony-101632168728054.html
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||Nikita Tomar murder: Brother approaches HC, seeks death sentence for convicts||The brother of Nikita Tomar, a 21-year-old student who was shot dead outside her college in Ballabhgarh on October 26, 2020, has approached the Punjab and Haryana high court, seeking death penalty for the two convicts in the case.The appeal was admitted for hearing on Friday by the high court bench of justice Ritu Bahri and justice Archana Puri. In March this year, a fast-track court in Faridabad had convicted the duo, Tohsif and Rehan, and sentenced them to life imprisonment for the murder. A third accused, Ajrudeen, was acquitted in the case.In his plea, the victim’s brother, Naveen Tomar, stated that the trial court had erred in sentencing the duo and also not compensated the family for the loss. “.. trial court failed to consider that the present case falls under the category of rarest of the rare case. Admittedly the horrific incident took place in broad daylight in public gaze where a young girl, aged 21, was tried to be forcefully abducted and on her resistance, she was brutally shot,” the plea says. A closed-circuit television camera installed outside the college had shown the convicts, Tohsif and Rehan, trying to shove the victim into a car and later shooting her when she resisted. Nikita had later succumbed to her injuries. “The accused need to be weeded out of the society to send a signal so that nobody dares to commit such a crime with a hapless girl. There are no chances of such people getting reformed and they cannot be allowed to mix with the society again. Therefore, they deserve to be sent to the gallows,” the brother stated in his plea, in which compensation was also sought for the family. He has also filed another plea challenging the acquittal of the third accused, Ajrudeen, and claimed that he should be convicted for criminal conspiracy in the murder case. The court in his case had said that though there were allegations of conspiracy against him, he was not present at the place of occurrence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nikita-tomar-murder-brother-approaches-hc-seeks-death-sentence-for-convicts-101632168668025.html
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||Won’t let any harm come farmers way: Punjab CM Channi||Chandigarh/Chamkaur SahibChief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Monday urged the Centre to repeal the three contentious farm laws over which farmers from Punjab and other states have been protesting for the past one year. In his first media interaction after taking oath, the new chief minister that his government and the party (Congress) are firmly behind the farmers in their struggle. “I will sever my head but I will not let any harm come to the farmers,” he said, adding: “Punjab is primarily an agrarian state and this government is pro-farmer”. Channi was flanked by Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat, state unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, deputy chief ministers Sukhjinder Randhawa and OP Soni. Rule of ‘aam aadmi’ has been established: CM Channi said his would a government of the poor, for the poor and with the poor, describing himself as an “aam aadmi” (a common man), “The rule of aam aadmi has been established. I thank the Congress leadership for picking a poor person for the top post,” he said getting emotional. He also recalled that he had pedalled a rickshaw and his father ran a tent house. Announces cut in power tariff The three-time MLA from Chamkaur Sahib also announced waiving the domestic water and sewage bills and reduction in power tariff of the poor households in the state. “My wife is a doctor. My brother is also a doctor. There are employees in my house. When the power bill comes, my wife tells me the money goes from her pocket. These bills will be reduced,” the CM said. He also said there will be no water and sanitation charges for houses up to 150 or 200 square yards in urban areas. Promises action against mafiaPromising to take prompt action against the mafia, Channi said the state cabinet will take a decision dealing with sand mafia in the state. “We don’t want the mafia in the state,” he stressed. Assuring the protesting employees that the government will take care of their demands, he appealed to government employees to withdraw their agitation and return to work. Committed to party’s 18-point agendaHe said that his government is committed to the party leadership’s 18-point agenda for the state. Praising former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, Channi said he did good work. “He is known as the protector of water rights. He is our leader,” he said. ‘Party is supreme’ On the government-party relationship, he said the party is supreme not the chief minister or the cabinet. “The government will be run as per the ideology of the Congress. Party will decide and the government will implement,” he said in an important statement in the backdrop of the rift between Sidhu and Amarinder that left the party divided. ‘Justice will be in Bargari sacrilege’ Later, addressing his first public rally after becoming the CM in his constituency Chamkaur Sahib, Channi said justice would be done in Bargari sacrilege case. “I am a devout Sikh of Guru Sahib and can’t tolerate that culprits of this incident are roaming freely,” he said. Slamming the Shiromani Akali Dal, the CM said the farm laws were drafted with the consent of SAD leadership and now they are playing politics to befool the people of the state. “I will visit the protesting farmers at Delhi borders as it’s like a holy place where they are fighting against unjust laws. I am with farmers,” Channi said. The CM also announced ₹50 crore for the development of Chamkaur Sahib constituency. He said every person of his constituency is a chief minister. “People of my constituency admire me as a family member. It’s because of you all that I have reached the top post,” he said while addressing the gathering.The CM announced to make Chamkaur Sahib a world-class tourist hub and said a theme park would be inaugurated on November 6.‘Supervise attendance on govt offices’After taking over as the CM on Monday, Charanjit Singh Channi issued orders to all the state government employees to reach office at 9am sharp and stay in the office till its closure. The orders, issued by state personnel department on his behalf, directed the heads of department and administrative secretaries to make surprise checks in offices at least twice a week. (With inputs from Vishal Rambani)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wont-let-any-harm-come-farmers-way-punjab-cmchanni-101632168488079.html
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||Under attack, Cong says Channi, Sidhu to be its faces in state polls||The Congress on Monday said it will fight Punjab elections under the leadership of chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and both will be “our” faces.The Congress went into damage control after it came under attack from various parties over the statement of its general secretary in-charge for Punjab Harish Rawat that the party would go to polls with Sidhu as it face.Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the next Punjab assembly elections will be fought under the leadership of both Channi and Sidhu and attacked the BJP, Akali Dal, BSP and Aam Aadmi Party for insulting a Dalit chief minister.He also questioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the BJP leadership why they had not named any Dalit as their chief minister and why they and other leaders of the BSP, AAP and Akali Dal were undermining the Congress Dalit leader.“Our faces will be Charanjit Singh Channi and Navjot Singh Sidhu as also ordinary Congress workers and leaders who will be supporting them. If anybody says one or the other will be the face, intentionally or otherwise, it is being misinterpreted by the media,” he told reporters.He alleged that the BJP, SAD, AAP and BSP have “unwarrantedly, shamelessly and regrettably” attacked the candidature of Channi.“We would urge Narendra Modi ji, JP Nadda, Sukhbir Singh Badal, Arvind Kejriwal and Mayawati ji to not grudge the rightful due of a Dalit’s son who is today the chief minister of Punjab, and instead of shamelessly criticising him, they should hail his elevation,” the Congress leader said.Various parties had attacked the Congress after Rawat’s remarks saying the grand old party is only doing tokenism.Rawat’s statement baffling: JakharEarlier in the day, the Congress also came under attack from within with its former state chief Sunil Jakhar questioning Rawat over his statement.Jakhar termed Rawat’s statement on the day of the new chief minister’s swearing-in as “baffling”, stating that it is likely to “undermine” his (Channi’s) authority. “On the swearing-in day of Sh @Charnjit_channi as Chief Minister, Mr Rawat’s statement that “elections will be fought under Sidhu”, is baffling. It’s likely to undermine CM’s authority but also negate the very ‘raison d’etre’ of his selection for this position,” the former Punjab Congress chief tweeted. Jakhar, a Hindu face, was one of the frontrunners for the chief minister’s post after Capt Amarinder Singh resigned following months of internal strife that left the state unit divided. His name was more or less final at one stage, but a section of the party leaders, including Sukhjinder Randhawa, Ambika Soni and some MLAs, pressed for a Sikh CM. In another tweet, he endorsed Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh’s statement on the possibility of a Hindu CM for Punjab. “Sagacious words of Jathedar of Shri Akal Takht Sahib couldn’t have come at a better time when petty minded small people occupying high positions are trying to divide Punjab on basis of race/caste/identities”. Hours later, Surjewala said Channi is the chief minister and Sidhu is the organisation head of the Congress in Punjab, and the next elections will be fought under both of them.“It’s a matter of great pride for every young and old Congress worker, and every poor and disadvantaged (person) and Dalit of India that this singular decision will fortify social justice foundations in this country,” Surjewala said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/under-attack-cong-says-channi-sidhu-to-be-its-faces-in-state-polls-101632168249230.html
21-09-2021||Other||Delhi police blocked highway, not us: Farmers||A day after they boycotted the meeting called by a high-powered committee of the Haryana government, farmers protesting against the agricultural reforms stated that they have not blocked the national highway-44, rather it is the Delhi police who have obstructed free flow of traffic by installing barricades to stop their movement towards the national capital. Interacting with reporters in Jind, Samyukta Kisan Morcha leader Darshan Pal Singh said, “A nine-member committee of SKM had unanimously decided to boycott the meeting. The protesters have not blocked any road; it is the Delhi police who have installed barricades since November last year, leading to inconvenience for commuters. We have cleared one side of the highway but will not clear the other side,” he said. He further added, “On behalf of the SKM, I want to make it clear that we will not enter Delhi even if the police remove barricades. If we had a plan to enter Delhi, we might have entered the national capital by removing barricades by now. Our main focus is to strengthen this agitation at the village-level in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh,” he added.The farmers’ numbers have been dwindling at both the protest sites –Tikri and Singhu – as the harvesting season is round the corner. Activist Yogendra Yadav said the meeting called by the high-powered committee was pointless and the sole purpose of this meeting was to implicate farmers for blocking the highway.“The Haryana government should hold talks with the union home ministry under whose Delhi police comes and remove the blockade from NH-44. In the apex court’s directions, there were only two parties-state governments and union, whom it had asked to ensure safe passage on highways. The farmers were not any part, so we had skipped the meeting,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-police-blocked-highway-not-us-farmers-101632168248035.html
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Channi ‘dummy appointed by Congress to woo dalits’: Opposition||With Charanjit Channi taking oath as the first dalit chief minister (CM) of the state on Monday, the opposition parties including Shirmani Akali Dal (SAD)-Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) slammed Congress for trying to befool voters with an aim to cater to the dalit votes in the upcoming asembly elections.Citing the statement of Punjab Congress in-charge Harish Rawat, hours before the swearing in ceremony of Channi, that the upcoming elections will be fought under president of Punjab Pradesh Congresss Committe (PPCC) Navjot Singh, the SAD-BSP leaders even termed Channi a “dummy CM, who has been appointed to woo the dalit voters”. BJP also raised questions over Channi’s character citing the complaint against him during #MeToo movement. District president of Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), Jeet Ram Basra, said, “Congress was forced to appoint a dalit CM in the state because of the rising popularity of SAD-BSP alliance and acceptance among dalit voters in the state. Channi will not be any more than a dummy CM as hours before the swearing in ceremony, Rawat made it clear that the elections will be contested under Navjot Sidhu. Channi will not be able to do any good to the dalit community in the coming 3-4 months. SAD-BSP will form the government in the state in 2022.”District president, SAD, Harbhajan Singh Dang said, “Channi is like an inexperienced driver, who has been put at the driving seat and he will certainly end up in an accident.The Congress has lost its path. Rather than working for the betterment of the state, the Congress leaders are fighting with each other for power. Channi will not be able to perform and dalit voters will not accept him.”District BJP president said, “Apart from the complaint during #MeToo movement, a few inappropriate pictures of Channi are also going viral on social media networks, which raise questions over his character. If the government is so concerned about the dalits in the state, then why Channi or some other dalit leader was not made CM earlier. Congress is also trying to wo the dalit voters with its move, but it will not be successful.”AAP Lok Sabha in-charge Amandeep Singh Mohi said, “CM Channi is being made a scapegoat for the failure of Congress government and he is being used to cater to the dalit votes in the state. If the Congress wants to benefit the dalit community then why Rawat stated that the congress will fight elections under Sidhu.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-channi-dummy-appointed-by-congress-to-woo-dalits-opposition-101632167949393.html
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 37 fresh Covid cases||Punjab on Monday reported 37 fresh Covid cases, taking the infection count to 6,01,323, according to a medical bulletin. With no fatality reported in the past 24 hours, the death toll stood at 16,499. The number of active cases in the state has also come down to 307, the bulletin said. Among fresh cases, nine were reported from Bathinda and five each in Jalandhar and Pathankot. With 43 recoveries, the number of cured persons has reached 5,84517, it said. A total of 14,1,96,291 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state of which 25,872 were tested on Monday, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-reports-37-fresh-covid-cases-101632167948010.html
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||21-year-old woman shot dead by husband in Panipat||A 21-year-old woman was allegedly shot dead by her husband in Manish Colony of Panipat city on Monday. The victim, Muskan of West Bengal, had married the accused , Vijay Kumar of Uttar Pradesh, nine months ago. Muskan had come to her parent’s house in Panipat two weeks ago. Vijay reached their rented accommodation around 11am with a pistol and opened fire at her. Muskan suffered a bullet injury on her head. She was rushed to a hospital but she succumbed to the injury. Vijay, who tried to flee, was caught by the neighbours and handed over to the police. The accused has been booked under Section 302 ( punishment for murder) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Arms Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/21yearold-woman-shot-dead-by-husband-in-panipat-101632167887885.html
21-09-2021||Delhi||North MCD took bribes to allow illegal mall to operate: AAP||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief spokesperson and MLA Saurabh Bhardwaj on Monday alleged that BJP ruled North corporation leaders took bribes from the owners of a mall in Karol Bagh for allowing it to run even after it was sealed in 2013. Bharadwaj alleged that the North Corporation has sealed the mall again now, “after eight years”, when the traders did not pay the money again.“Delhi BJP leader and former mayor Ravindra Gupta has been accused by the traders of extortion of crores of rupees and when Gupta’s blackmailing and extortion practices got exposed, the North Corporation sealed that building this morning,” Bharadwaj claimed.Gupta denied the allegation and called them baseless. He said he will file a criminal defamation case against Bhardwaj if the AAP leader does not apologise. “The owner of the mall wrongfully de-sealed the building and was running it illegally due to which it has been re-sealed,” he said.But Bhardwaj said the matter resurfaced as BJP got greedy and asked for money again. “These shopkeepers held a press conference and revealed everything about this matter,” he said.Gupta said that AAP is hand in glove with the mall owner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/north-mcd-took-bribes-to-allow-illegal-mall-to-operate-aap-101632167659107.html
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||NCRB data: Lockdown brought sexual assault on minors to record low in Ludhiana||History will remember the year 2020 as the year when the world came to a grinding stop, roads and streets were deserted, migrant labourers walked thousands of miles to reach home, hospitals were overflowing with patients, people lost their jobs and many toppled into a financial black hole.However, even this cloud had a silver lining, as the incidence of sexual assaults on minors nosedived to an all-time low as let off the obligation of turning up for work, parents were with their wards at all time, keeping sexual predators at a bay. As per National Crime Record Bureau data one case of sexual assault, two cases of sodomy, and five cases of attempted rape on minors were reported in Ludhiana in 2020. The tally is in stark contrast to 2019, when 62 cases of rape and 11 cases of attempt to rape were registered, of which seven victims were minors. Most cases were reported in areas with a significant migrant population: the labour quarters near industrial areas, where around 70 families inhabit one building. In most cases, both parents of the victims were at work when the sexual assaults took place and in most cases, the victim knew the predator. The overall cases of crimes against children also went down to 225 against 328 in 2019 and 352 in 2018.117 minors abducted In 2020, 117 cases of abduction were reported in Ludhiana, of which 108 minor girls were abducted on the pretext of marriage, while nine minors were kidnapped for other reasons.The kidnapping of the two-and-a-half year-old son of a city-based hotelier had grabbed headlines in 2020. The case had been solved within 24 hours with the arrest of the driver and his accomplices who had demanded a ransom of ₹4 crore. One case of human trafficking was also reported. Children brought from other states to work in factories and beg had been rescued.Four minors murdered Four minors, three boys and one girl, were found murdered in 2020. Apart from this, eight cases were filed under the Justice Juvenile Act, where parents and caretakers were booked for ill-treating children. In a recent horrifying case, the Tibba police had arrested a labourer for beating and branding his seven-year-old stepson with a hot knife. Four cases each of child labour and child marriage were also reported in 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ncrb-data-lockdown-brought-sexual-assault-on-minors-to-record-low-in-ludhiana-101632167773798.html
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||Highway blockade: Centre, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh seek urgent SC hearing||Even as the Haryana government intends to persuade protesting farmers to enter into a dialogue for resolving the issue of blockade at the Kundli-Singhu and Tikri borders, at the doorstep of the national capital, it is also looking for further directions from the Supreme Court (SC) in the matter.The protesting farmers had on September 19 stayed away from talks with a Haryana government committee, constituted to impress upon them to clear the blockade. The apex court had on August 23 said the Centre and the state governments of Uttar Pradesh and Haryana must coordinate to ensure that inter-state roads and national highways do not remain blocked due to farmers’ protest.While the matter, which was listed for Monday, could not be taken up by the bench, the Central government and state governments of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh requested the court registry to list the matter urgently, in public interest.“We will also be requesting that farmers’ organisations be impleaded as respondents in the case,” said an official. Following the August 23 observations of the apex court, the Sonepat deputy commissioner had held a meeting with the farmers’ representatives. Later, a committee headed by additional chief secretary (ACS), home, Rajeev Arora had invited office-bearers of 43 farmers’ organisations to a meeting on September 19. However, no headway was made as the farmers did not turn up for the meeting. “We will extend another invitation to farmers for a dialogue to resolve the issue. The state government has been making sincere efforts to persuade farmers to remove the blockades and facilitate free flow of traffic in public interest,” said an official. On a petition filed by a Noida-based woman, an apex court bench headed by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul in its August 23 order had said that the solution lay in the hands of Central and state governments concerned. The bench said they must coordinate to ensure that if the protests are on, at least the inter-state roads and national highways are not blocked in any manner. Subsequently, the Union home secretary on September 10 had also deliberated the matter with the chief secretaries of Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi governments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/highway-blockade-centre-haryana-uttar-pradesh-seek-urgent-sc-hearing-101632167647924.html
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab on high alert: Lone baggage scanner at Ludhiana railway station lying defunct||While Punjab is on high alert following the busting of four terror modules by the state police, the only baggage scanner at the Ludhiana railway station is lying defunct.The cops throughout the state are on their toes since the tiffin box blast in Amritsar last month. Moreover, Ludhiana is among the busiest railway stations in the state with over 100 trains plying from or through this station daily.The X-ray baggage scanner was installed to detect suspicious things such as arms, ammunition, explosives or any other illegal substance inside the luggage of the commuters.The station has three entry points but only one baggage scanner at the entry towards platform number 1, which has not been functional for the past few days putting the security of the passengers at risk.Though the railway authorities claim to be holding high-level meetings with senior officials of Government Reserve Police and Railway Police Force after high alert was declared in Punjab for the scaling of forces here, the security lapses were found at the prime entry point of the railway station during a reality check done by Hindustan Times on Monday.No frisking, checking at entry pointThe passengers were seen entering the platform without their luggage being checked, leaving security to the mercy of God. No manual checking of the luggage was being done, either.A lady cop was seen sitting next to the defunct baggage checking machine. When asked about why the baggage was not being checked, she expressed her helplessness stating that the machine was lying defunct.Ludhiana railway station director Tarun Kumar said that the orders to fix the machine had already been given to the maintenance team: “It will be made functional soon. We have door frame metal detectors installed at all the three entry points and our security teams are doing random checking of the passengers.”He added that a meeting for the safety of the railway station was held with the additional inspector general and superintendent of police of the GRP last week.“We are regularly holding the security meetings. Another meeting with the MC officials and traffic police was also done where we requested them to get the encroachment done by the illegal vendors at the entry and exit points removed. Traffic cops have been requested to not let the rickshaws and three wheelers stand at the gates as some anti-social elements may take advantage of the rush there”, added the officer.‘Baggage scanner practically useless’Surprisingly a senior security officer on the condition of anonymity said that the baggage scanner was of no use since the station was not enclosed and had openings from many sides.Meanwhile, DSP, GRP, Balram Rana said that night patrolling on the tracks was a routine affair now. “We have increased night patrolling and our teams are also manning nakas at the outer areas daily,” said the DSP.Inspector Jaskaran Singh, GRP, said that the station remained under 24/7 CCTV surveillance as over 85 cameras had been installed here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-on-high-alert-lone-baggage-scanner-at-ludhiana-railway-station-lying-defunct-101632167471391.html
21-09-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: A special kind of book lover||Here’s his hand-drawn painting of poet Emily Dickinson. Here’s his portrait of poet Hart Crane. The next few loose sheets have his recreations of poets Elizabeth Bishop, Wisława Szymborska, Anna Akhmatova, Robert Frost, as well as of novelists Leo Tolstoy, Thomas Mann, James Baldwin, Joan Didion and various other literary icons. Vishal Nagraj clarifies his author portraits aren’t for sale. He paints these select writers solely because he wants to say thank you to them. “It is just an expression of gratitude from a reader.”A native of “many places,” the multi-skilled Mr Nagraj, 28, also makes pop-out kirigami cards. He also collects hard-to-get editions of classic novels, as well as rare paperbacks. He does sell some of these collectibles—his loyal patrons are spread along the Delhi region, particularly in Gurugram, and also beyond the Delhi region. A day back he sent a carton of Gabriel García Márquez’s novels to a book distributor in Jammu and Kashmir.This afternoon Mr Nagraj is hanging out in a used bookstore in Old Delhi’s Daryaganj, where he often drops by to engage with casual browsers “because I love being with people who love books.” With his gaunt figure, wispy beard, and long hair, he looks like one of those imagined romantics who play guitar in full moon nights. In his Mayur Vihar apartment, “I keep my note pads by window sills, and whenever the mood strikes, I sit by a window and write a poem.”Chats with the soft-spoken Mr Nagraj are demanding. His talk is full of philosophical abstractions, and consists of long winding sentences in Hindi and English, as if he were reading from a densely written book. He is neither on Instagram, nor on Facebook, “because I want to be available to the things that surround me like paper, pencil, books… and also people.” His shoulder bag anyway is as absorbing as any social media feed. Like a magician’s hat, it produces the most amazing things. Today it contains some of his aforementioned sketches, some vintage paperbacks of western cowboy novels, an old hardbound of Tolstoy’s War and Peace (in a slipcase!), and a super-thick Sylvia Plath biography that he is currently reading. Mr Nagraj is shy of sharing his mobile number but you may spot him in Daryaganj’s used bookstores. Come after 4pm when chances of sightings are higher, particularly in Mukta Bookstore, across the road from Daryaganj Police Station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-special-kind-of-book-lover-101632167194935.html
21-09-2021||Other||After change of guard in Punjab, protesters shift focus to Channi’s residence from Patiala||Patiala With the change of guard in the Punjab government, Patiala residents are certainly heaving a sigh of relief as protesters, under the banner of all kinds of unions, have taken a sharp turn and moving towards the residence of new chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s residence from former CM Capt Amarinder’s Patiala-based Moti Bagh Palace. According to police records, Patiala has recorded more than 1,200 protests over the past five months.With this kind of protest rate, roads leading to Amarinder’s residence remained heavily fortified. Local living in peripheral colonies of Amarinder’s residence had to take longer or a more time-consuming route, just to reach their homes. Sukhwinder Singh, state president of BEd-TET passed Unemployed Teachers Union, said, “We have been protesting for regularisation. Now, we will shift our protest to Channi’s home constituency Chamkaur Sahib. We have planned a state level protest outside Channi’s residence at Kharar on September 24.”Other unions of unemployed teachers, health workers and PowerCom protesters have also postponed their state level rallies to be held at Patiala. PK Sharma, of Ad hoc and Contractual Employees Union, said, “We have ended our protest in Patiala and will now protest in Channi’s constituency. Our main concern is that the government should listen to our demands, no matter who is the CM. On Sunday, we held a state-level protest march towards Navjot Singh Sidhu’s Patiala residence.”Residents of Patiala, however, have heaved sigh of relief as the city recorded no protest outside former CM residence on Monday. Traffic jams, road blockades and traffic diversions did not happen today, something that hit normal life to an extent, with police barricading on a daily basis. Hardev Singh, a local, said, “Police should lift the barricades and clear roads for free movement of vehicles. The past few months had been harrowing, as we had to take longer routes to reach our destination due to multiple protests.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-change-of-guard-in-punjab-protesters-shift-focus-to-channi-s-residence-from-patiala-101632167287969.html
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||Bargari sacrilege: Faridkot court declares three dera national committee members POs||A Faridkot court on Monday declared three members of the Sirsa-based Dera Sacha Sauda’s national committee as proclaimed offenders (PO) in connection with the 2015 Bargari sacrilege cases.Three Haryana residents — Sandeep Bareta, Pardeep Kaler and Harsh Dhuri — were declared POs after four arrest warrants against them returned unexecuted in two sacrilege cases wherein torn pages of a “bir” (copy of Guru Granth Sahib) were found scattered in Bargari and three derogatory posters were put up near gurdwaras at Bargari and Burj Jawahar Singh Wala villages in 2015. “The police submitted that they received the proclamation of the accused and pasted the copies of notices at different places. The accused did not appear even as the statuary period of 30 days has expired. Therefore, this court declares Harsh Dhuri, Pardeep Kaler and Sandeep Bareta as proclaimed offenders,” said judicial magistrate Tarjani in her order. The court also directed the station house officer (SHO) concerned to proceed against them under Section 174-A of the Indian Penal Code after registering an FIR. The matter was adjourned to October 11 for filing the list of property of all the accused under Section 83 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). Naming the three as conspirators in the Bargari sacrilege and derogatory posters cases, the SIT had filed a challan in the court in July. Earlier, they were declared POs in three other sacrilege cases as the police failed to nab them since 2018 when they were first named in cases connected to sacrilege incidents in Moga and Bathinda districts in 2015. Bareta, Kler and Dhuri were also named as accused in the Malke and Gurusar cases. Torn pages of Guru Granth Sahib were found at Malke village in Moga district in November 2015 and Gurusar (Bhagta) village in Bathinda district in October 2015. Last year, they were named as accused and later declared PO in the case of theft of a “bir” from a gurdwara at Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village. The police failed to submit the list of properties of the accused in “bir” theft case again on Monday after which the matter was adjourned to November 29. The SIT probing the case claims that Bareta, Kler and Dhuri are the key link in Punjab’s five sacrilege incidents that sparked state-wide protests in 2015. “The instructions to execute sacrilege at Bargari, Moga and Gurusar were given by Bareta, Kler and Dhuri to the district dera committee members,” the SIT alleges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bargari-sacrilege-faridkot-court-declares-three-dera-national-committee-members-pos-101632167107874.html
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||35-year-old labourer dies by suicide over wife’s suspected affair in Ludhiana||Suspecting his wife of having an affair with his cousin, a 35-year-old man ended his life in Rajewal village, Khanna, on Sunday. The victim consumed poison while his wife was at her parents’ house. In his suicide note, the victim blamed his wife and his cousin for his decision to end his life. The couple who had gotten married in 2012 have a five-year-old daughter. The victim’s father, in his statement to the police, said his daughter-in-law was having an affair with the son of his younger brother and his son was disturbed because of it. “On Sunday night, a neighbour called me saying that my son’s motorcycle was parked in the street, but he was not opening the door despite persistent knocking, ” said the complainant, adding that when he reached the victim’s house, he peeped through a window and saw his son lying dead on the bed. The police broke open the door and sent the body for postmortem to the civil hospital. Assistant sub-inspector Pargat Singh, who is investigating the case, said a case had been registered under Sections 306 (abetment of suicide) and 34 (acts done by several persons) of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged against the accused, who are yet to be arrested. A few major suicide prevention helpline numbers in India are 011-23389090 from Sumaitri (Delhi-based) and 044-24640050 from Sneha Foundation (Chennai-based).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/35yearold-labourer-dies-by-suicide-over-wife-s-suspected-affair-in-ludhiana-101632166687926.html
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: AAP criticises Congress for using ‘misleading’ statements||Aam Aadmi Party’s election campaign committee chairman Chander Mukhi Sharma on Monday lashed out at the Congress and former member of Parliament (MP) Pawan Bansal.Sharma said, “The Congress and its leaders completely failed when the party was in power at the Centre and in Chandigarh municipal corporation. But now they are using misleading comments and crocodile tears to garner votes in the upcoming MC elections.”Sharma’s statement came after Congress’ public meeting on Sunday. It was addressed by senior Congress leader and former MP Pawan Bansal, with focus on issues faces by housing societies in Chandigarh.Sharma said, “Bansal failed in solving the problems of the cooperative societies when in power. Their internal maintenance is pending since 2009. Housing societies themselves manage their internal roads, street lights, water supply and sanitation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhaap-criticises-congress-for-using-misleading-statements-101632166462532.html
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||Man wanted in ₹8 crore immigration fraud arrested in Chandigarh||Wanted in nearly 300 complaints of immigration fraud amounting to ₹8 crore, Devinder Singh Gill was nabbed by the economic offences wing (EOW) of the Chandigarh Police on Monday.Gill, who also goes by the name of Devinder Thapa, was arrested from the District Courts Complex in Sector 43, while he was about to enter a CBI court in connection with a 2011 corruption case.The EOW were on the lookout for Gill since his name cropped up during the 2018 investigation into the immigration frauds by his accomplice, Jyoti Thakur, who ran an office in Sector 43. They both are accused of duping hundreds of people of ₹8 crore on the pretext of sending them abroad. A chargesheet against Thakur has already been filed and the trial is pending before court. The corruption case against Gill also involved former Rajpura MLA Raj Khurana. But the criminal proceedings against him were dropped after his death in 2016. The CBI had arrested them from Khurana’s house in Sector 39, Chandigarh, on May 4, 2011, for allegedly taking a bribe of ₹1.5 crore from a member of the Punjab Automobile Mechanics Association.The bribe, demanded for closing a complaint case against the association, was recovered in cash. Also, nine blank cheques for ₹15 lakh each were recovered from Gill’s car. On Monday, Gill was arrested before he could make an appearance before the CBI court in this case. The court has now issued a notice to the EOW to produce him on September 27, when his statement under Section 313 of the Code of Criminal Procedure is likely to be recorded in the corruption case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/man-wanted-in-8-crore-immigration-fraud-arrested-in-chandigarh-101632166461366.html
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||Broken roads: Mohali mayor writes letter to Chandigarh mayor, MC chief||Seeking their attention towards the broken roads on the border of the two cities, Mohali mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu has written a letter to the Chandigarh mayor and municipal commissioner.Sidhu wrote that the condition of the roads, connecting the two cities, was being improved in Mohali, but their state on the Chandigarh side had deteriorated. He stated that this was detrimental to the image of both Mohali and Chandigarh. “The repair and construction work of roads in Mohali is in full swing, and the Chandigarh administration and the municipal corporation also need to pay attention to the poor condition of the roads,” the letter said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/broken-roads-mohali-mayor-writes-letter-to-chandigarh-mayor-mc-chief-101632166460259.html
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||FOSWAC to protest in front of Chandigarh MC office over inaction||With no solution to garbage collection and water supply issues, the Federation of Sectors Welfare Association Chandigarh (FOSWAC) has planned a protest outside the municipal corporation (MC) office in Sector 17 in October.At a meeting on Monday, members complained against MC’s new system of garbage collection. “Even when houses remain locked, garbage collection fee is levied. RWAs should be allowed to manage the system,” said FOSWAC general secretary JS Gogia.Chief spokesperson Pankaj Gupta said residents living close to the Dadumajra garbage dump were fed up: “Rather than promises and assurances, we want to see visible progress. It is unhygienic living close to the dump, which is causing diseases.”Members also discussed issues related to the Chandigarh Housing Board. Convener of their Housing Board Committee, Amardeep Singh said rather than raise the issue before every election, residents want a one-time settlement fee for need-based changes on the lines of Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/foswac-to-protest-in-front-of-chandigarh-mc-office-over-inaction-101632166456022.html
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||Peace march organised at Panjab University||Faculty members, employees and students of Panjab University taking out a peace march on the campus on Monday evening. The march was organised in the wake of heckling of the vice-chancellor, manhandling of some university officials and provocative speeches during some protests. The protesters gathered at gate number 1 of the university and marched towards gate number 3.Student parties, however, condemned the march. Students For Society Party president Sandeep said it was an effort to appease the vice-chancellor. “We ask that the stakeholders stand with us, while we protest for what is right. The authorities are acting like dictators and we are only raising our voices against them,” he said.MORE NEWS IN BRIEFNational award for two city NSS volunteersChandigarh Two National Service Scheme (NSS) volunteers from the city, Ritika Verma of department of anthropology, Panjab University, and Mohammad Amzad of Post-Graduate Government College, Sector 11, will receive the national award from the Union ministry of youth affairs and sports on September 24. Programme coordinator Ashwani Koul congratulated the volunteers.Gandhis land at Chandigarh airportMohali Congress president Sonia Gandhi landed at the Chandigarh airport on a charter plane at 7.30am while on her way to Chharabra near Shimla for a holiday. Her son Rahul Gandhi reached the airport on another charter plane at 10.58am to participate in the swearing-in ceremony of the new Punjab chief minister. His flight was delayed by half an hour. He further boarded a chopper and reached Rajindra Park, from where he went to the Punjab Raj Bhawan by car, just when the ceremony was about to end.Gold chain snatched at Manimajra marketChandigarh An unidentified man snatched a woman’s gold chain in the Manimajra market on September 17. In her complaint to the police on Monday, Savitri Devi of Dadumajra said the youth snatched her chain and ran to his accomplice, who was waiting nearby on a motorcycle, and they both sped away. The incident left her traumatised, so she could not report it until Monday. A case under Section 379A of the IPC was registered at the Manimajra police station. Man held with illicit liquorChandigarh Police arrested Shekhar of Indira Colony, Manimajra, Chandigarh, after recovering 75 quarters of illicit countrymade liquor from his possession in Manimajra on Sunday. A case under the Excise Act was registered. He was later granted bail. 40-year-old caught with stolen cycleChandigarh A 40-year-old man has been arrested for stealing a cycle from a parking lot in Sector 9. The cycle was recovered from the accused, Neem Kant, of Kansal. He was booked under Section 411 of the Indian Penal Code. 13-year-old boy goes missingChandigarh Police have lodged a kidnapping FIR after a 13-year-old boy went missing from Faidan Nizampur in Chandigarh. His father complained that he has been missing since September 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/peace-march-organised-at-panjab-university-101632166454801.html
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||Man on the run after raping relative at her Zirakpur house||Police are on the lookout for a man who raped his relative while visiting her house in Lohgarh, Zirakpur, on Sunday night.In her complaint, the woman stated that the accused visited their house on Sunday and stayed back for the night. He had drinks with her husband, and later in the night raped her.After threatening her against revealing the matter to anyone, he left the house. In the morning, the woman narrated the incident to her husband, following which they approached the police.“A case under Section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused. Further investigation for his arrest is underway,” said investigating officer Mandeep Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/man-on-the-run-after-raping-relative-at-her-zirakpur-house-101632166453606.html
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali beat Moga in Punjab inter-district cricket meet||Riding on brilliant knocks from Ramandeep Singh and Abhijeet Garg, Mohali recorded a fine 105-run win over Moga in a match played during the ongoing Punjab Inter District Senior One-Day Tournament at the KIPS Samadh ground in Moga on Monday. Batting first, Mohali scored 345 runs in 50 overs. Ramandeep (132 runs) and Abhijeet (84 runs), along with Sahil Chander (51 runs), were the main scores. In reply, Moga were bowled out for 240 runs in 41.3 overs. For Mohali, Kunal Vishwa (4 for 49) was the main wicket-taker.In other matches, Ludhiana beat Ropar by four wickets, Ferozepur beat Fazilka by two wickets, Sangrur defeated Barnala by seven wickets and Jalandhar pipped Hoshiarpur by seven wickets. Amritsar recorded a 104-run win over Muktsar, while Patiala won a match against Bathinda by 182 runs through the VJD method.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-beat-moga-in-punjab-inter-district-cricket-meet-101632166452278.html
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||PU senate’s graduate constituency: Polling at 61 booths to be held later||While elections for the graduate constituency of Panjab University senate are fixed for September 26, authorities have announced that polling at 61 of the 272 booths will be held on a later date.Also read: Former student leaders, ex-senators in fray from graduate constituencyPU authorities said this was because officials concerned had expressed inability or had not confirmed availability of buildings for setting up the polling booths, located across Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Rajasthan and Delhi. President of the Students For Society Party, Sandeep said, “We hope these aren’t delay tactics. The authorities must announce the date for the second phase immediately. They must also ensure that counting takes place fairly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pusenates-graduate-constituency-polling-at-61-booths-to-be-held-later-101632166451031.html
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||Mother-son duo, accomplice held for murdering Ambala youth||A mother-son duo and their accomplice have been arrested for stabbing to death a 25-year-old man in Ambala Cantt’s Kabari Bazaar on Sunday night.With no record of past enmity between them, police are trying to ascertain why Radha, 50, her son Gaurav, 28, and Bhoori, 32, attacked the victim, Arjun, a daily wager.Residents of Kachha Bazaar, the mother-son duo, and their accomplice, who lives in Khatik Mandi, had attacked Arjun with knives and bricks, in the presence of his brother Mohit and an aunt, around 11pm on Sunday.Mohit told the police that he rushed his bleeding brother to the civil hospital, but he was declared dead.The trio was booked under Sections 302 (murder) and 34 (acts done in furtherance of common intention) at the Ambala Cantt police station. Inspector Vijay Kumar, station in-charge, said all accused were arrested on Monday and will be presented before a court on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/motherson-duo-accomplice-held-for-murdering-ambala-youth-101632166450026.html
21-09-2021||Other||Civic Sanskriti: Vehicle-free utopian dream must become reality for Pune city||What is your reaction to the idea of private vehicle-free neighbourhoods and cities? Utopian. Impossible. It’s too hot! There’s no last-mile connectivity; you can’t keep waiting at the bus stop. I won’t reach in time. What about emergency vehicles? People value their time, you know! These were the most common responses from friends and colleagues to whom I posed the question. Precisely one person said, “Wow, what a city that would be!”But, busy in our work and lives, sometimes we are so trapped in the present that we might not even dream about a possible future. So, we argue about why an area and city without private bikes and cars cannot be. The idea of car-free is not new. The Mall Road in Shimla, and Matheran, are famous car-free areas. In more recent times, I’ve seen advertisements for townships providing an added attraction of a vehicle-free zone where children can play and cycle freely and safely. Just about a week ago, the Delhi government launched Chandni Chowk market as a beautiful pedestrian zone.However, “private-vehicle-free” should no longer be considered only a nostalgia-evoking hill-station idea or one for elite living or as tourist precincts, but an imperative mainstream need for large cities. We don’t need air pollution. We don’t need road crash deaths. We don’t need road rage. We deserve cities in which moving around is not a struggle. The solution isn’t spending our hard-earned money buying vehicles. Typically, car-free city designs envisage people walking or cycling for short distances and using public transport for longer distances. For weekend trips to grocery stores locally circulating on-call shuttles could be provided. One can buy or rent a fancy car or bike for a family outing or special occasion, but not use it for the daily commute.Harshad Abhyankar, Director, Save Pune Traffic Movement, says “What if pollution gets so out of hand that we have to make it illegal to use cars in cities? Every once in a while we decide, for example, that asbestos or saccharine or some medicine is bad for us, and decide to live without it. What if cars are next? Then we will be forced to design a city that relies solely on walk-bus-cycle. The “bus” could be in many forms: Swanky metros, long, big articulated buses, or even 8-seater shared vehicles. We would somehow design our ways around the situation, right? There may be some inconveniences, but in the bargain we will get a clean and safe city for us and our children.”The specifics of what is needed may vary in different areas. Youth groups and citizens forums could quickly determine current modes of travel, difficulties faced in walking, cycling, and public transport. The findings would lend weight to demands for improvements presented to elected representatives, the municipal and public transport administration officials. For example, a small survey conducted by the Bavdhan Citizens’ Forum with housing societies’ residents in the Bavdhan area shows the need to improve bus services as well as information about bus services. Of course, the survey numbers are small and more extensive surveys may yield richer data, but the results seem reasonable. Of 94 people travelling daily or regularly for work, only one used a cycle, three used public transport, eight used company buses, while 82 used bikes or cars. Bikes and cars are the primary modes, even for distances less than 5 km. The reasons for not using public transport include inadequate frequency and connectivity, overcrowding and lack of information about services. About 28% were not aware of PMPML bus services from Bavdhan, and among those who were aware, about 40% did not have information about the bus routes and services.The need for a change in Pune’s transport systems is so acute that more and more citizens will need to join the efforts to create it bottom-up and advocate for systemic improvements in public transport and sustainable mobility. The fun fact is that our city’s policies and plans are already in place, stating that by 2032, at least 80 per cent of the journeys will be by foot, cycle and public transport. So we must not only hold on to that dream of a largely private-vehicle-free city, but work to make it happen – individually, as a community, and with our government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/civic-sanskriti-vehicle-free-utopian-dream-must-become-reality-for-pune-city-101632166449082.html
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||Owners of two Chandigarh clubs booked for violating 12am deadline||Police have booked two club owners for violating the 12am closure deadline.Parerit, the owner, and Shashi Kumar, the cashier of Boulevard Club, Sector 26, were booked after the club was found open beyond the permissible time limit on September 18.The same night, Sukh Lal Soni and Subhash Narang, the CEO and owner of The Jungle Bar, Kalagram, Manimajra, respectively, were booked for the same violation.Separate cases under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code were registered at the Sector-26 and Mauli Jagran police stations. Spa found serving hookah, owner bookedAnother FIR was lodged at the Industrial Area police station against Naveen Kansal, the owner of Sunshine Spa at Centra Mall, Industrial Area, for serving hookah to customers, despite a ban, on September 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/owners-of-two-chandigarh-clubs-booked-for-violating-12am-deadline-101632166389361.html
21-09-2021||Other||Punjab varsity teachers seek implementation of new pay scales||Chandigarh Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organizations (PFCUTO) on Monday demanded early resolution of their demands, while welcoming the taking over of Charanjit Singh Channi as the state chief minister. PFCUTO general secretary Jagwant Singh pointed out that all other states have implemented the new University Grants Commission (UGC) pay-scales and even state employees have been given their new pay scales with effect from January 1, 2016, however the teachers in higher education had still been left out, forcing them to move continue their agitation. He added that their chain fast and the two-period strike across all universities and colleges of Punjab entered its second fortnight on Monday.The federation comprises teachers from Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA); GNDU Teachers Association (GNDUTA), Amritsar; Punjab Agricultural University teachers Association (PAUTA) Ludhiana; Guru Angad Dev Veterinary Sciences University, GADVASUTA, Ludhiana; Punjabi University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) Patiala; Govt. College Teachers Association (GCTA) and Punjab and Chandigarh College Teachers Union (PCCTU).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-varsity-teachers-seek-implementation-of-new-pay-scales-101632166388027.html
21-09-2021||Other||Man arrested for posting defamatory content on social media; Sainiks blacken his face||PUNE The cyber cell of Pune Police have arrested Abhijit Limaye (35), for posting defamatory content on social media against Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, late Sena chief Balasaheb Thackeray and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar, officials said on Monday.Limaye was arrested from his Mumbai residence, brought to Pune and produced before a court which granted him bail on Sunday. As he was released, Sena supporters gathered outside the Shivajinagar district court premises allegedly hurled abuses at him and blackened his face.The FIR was registered by the Cyber police station on May 13 against a social media handle by the name of ‘Lakhoba Lokhande’ for posting objectionable posts against CM Uddhav Thackeray, Balasaheb Thackeray and NCP chief Sharad Pawar. After technical analysis, his identity was established and Limaye was arrested by the cyber cell authorities, an official said.Accordingly, Limaye was charged under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Information Technology Act. The video of the men blackening Limaye’s face later went viral.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-arrested-for-posting-defamatory-content-on-social-media-sainiks-blacken-his-face-101632166148486.html
21-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s first genome sequencing lab aims to break Covid code||Thirty-year-old research scientist Vidushi Chitalia loads a cartridge into the sequencing machine with a large display screen. The cartridge contains all that is required for carrying out genome sequencing — 20 microlitres of barcoded samples of genetic material from Covid positive persons pooled into a tiny chamber. It’s taken three days for the team, also comprising research assistants Reem Nomani (26), and Sanika Shirsat (26), to prepare the samples that made it into the machine: a select bunch of swab samples from Covid positive persons in Mumbai was first treated to inactivate the virus in a Biosafety Level 2 area; the RNA or Ribonucleic Acid (it translates genetic material to protein) was extracted and converted to complementary Dioxyribonucleic Acid (cDNA); this in turn was amplified, and cut into smaller pieces (a process called fragmenting) since the sequencer is designed for a very specific size of DNA fragments; these were tagged with linker sequences (to help link the samples for further steps like barcoding), cleaned of any impurities and barcoded for the machine — a white box slightly bigger than a microwave. These sequencing will help identify the variants of the Sars-CoV-2 virus. And great care has been taken to select which ones will make it into the sequencer. The samples were taken from travellers arriving at the city airport, patients who had moderate to severe infection after receiving both doses of the vaccine, people who had been re-infected with Covid and those who were admitted in an Intensive Care Unit for a prolonged period of time. “We want to focus on certain categories of patients to understand how variants impact the nature of the infection,” said Dr Jayanthi Shastri, who is at the helm of the genome sequencing facility housed inside the Kasturba Hospital’s molecular diagnostic laboratory. The lab, which works under the civic-run BYL Nair Hospital, has been operational since 2007 to study pathogens causing H1N1, dengue, and leptospirosis, among other diseases. Last week, a batch of 376 samples of Covid-19 patients was processed and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) announced that 304 samples tested positive for the Delta subtype of the Covid-causing Sars-Cov-2 virus. None tested positive for the Delta Plus variant, a variant of concern (VOC) in India. Two samples were of the 19A subtype, four were of the 20A subtype and the remaining 66 were original strain of the coronavirus. This was the second batch to be studied in what is Mumbai’s first facility to study the Covid disease-causing virus. The work being done here is crucial: it will help address the gaps in our understanding of the pandemic. For instance, do variants of the virus, such as the Delta variant prevalent in Mumbai and the rest of the state, play a role in breakthrough infections, re-infections or long Covid? This in turn would help civic and state authorities to decide the best course of action. “If the SARS-CoV-2 continues to thrive, it will keep mutating,” said infectious disease specialist Dr Om Shrivastav, who is also a member of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force. “Genome sequencing will be our key tool to track the mutations and prepare strategies to tackle them. The changes in the virus could be more vicious or milder, but having that knowledge is the only way to combat it and stop it from spreading rapidly,” he said. The laboratory, which was inaugurated on August 4, is not part of the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG) — a network of 28 laboratories across the country tasked with studying the genomes of the various variants that emerge through the course of the pandemic — but its work contributes to the larger knowledge base being created about the coronavirus and its variants. The second batch mimicked the findings from the first: A few days after its inauguration, 188 barcoded samples were sequenced. The BMC announced that nearly 65% of these samples had the more contagious B.1.617.2 or the Delta variant. None of the 188 samples tested positive for the Delta Plus variant. Out of the 93 patients from Mumbai in the first batch, 54 had needed hospitalisation, while 40 patients showed no symptoms at all. Of the Mumbai cohort, 27 patients had taken both doses of their vaccine, and 20 had received their first dose. Only four patients out of those who had been fully vaccinated needed oxygen support. India is currently sequencing only 0.7% of the positive samples, Shrivastav said. “Ideally, for a dense country like ours, we should be sequencing at least 33% samples. Europe, UK, parts of Australia and New Zealand have been doing a lot more sequencing,” he said adding that cities like Mumbai should have many more genome sequencing facilities. The genome sequencing process is a lengthy one. Smaller portions of the Covid-19 samples known as aliquots collected from across the city arrive at the laboratory every day in a cold chain. These samples are stored at –80 degrees Celsius to ensure that the RNA does not degrade during the process. The sequencer — Kasturba facility has two such machines — has a capacity of 376 samples each. In order to utilise the machine optimally, the team waits till they have a pool of 376. The team of three handles the samples in a transit room equipped with an exhaust system with a virus burning unit that is meant to trap and destroy the pathogen in case of a leak. This room and other biosafety cabinets, where the cDNA is created and amplified, are a Biosafety Level (BSL) 2A [equipped to handle pathogens with a little more than moderate risk]. So, all researchers must follow strict Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) donning and doffing protocol while working in the transit room. After inactivating the virus, the RNA is extracted. The researchers wear a laboratory coat, head cover, mask and gloves instead of a full PPE kit to extract the RNA and conduct a Real-time reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test to confirm the presence of the virus. “Only the samples that have a cycle threshold (CT) value below 30 are selected,” said Chitalia. “The CT value helps measure the viral load,” she said. The extracted RNA is converted into complementary DNA (cDNA), which is amplified in a biosafety cabinet, tagged and fragmented. Once the impurities are cleaned, each sample is barcoded and pooled before being loaded into the sequencer. The cycle in the sequencer takes another 48 hours after which the data is relayed to the computer. The server has preloaded information on all the variants identified by the World Health Organisation (WHO). Besides looking for the existing variants such as Alpha, Beta, Gamma or Delta among others, the researchers also keep an eye for newer mutations, while they analyse the data. The two sequencing machines and server cost ₹6.5 crore. They were donated to the hospital by American biotechnology company Illumina. The company also bore ₹1.38 crore GST and customs levied to get the machines to India from Singapore. Other pieces of equipment such as extraction system, thermal cyclers, deep freezer, ice-making machine, pipettes costing nearly ₹4 crore were funded by the ATE Chandra Foundation. An alumnus of BYL Nair, Dr Mehul Mehta who is based in the US, facilitated the donations, said Shastri explaining how the lab came to be kitted with the machines.“We started the discussion in May and it all moved so quickly,” said Shastri, who believes that the genome sequencing laboratory has an important role to play in the city’s public health landscape. “We can use the facility for any pathogen. For instance, dengue is not very conclusively identified by PCR and whole-genome sequencing can prove to be beneficial for us. Or let’s say that the H1N1 virus becomes resistant to the oseltamivir drug in the future, genome sequencing will come handy then too,” she said. As Chitalia, Nomani, and Shirsat work in a high-risk environment, vaccination is mandatory. The three also monitor themselves closely for even the slightest of symptoms. None has developed any to date. The researchers at the laboratory want to compare the 2021 variants with the 2020 virus identified as the Wuhan strain in the hope of answering several pressing questions. Why, for instance, do the variants behave differently? Last year, hospitals saw a few instances of mother-to-child transmission but the virus did not have a serious impact on babies. “Are the 2021 variants affecting children more or causing increased mortality and morbidity in the pregnant women and the children? This is something that we need to check,” Shastri said. That’s why the samples for genome sequencing are selected carefully. Soon after the Kasturba facility opened, a circular explaining the criteria for selecting the samples were sent to all the wards and hospitals: in addition to breakthrough infections and re-infections, the laboratory also wanted samples of patients who were immunocompromised, as their immunity does not kick in for the virus to be cleared out completely. In such cases, there is a possibility of intra-host variation. “Put simply, the virus undergoes mutation within the host,” said Shastri adding that medical experts are also interested in the host genomics of patients who suffer from longer hospitalisations due to Covid. But host genomics is a long-term plan at the moment. The laboratory is now focused on utilising its maximum capacity to sequence the samples from across the city and turn around the reports within a short span. Until now, samples from Mumbai were sent to Pune or Delhi for genome sequencing and the results would take anywhere between several weeks to three months. “There is no point in carrying out contact tracing if the reports come so late,” said Shastri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-first-genome-sequencing-lab-aims-to-break-covid-code-101632166029140.html
21-09-2021||Other||Act against protesters who assaulted Akalis: SAD to SKM||Chandigarh The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Monday asked the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) to initiate action against their activists for heckling Akali workers on the night of September 16, when they were on way to take part in the party’s protest of September 17 in New Delhi. “Many of those harassed and heckled had been active participants in the farmers’ protest, with family, on both the Tikri and the Singhu borders of Delhi. Some of them had even contributed materially to the protest,” claimed SAD leader Prem Singh Chandumajra, adding that the SKM must clarify its stand on humiliation of farmers. “Many of them were drunk and used filthy and vulgar language against ladies and elders,” some of the victims that accompanied Chandumajra to the press conference alleged. “The treatment to innocent and defenceless ladies and elders was reminded of what the Sikh community had gone through in the past,” Chandumajra said, adding that the SKM must take this seriously, as such incidents defamed the farmers and discredited their long struggle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/act-against-protesters-who-assaulted-akalis-sad-to-skm-101632165967936.html
21-09-2021||Other||PMC standing committee okays development credit notes with cap of ₹200 crore per annum||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will begin the issuance of credit notes to private developers contracted to develop roads and/or bridges under the PPP (public private partnership) model.The “development credit note” as it is now officially referred to, was cleared by the standing committee on Monday. This note is transferable and has cap of ₹200 crore per annum.Standing committee chairman Hemant Rasane said, “To compensate contractors, PMC will issue a credit note which s/he can use partly or fully within the cap of ₹200 crore per annum. Instead of giving cash compensation, the PMC will issue the note which a developer can use to pay for building permission, property tax, water, road digging, sky sign or any other PMC works that s/he needs to pay for.” Meanwhile, the standing committee also approved the commencement of work on a flyover on Singhgad road.Municipal commissioner absent for SC meetMunicipal commissioner Vikram Kumar was absent for the standing committee meeting, though he was present in office on Monday. Relations between the commissioner and elected members of the BJP, the ruling part in the PMC, have been under some strain ever since the commissioner put a 30 per cnt cap on spending for ward-level works. At the last standing committee meeting standing committee chairman Hemant Rasane walk out of the meeting in protest. On Monday, commissioner Kumar chose to remain absent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-standing-committee-okays-development-credit-notes-with-cap-of-200-crore-per-annum-101632165787881.html
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula: All testing positive for Covid to be hospitalised||Amid a gradual increase in Covid-19 cases in September, the Panchkula health department has made it mandatory for all Covid-19 patients to be hospitalised. “No one will be allowed home isolation after testing positive for Covid-19. The patients will have to stay in government or private hospitals,” said Dr Mukta Kumar, civil medical officer, Panchkula.Panchkula recorded seven Covid-19 cases in the first week of September. The number went up to nine in the second week, while 13 cases haves surfaced in the third week so far with still a day to go. In comparison to 45 cases in August, 29 have surfaced this month so far. Meanwhile, no fatality has been recorded in September.In the panel of private hospitals, there are three: Alchemist, Ojas and Paras. Rates are as decided by the Haryana government.“People should co-operate and not be afraid of hospitalisation. You will recover quicker in hospitals. This is being done to ensure the virus doesn’t spread at a fast pace,” said Dr Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-all-testing-positive-for-covid-to-be-hospitalised-101632165729745.html
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||Covid: Uptick in cases after four weeks in Chandigarh tricity area||After a steady decline for four weeks, the cumulative Covid-19 cases in the tricity saw an uptick in the week ending September 19. A total of 70 cases were reported between September 13 and 19, a 6% rise as compared to 66 cases in the previous week. Of the 70 cases, 29 cases were reported from Mohali, followed by 27 in Chandigarh and 14 in Panchkula.The tricity also reported two deaths in the past week (both from Mohali), raising concerns across the three health departments. Medical experts believe the uptick is due to apathy and complacency on the part of locals, who have stopped following Covid-appropriate behaviour, especially wearing of face masks.Since the week ending August 15, when 86 people had tested positive in the tricity, the weekly figures had been on a decline till the latest uptick. This month (till September 20), the tricity has recorded 181 cases, with 85 in Mohali, 67 in Chandigarh and 29 in Panchkula. In comparison, 323 cases had surfaced in August, with 154 in Mohali, 124 in Chandigarh and 45 in Panchkula.In terms of fatalities, five people have died in Chandigarh this month, followed by two in Mohali and none in Panchkula.Seven new cases in UTOn Monday, seven fresh Covid-19 cases surfaced in Chandigarh. Those infected reside in Sectors 35, 39, 47, 50 and Raipur Khurd. Meanwhile, Panchkula reported two cases (Sectors 12 and 27) while one was reported in Mohali, taking the tricity’s daily tally to 10. There was no virus-related death across the three jurisdictions.The active caseload in tricity stands at 93, with 41 patients in Chandigarh, 34 in Mohali and 18 in Panchkula.So far, 65,188 people have tested positive in Chandigarh, of whom 64,329 have recovered and 818 have died. In Panchkula, 30,714 cases have surfaced, 30,322 patients have been discharged and 377 have succumbed. Mohali leads with 68,695 cases. While 67,599 patients have recovered, 1,062 have died.‘No space for complacency’ “The daily tally of Covid-19 cases is increasing in Mohali, but is still in single digit. Complacency at this time can invite a third wave,” said Mohali civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur, while urging people to help the administration in controlling the surge by following all guidelines. “Wearing of masks and maintaining social distancing at public places should be strictly followed,” she said.According to Dr Amandeep Kang, director, health services, Chandigarh, immunity formed in people after getting infected during the second wave in April and May has started waning after a four month gap. “Due to this, cases may start rising again. People must wear face masks and follow Covid-appropriate behaviour, but most importantly, get vaccinated at the earliest,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-uptick-in-cases-after-four-weeks-in-chandigarh-tricity-area-101632165667793.html
21-09-2021||Mumbai||Raj Kundra, aide granted bail in porn films case||Businessman Raj Kundra and associate Ryan Thorpe were granted bail by a Mumbai court on Monday, two months after his arrest over allegations of shooting and streaming pornographic films. He has also been ordered to pay ₹50,000 surety for his release.On September 16, the Mumbai Police filed a 1,468-page charge sheet in court listing charges against the businessman. On September 20, Kundra moved a bail application before Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Sudhir Bhajipale, arguing that the investigation is over and a charge sheet has been filed.Kundra, who is married to actor Shilpa Shetty, was arrested on July 19 and booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Information Technology Act.In his bail plea, the businessman alleged that there is not an iota of evidence to date with the prosecution that would connect the app ‘Hotshots’ with an offence under the law. “The investigation is complete, there is no chance of tampering with evidence or threatening witnesses as statements have already been recorded before the magistrate,” said the application.After hearing the arguments, the judge granted bail to Kundra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/raj-kundra-aide-granted-bail-in-porn-films-case-101632165441084.html
21-09-2021||Other||Pune district-wide blood donation camp on September 22 to tackle blood shortage||PUNE: With the surge in- dengue cases in the district and consequently, the demand for platelets - leading to a shortage of blood at a time when blood donation camps and drives have ground to a halt due to the pandemic and lockdown, Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh has ordered a district-wide blood donation camp in all 13 talukas under the Pune zilla parishad on September 22.The order issued on Sunday states, “There has been a rise in dengue, malaria and chikungunya cases in the district in various areas. These infections lead to a drop in platelets and due to the current pandemic, schools, colleges, social organisations and private offices are shut and so, the usual blood donation drives carried out by these organisations have come to a halt leading to a shortage of blood in the district. To overcome this shortage of blood and to ensure that no one faces any difficulty due to the shortage, a massive all taluka-level blood donation drive will be organised in the 13 talukas in the district on September 22.”The blood donation camp will be organised in collaboration with district officials at the taluka level, doctors from the District Hospital Aundh, and blood banks.Dr Milind Kulkarni, pathalogist at the District Hospital Aundh who has been appointed as the nodal officer for the drive, said, “We have been facing a shortage of blood now mainly because post monsoon, the number of dengue, malaria and chikungunya cases have gone up and so has the demand for platelets. The taluka level officials have been asked to coordinate the drive along with multiple blood banks from the city and rural areas that have come forward to organise this drive along with us. Anyone aged 18 to 65 years can donate blood; the body weight of the person must be more than 45kg and the haemoglobin must be 12.5. If anyone has donated blood prior to this drive, a four-month gap in case of women and a three-month gap in case of men must be maintained. Persons with a recent history of serious ailments such as typhoid, dengue, chikungunya, zika or tuberculosis, or with habits like alcoholism, or those who have had any major surgeries in the past one year, or those who have got a tattoo in the last one year, will not be eligible for blood donation.”Human blood primarily has three components namely, red blood cells that transport oxygen to the body’s organs and tissues, white blood cells that help the body fight infections, and platelets that help the blood to clot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-district-wide-blood-donation-camp-on-september-22-to-tackle-blood-shortage-101632165608072.html
21-09-2021||Other||Pune’s Ganeshotsav ends on sombre note, major idols immersed by 6.40pm on Sunday||PUNE: For the second consecutive year, muted celebrations marked the close of the 10-day Ganeshotsav as visarjan (immersion) of all major Ganpati idols ended much earlier than pre-pandemic years, not to mention lack of the traditional dhol-tasha during immersion processions.The immersion of the five most revered Ganpati idols in Pune – which usually takes place late at night and is accompanied by a lot of fanfare – ended at 1.17pm on Sunday. The Kasba Ganpati immersion ended at 11.29am; the Tambdi Jogeshwari immersion at 11.30am; Guruji Talim at 12.37pm; Tulshibaug at 1.15pm; and Kesariwada at 1.17pm. The immersion of other important idols took slightly longer, ending at 6.38pm. Bhausaheb Rangari ended at 2.32pm; Dagdusheth Halwai at 6.27pm; and Akhil Mandai Mandal at 6.38pm.Priyanka Narnavare, deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Pune police, said, “The immersion of the major public Ganpati idols ended with Akhil Mandai at 6.38pm. The home immersions and community immersion ponds were on till around 10 to 10.30pm.” Zone 1 comprises the old city which houses all the major idols and draws huge crowds during the 10-day festival especially on the last day.While the police were out on the streets in areas where crowds usually gather, Covid-19 restrictions made for smaller gatherings. Commissioner Amitabh Gupta and joint commissioner Ravindra Shisve were also on the streets on visarjan day.“There was dhol playing near the Tulshibaug Ganpati . We went there and seized the dhols and ensured that they did not play all day. That was the only incident. We have not registered any cases so far,” said DCP Narnavare.Among other festivities, the reverberating dhol-tasha sounds that announce the arrival and immersion of Lord Ganesh have been conspicuous by their absence over the past two years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punes-ganeshotsav-ends-on-sombre-note-major-idols-immersed-by-6-40pm-on-sunday-101632165428281.html
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab state inter-district cricket: Ludhiana beat Ropar by four wickets||Ludhiana senior cricket team registered a four-wicket victory against Ropar in the ongoing Punjab state inter-district senior one-day tournament at GRD Academy on Monday.The Ropar team won the toss and chose to bat first. The team put together a fighting total of 252 runs in 50 overs losing a total of seven wickets.Nitin Kamboj was the star performer for Ropar as he scored 90 runs in 119 balls hitting five fours and two sixes in the match.Anush Prashar of Ropar chipped in with two wickets conceding 45 runs in his ten-over spell. Ropar captain Madhav also took two wickets giving away 48 runs in his ten-over spell.After losing three early wickets while chasing the target, Ludhiana captain Gitansh Khera steered the team to victory playing a brilliant knock of 101 taking just 86 runs to reach the milestone hitting 12 fours in his innings. He remained not out till the end.Gitansh along with Kabir Grewal had a sixth wicket partnership of 121 runs before Grewal got out scoring 54 runs facing 57 deliveries hitting four boundaries and two sixes.Ludhiana pacers Dipin Chitkara and Hartejassvi Kapoor took two wickets each giving away 41 and 48 runs in their ten-over spells, respectively.Gitansh Khera was declared the man of the match. Ludhiana had lost their previous match to Mohali by 95 runs on September 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-state-inter-district-cricket-ludhiana-beat-ropar-by-four-wickets-101632165369792.html
21-09-2021||Mumbai||Actor Kangana Ranaut files counter plaint against Javed Akhtar||Actor Kangana Ranaut on Monday appeared before a metropolitan magistrate court in Andheri in connection with a defamation case filed against her by lyricist Javed Akhtar. The actor has filed a counter-complaint against Akhtar, accusing him of extortion, criminal intimidation, injury and insulting her modesty. Ranaut, whose appearance was sought by the court, has also filed an application to the chief metropolitan magistrate (CMM), demanding the transfer of Akhtar’s case to some other magistrate court. “I am making a categorical statement that I have no faith in this court,” she has said in her application filed through advocate Rizwan Siddique. Ranaut added that she had lost faith in the court as it had asked her to appear before it without providing any sufficient reason and an on record order which justified compelling appearance of accused in a bailable, non-cognisable and compoundable offence. “This court is threatening the accused on every date of issuing an arrest warrant without giving any sufficient cause and reason,” her application stated. Metropolitan magistrate RR Khan has now posted the matter to November 15 as the application for the transfer of the case is likely to be heard by the CMM court on October 1. Akhtar’s counsel, advocate Jay Bhardwaj, opposed the move to adjourn the matter, saying that there was no stay on the hearing. In her fresh complaint against Akhtar, Ranaut has alleged that after her dispute with co-star Hrithik Roshan, Akthar had called her and her sister Rangoli Chandel to his house in Juhu with “mala fide intentions and ulterior motives”. The actor has stated that Akhtar called her and Chandel on the pretext of acting as a mediator but instead threatened her. “We had not asked him to intervene in our matter,” she said. She further alleged that Akthar forced her to tender a written apology to her Roshan, thus forcefully seeking to create a document in a favour of her co-star. Ranaut has also alleged that Akthar had said that if she failed to apologise to Roshan, she would have to commit suicide because they would her in jail as they had found all the clues and evidences and have the case completely in their hands. The actor has said in her complaint that by mala fide and mischief and intentionally indulging in the above serious cognisable offences, Akhtar caused her immense mental torture and trauma. She prayed that her complaint against Akthar was delayed as her family allowed her to do so only now and hence, the delay should be condoned. However, she has also stated that they had spoken about it earlier on different platforms and the links of the same are available. In the last hearing on September 14, the magistrate had warned Ranaut’s counsel that if she failed to appear before the court for the next hearing on – for the appearance of both the parties and to decide on Ranaut’s application on permanent exemption – September 20, it could issue an arrest warrant against her. Akhtar had filed a defamation complaint against Ranaut last November for allegedly making defamatory and baseless comments against in a television interview. The magistrate had directed Juhu police in December 2020 to conduct an inquiry into Akhtar’s allegations and initiated criminal proceedings against the actor. Ranaut had challenged the process in Bombay high court, which dismissed her petition in the first week of September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/actor-kangana-ranaut-files-counter-plaint-against-javed-akhtar-101632165250085.html
21-09-2021||Mumbai||BEST to procure 1,900 more electric buses for Mumbai||The Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) will introduce 1,900 fully-electric buses in the fleet in a phased manner. The management has prepared a proposal for the procurement. On Monday, BEST had issued a tender notice calling for bidders for procuring the new buses. A proposal will be passed by the BEST committee, following which the procurement of the buses will begin.“A tender notice has been issued and bidders have been called. A detailed proposal on the requirement and the time frame of procurement will be discussed with the bidders. The earlier electric buses were procured under the Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Hybrid and Electric vehicles (FAME)-2 scheme,” said a senior BEST official. The FAME scheme promotes the use of electric vehicles in the country.“Very happy to hear that @myBESTBus has put out a tender notice for 1900 fully electric buses. Currently, Mumbai has 386 electric buses. The @MahaEnvCC is also assisting other cities in Maharashtra to increase their bus fleets with help of policies of Government of India and Government of Maharashtra (sic),” tweeted Maharashtra environment minister Aaditya Thackeray.An electric bus can travel up to 200km in a single charge. Currently, BEST has 386 electric buses operational in the city. The organisation also has midi electric buses that are used on its feeder routes. In August, BEST had introduced 24 electric buses. The organisation is also constructing electric vehicle-charging stations in its bus depots, while such stations have already been set up at Dharavi and Worli depots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/best-to-procure-1-900-more-electric-buses-for-mumbai-101632165187973.html
21-09-2021||Other||HC stays cutting of trees in Rupnagar, Hoshiarpur||Chandigarh The Punjab and Haryana high court has stayed the cutting of Khair trees in three gram panchayats of Rupnagar and Hoshiarpur. The order came on the plea of advocate HC Arora seeking intervention against auction notices that the three gram panchayats had issued for the sale of these Khair trees. The three panchayats are Sabor and Jatoli in Nurpur Bedi block in Rupnagar and Dulmiwal in Dasuya block of Hoshiarpur. According to the plea, 5,375 Kher trees are to be sold in Sabor, 2,703 trees in Jatoli and 198 in Dulmiwal. The auction was to take place on September 22 in the Rupnagar block and September 30 for Dasuya block.Arora had argued that gram panchayats had ordered the trees to be cut and sold without any justification and without any concrete plan to plant substitute trees in their place. There is no transparency in the procedure of considering and approving the proposal for auctioning the trees, it was claimed adding that in the recent past there has been a considerable increase in the number of auctions of trees being ordered by the gram panchayats, with the result that the forest cover in the state is depleting.Taking note of the submissions, the high court has sought response from all concerned, including the state government and ordered that trees be cut after taking permission from the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hcstays-cutting-of-trees-in-rupnagar-hoshiarpur-101632165128979.html
21-09-2021||Pune||Pune real estate sees 8% growth in sales volume, 27% in value: report||PUNE: Pune has clocked sales of around 53,000 housing units in the period between January and July 2021 as compared to about 49,000 housing units between January and July 2019 indicating an almost 8% growth, according to a real estate market analysis report by CREDAI-Pune Metro and CRE Matrix.In value terms, Pune has clocked housing sales worth approximately Rs27,500 crore from January to July 2021 as compared to around Rs21,500 crore from January to July 2019 indicating an about 27% growth in the sales of higher ticket size housing units in 2021, revealed the report released during CREDAI-Pune Metro’s 38th annual general meeting (AGM) on Monday.Region-wise in the period between January and July 2021, 26% of housing sales came from the northwest (Baner, Balewadi up to Mahalunge) at Rs7,160 crore; 23.5% came from Pimpri-Chinchwad; while 19%, 15%, 14% and 3% of housing sales came from the northeast, southwest, southeast and central Pune, respectively.Housing units priced above Rs2 crore per unit witnessed cumulative sales worth Rs2,350 crore from January to July 2021 with an 88% growth as compared to cumulative sales worth Rs1,250 crore from January to July 2019. Whereas housing units priced below Rs70 lakh per unit witnessed 63% cumulative sales from January to July 2021 as compared to 69% from January to July 2019, indicating a rise in the sales of higher ticket size housing units in 2021. Pune witnessed launches of large-sized projects from January to July 2021, indicating rising buyer preference for community living vis-à-vis individual housing and small societies.Anil Pharande, president, CREDAI-Pune Metro, said, “An informed market research based on real-time survey is the right way to tackle the turbulent times faced by the real estate market today. The report has real sales data derived from IGR Maharashtra and what makes it interesting is that it compares sales for the same period in the two preceding years, 2019 and 2020, with optimistic results. This collaboration with CRE Matrix will enable our member developers to analyse markets scientifically and plan projects successfully.”Meanwhile, CRE Matrix said that it collected the data through two platforms including Indextap and Floortap that provide authentic information on real estate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-real-estate-sees-8-growth-in-sales-volume-27-in-value-report-101632165127771.html
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||Water woes in Mohali set to end in December||After missing two deadlines in the past nine years, the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) has set December 1 as the final deadline to start the additional supply of 20 MGD (million gallon daily) water from Phases 5 and 6 of the Kajauli waterworks.The Kajauli waterworks is located on the Bhakra mainline canal near Morinda in Rupnagar district, from where water requirement of Chandigarh, Mohali and Chandimandir are met.Even as Chandigarh has already started receiving its additional share of 35 MGD water from the two new phases, the supply to Mohali got delayed because of pending work at the water treatment plant coming up in Singhpura.The project has missed two deadlines: December 2020 and July 2021. Now, 400 workers are on the job to meet the new deadline.“The project has been delayed due to the pandemic. The construction work of the water treatment plant is going on in full swing and 80% work is completed. We have set the deadline of December 1 for its completion, and on the same day, Mohali residents will start getting an additional 20 MGD water,” said GMADA chief engineer Davinder Singh. Shortage touching 12 MGD in peak summerFor the past several years, Mohali has been reeling under an acute water shortage as the gap between the demand and supply stretches up to 12 MGD during peak summer.At present, against a peak demand of 32 MGD, Mohali gets 10 MGD water from the older phases of Kajauli waterworks and 10 MGD from 75 tubewells.In May 2012, GMADA had started laying pipelines to supply additional water from the Kajauli waterworks to Mohali and Chandigarh at a cost of ₹200 crore, half of which was borne by Chandigarh.However, the delay in Singhpura plant, being built by a Gujarat-based company for ₹100 crore, put a spanner in the project. One of the reasons was indecision: whether to go for 5 MGD capacity or 20 MGD? GMADA finally went with the second option. The pandemic, too, played a part by creating labour shortage. MC councillor Kuljeet Singh Bedi, who had moved the high court over water shortage in Mohali, said: “The project has been delayed due to the lackadaisical attitude of officials concerned. It is unfortunate that the public had to suffer for years.”Kharar to get 5 MGD water from same lineThe 20 MGD additional water to be supplied under the project will also cater to the needs of Kharar and Morinda. In order to overcome the scarcity of drinking water and problem of rapid depletion of groundwater, Kharar will get its share of 5 MGD potable water drawn from Phases 5 and 6 of the Kajauli waterworks, said the GMADA chief engineer“Kharar is coming up with the infrastructure, which will take some time for completion. Till then, Mohali will be using its share of 5 MGD water,” he said, adding that even Morinda will get 1 MGD water from the same pipeline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/water-woes-in-mohali-set-to-end-coming-december-101632165009183.html
21-09-2021||Mumbai||Facing BJP attack, Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi partners come across as divided||As Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders continued to level allegations of financial misdeeds worth crores of rupees against sitting ministers and central agencies sent a notice to a minister, the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) partners displayed lack of coordination. A day after BJP leader Kirit Somaiya was not allowed to enter Kolhapur, where he was headed to file a complaint against Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) minister Hasan Mushrif, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut distanced chief minister Uddhav Thackeray from the action, saying it was taken by the home department – a portfolio that is held by Nationalist Congress Party’s Dilip Walse Patil. It is likely that the Sena wants to show that it is not giving much importance to Somaiya but various instances in the past few months show that the three parties are not on the same page while countering a very aggressive BJP. “If you are using central agencies at the behest of the Centre, and making allegations against prominent leaders and ministers in Maharashtra, which could result in a law-and-order issue, the state home department can act on it. I spoke to the chief minister and he has clearly said that the chief minister’s office is not involved in the action [against BJP leader] and that it was done by the home department,” said Raut, insisting that there is no vendetta politics. Raut further added that the CM does not involve himself in such “small matters”. “There is no need to target the chief minister on this issue. A chief minister doesn’t get involved in such small matters,” he said. Hours later, Walse Patil also clarified that CMO was not involved in the action against Somaiya. “The CMO has no connection; it was the decision of the home department.” A political analyst added Walse Patil’s clarification was to show coordination between the two parties. “The district administration informed the home department about the situation that it observed in Kolhapur yesterday. Had the two groups had come face to face, it would have led to more issues. Based on that, they suggested that prohibitary action must be taken and therefore the district collector of Kolhapur issued a notice,” the minister said. Amid buzz of lack of coordination between the ruling allies, MVA’s coordination committee met in Mumbai to chalk out damage control measures. The committee has two senior ministers from each of the three parties. Thackeray also held a meeting with Walse Patil and senior IPS officials over the political drama involving Somaiya, which started on Sunday. Sena minister and member of the coordination committee Subhash Desai said the meeting was held on Monday. “We keep meeting regularly depending on the agenda and there is good coordination. We had a brief meeting today and may meet next week again,” Desai said, refusing to divulge if the meeting was prompted by the events on Monday. NCP minister and party spokesperson Nawab Malik said, “The decision [to not allow Somaiya] was made by the Kolhapur district magistrate and not even by the home department. There is no lack of coordination.” While individual ministers, who face allegations, have come out defending themselves along with statements their party colleagues, but there is no coordinated effort to discredit or counter the allegations made by BJP so far. Political analyst Hemant Desai said there have been several examples in the nearly two-year tenure of the Sena-led alliance government where parties and state government have lacked coordination. “The NRC-CAA bill was probably the first thing where the three parties had differences. The Shiv Sena supported the bill in Lok Sabha, but when the NCP and Congress displayed displeasure, they abstained from voting in the Upper House of Parliament. The attack on the Sena following the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput was not handled well. The lack of coordination was also seen when energy minister Nitin Raut announced a decision to waive power bill, but finance minister Ajit Pawar didn’t agree. Anil Deshmukh and Sachin Vaze episodes were poorly handled by the alliance. They had opportunity to attack BJP in Mohan Delkar case but they didn’t,” Desai said. Reacting to Raut’s statement, Desai said that the Shiv Sena has passed the buck on to NCP Earlier, the MVA had handled the allegations against former home minister Anil Deshmukh poorly. Senior Sena leaders had said that the CM was upset with the former home minister and wanted him out over the handling of the Mansukh Hiran-Antilia case. Sena minister Anil Parab, who is close to the Shiv Sena chief, was served a notice by the Enforcement Directorate last month. Since last year, the ED has sent notices to Sena leaders, including legislator Pratap Sarnaik, MP Sanjay Raut’s wife, MP Bhawana Gawali. Also, BJP leaders have been targeting people close to Thackeray, including Milind Narvekar, close aide of the Sena boss. The Sena does not have a definite plan to counter the BJP so far. Senior party leader said the idea is to wait and watch and tackle the allegations legally. “We will fight the string of false allegations against party members legally. Whatever allegations one may put on us, they should be proven in the court of law,” said a senior functionary. Earlie, Raut that there would be no change in the political landscape amid pressure from central agencies.“We will face the situation. This government is not cowardly. This fight under the leadership of chief minister and Sharad Pawar will continue. No matter how many allegations are levelled, we will not bow down,” the Sena leader said. “The courts will decide whether the allegations are true or false. The attempt to destabilise our government will not succeed. Let them make allegations, our government is strong.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/facing-bjp-attack-maharashtra-vikas-aghadi-partners-come-across-as-divided-101632164950014.html
21-09-2021||Pune||81 arrests by Railway Police Force in crackdown at Pune station||PUNE The Railway Police Force (RPF) has so far arrested 81 persons for accused of breaking various laws on the Pune railway station premises.As per the Pune railway division, the drive began on September 17 will go on till the end of the month. Policemen at the railway station are strictly checking illegal hawkers, beggars and vehicles parked in no-parking zones on the station premises.“Those found violating the railway rules were charged under relevant sections of the Railway Act and penalised. Our appeal to passengers is to follow Covid rules and other safety rules and travel from the Pune railway station,” said Manoj Jhawar, Pune railway division spokesperson. This drive follows the tragic incident of a minor being kidnapped from the railway station and then gang-raped. Several arrests have been made in this case as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/81-arrests-by-railway-police-force-in-crackdown-at-pune-station-101632164947792.html
21-09-2021||Mumbai||Anil Deshmukh’s premises searched: I-T department suspects ₹17-cr tax evasion||After carrying out searches at the premises of firms, trusts and organisations linked to Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Anil Deshmukh, the Income-Tax (I-T) department suspects that the former Maharashtra home minister committed a tax evasion of ₹17 crore. The department has begun investigation in the case, it said on Monday, in a statement without naming Deshmukh. However, senior I-T officials confirmed that the assessee in question is Deshmukh.Deshmukh’s lawyer Inderpal Singh had in past said, “The I-T department’s action on Deshmukh is very surprising as his tax assessments (files) are clear. He has never received any intimation or notice in the past 20 years from the I-T department. The action (searches) is nothing, but pure political harassment.”Deshmukh was not available for comment.On Friday, the I-T Department had carried out a search operation at more than 30 premises spread across Nagpur, Mumbai, New Delhi and Kolkata. The tax agency said that during the course of the operation, many incriminating documents, loose sheets and other digital evidences were seized. “These evidences clearly indicate the involvement of the [Deshmukh’s] group in unaccounted financial transactions made outside the regular books of accounts including inflation of expenses, money laundering, bogus donation receipts, unaccounted cash expenses,” the agency said.The agency claims that it has evidence on the receipts of bogus donation in the hands of the trust run by the assesse group through money laundering and using Delhi-based companies to the extent of ₹4.00 crore. This clearly substantiates laundering of the unaccounted income of the assesse routed as donation to the trust, the agency officials added.Further, specific evidences have been unearthed which reveal that three educational institutions of the trust have indulged in inflation of expenses in which salaries paid to the employees were partly collected back in cash. Such evidences were found for several financial years amounting to more than ₹12 crore, the I-T department said.During the search, it was also detected that the trust, apart from suppression of receipts, has paid substantial amounts to brokers for arranging admissions. Such payments, of about ₹87 lakh, have been paid in cash and are completely unaccounted for, officials have said.“Evidence found during the search clearly indicates concealment of income to the extent of about ₹17 crore,” the I-T department statement read.Several bank lockers found during the course of the search operation have been put under prohibitory orders. The evidence gathered during the search is being examined and further investigations are in progress, the statement released by Surabhi Ahluwalia, commissioner of I-T (media and technical policy) and spokesperson of Central Board of Direct Taxes, read.Earlier the Enforcement Directorate has also claimed that Deshmukh had used “paper” companies to route the money as donations to an educational trust headed by his family, which runs engineering and polytechnic colleges in Nagpur. According to ED, the money was first sent to two brothers in Delhi, who operated bogus companies, and at the behest of Deshmukh’s son Hrishikesh, diverted the cash as donations to Nagpur-based Shri Sai Shikshan Sansthan, a trust controlled by the ex-minister and his family.Deshmukh has been at the centre of controversies this year. On August 23, ED had filed a charge sheet against his personal secretary Sanjeev Palande and assistant Kundan Shinde in a money laundering case, in which the former minister is the main accused. The charge sheet also includes a statement from dismissed Mumbai Police officer Sachin Vaze, who is one of the accused in the Antilla explosives scare and Mansukh Hiran murder cases.In his statement to ED, Vaze has claimed that ₹40 crore was collected from 10 deputy commissioners of police (DCPs) and “paid” to Deshmukh and another minister for “letting the order of then city police commissioner Param Bir Singh to transfer them go through”.The money laundering case against Deshmukh and his aides was registered after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) filed a first information report (FIR) against the minister on April 21. The basis of the FIR was the corruption allegations made by Singh who had alleged that Deshmukh had demanded a monthly collection of ₹100 crore from Mumbai’s bars and restaurants, a claim that eventually forced the NCP leader to resign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/anil-deshmukh-s-premises-searched-i-t-department-suspects-17-cr-tax-evasion-101632164887769.html
21-09-2021||Pune||Pune couple succumb after car plunges into creek in Goa||PUNE A young couple from Pune succumbed to their injuries after the car they were driving veered off the road and plunged into a creek in Goa’s Arpora village early on Monday morning, police said. The couple -- identified as Shubham Dedge, 28, and Ishwari Deshpande, 25, residents of Kirkatwadi, Pune, who were in Goa on a holiday, were found dead in their car at around 5:30 am on Monday after their car was fished out of the creek along the border between the Calangute and Arpora villages in North Goa. “The accident took place at around 5:30 am after the driver lost control of the car, it overturned and plunged into the creek. Both had come for a holiday and were residing at a nearby hotel,” Police Inspector of Anjuna Police Station Suraj Gawas told reporters. It is believed that the car was discovered some hours after the accident took place by which time the couple succumbed to their injuries unable to escape from the wreckage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-couple-succumb-after-car-plunges-into-creek-in-goa-101632164708102.html
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana district table tennis championship: Naman, Meghna bag titles||Naman and Meghna won the men and women singles titles, respectively, on the third day of the district table tennis championship at Shastri Hall.Naman outwitted Sameer by a score of 11-7,11-9,8-11,11-5 in the final clash. Naman won the best of five games. Around 200 players are participating in the ongoing tournament.In the women’s category, Meghna defeated Ishreen by 11-5,11-8,9-11,12-10 in the final match.In the U-19 girls’ finals, Sehejpreet emerged victorious over Ishreen in a tight match by the score of 11-7,11-8,7-11,9-11,11-6. After the equalizer, Sehajpreet won the last round. Meanwhile, Vivek won the title by defeating Gautam by 11-8, 11-6, 9-11, 11-6 in the U-19 boy’s finals.Playing in the veteran 39+ category finals, Amit Oberoi beat Anil Dhingra by 11-7,11-8,11-5. Meanwhile, Vanshdeep Mangal beat HS Gill by 9-11,11-7,11-6,11-8 playing in veteran 49+ category finals. In the veteran women’s category, Reena beat Shweta Jain by 11-7, 11-8, 7-11, 11-9 in the finals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-district-table-tennis-championship-naman-meghna-bag-titles-101632164649447.html
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Monsoon deficit drops to 32%, more rain on cards||Staying above 40% for most part of August, monsoon deficit in Chandigarh has started to fall, and reached 32% on Monday due to the recent showers. After thunderstorm on Monday evening, chances for rain will continue in the coming days, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).Rains during four months from June to September are considered monsoon. Against a normal rainfall of 807.1 mm, Chandigarh has received 546 mm this monsoon, leading to a deficit of 32%. However, this month has seen 118.3 mm rain so far, much higher than 22 mm rain recorded in September 2020 (but lower than that in the previous years). This month’s tally is also inching towards 168.3 mm, which was recorded in August.“Due to the formation of a low-pressure area over the Bay of Bengal and other pressure differences, moisture-laden clouds are reaching the region, leading to rain. For the next three to four days, light rain up to 20 mm can be expected in scattered stations of the region, including Chandigarh,” said Manmohan Singh, director, IMD Chandigarh.On Monday, even as the IMD observatory in Sector 39 recorded just trace rainfall, there was downpour in northern parts of the city, which also led to waterlogged roads. However, maximum temperature went up from Sunday’s 34°C to 34.4°C on Monday, and minimum temperature also rose from 25.7°C to 27.2°C. In the next three days, maximum temperature will remain around 31°C and minimum temperature around 25-26°C, stated the weather bulletin.Meanwhile, monsoon withdrawal is expected to be delayed this year as well. Against the normal date of September 23, it was declared on September 30 last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-monsoon-deficit-drops-to-32-more-rain-on-cards-101632164647724.html
21-09-2021||Pune||Domestic violence: Pimpri-Chinchwad police arrest man, father-in-law||PUNE The Pimpri-Chinchwad police have arrested a 33-year-old husband and his 62-year-old father for allegedly making a woman drink a chicken’s blood.A case has also been registered against the 53-year-old mother-in-law. The accused were following a self-proclaimed godman’s directions. The victim has also claimed that the in-laws hid her husband’s impotence from her and misled her into believing that he is an engineer.The huband’s father then allegedly tried to force himself on her in order to impregnate her.“He is a diploma engineer and she has a bachelor’s degree. They have been living separately for the past four months after being married since December 30, 2018. We will investigate all claims made in the complaint. We have arrested the two,” said inspector Jitendra Kadam of Bhosari police station, who is investigating the case. A case in the matter was registered on Sunday night based on the woman’s complaint. The woman claimed that when she found out about the impotence of the man and told her relatives about it. Her in-laws then allegedly beat her up for doing so.The woman mentioned physical and mental abuse by the in-laws since 2018.A case under Sections 498(a), 354(a), 323, 504, 506, and 34 of Indian Penal Code along with Section 3 of Maharashtra Prevention and Eradication of Human Sacrifice and other Inhuman, Evil and Aghori Practices and Black Magic Act, 2013 was registered at Bhosari police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/domestic-violence-pimpri-chinchwad-police-arrest-man-fatherinlaw-101632164527735.html
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Man drowns in swimming pool at Sector 29||A 35-year-old man drowned in a swimming pool in Sector 29, Chandigarh, on Sunday night. Identified as Shyam Lal, he was a resident of Manimajra and used to sell milk. Police said he had gone to a sports academy with his friends when the mishap took place. When after swimming for about an hour, his friends came out of the pool, they noticed Shyam was missing. They informed the trainer, who fished out Shyam’s body from the bottom of the pool. He was declared brought dead on being taken to hospital. Police have initiated inquest proceedings. They are awaiting the postmortem report to ascertain the exact cause of death. The victim is survived by his wife and four children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-man-drowns-in-swimming-pool-at-sector-29-101632164470372.html
21-09-2021||Mumbai||Bombay high court to hear bail pleas of Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor’s wife, kids on Sept 23||Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor’s wife and two daughters on Monday moved the Bombay high court (HC) against the order of the special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court that had rejected their bail pleas on Saturday and sent them to judicial custody till Thursday. Kapoor’s wife Bindu and daughters Roshni and Radha, who are in custody in connection with the alleged Dewan Housing Finance Corporation (DHFL) money-laundering case, sought an urgent hearing of their application. However, the single-judge bench of justice Bharati Dangre permitted the hearing of the applications on Wednesday. Bindu and Radha were named accused in the supplementary charge sheet filed by CBI but the duo was not arrested in the case. In their bail applications moved before the special CBI court through advocates Vijay Agarwal and Rahul Agarwal, Bindu and her two daughters had claimed that as the central agency had filed a charge sheet without arresting them during the probe, they should be granted bail. On September 4, the special court had granted interim bail to Bindu and Radha after CBI sought time to respond to their applications. However, on Saturday, the special court refused to extend the protection. Kapoor is currently in judicial custody after being arrested by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in a related case. His family allegedly received ₹3,700 crore as kickbacks for Yes Bank’s investments in DHFL’s debentures. CBI has claimed that DHFL in return gave Kapoor ₹600 crore as bribe in the form of loans to a firm controlled by his wife and daughters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-high-court-to-hear-bail-pleas-of-yes-bank-founder-rana-kapoor-s-wife-kids-on-sept-23-101632164469176.html
21-09-2021||Pune||Two dupe man of ₹2 lakh in fraudulent currency exchange||PUNE: A 28-year-old businessman from Pune was duped by two men who offered to exchange Indian currency for UAE dirhams at a rate lower than the official exchange rate. The police believe that the duo have duped multiple people in the city in the same manner and have urged other victims to come forward and register a case.The theft happened in Sai nagar area along Upper Kondhwa road in Pune on September 16 between 7:30pm and 8pm, according to police. The complainant and his friend lost a total of ₹2,01,000 in the process. “The complainant is a hotel management graduate who had left his job during the lockdown. He needed UAE currency to carry with himself. His friend’s driver was approached by these two who first gave him a 50 dirham note which the driver gave to the complainant friend, who is a hotelier. When the friend exchanged it, it yielded ₹700. The next time, the friend himself went and got eight notes which again got him over ₹4,000 on exchange. So this time the complainant went with a higher amount along with a few thousand from his friend as well. When he reached for the exchange, he was duped,” said assistant police inspector Rajesh Usgaonkar who is investigating the case.The victim arrived at the spot in lane number 3 of the area with multiple Indian currency notes of ₹500 and ₹2000 in a plastic bag.The two men arrived with washing soap wrapped in a fabric that looked like currency notes wrapped in handkerchief, according to the complaint in the case.The two men made a hasty exchange and pushed the man on the ground before fleeing the spot, the man told the police.A case in the matter was registered under Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating), 392 (theft), and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code at Bibwewadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-dupe-man-of-2-lakh-in-fraudulent-currency-exchange-101632164287797.html
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ambala: A day after bail, journalist booked in another case||A day after an Ambala-based journalist of a Hindi daily was released on bail after being arrested for allegedly promoting enmity between different groups through a news report, he was booked under charges of defamation, extortion and intimidation in another case on Sunday.The scribe, Sunil Brar, has called the development a “witch-hunt” against him. The second case has been registered on the complaint of Vikram Katyal, who works at the municipal council office in Ambala Sadar. He alleged a news report written by Brar on July 30 had spoiled his image. The complaint was submitted to the Haryana home minister Anil Vij during a public darbar on Saturday.Katyal alleged that Brar frequently visits his office and seeks gifts and cash, and wrote a baseless news against him, without his quotes, after he failed to meet his demands.“After reading the news, my father started remaining ill, and on August 21, he died of a cardiac arrest. Earlier this month, he (Brar) visited my office again and intimidated me (with) dire consequences. Now, his recent arrest boosted my morale and I decided to complain against him,” the complaint reads. Inspector Vijay Kumar, station in-charge, Ambala Cantt police station, said Brar has been booked under Sections 385 (putting a person in fear of death or of grievous hurt, in order to commit extortion), 500 (extortion) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. “The matter is under investigation,” he said.Last Thursday, a case was registered against Brar and his colleague Sandeep Sharma at the same police station for publishing a news report about the arrest of a purported ISI-linked terrorist by the Punjab Police in Ambala. Brar was arrested on Friday and was released on a regular bail the next day, while Sharma is yet to be arrested. Reacting to the recent case, Brar, a journalist for over nine years, alleged the government was trying to harass him again and again, but he won’t bow down. “They were unsuccessful in the first case as I got justice from court; so they decided to persecute me again. I will join the investigation whenever they call me, but I won’t stop writing news that questions the establishment. Our management is also dealing with the cases at their own level,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambala-a-day-after-bail-journalist-booked-in-another-case-101632164228859.html
21-09-2021||Mumbai||MBBS students enrolled in Chinese varsities look for mid-year transfer to other countries||With little hopes of returning to their campuses anytime soon, Indian medical students enrolled in China are now looking at mid-course transfers to institutes in India and other countries.“If the National Medical Commission (NMC) will allow us to take a transfer to another country, then our problems will be solved. We don’t have any hope to go back to China,” a third-year medical student, on the condition of anonymity, said.NMC is the apex body administering medical education in India. Students are writing to the commission to allow them a mid-course transfer to medical colleges outside India. However, NMC has not approved such transfers. Dr Aruna Vanikar, president of undergraduate courses, NMC, was unavailable for a comment.For almost 20 months, Indian medical students enrolled for courses in China have not been able to return to their campuses amid travel restrictions. Students have kicked off a new semester online at the beginning of the month.They had returned to India last year amid a raging pandemic as their universities imposed lockdowns. Many left their belongings behind hoping to return to campuses soon. However, more than a year on, the chances of their return remain uncertain as China continues to impose a travel ban for international students. Only those from South Korea and the United States of America have been allowed to return so far.In June, the external affairs ministry had issued a notice in favour of students in international universities, who are stuck in India due to the pandemic. The notice had asked such students to write to its overseas Indian affairs (OIA) office about difficulties in reaching their university. “Indian students studying abroad who are stuck in India owing to Covid-19 pandemic restrictions and mobility issues can send their coordinates, that is, email id and mobile number to OIA-2 division at emails: us.oia2@mea.gov.in and so1oia2@mea.gov.in,” said the notice on the official website.Thereafter, affected students had urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to intervene in the matter and facilitate the students’ return through an open letter. However, there’s been no response yet.Meanwhile, mental stress and anxiety continues to grow among students attending lectures online. “The MBBS course requires students to gain practical experience. For almost two years, we’ve been bereft of that. It’s starting to bother my confidence,” said a fourth-year MBBS student of Jianghan University, Wuhan, who identified herself as Neha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mbbs-students-enrolled-in-chinese-varsities-look-for-mid-year-transfer-to-other-countries-101632164227765.html
21-09-2021||Pune||Two chinkaras killed in Pune’s Indapur, 3 booked||Pune: Two chinkara deer also known as Indian gazelle were found killed in Kadbanwadi forest area of Indapur tehsil in Maharashtra’s Pune district, officials said on Monday. According to the forest authorities, villagers saw and filmed unidentified hunters shooting the protected species with an air gun while passing through the protected area in their vehicles on Saturday. Officials said some villagers had seen three persons in a vehicle kill a Chinakara deer with their airgun, while another eyewitness saw the second Chinkara being shot around 100 metres from the spot of the first kill. Indpur Taluka Chinkara Bachaon Abhiyan President Bhajandas Pawar said that his organisation through citizens movement had been trying its level best to protect the species from hunting and extinction. Indapur Taluka Range forest officer Ajit Suryavanshi said an FIR has been lodged against three unknown people captured in a video shot by a villager. “We are investigating the case and the details are being sought for further action,” said Suryavanshi. Rahul Patil , Deputy Conservator of Forests said “ We have lodged a case against three persons on charges of poaching Chinkaras and an FIR has been lodged against them and investigation is on ,” he said. Though the incident took place under Indapur police division, the forest department has lodged an FIR on the powers vested by the stateThe Indian gazelle (Gazella bennettii), is native to the Indian subcontinent and is a threatened species, hunted for meat. Meanwhile, an alert has been sounded in the area and villagers have been told to keep a close eye on poachers and inform the police or the forest department in case of any suspicious activity. Indapur constituency is represented by state forest minister Dattatreya Bharne.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-chinkaras-killed-in-pune-s-indapur-3-booked-101632164107851.html
21-09-2021||Mumbai||ED arrests MD of Mumbai firm in Rs915.65-crore bank loan fraud case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on September 17 arrested Vinod Chaturvedi, the managing director of Mumbai-based Usher Agro Limited and its other group companies, under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) case for allegedly cheating and siphoning of ₹915.65-crore bank loan.ED on Monday said that during investigation, Chaturvedi was “non-cooperative” and did not divulge any information. Hence, he was arrested and remanded in ED’s custody for five days. According to ED, the action was initiated on the basis of a first information report (FIR) lodged with the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in January 2019 against Usher Agro Ltd, Chaturvedi, Manoj Pathak and others. It has been alleged in the FIR that the group had taken a loan from a consortium of banks and has siphoned it off. “During investigation, proceeds of crime have been quantified to the tune of ₹915.65 crore. Further investigation has revealed that the promoters had formed 15 shell companies and carried out bogus transactions with the firms. Also, the group companies have carried out bogus transactions with DHFL (Dewan Housing Finance Corporation) group companies,” an ED statement read on Monday. In 2019, Mumbai Police’s economic offences wing (EOW) had also arrested Chaturvedi in connection with another bank loan fraud case in which he had allegedly availed loan from a foreign bank by submitting forged documents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ed-arrests-md-of-mumbai-firm-in-rs915-65-crore-bank-loan-fraud-case-101632163989083.html
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||Free online coaching for competitive exams for Ludhiana youth||In a move to extend assistance to the youth appearing for competitive exams, the Ludhiana district administration is set to start free-of-cost online coaching under the Punjab Ghar-Ghar Rozgaar and Karobar Mission.Disclosing further details, additional deputy commissioner Amit Kumar Panchal said that coaching would be provided to the youth for several competitive exams including Subordinate service Selection Board (SSSB), Punjab Public Service Commission (PPSC), Staff Selection Commission (SSC), police, railway board, probationary officers among others.Panchal said that the candidates who wish to enrol ought to have completed their graduation for clerical batch while Class 12 pass-outs could apply for the batch of police constable recruitment. He added that the aspirants must register themselves on www.eduzphere.com/freegovtexams for free online coaching.Graduates of all streams can apply while undergraduates may enroll themselves for the classes in case they are eligible for any central/state competitive exam. He said that two sessions of 1 hour 30 minutes every day for each batch would be held for six days a week.Panchal said that the free coaching facility would provide a great support to the youth and would increase chances of employability in the Government Sector. He urged the eligible candidates to come forward and enroll themselves for these free-of-cost online classes to get best of the expertise in the field.Deputy CEO Navdeep Singh mentioned that the coaching would be provided by a subject-specialist teacher who is capable of teaching in English, Hindi and Punjabi as per the syllabus of the competitive exams. He said that this unique initiative would make youths better prepared for the competitive exams and would help to fulfill the dream of government jobs. Singh said that the coaching would be provided through an online platform which would be streamed live all over the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/free-online-coaching-for-competitive-exams-for-ludhiana-youth-101632163987746.html
21-09-2021||Pune||No Covid deaths in Pune district in 24 hours, 499 new cases reported; over 88K vaccinated||PUNE Pune district reported 499 new Covid cases and zero deaths on Monday. This took the progressive count to 1.13 million, out of which 1.10 million have recovered, 19,737 deaths reported, and 11,193 are active cases or patients who are currently in hospital undergoing treatment or are in home isolation.The Pune district also saw 88, 865 vaccinations on Monday.As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 298 new cases, which took the progressive count to 354,909, and the death toll stood at 6755.Pune city reported 97 new cases, which took the progressive count to 515,612, and the death toll stood at 9,139. Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 104 new cases, and the progressive count went up to 265,333, and the toll stood at 3,494.Meanwhile, the district also saw 88, 865 vaccinations as per the Co-WIN dashboard on Monday.Till September 20 (Tuesday), 97,95,034 have been vaccinated, out of which 6834,456 are first doses and 2,960,578 second doses.A total of 696 sites saw vaccination, out of which 468 were government centres and 228 private centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/no-covid-deaths-in-pune-district-in-24-hours-499-new-cases-reported-over-88k-vaccinated-101632163929962.html
21-09-2021||Delhi||Plea seeks to de-recognise AAP, HC seeks Centre, Delhi govt, ECI responses||New Delhi: The Delhi high court on Monday sought the response of the Centre, Delhi government and Election Commission of India on a plea seeking de-recognition of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) for organising and promoting Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations using funds from the state coffers.A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Amit Bansal issued notices to only the three authorities and not to the chief minister and other cabinet ministers of the Delhi government.It granted time to the authorities to file their reply on the plea by advocate M L Sharma seeking direction to de-recognise AAP as a political party and remove chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and other ministers from the constitutional office due to alleged deliberate breach of the Constitution and the Representation of People’s Act in the interest of general public.“Keep your answer ready next time as to what you want to say on the issues involved in this writ petition,” the court said.Advocate Sharma said that the state cannot be allowed to fund the Haj pilgrimage from the state exchequer. The plea was opposed by senior advocate Rahul Mehra, representing the Delhi government, arguing that it was a totally motivated and mischievous petition coloured as a public interest litigation (PIL), and needs to be dismissed with heavy costs.He also said the decision was taken to prevent religious congregations amid the Covid-19 pandemic and as the Delhi government had prohibited setting up of pandals to prevent overcrowding, the chief minister had merely requested the media to cover the celebration for citizens’ participation from their residences.Mehra said the government facilitating religious celebration is not new and it is done every time during the Kumbh Mela and Amarnath Yatra, pointing out that it is the solemn duty of the state to protect public health.“It is a mischievous petition. An attempt is being made through this petition that somehow some kind of communal disharmony should be instigated,” Mehra contended.“Various governments across the board… There are Kumbh Mela, Amarnath Yatra, Mansorvar Yatra. It is the solemn duty of the State and the Union that the people who have certain faith, their public health is looked into, they are given good kind of facilities while these yatras are there. It is a laudable objective,” he further said.The plea, while seeking registration of an FIR, has also sought to declare that religious ceremony or promotion or funding for religious work or trust in any manner by the state treasury attracts sections 408 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating) of IPC. It also sought to declare this act as illegal, arbitrary and unconstitutional.The petition said the AAP-led Delhi government organised a Ganesh Chaturthi event on September 10 which was broadcast live on television channels. It said in terms of the constitutional mandate laid down by the Supreme Court, the state cannot promote religious celebrations.The high court had earlier dismissed Sharma’s plea seeking to declare as illegal the Delhi government’s move of organising Ganesh Chaturthi from state treasury and releasing advertisement, saying the petition was filed hurriedly and without doing proper homework. It granted him liberty to file a fresh plea with proper averments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/plea-seeks-to-de-recognise-aap-hc-seeks-centre-delhi-govt-eci-responses-101632163690271.html
21-09-2021||Pune||Three minors among 5 arrested for murder in Nigdi||PUNE: Three minors were among five people arrested for killing a 45-year-old man at around 12:45am on Monday.The deceased man was identified as Sampat Bhimrao Gaikwad (45), a resident of Annabhau Sathe Vasahat in Ota scheme area of Nigdi.The two arrested adults were identified as Santosh Yadav Adagale (39) and Vaibhav alias Bichya Santosh Adagale (19), both residents of the same area as Gaikwad.A complaint in the matter was lodged by the deceased man’s wife Sandhya Gaikwad (36).“Vaibhav Adagale used a cement block to hit him on the forehead while the others kicked and punched him till he died. Santosh Adagale washed the fallen blood with water to destroy the evidence as per the deceased man’s wife,” read a statement by Manchak Ipper, deputy commissioner of police, Zone 1 of Pimpri-Chinchwad police.Gaikwad had stopped one of the accused during a fight with another person earlier in the day, according to the police.The main accused then threw a stone through the window in Gaikwad’s house on Sunday after which Gaikwad went to their house to ask why they had done so, according to the police. When he reached near their house, one of them started to hit him in the head with a brick and others started raining kicks on him, causing his death, according to the police.He was rushed to a hospital but was declared dead by the doctors.A case under Sections 302 (murder), 201 (destruction of evidence), and 34 (cmmon intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Nigdi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/three-minors-among-5-arrested-for-murder-in-nigdi-101632163688964.html
21-09-2021||Pune||1 held after body of woman found in Talegaon Dabhade hills||PUNE One person has been arrested after the body of a young woman was found in the Ghoradeshwar hills of Talegaon Dabhade on Monday morning. The corpse has been identified as a resident of Dehu road. The victim had been missing since Sunday afternoon and her husband lodged a missing person’s complaint. The victim’s husband lodged a case stating that two men took the victim to the hills where she was allegedly raped. As the victim refused to yield she was strangulated to death. “Inspector Shahaji Pawar of the Talegaon Dabhade police said that the suspect is her husband’s cousin. “On Saturday, the woman and her husband had gone to the suspect’s house . On Sunday the woman’s husband went out . The suspect told the woman to come along with him on the hillock to visit the temple there,” Pawar said.Pawar said that the after reaching on the top, the man started asking for sexual favours from the woman. “When the woman resisted, the suspect forced himself on her and then strangled her with her dupatta,” Pawar added.He said that the man also smashed her head with a big stone so that no one would recognise her. He then returned home. “When the woman’s husband returned home, he found that his wife was not home. His cousin too looked tense,” Pawar said.“One man has been arrested while his associate is still at large,” additional commissioner Sanjay Shinde said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/1-held-after-body-of-woman-found-in-talegaon-dabhade-hills-101632163387510.html
21-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai saw 21 per cent more Ganesh immersions||This year saw 21% more Ganesh idol immersions in the city compared to last year, according to the data of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). According to BMC figures, in 2021, 164,761 idols were immersed across 246 spots, including 73 natural and 176 artificial, compared to 135,000 in 2020 and 196,000 in 2019. Owing to Covid-19 outbreak, for the second year in a row, the BMC had urged citizens to conduct immersion at their homes or buildings to reduce crowding at natural immersion spots. Usage of artificial ponds for immersion doubled from 33,000 in 2019 to 70,000 in 2020, and the increasing trend continued in 2021 also. The BMC in a statement said, “This year 79,129 idols have been immersed in artificial lakes. The immersion of the remaining 85,632 idols was conducted at natural spots. Of the 79,129 idols immersed in artificial lakes, 75,687 were domestic idols. The remaining 3,502 Ganesh idols belonged to Ganeshotsav mandals. Considering these statistics, it is seen that the citizens of Mumbai have responded significantly to the immersion of idols in artificial immersion sites.” The statement further added, “A total of 85,632 idols were immersed at natural immersion spots of the city, of which 82,339 were Ganesh idols and others were idols of Gauri. Of the total 82,339, 77,814 were domestic Ganesh idols and 4,525 were idols of the Ganesh mandals.” Of the 164,761 idols immersed, the highest number of immersions, 66,299, was on the fifth day, 48,716 on the first day and 34,452 on the 10th day. The seventh day of the festival saw the lowest number of immersions – 15,294. The BMC further said a total of 265,000 kg of manure has been collected and it will be processed at 34 different places in a scientific manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-saw-21-per-cent-more-ganesh-immersions-101632163328029.html
21-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai needs 9 million Covid-19 vaccine doses to fully vaccinate its adult population||The city needs another 9 million doses of vaccine to fully inoculate its estimated adult population with both doses against Covid-19. Civic officials said they would be able to achieve this target by year-end if they receive at least 3 million doses every month. According to the civic estimates, Mumbai’s adult population is around 9.07 million or 9,078,952 to be precise. These estimates have been drawn from the 2011 census and projected mid-year population growth. With two doses mandated for each individual, the city requires a total of 18.1 million doses. As of Monday, the city had already administered 11.2 million doses, leaving a gap of 7 million more doses to cover the estimated adult population entirely. The civic body is also counting an additional 2 million doses as many individuals who have taken the vaccine in Mumbai were from outside the city, mainly from other parts of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). “About four out of 10 people taking vaccines in Mumbai are from out of the city,” said the city’s immunisation officer Dr Sheela Jagtap. “We have been taking regular updates from vaccination centres in the city to get an estimate of doses administered to people from out of Mumbai. Considering all factors, Mumbai requires another 9 million doses to cover its own population,” she said. The city’s target population, according to the state government, is on the higher side. Initially, the state considered the National Family Health Survey-5 data and had estimated the city’s adult population to be 9.6 million. In the latest target given to Mumbai, the state has estimated the city’s adult population to be 9.2 million, slightly higher than the estimates by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). Early this month, Mumbai became the first district in Maharashtra to complete administering 10 million doses. As of September 16, the city has covered 69% of the population aged between 18 and 44 with the first dose and 16% with both doses. In the 45 to 59 age group, the city has covered 95% population with at least one dose and 60% with both doses. In the 60-plus category, Mumbai achieved 100% coverage with one dose and 71% coverage with both doses. The city’s overall vaccination coverage stands at 83% with one dose and 35% with both doses. The pace of vaccination in the city has picked up this month with nearly 1.4 million doses administered by September 15. The city had administered 2.1 million doses in August and 1.7 million in July. While private hospitals have accumulated a large stock of about 9.8 million doses, some have stepped forward to administer the doses as a part of corporate social responsibility (CSR). Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said the quota of vaccination for the city has increased this month. “We have the capacity to administer nearly 200,000 doses a day. If we get a higher number of doses, we will be able to cover all the adult population by year-end,” he said, adding that some buffer time may be required for a few people as Covishield vaccine has an 84-day gap between two doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-needs-9-million-covid-19-vaccine-doses-to-fully-vaccinate-its-adult-population-101632163271769.html
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||Thunderstorm claims two lives in Chandigarh tricity area||The thunderstorm on Monday claimed two lives in the Chandigarh tricity area.A 19-year-old youth was killed after getting struck by lightning at Shivalik Garden in Manimajra, Chandigarh, while a six-year-old girl died after the roof of her house collapsed at Rajiv Colony in Panchkula. Both incidents took place in the evening.Identified as Sohail, the first victim was a resident of Mariwala Town, Manimajra. He was playing cricket with his friends when the incident took place around 5pm. The friends saw him collapsing after a loud thunder. He was rushed to hospital, but was declared brought dead.Youngest of five siblings, Sohail was studying at a government school. His father is a vegetable vendor.The other victim has been identified as Gudiya. Her three siblings were also injured as the roof of their one-room house collapsed due to the rain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/thunderstorm-claims-two-lives-in-chandigarh-tricity-area-101632163270665.html
21-09-2021||Delhi||Bids invited to run coaching centres in vacant municipal school buildings in Delhi||The North Delhi Municipal Corporation has decided to allow private players to run coaching centres or vocational training centres in some of its vacant civic school buildings and has invited bids for letting out 14 such educational institutes in the first phase.Officials said the bids have been invited by the remunerative projects cell of the civic body and the process should be expected by October 22.Among the 14 school buidings going under e-auction are four in Narela, seven in Sadar-Paharganj zone, and one each in Karol Bagh, Civil Lines and Keshav Puram zones. Some of the schools, which are being rented out in the first phase, include Tajpur Kalan boys school, Baljitpur girls school, Barwala girls school, Salahpur Majra girls school, Kashmere Gate Boys school and Chahalpuri primary school. Schools located in the Walled City in the Sadar-Paharganj zone includes primary schools located in Gali Razia Begum, Mohalla Niyariyan, Pahari Imli and Phatak Badwalan.The North MCD runs 714 municipal primary schools, which cater largely to children from economically disadvantaged backgrounds, have seen their enrolment numbers declining steadily.Enrolment data from the civic body shows that the North MCD-run primary schools had 3.7 lakh students in 2012-13 which decreased to 3.1 lakh in 2016-17. A senior official from the education department of the North corporation said that around 2.3 lakh children were enrolled in municipal primary schools till August. “The infrastructure in these vacant buildings is getting wasted and a portion of the revenue generated from this project will be provided to the education department,” said the official. Khagesh Jha, a Supreme Court lawyer and an education activist who heads the organisation Forum for Indian Parents, said that more than 20 lakh kids are estimated to be out of the schooling system in Delhi and the civic bodies should focus on bringing these kids to the fold instead of renting out vacant school buildings. “There is already a shortage of land for setting up new government schools. The municipal body should not use school buildings for revenue generation purposes. The population of Delhi is rising and the requirements of schools will only increase,” he added.Jogi Ram Jain, the standing committee chairman of the north corporation, did not comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/bids-invited-to-run-coaching-centres-in-vacant-municipal-school-buildings-in-delhi-101632163267651.html
21-09-2021||Delhi||Stubble fire: Bio-decomposer solution to be prepared from Sept 24, says Gopal Rai||Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai on Monday said that the government is set to prepare a bio-decomposer solution to be sprayed on paddy fields to organically decompose stubble. The process will begin on September 24 and the solution will be sprayed across fields by October 5, said Rai.“Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will initiate the process of preparing the bio-decomposer solution in Delhi on September 24. We will spray the solution for free across Delhi’s farmlands by October 5. This will give enough time to farmers to sow the next crop,” Rai said during a press conference.The solution will be prepared by the horticulture department nursery in Najafgarh’s Kharkhari Nahar. So far the agriculture department has estimated that about 4,000 acres of farmland need to be sprayed. “This is double the demand from the previous year. In case the demand increases, we are prepared to take care of it as well. Most of the paddy farming takes place in northwest and south Delhi,” Rai said.While Delhi farmers burn just about 1% stubble, smoke from stubble burning in neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana is a major contributor to Delhi’s winter pollution.Last, year, the Delhi government tied up with the Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI), Pusa, which developed a decomposer capsule that could be converted into a liquid solution and sprayed on fields with crop stubble. The solution, once sprayed on the fields, decomposes the stubble into compost over 20 days, which can be used by farmers to treat the fields as well.The minister also said that about 10 litres of spray are required for an acre of land. For this, four capsules are needed. “Around ₹25 lakh were spent last year in the process all over Delhi last year. Now that the area has doubled, the cost will also double, but it is extremely cost-effective as a solution to curb air pollution,” said Rai.Last year, the Delhi government set up a centralised plant for the large-scale production of the solution at the Kharkhari Nahar village. He added that the entire process of preparation of the solution will be monitored by the scientists and experts of IARI Pusa. A 25-member committee formed by the government will look after the implementation of the solution across farmlands in the city. “They will reach out to farmers to take stock of the size of their land. All the farmers have to do is fill up forms to inform us about to the date and size of their field and we will reach them,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/stubble-fire-bio-decomposer-solution-to-be-prepared-from-sept-24-says-gopal-rai-101632163208755.html
21-09-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s active Covid cases dip to 41,672, lowest in seven months||As active Covid-19 cases dipped below 42,000 for the first time in seven months, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Monday said there was no indication of a third wave hitting the state as of now. The state administration, however, will be watching the situation for a fortnight due to the festival season. Maharashtra recorded 2,583 fresh infections on Monday, pushing the count to 6,524,498. The tally of active cases reduced to 41,672 as 3,836 recoveries were reported in the past 24 hours. It was for the first time in the past seven months when active cases dipped to below 42,000 since the second wave of Covid-19 hit the state. On February 2, the number of active cases stood at 41,586. The state on Monday also reported 28 casualties, pushing toll to 138,546. Ahmednagar reported the highest toll with 12 deaths.Tope said there is yet no indication of a third wave in the state. “As of now, there is no indication of a potential third wave in Maharashtra. However, the daily tally is likely to increase owing to crowding to celebrate festivals. But if we ramp up the vaccination drive, it will help in containing the transmission rate,” Tope said while talking to reporters in Jalna on Monday.He added, “The state is vaccinating 1.3-1.4 million people a day and wants people to seriously follow all Covid rules. We intend to vaccinate 1.5 to 2 million beneficiaries a day and require a stock of 30 million doses every month. We have also intimated the Central government and are hoping to get the increased stock of vaccines.”The state government is not considering re-imposing fresh curbs anywhere in the state as of now as there is still no rise in daily figures.According to health experts, the impact of the festivals will be seen only after a period of two weeks and a third wave may hit the state by December or January. Earlier, the Central government directed the state government to take precautions during upcoming festivals.Maharashtra has maintained a trend of 3,000-4,000 Covid cases a day for the past two weeks, however, daily testing has also reduced in this period. On Sunday, it reported 3,413 new Covid cases and conducted 153,985 tests.On September 12, the state conducted 143,791 tests; 108,216 tests on September 13, 137,190 tests on September 14; 135,785 on September 15; 168,793 on September 16; 179,246 on September 17; and 165,363 tests on September 18.With 417 new Covid cases, Mumbai reported a total 738,518 cases till date. It also recorded five fatalities, taking the toll to 16,058.In the past 24 hours, the state tested 135,925 samples and had a positivity rate of 1.90%. However, the overall positivity rate of the state stood at 11.41%, according to the data issued by the state health department.The state also vaccinated 861,168 people on Monday and has administered a total of 74,295,248 doses till date, according to the data available on Co-Win portal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtras-active-covid-cases-dip-to-41-672-lowest-in-seven-months-101632163207633.html
21-09-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Noise levels during Ganesh Chaturthi lowest in 18 years at 93.1dB||Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, Mumbai celebrated its quietest Ganesh Chaturthi in 18 years, according to an observational noise monitoring exercise carried out by city-based advocacy group Awaaz Foundation on September 19. Noise levels during the final day of celebrations this year touched a high of 93.1 decibels (dB) as opposed to 100.7dB during the entire breadth of festivities in 2020, suggests a report released by Awaaz Foundation on Monday.The highest noise levels recorded over the past 18 years touched 123.7dB in 2015 followed by 123.2dB in 2013. Awaaz Foundation has been monitoring noise pollution in the city around key festivals, of which Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations see decibels at their highest, since 2003. This year, however, surveyors observed a low number of egregious violations, including loudspeakers and processions accompanied by drums and sound-systems, at key locations between 7pm and 10pm on Sunday, including Khar Danda, Worli Naka, Haji Ali, Girgaum Chowpatty and Shivaji Park.“Thanks to arrangements made by the police and with cooperation of Ganpati mandals... noise levels were lower than 2020, making it the quietest in 18 years since Awaaz Foundation began recording noise levels,” the group said in their report, a copy of which is with Hindustan Times. The report goes on to highlight the absence of loudspeakers, noisy instruments and firecrackers during the recently concluded festivities.In 2019 — the last year when Ganesh Chaturthi festivities were held without pandemic restrictions, noise levels on the last day of celebrations had touched as much 121.3dB, as opposed to the acceptable threshold for human ears of 70dB. The sound of ambient traffic ranges between 70dB and 80dB and is considered to be “loud”, while 120dB is closer to the sound a commercial airliner makes while taking off and is considered to be “very loud”. The human threshold for pain is marked at 130dB, over and above which even incidental exposure to loud noises can cause lasting damage to hearing. Prolonged exposure to noise levels around 120dB can also cause lasting hearing damage, in addition to increasing blood pressure and triggering headaches.Construction tools, car horns, bulldozers typically occupy the range between 90dB and 120dB. In comparison, every day conversational speech has a decibel level of about 60dBs.According to norms, noise levels in “silence zones” cannot exceed 50dB during the day and 40dB after 10pm. In residential areas, the levels are set at 55dB during the day and 45dB after 10 pm, and in commercial zones, the levels are capped at 65dB during the day and 55dB after 10 pm.On Sunday, the lowest noise levels were recorded near Atria Mall in Worli, at 76dB. The noises were attributed mainly to ambient sources such as traffic. The average decibel level ranged between 75 and 85dB. During the Foundation’s survey in 2020, noise pollution levels during Ganesh Chaturthi were recorded as low as 53dB, while the average level ranged between 65 and 75dB.“This indicates that while noise from festivities remained subdued for a second consecutive year, other sources of noise, mainly traffic, are much higher now, after falling drastically during the lockdown in 2020,” said Sumaira Abdulali, convener, Awaaz Foundation. Abdulali, however, also emphasised that the survey carried out by her group was an informal, unstructured one, and the data was gathered in an arbitrary manner based on the discretion of the surveying team.“Our studies are not as comprehensive as that of Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB), but they are a valuable indicator of the situation on ground. The pollution control board should be able to verify this more accurately,” she added. MPCB, meanwhile, is yet to release data from their annual noise monitoring survey this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-noise-levels-during-ganesh-chaturthi-lowest-in-18-years-at-931db-101632163150589.html
21-09-2021||Delhi||HC seeks Delhi govt response on pleas seeking extension of liquor licence till November 16||New Delhi: The Delhi high court on Monday sought the response of the Delhi government on two pleas by retail liquor vendors seeking to extend their licenses till November 16 in parity with other categories under the provisions of the Delhi Excise Act.A bench of chief justice D N Patel and justice Amit Bansal issued notice and asked the Delhi government to respond on an application filed by Delhi Liquor Traders Association.The association, represented through senior advocate Sidharth Luthra, sought parity with other licence holders who have been granted extension till November 16, while these private retailers have been told that their licenses will not be renewed or extended beyond September 30, in view of the new excise policy of Delhi.A similar petition was also filed by one Rattan Singh and the court asked the authorities to respond to it. The court listed both the pleas for further proceedings on September 24, when other batch of matters challenging the tender process and the new excise policy are coming up for hearing.The association, which claims to represent 143 licenced liquor traders in Delhi, said the Delhi government had issued an order on September 10 regarding the extension or renewal of retail licenses till November 16 in category L-6 (retail vendors of Indian liquor or beer), L-6FG (retail vend of foreign liquor in public sector to the holder of license in form of L-6) and L-6FE (retail vend of foreign liquor in public sector) though the petitioners’ categories was not considered.The petitioners are holding L7 (retail vend of Indian Liquor in private sector) and L10 (retail sale of Indian and foreign liquor) licenses. The plea said the petitioners have separately given their objections to the authorities requesting for extension of licenses but no reply has been received.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hc-seeks-delhi-govt-response-on-pleas-seeking-extension-of-liquor-licence-till-november-16-101632163147945.html
21-09-2021||Delhi||Explain hawking despite ban in Chandni Chowk: Delhi HC to authorities||The Delhi high court on Monday asked the city police and North Delhi Municipal Corporation to explain how vending and hawking activities were being allowed in Chandni Chowk area, despite a ban.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh asked the police and the civic body to respond to a plea by Chandni Chowk Sarv Vyapar Mandal, the association of the areas traders, seeking direction against a survey being conducted by the town vending committee (TVC) in no-hawking/no-squatting areas in Chandni Chowk, Subhash Marg and other areas of City-Sadar Paharganj zone.The court ordered that while conducting the survey, the committee should make a distinction and take a note of hawkers who are occupying spaces in no-hawking or no-vending zones.“You continue with the survey but take into account the objections raised by the petitioners. Your survey should clearly say that these are the street vendors who are sitting in hawking zones, and these are the ones who are in the no-hawking or no-vending zone,” the bench said.The bench asked the North MCD to place on record the scheme relating to no-hawking and no-squatting areas.Senior advocate Sanjeev Ralli, representing Chandni Chowk Sarv Vyapar Mandal, submitted that the high court has passed several orders that there should be no encroachment in the no-hawking and no-vending zones. Despite that, hawkers and vendors occupy such spaces. “The survey team members are taking unauthorised cognisance of the presence of illegal hawkers and squatters in Chandni Chowk and Subhash Marg who are operating from the no-hawking/no-squatting areas notified by North DMC,” the traders association said in their petition.The plea sought direction to the North MCD deputy commissioner to ensure that the vending committee survey teams should not take any cognisance of illegal hawkers operating from no-hawking areas in Chandni Chowk, Subhash Marg and other such areas notified areas.Advocate Anuj Aggarwal, appearing for the Delhi Police, supported the petition and said it might become difficult for the police to control the vendors. Advocate Mini Pushkarna, who was representing the North civic body, told the court that she will file a reply to the plea, after which the bench fixed November 10 as the next date of hearing.On September 12, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal inaugurated the redeveloped Chandni Chowk stretch between the Red Fort and Fatehpuri Masjid that has been made a no-go zone for motorised vehicles between 9am and 9pm.Meanwhile, the Delhi government on Monday told a division bench of the Delhi high court that it would start the second phase of the redevelopment in the Chandni Chowk soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/explain-hawking-despite-ban-in-chandni-chowk-delhi-hc-to-authorities-101632163087577.html
21-09-2021||Pune||Kirit Somaiya controversy: Shiv Sena tries to pass buck on to NCP||PUNEAs action against Kirit Somaiya snowballed into a controversy with the BJP and Somaiya accusing Uddhav Thackeray of directing the police action, the Shiv Sena tried to pass the buck on to the NCP, claiming that no orders were issued from the chief minister’s office. Shiv Sena leader and Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Raut said chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had no role in this as the orders (preventing Somaiya from entering Kolhapur) were issued by the home department to maintain law and order. “I spoke to CM Uddhav Thackeray and he said the chief minister’s office has nothing to do with it,” Raut said in Mumbai, insisting that there was no vendetta politics involved. The police action against Somaiya, according to political observers, provided him free airtime while on the other hand government looked wary of any criticism. “Don’t call the Kirit Somaiya episode as drama. In Maharashtra, drama and theatre have a lot of respect among people. There is no need to target the chief minister on this issue. A chief minister doesn’t get involved in such petty issues,” he said. He claimed that non-BJP leaders were being pressured with the fear of arrest and attachment of properties. “If you have to make allegations, state agencies like the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB), the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) and state police will investigate without bias,” he said. Raut said the truth in allegations will be decided by courts, but attempts to destablise the government will not work. BJP state president Chandrakant Patil said the MVA ministers have no coordination among themselves. “Is this the way the government is being run? The home department is taking some decisions, the CM does not know. When the MVA government was formed, I had advised Uddhav Thackeray not give the home ministry to NCP,” he said. He accused the MVA ministers of being “seeped into corruption” and said they were not worried that their “misdeeds” can be challenged in court. “Fight a legal battle, instead of a panic reaction. If supporters of Mushrif throw a single stone on Somaiya, that will prove costly to you (state government),” he said. Asked if the Shiv Sena and NCP leaders were on the BJP’s radar, Patil said his party was focussing on issues like “injustice” being faced by the common man and atrocities against women. “In some days, irregularities of two Congress ministers will be exposed,” he claimed, without taking any names. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/kirit-somaiya-controversy-shiv-sena-tries-to-pass-buck-on-to-ncp-101632163027974.html
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||Bicycle sharing: Chandigarh admn allows collection of user fee||Starting Tuesday afternoon, people will have to pay ₹10 per half an hour under the public bicycle sharing system in Chandigarh. The company managing the service was allowed to charge user fee after independent engineers tasked with inspecting the project cleared it on Monday, said an official of the Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL). A total of 1,250 bicycles at 155 docking stations are available in the city. GST is also charged in addition to user charges.According to the agreement between CSCL and the company, after the soft launch of Phase 1, a period of 30 days was required for testing the system. An independent engineer was appointed for supervision of the construction activities and also issue completion certificate for all phases.After the launch of service on August 12, there were glitches in the software while booking rides and ending them. Usage charges were stopped due to this.Chandigarh home secretary gets charge of 9 deptsNew home secretary Nitin Kumar Yadav has been given the charge of nine more departments in the Chandigarh administration. According to the order, he will also be the secretary, police/prisons, revenue, law and order, local government, water resources, transport, environment and forests, and tourism, besides chairman, Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Development Corporation.Traffic restrictions due to air show at Sukhna LakeIn view of an air show being organised by the Indian Air Force at Sukhna Lake on September 22 and its rehearsal on September 21, vehicular movement will remain restricted on these two days from 2pm onwards on the roads from Hira Singh Chowk towards Rock Garden turn and Sectors 4/5/8/9 Chowk. People who wish to watch the air show can enter from the rear side, using staircase 3-6 near Kishangarh turn.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bicycle-sharing-chandigarh-admn-allows-collection-of-user-fee-101632162967731.html
21-09-2021||Noida||Vocational university planned in Jewar||The Uttar Pradesh government has planned a vocational university at Jewar in Greater Noida. Jewar MLA Dhirendra Singh revealed this on Monday while sharing the details of developmental work done in his constituency during the past four and a half years of the Yogi Adityanath government. “The work on a vocational university in Jewar will begin in the next six months. During the past four and a half years, Jewar has witnessed several developmental projects having a total budget of ₹515 crore,” said Singh. Singh also said that he has got approvals from the government to set up sports facilities for women. “The work on three government degree colleges is in full swing in Jewar,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/vocational-university-planned-in-jewar-101632162912739.html
21-09-2021||Delhi||No liquor shop to open in Delhi’s 23 wards during new excise policy switch||New Delhi: At least 23 wards in Delhi will go dry from next month as the Delhi government shuts all private liquor vends in the Capital between October 1 and November 16 to ensure a smooth transition to the new excise regime. Only government-run liquor outlets will function in the Capital during this period.Government data seen by HT shows that of the 272 wards in Delhi, nearly 80 don’t have government-run or private liquor stores while another 23 wards only have private liquor vends. With only government liquor stores functioning from October 1 to November 16, these 23 wards will go dry during the period.The 23 municipal wards where there are only private liquor vends include RK Puram, Andrews Ganj, Lajpat Nagar, Patparganj, Rajouri Garden, Tughlaqabad, Kotla Mubarakpur, Inderpuri, Rani Bagh, Rohtash Nagar, Jilmil and Pandav Nagar.The new excise policy, which aims to reform the city’s liquor business by improving user experience, cleaning up the liquor mafia and eradicating pilferage, was implemented on June 11. Under it, retailers are free to decide the selling prices in a competitive environment, rather than an MRP being mandated by the government. Delhi currently has 849 liquor shops which are not equitably distributed across the city. With the new policy, the government plans to keep the total number of vends intact, reshuffling them into 32 zones to ensure a more equitable distribution across 272 municipal wards in the city, the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) area and the airport.Liquor retailers said the move to shut private liquor stores from October 1 will lead to overcrowding of government liquor stores at a time when social distancing is necessary to curb the spread of Covid-19. “The closure of the private vends for the 46 days will put an excessive burden on the government shops... This period is crucial as it also includes Diwali, which falls on November 4 this year. The demand and the sale of liquor is the highest during this period,” said a retailer who did not wish to be named. Naresh Goyal, president of Delhi liquor traders association, also expressed fears that the increased demand during festive season can lead to bootlegging. “Due to lower accessibility of liquor in Delhi during this 46-day period, people will start moving to Haryana to buy liquor. It could also lead to illegal smuggling of liquor from Haryana and Uttar Pradesh and its sale in the black market at higher rates,” said Goyal. A senior excise official, on the condition of anonymity, said that they are in the process of creating more teams to crack down on illegal sale of liquor during this time. “Adequate stocks will be maintained in the government shops that will remain open during this period. We are also looking at increasing the operational hours in case there is a lot of crowding at stores. Civil defence volunteers will also be deployed to ensure Covid-19 protocols are followed,” the official said. A second excise official said the closure of private shops was required for easy transition to the new retail liquor licencees. “The current licences will end by September 30 and the new retailers will need 1.5 months to set up new stores and begin operations from November 17,” he said. Last week, the Delhi government completed the process of appointing new licensees for the retail sale of liquor in each of the new 32 excise zones, paving the way for swanky and spacious liquor stores in the national capital from November 17.The state excise department earned ₹8,917.59 crore through the bidding process of the 32 zones, which is about 26.7% higher than the reserve price set by the government. The government is aiming to earn around ₹10,000 crore in the next one year under the new excise regime.The newly appointed retail licensees will have to build bigger and modern liquor vends from November 17. Customers will get the facility to walk in and choose their preferred liquor brands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-liquor-shop-to-open-in-delhi-s-23-wards-during-new-excise-policy-switch-101632162850357.html
21-09-2021||Pune||Kirit Somaiya accuses Hasan Mushrif of another fraud worth ₹100 crore; minister terms allegations baseless||PUNE BJP leader Kirit Somaiya levelled fresh set of allegations against Maharashtra Rural Development Minister Hasan Mushrif accusing him of committing a fraud worth ₹100 crore involving the Appasaheb Gadhinglaj Cooperative Sugar Mill. Somaiya claimed the money was transferred through shell-companies from Kolkata, and said he would submit related documents of the sugar mill to the ED. Somaiya claimed that last year, the sugar mill was handed over to a private firm, which does not have any prior experience running a mill, without any transparent bidding process. He also alleged that Mushrif’s son-in-law was the ‘’benami’’ owner of the private firm. “Whatever money Mushrif earned through corrupt means after he became the minister, he parked that money here (in the sugar mills ). So, we demand a probe into these scams,” he added. The former BJP MP said he has already approached the Income Tax department, the Enforcement Directorate, and the Cooperation Ministry with a 2,700-page complaint against Mushrif. “Based on my complaint, an inquiry has already been started. The ED has sought additional information from me and I will give that information to them,” he said. Earlier, Somaiya had asked Mushrif how ₹127 crore allegedly got transferred to his company. He also alleged that ₹98 crore was transferred to the Sar Senapati Santaji Ghorpade Sugar Factory Limited (in which Mushrif’’s family members are directors ) through ‘’bogus” firms. Mushrif termed the allegations “baseless” while retiterating that he will file a ₹100 crore defamation suit against Kirit Somaiya. Responding to Somaiya’s allegations in a press conference on Monday, Mushrif said, “The accusations against me are part of BJP’s big conspiracy and Chandrakant Patil is the mastermind of this. I have been very vocal about the Centre using central agencies against the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) and on the issue of (former Mumbai police commissioner) Parambir Singh. It is the reason I am being framed by BJP through Kirit Somaiya… to stop me.” “All allegations against me and my family are false and baseless. I am going to file ₹100 crore defamation suit against Kirit Somaiya. Kirit Somaiya should apologise to me. I will file an FIR against Chandrakant Patil for a ₹150-core hybrid annuity scam done during the BJP government (rule in Maharashtra),” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/kirit-somaiya-accuses-hasan-mushrif-of-another-fraud-worth-rs-100-crore-minister-terms-allegations-baseless-101632162848863.html
21-09-2021||Delhi||Repeated hammering on the ground floor led to collapse of Sabzi Mandi building: Probe||The breaking of a concrete platform in one of the two shops on the ground floor by repeated hammering led to the collapse of the four-storey building in north Delhi’s Sabzi Mandi last Monday, said senior police officers associated with the investigation of the case.The number of casualties might have been higher had three labourers and a contractor, who had been working on breaking the platform, not escaped in time via a narrow lane adjacent to the building. Since Monday is a market holiday, a majority of the shops were closed and the crowd in the neighbourhood was less, the police investigation has revealed.Two brothers, aged 7 and 12, were killed and Ramji Das Aneja, the 72-year-old owner of the second shop, was injured in the building collapse. The brothers were returning home with their mother after attending a tuition class when over half of the building collapsed, crushing them under debris and killing them on the spot.The 24-year-old owner of the second shop, Mohak Arora, was arrested a day after the collapse and booked for culpable homicide not amounting to murder. He is presently in jail. A private contractor, identified by his first name Jamaal, is absconding. The repair and renovation work of the shop, which was purchased by Arora just 11 days before the collapse, was being carried out under Jamaal’s guidance, said deputy commissioner of police (north) Anto Alphonse.The building was over 60 years old and the shop, where the three labourers and the contractor were breaking the concrete platform in the absence of a civil engineer and without seeking permission from the municipal agency, was being used to run a dairy and confectionery business for almost three decades, said a senior police officer, associated with the probe.“We have learned that the platform was used for keeping and selling milk and other dairy products. The flooring level inside the shop was around two-and-a-half-foot below the road outside. Since Arora was planning to start a new business venture, he decided to remove the platform and raise the inner floor to the road’s level,” said the officer.Another police officer, who asked not to be named, said that the owners of the three upper floors, whose parents had built the structure, had warned the shop owner and the contractor about the weak foundation of the building when he began the renovation work. They had asked them to carry out the repair work only under the supervision of an experienced engineer. Also, they had advised against using an electrical hammer to break the platform, as the occupants of the upper floors felt tremors whenever the tool was used, the second officer said.“Most likely the tremors caused due to constant hammering of the concrete platform led to the crumbling down of the building. As the structure did not fall all of a sudden, the labourers and the contractor had enough time to escape from the shop. The search and rescue operation continued till late in the night because nobody in the neighbourhood had seen them coming out of the building when it collapsed,” said CL Meena, assistant divisional officer of Delhi Fire Services, who was leading the rescue operation.Police said that raids are being conducted to nab Jamaal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/repeated-hammering-on-the-ground-floor-led-to-collapse-of-sabzi-mandi-building-probe-101632162788303.html
21-09-2021||Noida||Foundation laying event of Jewar airport in Noida likely during Navratri||Greater Noida: The Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) on Monday said that the inaugural event for the Noida International Airport, also known as Jewar Airport, may take place during Navratri which starts from October 7 this year, said officials.It is considered to be an auspicious time to start new projects. Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer (CEO) of Yeida and Noida International Airport Limited (NIAL), said, “We did not get any specific date for the event yet, but it is likely to happen during the Navratri festival.”Yeida also said that the bid document for the Film City project will also be ready on September 22, 2021. Coldwell Banker Richard Ellis (CBRE), a consultant firm, has submitted a detailed report of the Film City project to Uttar Pradesh government officials concerned on Wednesday.“We will review the report and send it to the Uttar Pradesh government for approvals,” said Singh.The authority said, meanwhile, more than 90% of the families affected by the airport project have started constructing houses in the rehabilitation township. “Out of the 3,003 plots allocated in Jewar Bangar, construction work at 2,730 plots has started. Some families are even staying in their homes there, and the work will be completed according to the schedule,” he added.“Switzerland company Zurich AG, the concessionaire of the airport project, has started work on the ground. The state government will have to decide about the foundation or stone laying ceremony. We are focused on commencing commercial operations within the next three years, and on improving accessibility and connectivity of the Yamuna Expressway region with other parts of the national capital region (NCR),” CEO Singh added.The inaugural ceremony of the airport was scheduled to take place in August-end. “The demise of veteran Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and former Uttar Pradesh chief minister, Kalyan Singh, and the turmoil in Afghanistan had been keeping the political dispensation of the state and the Prime Minister‘s Office (PMO) busy,” said Dhirendra Singh, Jewar MLA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/foundation-laying-event-of-jewar-airport-in-noida-likely-during-navratri-101632162787004.html
21-09-2021||Noida||G Noida: Some Gurjar and Rajput leaders join hands to resolve Samrat Mihir Bhoj dispute||NOIDA: Several Gurjar and Rajput leaders joined hands on Monday to resolve a dispute over an upcoming statue of Samrat Mihir Bhoj at a college in Greater Noida’s Dadri on Wednesday (September 22). However, some people from both the communities said that they will hold a nationwide protest on Wednesday if Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath does not postpone his visit to Dadri, where he is supposed to unveil the statue of the ninth century king that day. Akhil Bharatiya Kshatriya Mahasabha (ABKM), Karni Sena, and other organisations of the Rajput community have been protesting the ceremony, claiming that King Mihir Bhoj was not a ‘Gurjar King’ as claimed by the Gurjar bodies.“Some people are playing politics over this issue, to create differences among the two communities. Samrat Mihir Bhoj was a great king, and great personalities belong to all the communities. Gurjars and Rajputs are together, and we share a common history,” said Davendra Singh Khatana, vice-president of Rajput Sabha, Gautam Budh Nagar.A member of Kshatriya Sabha (Ghaziabad), Ramdev Rawal, said that he supported the September 22 event because “disputes yield nothing”. “According to history, Mihir Bhoj was a Rajput king, but we also support events organised by the Gurjar community because we do not want to disturb harmony among the people,” said Rawal, who appealed to both the communities to put an end to the row.“Mentioning the caste Gurjar on the statute will only lead us to intensify our agitation. We will hold the nationwide protest if the mention of the caste is not being removed... Our members have been protesting across many cities, including Noida on Monday, and we will spread the protest to other states too. We will protest against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) across the country,” said Prithivi Singh, national secretary of Akhil Bharatiya Kshatriya Mahasabha.Meanwhile, some members of the Gurjar community urged the people to end the protest. “We, all the Gurjars and the Rajputs, share common roots and there is no point in fighting over this issue. Rajputs must accept this historical fact that we are a family, and King Mihir Bhoj was a Gurjar Pratihar,” said Virendra Vikram, Akhil Bhartiya Veer Gurjar Sabha.Tejpal Nagar did not comment on this issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/g-noida-some-gurjar-and-rajput-leaders-join-hands-to-resolve-samrat-mihir-bhoj-dispute-101632162727050.html
21-09-2021||Other||Railway Protection Force celebrates 36th Raising Day||The 36th Raising Day celebrations of Railway Protection Force (RPF) were held at RPF Zonal Training Institute in Subedarganj, North Central Railway (NCR) on Monday. General Manager, NCR, Pramod Kumar was the chief guest on the occasion while president, North Central Railway Welfare Organization Poonam Kumar was the guest of honour. The main attractions of the function was the grand parade of RPF personnel, a dog show, a display of unarmed combat and a colourful cultural presentation, said NCR chief public relation officer (CPRO) Shivam Sharma. RPF was established as an armed force of the union by amending the Railway Protection Force Act 20 September 1985. Since 1986, this day is celebrated as its Raising Day. At the outset of the program, chief guest NCR GM Pramod Kumar reviewed the RPF parade organised in the well-decorated training centre premises. Pramod Kumar also gave away Director General Appreciation Medal and Certificates to officers and jawans for their outstanding contributions. Senior divisional security commissioner-Prayagraj Manoj Kumar Singh, senior divisional security commissioner-Agra Prakash Panda, inspector Amit Meena, sub inspector, Agra Devendra Solanki, assistant sub inspector, Agra Raghuraj Singh and constable, Jhansi Narendra, were among those who received the awards. The GM congratulated the RPF personnel on the Raising Day and motivated them to continue their excellent work in future. He exhorted the RPF personnel to carry out their duties keeping in mind the safety of the assets of Indian Railways and the interest of the passengers. Inspector general, RPF (principal chief security commissioner) Ravindra Verma while congratulating the awardees highlighted the achievements of RPF and the roadmap for the future. He also praised the work of RPF during the Covid period. The celebration started with the parade and was followed by dog show. Dogs ‘Tom’ and ‘Jicks’ presented bouquet to the chief guest while a “live demo of explosive discovery” was presented by sniffer dog ‘Tom’. Hurdle jump and yoga were performed by Sultan. After the dog show, a cultural program was organized by the RPF women personnel. During this, Kalbelia dance and an enchanting Vardi song by Manoj Pandey were also presented. RPF women personnel demonstrated unarmed combat skills. All the principal heads of departments of NCR and DRM-Prayagraj Mohit Chandra were present on the occasion. During the function, a newly established simulator, library and renovated gym installed in the training center were inaugurated by the GM followed by tree plantation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/railway-protection-force-celebrates-36th-raising-day-101632162667863.html
21-09-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: Inauguration of e-bus project delayed||Ghaziabad: Inauguration of the first batch of electric buses (e-buses) in Ghaziabad, which was scheduled to be held on September 26, 2021, is likely to happen in October now, said Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) officials on Monday.Officials familiar with the developments said that the city will get 20 e-buses in Phase I. Heavy rainfall in other districts of the state has delayed the work as authorities are busy tackling monsoon issues, they added.In August 2019, the ministry of heavy industries had sanctioned 5,595 e-buses to 64 cities, state governments, and state transport undertakings for intra-city and inter-city operations. Out of this, 600 e-buses, including 50 for Ghaziabad, were approved for 11 cities in Uttar Pradesh.“Ghaziabad will receive all the 50 e-buses in a phased manner. 25 e-buses were supposed to arrive in the city in Phase I in August, but now, it has come down to 20. The inauguration is likely to be delayed as there has been heavy rainfall in other cities which were to receive the e-buses and diversion of resources. We will get to notice operational issues, if any, during Phase I itself. Construction of charging points is being expedited,” said AK Singh, regional manager of UPSRTC.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath is scheduled to inaugurate the project in the city, but there are possibilities that Prime Minister Narendra Modi may also attend the event.“26 charging points are to be constructed, and a charging facility will also be available at the maintenance depot in Akbarpur-Behrampur. The work for charging the stations has not yet started, and it may take a couple of days to be completed,” said an official who is familiar with the development.According to the official estimates, the e-buses will be able to travel about 150 kilometres after being fully charged in five hours.The UPSRTC has suggested four routes, covering about 88 kilometres along major roads in the area, for the operation of low-floor and air conditioned e-buses.One side of the first route covering 33 kilometres will connect Anand Vihar to Muradnagar; the second route covering 20 kilometres will connect Anand Vihar to ALT Centre in Raj Nagar; the third route covering 20 kilometres will connect Dilshad Garden to Govindpuram, and the fourth route covering 15 kilometres will connect different points from Tila Morh to New bus stand.At present, Ghaziabad has no government-run transport for intra-city operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-inauguration-of-e-bus-project-delayed-101632162607019.html
21-09-2021||Other||8 arrested for looting two Panipat traders||The crime investigation agency (CIA) of Panipat police arrested eight people for allegedly firing at and looting two traders in Samalkha on September 16.The accused have been identified as Shivam alias Raja of Chulkana village, Mohit of Bhiwani, Aman and Rohit Kumar of Alewa village of Jind, Vishal alias Anda, Ashu, Lokesh and Deepak of Samalkha town of the district, additional superintendent of police (SP) Pooja Vashisht said.Police have recovered four country-made pistols from their possession. SP Vashisht said a flour-mill owner Vinod Singla and a confectionary shop owner Nishu had sustained bullet injuries in the incident. The two shopkeepers, in their police complaint, had stated that the accused came on bikes, shot at them and took away around ₹8,000 from them.Police had announced a reward of ₹50,000 for information on the accused.Inspector Anil Chhillar, in-charge of CIA-III, said the accused were arrested from Hathwala road, where they had allegedly assembled with the intention of committing another crime.Chhillar said during the investigation it was found that the accused Rohit, Mohit and Ashu are history-sheeters. All accused have now been booked under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention), 397 (robbery or dacoity) of the Indian Penal Code and Arms act. They were produced in a court and sent to three-day police remand, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/panipat-8-arrested-for-firing-at-looting-two-traders-101632148633208.html
21-09-2021||Other||No active Covid cases in 31 UP districts||LUCKNOW There were no active cases of Covid-19 in 31 districts of Uttar Pradesh while the state had been able to restrict the fresh case count to below 100 for over two months. On Monday, the state logged only 11 fresh cases, recording a decline of more than 38,000 since the peak on April 24 (38,055), said a state government spokesperson in a statement.Of the 75 districts in the state, only eight reported fresh Covid cases during the last 24 hours and the overall recovery rate was 98.7%.UP recorded an over 99% drop in the number of active Covid cases since its peak on April 30 (3,10,783). Currently, the state had 194 active cases.The state also restricted the daily case count to below 50 for nearly 40 days in a row, the statement said.As many as 15 Covid patients were discharged post recovery, adding to the recovery count of 16,86,599 so far, it added.Consequently, the daily test positivity rate (TPR) in Uttar Pradesh too dipped to lower than 0.01% from a high of over 16.84% in April. The test positivity rate is the percentage of samples that test positive out of the total number evaluated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-active-covid-cases-in-31-up-districts-101632144606865.html
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||Hussan Lal appointed principal secy to CM||ChandigarhHussan Lal, a 1995-batch IAS officer, was on Monday appointed the principal secretary to new Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi. The transfer orders were issued minutes after Channi was administered the oath of office by governor Banwarilal Purohit in Chandigarh. Rahul Tiwari, a 2000-batch IAS officer, was posted as special principal secretary to the chief minister. Tiwari has worked with Channi when he was technical education and employment generation minister before being elevated as the chief minister. Hussan Lal, who was the principal secretary, investment promotion, industries and commerce and information technology, replaces Tejveer Singh, who served as the principal secretary to former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh. Tiwari was posted in place of Gurkirat Kirpal Singh, who was the special principal secretary.Race for new DGP hots up The race for the new state director general of police (DGP) has intensifies with the new dispensation replacing officials who have worked closely with former CM Captain Amarinder Singh. The names of 1988-batch IPS officer Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota and 1986-batch officer S Chattopadhyaya are doing the rounds to replace incumbent Dinkar Gupta, people privy to the development said. However, discussion is on in the government over how to replace Gupta as according to the recent judgment of the Supreme Court, an interim DGP cannot be appointed. “The government has two options keeping in view the SC judgment. Either it can continue with present DGP and send a proposal of eligible candidates to the UPSC, or it can send him on leave and give the additional charge to someone till the new DGP is selected through the UPSC,” said a senior government functionary. Both Chattopadhyaya and Sahota met chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi separately on Monday. Both have more than six months of service remaining making them eligible for the post as per the new guidelines laid down by the Supreme Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hussan-lal-appointed-principal-secretary-to-new-punjab-cm-101632127445303.html
21-09-2021||World||Bolsonaro kicks up a storm, tells UN he’s against Covid vaccine passports||Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro told the United Nations General Assembly on Tuesday that his government was against health passports but backed the drive to vaccinate people against Covid-19.“We support the vaccination efforts,” said Bolsonaro, widely criticised for his handling of the pandemic in Brazil where the coronavirus disease has killed more than 590,000 people. “However, my administration has not supported a vaccine or health passport or any other vaccine-related obligation,” he said in New York.Bolsonaro was the first world leader to speak at the high-level meet after UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres opened the debate with an address.On Monday, UK PM Boris Johnson stressed the importance of coronavirus vaccines during a meeting with Bolsonaro. As journalists were ushered out of the room at the start of the bilateral meeting, Johnson said, “Thanks everybody, get AstraZeneca vaccines.” Johnson told Bolsonaro, “I’ve had it twice.” The Brazilian leader pointed at himself and said “not yet”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bolsonaro-kicks-up-a-storm-tells-un-he-s-against-covid-vaccine-passports-101632248777270.html
21-09-2021||World||UK charges third Russian agent over Novichok attack||Britain on Tuesday warned three Russian intelligence officers wanted for a 2018 Novichok attack on a former double agent in the English city of Salisbury that they face arrest and prosecution if they ever leave their home country.UK home secretary Priti Patel said Britain “will not tolerate such malign activity” and said it applied for an Interpol notice to detain and extradite all three from abroad if given the chance.“Should any of these individuals ever travel outside Russia, we will work with our international partners to take every possible step to detain them and face justice,” she told parliament.Patel’s warning came after prosecutors said there‘s evidence to charge a third Russian man with the attack on Sergei Skripal and his daughter Yulia. Counterterrorism detectives said it was in public interest to charge Denis Sergeev who went by the alias “Sergey Fedotov”, with conspiracy to murder.Skripal and his daughter were left fighting for their lives after the attack in 2018 while a cop probing the case fell ill and a woman who came into contact with the nerve agent later died.The incident soured diplomatic ties between Britain and Russia that were already strained by the 2006 radiation poisoning of Alexander Litvinenko. The announcement of a third suspect came as Europe’s top rights court ruled that Russia was responsible for the murder of Litvinenko, a dissident former agent who accused President Vladimir Putin before his death.Moscow rejected the court’s claim as well as renewed British allegations the Kremlin was behind the Skripal attack. “We resolutely condemn all attempts by London to shift responsibility onto Moscow,” said foreign ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-charges-third-russian-agent-over-novichok-attack-101632248552165.html
21-09-2021||World||Taliban rename University of Burhanuddin Rabbani as Kabul Education University||The Taliban-led government in Afghanistan has changed the name of a government university to Kabul Education University on Monday.Earlier, the name of the government university was the University of Burhanuddin Rabbani, which was named after Afghanistan's former President Burhanuddin Rabbani, who was killed in a suicide attack in his home in 2009."Universities are the intellectual assets of Afghanistan and should not be named after political or ethnic leaders," read a directive released by Afghanistan's Ministry of Higher Education.The directive also read that regional and ethnic discrimination has prevailed in Afghanistan in the past two decades and national places were named based on those.Taliban have also changed the name of Hamid Karzai International Airport to Kabul International Airport, which was its previous name and renamed Maoud square to its old name Public health square in Kabul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-rename-university-of-burhanuddin-rabbani-as-kabul-education-university-101632247482495.html
21-09-2021||World||At UNGA, Biden says ‘future’ belongs to those who allow people to ‘breathe free’||US President Joe Biden on Tuesday, while talking about growth and development across the globe, said that the future belongs to those nations who provide their citizens with the “ability to breathe free,” and not those who seek to “suffocate” people with an “iron hand.”Addressing the plenary of the 76th United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) for the first time since becoming the President of the United States, Biden spoke about authoritarian governance around the world that pose a threat for individuals to live freely. During the speech, Biden emphasised that it's important for individuals hailing from the LGBT community to “live and love freely.”The US President said that as countries move to meet the “cost-cutting challenges” of the fast-moving world, he wants to quash any speculation about him being “agnostic about the future” that nations want for the world.“The future will belong to those who embrace human dignity, not trample it. The future will belong to those who unleash the potential of their people, not those who stifle it,” Biden told the attendees at the UNGA.Biden pointed out that authoritarians of the world may seek to proclaim the end of democracy but the latter lives on. “The truth is that democratic world is everywhere,” the US President said, adding that it lives among peace protests, humanitarian rights defenders, journalists, and anti-corruption activists.Referring to the withdrawal of US forces from Afghanistan after 20 years, which eventually saw the swift takeover of the country by the Islamist militant group Taliban, Biden said that for the first in two decades, “US is not at war.” He noted that in the current scenario, the US is going to utilise all its resources for what lies ahead and for the future.Also Read | ‘Not same as 20 years ago’: US President Joe Biden says country better equipped to deal with terrorist threatsUrging the members of the United Nations to work towards creating a better world in the days ahead, the US President stressed that countries need to start working “now”. “I can tell you where America stands – we will choose to build a better future. We – you and I, have the will and capacity to make it better,” Biden told the UN General Assembly.While speaking about human rights and the importance of democracy, Biden also mentioned the Taliban – who now rules Afghanistan. “[The] UNSC adopted a resolution outlining how to support people of Afghanistan, laid out the expectations from the Taliban,” he said, adding that all nations must collectively advocate the rights of women and girls to pursue their dreams “free of violence and intimidation.”“We cannot afford to waste any more time. Let’s get to work. Let’s make our future better now. We can do this; it’s within our power and capacity,” Biden said to close his speech at the UNGA.Also Read | At UNGA, Joe Biden calls for cooperation on Covid-19, climate change; hails QuadBiden’s speech for a free and democratic world, with stress on human and women’s rights comes close on the heels of the Taliban announcing an all-male cabinet in the group’s recently formed government in Afghanistan. On Tuesday, Taliban spokesperson Zabihullah Mujahid announced the names of the remaining ministers, defending that ethnic minorities such as Hazaras were included. Although he said that women might be included later, another spokesperson of the group Sayed Zekrullah Hashimi had earlier told Tolo News that women should give birth and not be ministers – citing that a woman becoming a minister is like putting something on her neck that “she can’t carry.”“It is not necessary for women to be in the cabinet – they should give birth. Women protesters can’t represent all women in Afghanistan,” Hashimi told Tolo News.Also Read | Is it necessary for Afghan women to be part of cabinet? Taliban leader repliesMeanwhile, the UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres told global leaders during the opening debate of the 76th session of the UNGA that the world is facing the “greatest cascade” of crises owing to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, Taliban takeover of Afghanistan and climate crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/at-unga-biden-says-future-belongs-to-those-who-allow-people-to-breathe-free-101632246621297.html
21-09-2021||World||At UNGA, Joe Biden calls for cooperation on Covid-19, climate change; hails Quad||US President Joe Biden, in his maiden address at the UN General Assembly (UNGA) on Tuesday, called on UN member states to work together to confront common challenges such as climate change and Covid-19, and underscored his commitment to multilateralism citing the elevation of the Quad grouping with India, Australia and Japan to summit-level engagement. Crucially, the US president said the Indo-Pacific was among the most consequential regions in the world.Biden defended the messy end to the war in Afghanistan, said America was ready to compete with China economically and ideologically but was not seeking to relaunch another Cold War, and reaffirmed support for multilateral bodies such as the United Nations and the World Health Organization that had been attacked and abandoned by his predecessor, former US president Donald Trump.Joe Biden stressed on a theme in his UNGA speech that contrasted Trump’s America First approach as he called for countries to work together. Citing the death and devastation brought on by the Covid-19 pandemic, the American president said “our shared grief is a poignant reminder that our collective future will hinge on our ability to recognise our common humanity and to act together… I believe we must work together as never before”.Defending his decision to end the war in Afghanistan he said, “We’ve ended 20 years of conflict in Afghanistan. And as we close this period of relentless war, we’re opening a new era of relentless diplomacy of using the power of our development aid to invest in new ways of lifting people up.”The US president has faced criticism and questions at home and abroad about the pull-out of international troops from Afghanistan, including from allies and partners such as India, and of the chaotic evacuation marked by the killing of 13 US troops and about 200 Afghan civilians. Ten people were killed in a US drone strike during that period who turned out to be civilians, including seven children, and not Islamic State-Khorasan operatives as the US had initially described them.In his UNGA address, Joe Biden went on reiterate the importance of working together with other countries and multilateral bodies. Over the last eight months, he said he had prioritised “rebuilding our alliances, revitalising our partnerships, and recognising they are essential and central to America’s enduring security and prosperity”. He spoke of the Nato and the EU, which also had faced withering criticism and harsh words from Trump.“We elevated the Quad partnership among Australia, India, Japan and the United States to take on challenges ranging from health security to climate to emerging technologies,” Biden said of the Quad grouping, which is scheduled to hold its first in-person summit meeting on Friday, with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Australian PM Scott Morrison and Japan’s PM Yoshihide Suga at the White House. The first in-person summit of the Quad was held virtually in March as Biden’s initiative, elevating engagement of the grouping rapidly from the level of officials to ministers.Though the US president did not name China, it formed the backdrop for chunks of his speech. Arguing that the world faced a choice between those who support western democratic values and authoritarian regimes such as the one in Beijing, Joe Biden said, “The future belongs to those who give their people the ability to breathe free, not those who seek to suffocate their people with iron-hand authoritarianism.”“The authoritarians of the world, they seek to proclaim the end of the age of democracy, but they’re wrong,” the US president said.Biden, however, made it clear that he isn’t seeking any conflict. The United States would “compete vigorously and lead with our values and our strength to stand up for our allies and our friends”, he said at the UNGA. “We’re not seeking - say it again, we are not seeking - a new Cold War, or a world divided into rigid blocks.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/at-unga-joe-biden-calls-for-cooperation-on-covid-19-climate-change-hails-quad-101632246854365.html
21-09-2021||World||French Prez Macron, upset over AUKUS, dials PM Modi, discusses Indo-Pacific||French President Emmanuel Macron telephoned Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday to discuss cooperation in the Indo-Pacific region against the backdrop of France’s anger over the creation of a new security alliance by Australia, the UK and the US. Modi tweeted after the call that he and Macron had discussed “closer collaboration between India and France in the Indo-Pacific” and the situation in Afghanistan. “We place great value on our Strategic Partnership with France, including in the UNSC,” the prime minister said. A readout from the French president’s office said the two leaders “reaffirmed their shared commitment to act jointly in an open and inclusive Indo-Pacific”, with this approach aimed at promoting “regional stability and the rule of law, while precluding any form of hegemony”. AUKUS, a security alliance between Australia, the UK and the US, was unveiled by the leaders of the three countries on September 15 and its first initiative is aimed at equipping Australia with nuclear-powered submarines built with American and British technology. France was upset by the creation of the alliance as it led to the scrapping of a $90-billion programme to build 12 French-designed submarines. France has recalled its envoys to Australia and the US because of the “exceptional gravity” of the situation. India has publicly sought to distance itself from AUKUS because of its strong strategic relations with Australia, France and the US. A statement from the external affairs ministry said Modi and Macron “reviewed the increasing bilateral collaboration in the Indo-Pacific region, and the important role that the India-France partnership plays in promoting stability and security in the region”. They also discussed regional issues, including developments in Afghanistan, and “shared their concerns about possible spread of terrorism, narcotics, illicit weapons and human trafficking”, and the need to ensure human rights. “The leaders agreed to maintain close and regular consultations, in the spirit of the India-France Strategic Partnership, which both countries cherish deeply,” the statement added. The readout from the French president’s office said the two sides would act jointly in the Indo-Pacific within the framework of the Europe-India relationship and European initiatives in the region. Macron reiterated “France’s commitment to contributing to strengthening India’s strategic autonomy, including its industrial and technological base, as part of a close relationship based on mutual trust and respect”, the readout said. Bilateral cooperation in all areas, particularly in the economic sphere, will be boosted, it added. The two leaders expressed “grave concerns” over the situation in Afghanistan. “The authorities in power must cut their ties with international terrorism, allow humanitarian organisations to operate throughout the country and respect the fundamental rights of Afghan women and men. Evacuation operations should continue unhindered,” the readout said. The two sides will maintain regular discussions to coordinate at upcoming events, especially the G20 and COP26 on climate change, and continue joint actions against the pandemic. Macron welcomed India’s decision to resume vaccine deliveries to COVAX, the readout said. External affairs minister S Jaishankar also met his French counterpart Jean-Yves Le Drian on the margins of the UN General Assembly on Tuesday. “A comprehensive discussion with FM @JY_LeDrian on Afghanistan, Indo-Pacific and other contemporary issues,” Jaishankar tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/macron-dials-pm-modi-creation-of-aukus-inclusive-indo-pacific-on-agenda-101632245895839.html
21-09-2021||World||‘Not same as 20 years ago’: US President Joe Biden says country better equipped to deal with terrorist threats||US President Joe Biden on Tuesday said that his country was better equipped and more resilient than it was 20 years ago during the September 2001 attacks or more commonly known as the 9/11 attacks. Biden made the remarks during his address at the 76th session of the United Nations general assembly (UNGA).“We must also remain vigilant to the threat of terrorism poses to all our nations emanating from distant regions of the world or in our backyard. We know the bitter sting of terrorism. Last month, we lost 13 American heroes and many Afghan civilians in the heinous terrorist attack at Kabul airport,” Biden said, referring to a terrorist attack near the gates of Hamid Karzai International Airport in Kabul earlier on August 26.Also read | US military power must be a tool of last resort, says Biden at UNGAThe US administration also retaliated against the Islamic State of Khorasan (IS-K), the group which claimed it was behind the deadly attacks, killing the planner suspected of plotting more attacks.Further, he also said that the US was not the same country as it was 20 years ago, referring to the 9/11 attacks. “US is not the same country it was when it was attacked on 9/11, 20 years ago. Today we are better equipped to detect and prevent terrorist threats and we are more resilient in our ability to repel them and to respond,” he said.“We know how to build effective partnerships to dismantle terrorist networks by targeting their finances and support systems, countering their propaganda, preventing their travel as well as disrupting imminent attacks. We will meet terrorist threats that arrive today and in the future with a full range of tools available to us including working in cooperation with local partners so that we need not be so reliant on large-scale military deployments,” Biden said during his address.The remarks came as the US completed its total pullback from Afghanistan on August 31, a country where it has been present for close to two decades. Following the drawdown of US troops, several countries, including the US’ close allies such as the United Kingdom, Germany and other Nato countries, scrambled to evacuate their personnel, embassy staff and citizens along with Afghan nationals who wished to move out of the country.The Taliban had rapidly taken over the country after the US announcement in a few days and on August 15, reached the capital city Kabul. Also, the US recently marked the 20th anniversary of the 9/11 attacks earlier on September 11 when Biden visited all the sites of the attack.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/not-same-as-20-years-ago-us-president-joe-biden-says-country-better-equipped-to-deal-with-terrorist-threats-101632241575569.html
21-09-2021||World||US to double climate finance support to aid low-income nations: Biden at UNGA||US President Joe Biden said on Tuesday that his country would increase its support to climate finance from $5.7 billion to $11.2 billion by 2024 to help low-income countries adapt to climate change and shift to cleaner energy.Addressing the opening plenary of the 76th session of the United Nations General Assembly, for the first time since assuming the presidency of the US, Joe Biden called on the world leaders to join forces “to build a better future” and to address joint challenges such as climate change.Biden said his administration would work with US Congress to double the pledge of $5.7 billion in climate fund, taken in April this year, and make the country a “leader in international climate finance.”Biden opened his speech at the UN General Assembly by appealing to the world leaders to address the threats of climate change and health hazards.“Instead of continuing to fight the wars of the past, we are fixing our eyes and devoting our resources to the challenges that hold the keys to our collective future,” Biden said.The US President described climate change and the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic as “urgent and looming crises wherein lie enormous opportunities,” if the globe can “work together to seize” them.Over the past decade, the United States has been a laggard when it comes to climate finance. Former US President Barack Obama pledged $3 billion to the Green Climate Fund, the United Nation’s flagship climate finance initiative, but delivered just $1 billion before leaving office, according to a report by Climate Home.However, his successor Donald Trump went back on that pledge and in 2017-18 the US delivered less climate finance than France, Germany, Japan or the United Kingdom despite having an economy larger than all of them combined.In his speech on Tuesday, Biden said that the world was approaching a “point of no return” and reeling from “widespread death and devastation from the borderless climate crisis”. He urged all nations to bring their “highest possible ambitions to the table” when leaders meet at the UN Climate Change Conference (COP26) in Glasgow in November.COP26 president Alok Sharma took to Twitter to hail Biden’s announcement.Strongly welcome @POTUS further doubling 🇺🇸climate finance commitment to over $11bn by 2024 This demonstrate the increased ambition required to deliver on the $100bn/year goalWe must build on this momentum#UNGA #COP26The accord calls for public, multilateral and private financing of $100 billion a year from 2020-2025 to assist poor nations already coping with floods, heatwaves, rising seas and superstorms made worse by climate change.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-to-double-climate-finance-support-to-aid-low-income-nations-biden-at-unga-101632239251018.html
21-09-2021||World||‘Still alive’: Pope jokes some people wanted him dead after recent operation||Pope Francis has joked that some people in the Church hoped he would not survive his recent colon operation, and denounced vociferous conservative critics for doing "the work of the devil" by undermining the Roman Catholic Church.Francis made the comments during a meeting with members of the Jesuits, a Catholic religious order, in Slovakia this month. They were reported on Tuesday by the Jesuit magazine La Civilta Cattolica.Asked about his health by one of the Jesuits, Francis was quoted as replying: "Still alive. Although some people wanted me dead.""I know that there were even meetings between prelates who thought that the Pope was in a more serious condition than was being said," he added. "They were preparing the conclave (to elect a new pope). So be it. Thank God, I am well."Francis, who was elected pontiff in 2013, underwent colon surgery on July 4, and spent 11 days in hospital. He has since resumed a full work schedule.Addressing some of the challenges facing the Church, Francis took aim at traditionalists, saying that "turning back is not the right way" and that it was important to move forward.He denounced a "major Catholic television station", which he did not name, that he said was constantly attacking him."I personally may deserve attacks and insults because I am a sinner, but the Church does not deserve this. It is the work of the devil," he said.In recent years, Francis has been the focus of criticism from a small but powerful number of American conservatives unhappy with his stands on various theological issues as well as social matters from immigration to climate change.They are regularly given time on the US - based Catholic television network EWTN.The pope admitted that criticism from clerics within the Church annoyed him at times."I sometimes lose patience, especially when they make judgments without entering into a real dialogue. I can't do anything there. However, I go on without entering their world of ideas and fantasies," he said.He warned against clerical "rigidity" and said God wanted society to be free.The Catholic Church teaches that homosexual tendencies are not sinful but homosexual acts are, but Francis has been more conciliatory towards gay people than perhaps any other pope."We are afraid to accompany people with sexual diversity," he was quoted as saying by the magazine, adding that priests should offer support to homosexual couples.However, he cautioned against the rise of "gender ideology"."It is dangerous because it is abstract with respect to the concrete life of a person, as if a person can decide abstractly at will whether and when to be a man or a woman," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/still-alive-pope-jokes-some-people-wanted-him-dead-after-recent-operation-101632237722145.html
21-09-2021||World||‘Remarkable feat of human ingenuity’: UNGA prez Abdulla Shahid hails scientists||President of the 76th session of the United Nations General Assembly Abdulla Shahid on Tuesday hailed the scientists and researchers producing multiple vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in record time.Addressing the plenary of the 76th UNGA, the Maldivian foreign minister, who was elected as the President for this year's session, called the invention of Covid-19 vaccines a “remarkable feat of human ingenuity.”“In record time, humanity has produced multiple viable vaccines for Covid-19. Scientists and researchers from dozens of countries collaborated on a remarkable feat of human ingenuity,” Abdulla Shahid said, adding, that the largest vaccine roll-out in the history of mankind is currently underway.Shahid called the vaccine invention a “monumental undertaking" even as he acknowledged the vaccination is not without flaw.“While certainly not without flaws, it is monumental in its undertaking. For these accomplishments alone, we should be proud,” Shahid told the gathering of world leaders.“The world wants peace of mind. The people want solutions to the challenges we collectively face,” he added.Shahid opened UN General Assembly’s high-level meeting for leaders of its 193 member nations by challenging delegates to rise to the occasion. “There are moments in time that are turning points. This is one such moment," he said.More than 100 heads of state and government kept away by the pandemic are returning to the United Nations in person for the first time in two years. But with the pandemic still raging, about 60 will deliver pre-recorded statements over coming days.“We are on the edge of an abyss — and moving in the wrong direction," Guterres said. “I’m here to sound the alarm. The world must wake up," UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said in his speech.Guterres said people may lose faith not only in their governments and institutions but in basic values when they see their human rights curtailed, corruption, the reality of their harsh lives, no future for their children — and “when they see billionaires joyriding to space while millions go hungry on Earth.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/remarkable-feat-of-human-ingenuity-unga-prez-abdulla-shahid-hails-scientists-101632232759346.html
21-09-2021||World||US military power must be a tool of last resort, says Biden at UNGA||US President Joe Biden on Tuesday said that America will continue to defend itself and its allies against any terrorist threat but stressed that the mission must be clear and achievable. During his maiden speech at the UN General Assembly, Biden noted that the security, prosperity and freedom of countries are interconnected more than ever. Defending the pullout from Afghanistan, the US commander-in-chief said that America is concentrating on devoting its resources to take on the challenges that hold the key to collective future instead of fighting the “wars of the past”. He told global leaders that issues like the pandemic, climate crisis, terrorism, and managing the shifts in power dynamics should be the focus. "US military power must be our tool of last resort not our first and should not be used as an answer to every problem we see around the world," Biden said."We've ended 20 years of conflict in Afghanistan, and as we close this period of relentless war, we're opening a new era of relentless diplomacy, of using the power of our development aid to invest in new ways of lifting people up around the world, of renewing and defending democracy, of proving that no matter how challenging or how complex the problems we're going to face, government by and for the people is still the best way to deliver for all of our people," he added.Biden was speaking on the backdrop of recent US troops’ withdrawal from Afghanistan that turned chaotic in the final days. He also talked about the challenges arising out of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic."We meet this year in a moment of intermingled with great pain and extraordinary possibility. We've lost so much to this devastating pandemic that continues to claim lives around the world and impact so much on our existence. We're mourning more than 4.5 million people, people of every nation, from every background. Each death is an individual heartbreak," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-military-power-must-be-a-tool-of-last-resort-says-biden-at-unga-101632234397671.html
21-09-2021||World||World has never been more threatened or divided: UN chief tells global leaders||The world has never been more threatened or more divided, and is facing the "greatest cascade” of crises, UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres told global leaders on Tuesday, sounding an alarm over the Covid-19 pandemic, a climate crisis pummeling the planet and an upheaval in Afghanistan and other nations that is thwarting peace.Guterres, in his address to the opening of the General Debate of the 76th Session of the General Assembly, said that human rights are under fire, science is under assault and economic lifelines for the most vulnerable are coming too little and too late, if they come at all, and solidarity is missing in action just when the world need it the most.“I am here to sound the alarm: The world must wake up. We are on the edge of an abyss — and moving in the wrong direction. Our world has never been more threatened. Or more divided. We face the greatest cascade of crises in our lifetimes,” he said.The annual high-level week, which had to be held virtually last year due to the raging Covid-19 pandemic, returned to a hybrid format this year with over 100 Heads of State and Government as well as foreign ministers and diplomats scheduled to address world leaders in-person from the iconic General Assembly Hall here.Outlining the crises facing the world today, Guterres said that the Covid-19 pandemic has supersized glaring inequalities, the climate crisis is pummeling the planet, the upheaval from Afghanistan to Ethiopia to Yemen and beyond has thwarted peace and a surge of mistrust and misinformation is polarising people and paralysing societies.The Covid-19 pandemic, which has killed more than 4.6 million people and infected over 228 million people globally, has exposed glaring inequalities among nations over vaccine access and affordability, he said.More than 5.7 billion Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered globally, but only 2 per cent of them in Africa, according to the World Health Organisation (WHO).“Perhaps one image tells the tale of our times. The picture we have seen from some parts of the world of Covid-19 vaccines… in the garbage. Expired and unused,” Guterres said.The UN chief noted that while on the one hand vaccines have been developed in a record time on the other hand “we see that triumph undone by the tragedy of a lack of political will, selfishness and mistrust.“A surplus in some countries. Empty shelves in others. A majority of the wealthier world vaccinated. Over 90 per cent of Africans are still waiting for their first dose. This is a moral indictment of the state of our world. It is an obscenity,” Guterres said.He said the world passed the science test when it produced vaccines in a record time and highlighted the victory of science and human ingenuity, but “we are getting an F in Ethics.”Guterres underlined the urgent need for a global vaccination plan to at least double vaccine production and ensure that vaccines reach 70 per cent of the world’s population in the first half of 2022.On climate change, Guterres said that the climate alarm bells are ringing at “fever pitch” and there are warning signs in every continent and region.“Scorching temperatures. Shocking biodiversity loss. Polluted air, water and natural spaces. And climate-related disasters at every turn,” he said.Guterres warned that the window to keep alive the 1.5-degree goal of the Paris Climate Agreement is rapidly closing. The world needs a 45 per cent cut in emissions by 2030 yet with present national climate commitments, emissions will go up by 16 per cent by 2030.“That would condemn us to a hellscape of temperature rises of at least 2.7 degrees above pre-industrial levels.“Covid-19 and the climate crisis have exposed profound fragilities as societies and as a planet,” the UN chief said.Urging the world leaders that “now is the time to deliver”, Guterres outlined the six great divides, the “Grand Canyons” that must be bridged now.He called on the world leaders to bridge the peace divide.“For far too many around the world, peace and stability remain a distant dream. In Afghanistan, where we must boost humanitarian assistance and defend human rights, especially of women and girls,” he said, adding that in Myanmar, the world must reaffirm unwavering support to the people in their pursuit of democracy, peace, human rights and the rule of law.He said that the world must bridge the climate divide by bridging trust between North and South.“We need more ambition from all countries in three key areas — mitigation, finance and adaptation. My message to every Member State is this: Don’t wait for others to make the first move. Do your part,” he said.He called on nations to bridge the gap between rich and poor, within and among countries.“That starts by ending the pandemic for everyone, everywhere,” Guterres said.Warning that there is no time to lose, he said that a lopsided recovery from the pandemic is deepening inequalities as richer countries could reach pre-pandemic growth rates by the end of this year while the impacts may last for years in low-income countries.Underscoring that the gender divide must be bridged, Guterres said Covid-19 exposed and amplified the world’s most enduring injustice: the power imbalance between men and women.“Bridging the gender divide is not only a matter of justice for women and girls. It’s a game-changer for humanity,” he said.Guterres called on world leaders to bridge the digital divide and the divide among generations.He said that half of humanity has no access to the internet and we must connect everyone by 2030.“Young people will inherit the consequences of our decisions — good and bad. At the same time, we expect 10.9 billion people to be born by century’s end. We need their talents, ideas and energies. They need a seat at the table,” Guterres added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/world-has-never-been-more-threatened-or-divided-un-chief-tells-global-leaders-101632231884412.html
21-09-2021||World||6.0-magnitude earthquake strikes offshore Bio-Bio in Chile: Report||An earthquake of magnitude 6.0 struck offshore Bio-Bio in Chile on Tuesday, the European Mediterranean Seismological Centre (EMSC) said.The quake was at a depth of 2 km, EMSC said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/60magnitude-earthquake-strikes-offshore-bio-bio-in-chile-report-101632231178429.html
21-09-2021||World||‘No reason to doubt’: Pak on Taliban’s assurance to not allow terrorist attacks from Afghan soil||Pakistan military spokesperson Major General Babar Iftikhar said that the country is in “constant touch” with the Taliban in Afghanistan with an aim to protect his nation’s security matters. Since the takeover of Afghanistan by the Islamist militant group on August 15, there has been a global worry and fear that Afghan soil would become a safe haven for Islamist terrorist organisations for attacks on foreign countries, albeit the Taliban repeatedly assuring against it.“Taliban have reiterated on several occasions that no group or terrorist organisation will be allowed to use Afghan territory for any terrorist activity against any country, including Pakistan,” Iftikhar told Urdu News.He added that there isn’t any “reason to doubt” the Taliban’s “intentions,” and this is the reason why Pakistan is in continuous touch with the group to safeguard the nation’s security interests.In the past, Pakistan has on many occasions stressed on the need to give the Taliban a chance in governing Afghanistan. Last week, it was reported that Pakistan’s national security advisor Moeed Yusuf is displeased with the international community’s “wait-and-watch” tactic on recognising the Taliban government in Afghanistan.Also Read | Pakistan bats for Taliban, says should be given time to run AfghanistanYusuf told the Dawn newspaper that in order to influence and mold the Taliban governance, in the way “the world wants,” the international community must have a conversation with the government directly. “Without engagement that would not be possible,” Yusuf was quoted as saying by the Dawn.As per the latest update, the Dawn reported that one of Pakistan’s major concerns following the re-emergence of Taliban in Afghanistan has been the existence of the banned Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) terrorist group in the latter nation – which took responsibility of shooting Nobel Peace Prize winner Malala Yousafzai in 2012.The report further stated that Pakistani authorities and the Taliban government in Afghanistan have been holding discourse on new border control measures to eradicate unwanted movement of elements inside Pakistan.“Our goal has always been better management on this (Pakistan) side of the border. Fencing the Pakistan-Afghan border was a major responsibility due to the region’s terrain and other difficulties,” Iftikhar said.The fencing work has been done on 90% of the 2,600-km border area, Iftikhar claimed, and added that the border management between the two countries is “constantly improving”.“We are hopeful that it will be fully secured in the near future,” he noted.The Pakistan military spokesperson’s comments come after the country’s Prime Minister Imran Khan last Saturday said that they have “initiated dialogue” with the Taliban in Afghanistan to make the latter’s administration “inclusive” – thereby including Tajiks, Hazaras and Uzbeks.But the Taliban didn’t take his comments very well as the group’s spokesperson and deputy information minister Zabihullah Mujahid said that no nation, including Pakistan, has any right to “ask the Islamic Emirate to establish an ‘inclusive’ government in Afghanistan.”Meanwhile, the Islamist militants on Tuesday announced the expansion of its cabinet in Afghanistan, with the all-male approach intact. However, Mujahid – who presented the list of the names of the remaining ministers — defended the choice, citing that it comprises those from ethnic minorities such as the Hazaras.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pak-trusts-taliban-s-intentions-to-not-let-afghan-soil-be-used-for-terrorism-101632226606309.html
21-09-2021||World||Australia's koala population declines by 30% in 3 years. Here are the reasons||Australia has lost one-third of its koala population in just three years, the Australian Koala Foundation (AKF) warned about the rapid decline on Monday. The alarming figures suggest that the population of koalas has dropped from more than 80,000 in 2018 to less than 58,000 this year, with New South Wales reporting a decline as high as 41%. Not a single region showed an upward trend in the marsupial’s population.The independent non-profit group estimated the numbers in each of the federal electorates that had koala since white settlement and found that the marsupial is now extinct in 47 of them. Only one federal electorate, Mayo, has more than 5000 koalas, according to AKF. The trend showed that some regions are left with just 5-10 koalas."The declines are quite dramatic," AKF chair Deborah Tabart said on Tuesday.Also Read | Mama koala cuddling her sleeping baby makes for a delightful watchReasons for declineThe deadly bushfires of 2019-20 have been cited as one of the major contributors to the sharp decline in the koala population but, according to the study, is not the only reason. The foundation said that drought, heatwaves, the felling of trees by developers, and the lack of water for koalas to drink have also contributed to the decline.“We have witnessed a drastic decrease in inland populations because of drought, heatwaves, and lack of water for Koalas to drink. I have seen some landscapes that look like the moon – with dead and dying trees everywhere,” Tabart said in a statement.Pointing to the huge land clearance across New South Wales and South East Queensland in recent years, Tabart said that land clearing is lethal to the koala population. She urged Australian lawmakers to bring in a law to immediately stop land clearance in prime koala habitat, saying the offsets don’t work and displaced koalas die.We need a Koala Protection Act now which can and will do exactly that; why won’t our political leaders just sign that into being?” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australias-koala-population-declines-by-30-in-3-years-here-are-the-reasons-101632223716813.html
21-09-2021||World||Russia responsible for killing ex-KGB officer Litvinenko, European rights court rules||The European Court of Human Rights ruled on Tuesday that Russia was responsible for the 2006 killing of ex-KGB officer Alexander Litvinenko who died an agonising death after he was poisoned in London with Polonium 210, a rare radioactive isotope.Kremlin critic Litvinenko, 43, died weeks after drinking green tea laced with polonium-210 at London’s plush Millennium hotel in an attack Britain has long blamed on Moscow.In its ruling, the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) concluded Russia was responsible for the killing."It found that Mr Litvinenko’s assassination was imputable to Russia," its statement said.Russia has always denied any involvement in Litvinenko's death which plunged Anglo-Russian relations to a post-Cold War low.A lengthy British inquiry concluded in 2016 that Russian President Vladimir Putin probably approved a Russian intelligence operation to murder Litvinenko.It also found that former KGB bodyguard Andrei Lugovoy and another Russian, Dmitry Kovtun, carried out the killing as part of an operation probably directed by Russia’s Federal Security Service (FSB), the main successor to the Soviet-era KGB.The ECHR agreed. Both men have always denied involvement."The court found it established, beyond reasonable doubt, that the assassination had been carried out by Mr Lugovoy and Mr Kovtun," the ruling said."The planned and complex operation involving the procurement of a rare deadly poison, the travel arrangements for the pair, and repeated and sustained attempts to administer the poison indicated that Mr Litvinenko had been the target of the operation."It too concluded that the Russian state was to blame and that had the men been carrying out a "rogue operation", Moscow would have the information to prove that theory."However, the government had made no serious attempt to provide such information or to counter the findings of the UK authorities," the ruling said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-responsible-for-killing-ex-kgb-officer-litvinenko-european-rights-court-rules-101632217910764.html
21-09-2021||World||Covid-19 variants ‘getting better’ at transmission through air, study finds||A study conducted by researchers at the University of Maryland has found that variants of SARS-CoV-2, which causes the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), are evolving to “get better” at transmission through air, news agency PTI reported. The report, which was published in the journal Clinical Infectious Diseases, also found that people who contract this viral illness through the Alpha variant of SARS-CoV-2, exhale “43 to 100 times” more virus into the air than those infected with its original strains.Sharing thoughts on the study, doctoral student Jianyu Lai, one of its lead authors said, “We already knew that the virus in saliva and nasal swabs was higher in infections caused by the Alpha variant. Virus from the nose and mouth might get transmitted by large droplets up close to an infected person. However, we found that the virus in exhaled aerosols is rising further,” Lai said.These major increases in airborne virus due to Alpha, researchers said, took place when the Delta variant was yet to be discovered. This, according to them, indicates that the variants are “getting better” at transmitting through air.Meanwhile, Don Milton, a professor at the University of Maryland School of Health, said that the research provides further evidence of the importance of airborne transmission. “We know that Delta is more contagious than Alpha. Our research indicates that the variants just keep getting better at travelling through the air. Therefore, in addition to vaccination, we must provide better ventilation and wear tight-fitting masks to help stop it from spreading,” Milton explained.To check the efficacy of face masks, the team measured how much SARS-CoV-2 is breathed into air, and then tested how much less virus is exhaled by Covid-19 patients after putting on a cloth or surgical mask.While face masks were found to have significantly reduced, by around 50 per cent, virus-laden particles in the air around the Covid-19 patient, loose-fitting cloth and surgical masks failed at preventing infectious droplets from going out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-variants-getting-better-at-transmission-through-air-study-finds-101632215785857.html
21-09-2021||World||China: PLA soldiers killed at Galwan Valley now part of education on patriotism||The People’s Liberation Army (PLA) is citing the example of Chinese soldiers killed during the Galwan Valley clash with Indian border personnel in mid-June 2020 to teach lessons on patriotism to China’s primary schoolchildren.A video exchange between a border battalion of the Xinjiang military region and primary school students in the eastern Chinese province of Anhui, focusing on border defence, was held over the weekend.It lauds the hardships and bravery of PLA troops posted along the border with India.An article on the exchange between soldiers and students was published on Tuesday in an official military portal under the headline, “The heroic deeds of defending the country and border areas were introduced to the school classes, and the officers and soldiers stationed on the plateau were connected online to pupils thousands of miles away.”The article mentioned how the death of one Chinese soldier at Galwan Valley left an impression on the students.Though it did not mention the specific battalion, the ongoing India-China border tension in eastern Ladakh falls on the Karakoram mountain side of China, which is under the Xinjiang military region, and overall, under PLA’s Western Theatre Command.Woven into the officially sanctioned exchange between the soldiers and students was the pro-China narrative that the PLA soldiers were defending their borders, and that India had allegedly trespassed the Line of Actual Control (LAC).India has consistently denied allegations by Beijing of acting in a provocative manner since the standoff began in May last year and said that it was the PLA that breached the LAC.The aim of educating the students about border military personnel’s “heroic deeds” was to guide them to “draw spiritual strength and patriotism from the soldiers and plant the seeds of patriotism in the hearts of the students”, the article quoted the school principal as saying.The video conference was held between the soldiers and the students of the second primary school of Huazhong Road in Anqing city in Anhui province.It was only in February that the Chinese government shared the details of the five Chinese officers and soldiers killed and injured at Galwan Valley - unlike India, which announced the death of 20 soldiers soon after the deadly clash in mid-June 2020.The four who died were Chen Hongjun, Chen Xiangrong, Xiao Siyuan and Wang Zhuoran. Regimental commander Qi Fabao was injured in the skirmishes.“Chen Xiarong was born after 2000. When he sacrificed his life, he was only seven years older than me. It really touched me that he wrote ‘I only devote my pure love to China’,” a student said.“The story left great impressions on these pupils. Many of them hoped to express their salute by sending letters and others wanted to see soldiers via video call,” a teacher said.“Students were moved by the vivid stories told by the soldiers on the 5,300-metre-high plateau,” the article said.Ahead of the video interaction, the students and soldiers had exchanged letters, postcards and videos. The session on patriotism ended with a patriotic song and a pledge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-pla-soldiers-killed-at-galwan-valley-now-part-of-education-on-patriotism-101632216251806.html
21-09-2021||World||CIA agent reports Havana syndrome during India trip. What do Cubans say?||A CIA officer, who was travelling with the US agency director William Burns to India this month, reported symptoms consistent with mysterious Havana syndrome and had to receive medical attention, according to reports on Monday. "We have protocols in place for when individuals report possible anomalous health incidents that include receiving appropriate medical treatment," a CIA spokesperson said in a statement to Reuters.In July, Burns said he has tapped a senior officer who once led the hunt for Osama bin Laden to head a task force investigating the Havana syndrome. Burns has said there is a "very strong possibility" that the syndrome is intentionally caused and that Russia could be responsible.Havana syndrome is a mysterious set of ailments that include migraines, nausea, memory lapses and dizziness. As many as 200 US officials and family members have been sickened by Havana syndrome, first reported by officials based in the United States embassy in Cuba in 2016. Several suspected cases have been reported among US officials and intelligence officers in China, Germany, Australia, Taiwan, Austria and Washington. Last month, US vice president Kamala Harris delayed her arrival to Hanoi for three hours after the US embassy there said someone reported a health incident consistent with Havana syndrome.Also read | Austria, US probe reports of 'Havana syndrome' among officialsIt is called Havana syndrome because the first cases affected personnel in 2016 at the US embassy in Cuba. A US National Academy of Sciences panel found that the most plausible theory is that "directed, pulsed radiofrequency energy" causes the syndrome. However, despite years of study, there is no consensus as to what or who might be behind the incidents or whether they are, in fact, attacks.People who are believed to have been affected complain of headaches, dizziness and symptoms consistent with concussions. Some have reported hearing high-pitched or sharp sounds before the sudden onset of symptoms. Sometimes the afflicted had bloody noses, headaches and some affected with Havana syndrome need months of medical treatment.Some say that the injuries are the result of directed energy attacks, others believe the growing number of cases could actually be linked to “mass psychogenic illness,” in which people learning of others with symptoms begin to feel sick themselves.Cuban scientists said earlier this month there was no evidence for claims of US diplomats coming down with so-called "Havana syndrome" on the island. A panel convened by the government with 16 experts in a variety of fields and affiliated to the Cuban Academy of Sciences said the claims were not "scientifically acceptable," and there was "no scientific evidence of attacks" of this nature on Cuban soil. "We conclude that the narrative of the 'mysterious syndrome' is not scientifically acceptable in any of its components," the panel said in a report published on Cubadebate, an official news site of the one-party state.Also read | US officials confirm 130 cases of ‘Havana syndrome’ as CIA probes cause: ReportThe report said some have accepted "as an axiom that attacks occurred in Havana." "However, after four years, no evidence of attacks has appeared," and "neither the Cuban police, nor the FBI, nor the Royal Canadian Mounted Police have discovered evidence of 'attacks' on diplomats in Havana despite intense investigations.""No known form of energy can selectively cause brain damage (with laser-like spatial accuracy) under the conditions described for the alleged incidents in Havana,” the Cuban experts said. They also said that most of the symptoms reported could be explained by disease. "There is no novel syndrome."The panel said it would review any new evidence.(With agency reports)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/cia-agent-reports-havana-syndrome-during-india-trip-what-do-cubans-say-101632211111352.html
21-09-2021||World||Afghan girls will be allowed to return to school 'as soon as possible': Taliban||Girls in Afghanistan will be allowed to return to school as soon as possible, the Taliban said Tuesday, after announcing the remaining positions in its all-male cabinet."We are finalising things... it will happen as soon as possible," spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid said on girls' education.It comes after the education ministry ordered male teachers and students back to secondary school at the weekend, but made no mention of the country's women educators and girl pupils.Mujahid also made no reference to the now-closed women's affairs ministry, which was shut down last week and replaced with a department that earned notoriety for enforcing religious doctrine during the previous Taliban regime."These positions are considered important for the functioning of the Emirate," he said announcing the final cabinet appointments, which included additions to the health ministry.The first appointments to the Taliban interim government were announced earlier this month -- drawn exclusively from loyalist ranks, with established hardliners in all key posts, despite previous promises of an inclusive administration for all Afghans.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghan-girls-will-be-allowed-to-return-to-school-as-soon-as-possible-taliban-101632210645919.html
21-09-2021||World||Jagmeet Singh, 17 other Indo-Canadians secure victories in Canada elections||There will be a sizeable contingent of Indo-Canadians in the House of Commons as 18 candidates from the community secured victories in the Canada elections held on Monday that incumbent Prime Minister Justin Trudeau won. All three Indo-Canadian ministers in the dissolved cabinet emerged victorious as did Jagmeet Singh of the New Democratic Party (NDP).Defence minister Harjit Sajjan was re-elected from Vancouver South, with nearly 49% of the vote share, despite facing headwinds over issues such as a major sexual harassment crisis in the Canadian Armed Forces under his watch and a much criticised evacuation mission in Afghanistan. Among Indo-Canadians, another high profile minister Anita Anand, who handled the public services and procurement portfolio and was described by Trudeau as his minister for vaccines, retained her seat from the riding of Oakville, Ontario. Also winning comfortably in the Canada elections from Waterloo in Ontario was Bardish Chagger, minister of diversity, inclusion and youth.NDP leader Jagmeet Singh - a popular figure among Indo-Canadians - was re-elected from Burnaby South, with approximately 38% of the votes cast. However, his focus may well have been on the national performance of the party he leads, as the NDP increased its vote share to 17.7% from 15.98% in 2019 but could only gain one more seat in the House of Commons, rising from 24 to 25. It will again be the fourth-largest group there, behind Justin Trudeau’s Liberal Party, the principal opposition Conservatives and the Bloc Quebecois, which was on course to capture 34 seats in the Canada elections.Focus will also be on another Indo-Canadian Liberal Party winner, George Chahal, who edged out incumbent Conservative MP Jag Sahota from Calgary Skyview in Alberta. While Justin Trudeau’s ruling party was blanked in the province in 2019, this seat may well see the city councillor-turned-first-time MP possibly finding a place in the next cabinet.Several sitting MPs from the Greater Toronto Area were re-elected, and the most prominent among them are former parliamentary secretary Kamal Khera from Brampton West, Ruby Sahota from Brampton North, Sonia Sidhu from Brampton South and Arif Virani from Parkdale-High Park. In Metro Vancouver, veteran Sukh Dhaliwal retained his Surrey-Newton seat while Randeep Sarai won again from Surrey. Making it a hat-trick of victories from Dorval-Lachine-LaSalle in Quebec was Anju Dhillon, while emulating her feat was Chandra Arya from Nepean, near Ottawa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/jagmeet-singh-17-other-indo-canadians-secure-victories-in-canada-elections-101632210671350.html
21-09-2021||World||At UNGA, Joe Biden may assure world US intends to ‘avoid Cold War with China’||US President Joe Biden is all set to deliver his maiden address at the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) wherein he is likely to announce among other things that America had every intention to avoid a Cold War with China.A White House official, who did not want to be named, has also confirmed to news agency AFP that Biden would seek to assuage global fears by telling the UN that “he (Biden) does not believe in the notion of a new Cold War with the world divided into blocks. He believes in vigorous, intensive, principled competition”."The president will essentially drive home the message that ending the war in Afghanistan closed the chapter focused on war and opens a chapter focused on personal, purposeful, effective American diplomacy," the official added.Biden’s expected announcement comes after UN secretary-general Antonio Guterres expressed his concerns about the “completely dysfunctional” US-China relationship that could lead to a new Cold War.However, White House press secretary Jen Psaki said relations between the two nations were “one not of conflict but of competition”.Apprehensions about a possible Cold War between the two superpowers came a week after a long-time ally of the US, France, recalled its ambassador after Australia scrapped a submarine deal with a French company in favour of nuclear-powered submarines under a trilateral security pact with the United States and Britain. The move came as a possible measure by both the US and UK to underscore the growing influence of China in the Indo-Pacific region.White House officials expressed confidence in Biden’s ability to rework the ties with France, adding the President would remain focused on the main issue at hand -- supporting regional networks to resist China's growing military and commercial footprint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/at-unga-joe-biden-may-assure-world-us-intends-to-avoid-cold-war-with-china-101632208779165.html
21-09-2021||World||Taliban announce remaining cabinet members, no woman included||The Taliban on Tuesday announced a list of deputy ministers and once again did not name any woman, despite an international warning that the group will be judged by their actions and that its recognition would be linked to the treatment of women and minorities in Afghanistan. Taliban spokesperson Zabihullah Mujahid present that list of new names at a press conference in the Afghan capital of Kabul. Mujahid defended the expansion of the cabinet, saying it included members of ethnic minorities, such as Hazaras. He also said that women might be added later.Also read | In Mohammad Akhund-led Taliban govt, several key faces from Haqqani NetworkThe Taliban announced an interim setup to govern Afghanistan on September 7 and said it will be led by a founding member, Mohammad Hassan Akhund as they returned to power after two decades. They also named several leaders of the dreaded Haqqani Network in key positions. Sirajuddin Haqqani, the son of the founder of the Haqqani Network, was named as the new Afghan interior minister. He is one of the FBI's most wanted men due to his involvement in suicide attacks and ties with al Qaeda.The reclusive Taliban chief Haibatullah Akhundzada was named the supreme leader with the final say on religious, political and security affairs.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-announce-remaining-cabinet-members-no-woman-included-101632208061772.html
21-09-2021||World||‘Sent back with another minority mandate’: Elections lost, Erin O'Toole takes parting shot at Justin Trudeau||Erin O’Toole, the leader of Canada’s Conservative Party who conceded defeat to prime minister Justin Trudeau and the Liberal Party in the elections held on Monday, took a jibe at Trudeau, saying that despite latter’s appeal for a majority, Canadians sent him back with yet another minority mandate.Also Read | Canada elections: PM Justin Trudeau set to stay in power but miss majority mark“Five weeks ago, Mr. Trudeau asked for a majority. He said that the minority parliament was unworkable. But tonight, Canadians did not give him the majority mandate that he wanted. In fact, people sent him back with another minority at the cost of 600 million dollars and deeper divisions in our great country,” O’Toole said in an address to the nation after conceding defeat. #LIVE: Erin O'Toole, Leader of Canada's Conservatives, addresses Canadians. https://t.co/yEWGiw1LTgThe Conservative leader then remarked that the prime minister had been hoping for a quick “power grab.” He added, “Just days back, Mr Trudeau said that he would hold yet another election in 18 months if he didn’t get his way, and now he has thrust us into what he has promised will be 18 months of perpetual campaigning,” the 48-year-old, who spoke simultaneously in French, said.Urging people to heal the divide, O’Toole further said that Trudeau, who has won a third straight term, wanted 18 more months of divisive campaigning to try and get an election result of latter’s choice, adding that the need of the hour was to heal the divide instead of using it for selfish gains.In 2015, Trudeau’s Liberals won by majority, with him being prime minister for the first time. That majority, however, was lost in 2019. In August this year, he called for snap polls in a bid to regain it. At last count, the Liberals had won or were leading in 156 seats, with the Conservatives at 123. In the 338-member House of Commons, a party should have at least 170 seats to form a majority government.In 2019, the the secured 157 and 121 seats respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sent-back-with-minority-erin-o-toole-takes-parting-shot-at-justin-trudeau-101632204097514.html
21-09-2021||World||Canada elections: PM Justin Trudeau set to stay in power but miss majority mark||Prime Minister Justin Trudeau will remain in power in Ottawa, but his ruling Liberal Party has been unable to secure the majority mark it had desperately sought in the Canada elections that were held on Monday. Justin Trudeau himself had initiated the call for snap polls in mid-August in a bid to turn his minority government into a majority one. But the projected results of the 2021 Canada elections have turned out to be almost a replay of the 2019 polls when the Liberals settled for a minority government.A party will have to win at least 170 out of 338 seats in Canada’s House of Commons to form a majority government.Trudeau won comfortably from his riding of Papineau in Quebec, while the Liberals were leading or had won 156 seats and the Conservatives had 123 in the Canada elections. In the 2019 general elections, Justin Trudeau’s Liberals had won 157 seats while the Conservatives had secured 121. Addressing his supporters in Montreal, Trudeau said “millions of Canadians have chosen a progressive plan”. “You are sending us back to work with a clear mandate to get through this pandemic,” he told the cheering crowd.In a message to voters who seemed unhappy with the decision to call snap elections, he said in French, “I’ve heard you, you don’t want to be talking politics or elections any more.”The PM said the voters had given his government “clear direction” and that it was “ready” to deliver on a number of issues, such as as the Covid-19 pandemic, the economy, climate change and Indigenous reconciliation.This time round, the Conservative Party had about 34% of the vote share, about 1.5% higher than the Liberals that is also a repeat of the 2019 outcome, according to the Canada election results.Canadian networks announced that a Liberal government led by Justin Trudeau would be formed at 10.30pm local time in Ottawa on Tuesday as early results and trends made it clear that the principal opposition Conservative Party would be unable to match the number of seats the ruling party was on target to capture. Conservative Party leader Erin O’Toole spoke at the party headquarters in Oshawa in Ontario, attacking Trudeau and saying the PM “was hoping for a quick power grab” and Canadians denied him the “majority mandate he wanted”.He said he had congratulated Trudeau before arriving to deliver his speech, but warned the PM against trying to precipitate another round elections in 18 months.While the New Democratic Party (NDP) under Indo-Canadian leader Jagmeet Singh may have hoped for a considerable increase in the number of seats, progressive voters instead seemed to have opted for the Liberals. The NDP was at around 30 seats, an improvement over the 24 in 2019 and this may ensure that Jagmeet Singh will remain as the party’s leader, according to Canada election results.The NDP is in a tight race in the Canada elections with the Bloc Quebecois for the position of the third-largest party in the House of Commons.The Conservatives failed to make a dent in the seat-rich Greater Toronto Area (GTA), which was crucial in the party’s bid to overtake the Liberals on seat count and form the single-largest party.The defeat in the 2021 Canada elections could go on to endanger the continuation of Erin O’Toole as the leader of the Conservative Party since he has been unable to improve the party’s performance considerably. His predecessor Andrew Scheer had won the national vote share over the Liberals in 2019 with 121 seats, increasing the figure over the 99 in 2015, but still had to resign as he couldn’t manage an outright win.Despite managing to win, according to Canada election results, Justin Trudeau might still have to face questions over why he precipitated a CAN$610 million (US$478mn) election in the middle of the Covid-19 pandemic.In the initial days of campaigning after the snap polls were declared in mid-August, the Liberals first led the Tories by double digits, but the gap disappeared within days of the announcement of the September 20 elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canada-elections-pm-justin-trudeau-set-to-stay-in-power-but-miss-majority-mark-101632201070390.html
21-09-2021||World||Hosting Quad summit proof of priority towards engagement in Indo-Pacific: US||A senior government official of the United States said President Joe Biden had made the Quad cooperation a priority and hosting its leaders was a fundamental demonstration of the importance attached to engagement in the Indo-Pacific region.The official further said the engagement among the Quad nations -- the US, India, Australia and Japan -- would be through new multilateral configurations designed to focus on challenges of the 21st Century, while stressing the promotion of a free and open Indo-Pacific region.Biden is hosting the summit at the White House on September 24, with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Japan’s Yoshihide Suga and Australia’s Scott Morrison.  Also read | Beyond Quad, the quest for multi-alignment“President Biden has made the Quad a priority, as we all saw through the first Quad leaders-level engagement in March, which was virtual, and now this summit, which will be in person,” the senior official was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.He said the main areas of consultations and announcements will be on Covid-19. “In March, there was a commitment to producing a billion vaccines via Quad, by 2022 end. There’ll be some announcements about moving that forward and other forms of Covid assistance,” he added.Also read| 4-nation leaders likely to announce securing semiconductor supply chainThe Quad members would also make some announcements on clean energy and climate-related crisis, he said.“Partnering on emerging technologies in cyberspace, promoting high-standard infrastructure, and, of course, an overarching commitment at the core of the Quad to promoting a free and open Indo-Pacific,” the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hosting-quad-summit-proof-of-priority-towards-engagement-in-indo-pacific-us-101632198894861.html
21-09-2021||World||IMF to not allocate funds to Afghanistan due to political uncertainty: Report||The International Monetary Fund (IMF) has put on hold funds meant for Afghanistan due to political uncertainty in the war-ravaged country, Tolo News reported on Monday citing a spokesperson of the global financial body.The IMF had recently announced a $650 billion special drawing rights allocation (SDR) for its member nations. The SDR allocation was made on August 23. It will benefit all IMF member nations and will address the long-term global need for reserves and foster the resilience and stability of the world economy, the Tolo news report said.Of the total allocation, $275 billion will be provided to developing and low-income nations.However, Afghanistan is not allowed to access these funds at the moment.This comes days after IMF spokesperson Gerry Rice, while addressing a press conference last Thursday, said the financial institution's engagement with Afghanistan has been suspended until there is clarity within the international community on recognising the government, the Tolo news report said.Also Read| Afghanistan on brink of ‘universal poverty’, millions will be affected: UN envoy“We're guided by the international community in terms of the recognition of the government in Afghanistan, and we don't have that. So, the IMF program there, which you asked about, has been put on hold. And again, as we said last month, the country cannot access IMF resources, SDRs and so on at this point,” Rice added.Expressing concerns over the economic and humanitarian crisis in Afghanistan, Rice assured that the IMF is ready to work with the international community to advocate for urgent actions to stall the humanitarian crisis.Since the Taliban took control of Afghanistan last month, ending a two-decade-long military mission led by the United States, the country has plunged into a severe economic crisis. Afghanistan's banking assets have been frozen since August 15, when the capital city of Kabul fell into the hands of the Islamic Emirate.There is a constant fear that the worsening economic crisis could push millions of Afghan citizens into poverty and hunger. The United Nations Development Program (UNDP), said last week that 97% of the population is at risk of going below the poverty line. The UNDP said that 50% of the population already requires humanitarian support, adding, Afghanistan's real GDP could contract by 13.2%, which would cause an increase in the poverty rate of up to 25% points.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/imf-to-not-allocate-funds-to-afghanistan-due-to-political-uncertainty-report-101632191455896.html
21-09-2021||World||Taliban leader Baradar's message after clash looked like hostage video: Report||A power struggle within the Taliban has badly hurt two key players - deputy prime minister Mullah Baradar and the group's spiritual leader Haibatullah Akhundzada - UK-based magazine The Spectator reported on Monday. It cited the recent clash during the government formation talks between Baradar faction and the Haqqani network to say that the former emerged as the "principal loser".The chief of Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) also threw his weight behind the Haqqanis, ensuring that all of the key positions went to Pakistani loyalists, principally from the hardline Haqqani network, The Spectator reported.The clashes in early September saw "furniture as well as large thermos flasks full of hot green thrown around", said The Spectator. At one point during the meeting, Haqqani network leader Khalil-ul-Rahman Haqqani rose from his chair and began punching Baradar, The Spectator report said. Baradar had pushed for an "inclusive" cabinet that included non-Taliban leaders and ethnic minorities, which would be more acceptable to the rest of the world.He disappeared for a while after the clashes and resurfaced in Kandahar. He held a meeting of tribal leaders who are supporting him, but was also forced to release a video message on the state-run TV network controlled by the Taliban. The message "looked like a hostage video", The Spectator reported.On Akhundzada, the publication reported that his whereabouts are not known. "He has not been seen or heard from for some time, and there are many rumours that he is dead," reported The Spectator.This vacuum at the top has allowed for arguments between the Taliban factions - something which was not seen during their earlier rule two decades ago, the report further said.The Taliban and Haqqani groups merged around 2016.Baradar and those involved in Doha talks were trying to project a moderate image of the Taliban, but Haqqanis have praised suicide attacks. Khalil Haqqani, Afghanistan's minister of refugees, is on the United Nations sanctions list and has been linked to its military operations.The Haqqanis are deeply embedded into Pakistan's security apparatus and take their name from the Darul Uloom Haqqania madrassa near Islamabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-leader-mullah-baradar-held-hostage-haibatullah-akhundzada-dead-report-101632195007476.html
21-09-2021||World||Canadian PM Justin Trudeau's ruling Liberal Party will win election: Report||Prime Minister Justin Trudeau's Liberals were on track to win the Canadian election, CBC News projected, but with results trickling in the network said it was too soon to say how strong a government they would form.Trudeau heads a government with a minority of House of Commons seats that relies on the support of other parties to pass legislation. He called an election two years early in hopes of securing a parliamentary majority."People would be very pleasantly surprised if there was a Liberal majority government, within the Liberal camp, but I think it's still way too soon to make that call," Gerald Butts, a former top Trudeau adviser and close friend, told CBC TV.Elections Canada showed the Liberals leading in 146 electoral districts with only a small fraction of votes counted.The House of Commons holds 338 seats and a party needs to win 170 to hold a majority.Polls reported results much more slowly than usual, with some stations forced to limit occupancy due to COVID-19 restrictions. Long lines forced some electors to wait hours to vote in southern Ontario, a critical battleground.The Liberals were leading in 113 parliamentary seats in Ontario and Quebec, which have 199 seats, or more than half of the national total.In the first set of regional results, Liberals were leading in 23 of 32 parliamentary districts in the four Atlantic provinces. The Liberals held 27 seats before the election.Erin O'Toole's opposition Conservatives had focused on adding to their four Atlantic seats, and were leading in nine.The Canadian dollar strengthened as early results came in, rising 0.4%.A delay in counting mail-in votes could further hold up results in tight races.Elections Canada will not start counting roughly 800,000 mail-in ballots until Tuesday, after it is able to verify them against in-person votes. Those could help to determine the outcome in at least two Atlantic districts and many more across Canada.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canadian-pm-justin-trudeau-s-ruling-liberal-party-will-win-election-report-101632192051152.html
21-09-2021||World||Outrage as Hindu family tortured in Pak for fetching drinking water from mosque||A Hindu family was allegedly held hostage and tortured for “violating the sanctity” of a mosque when they tried to fetch drinking water from the place of worship in Pakistan’s Punjab province, a media report said on Monday.According to the report in Dawn newspaper, Alam Ram Bheel, a resident of Punjab’s Rahimyar Khan city, was picking raw cotton with his family members in a field. When the family went outside a nearby mosque to fetch drinking water from a tap, some local landlords beat them up.As the family was returning home after unloading the cotton, the landlords held them hostage at their dera (outhouse) and tortured them again for “violating the sanctity” of the mosque, the report said.The police did not register a case as the attackers were related to a local parliamentarian of Prime Minister Imran Khan’s ruling Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf party, the report said citing Bheel.Protesting the police apathy, Bheel held a sit-in outside the police station along with other members of the community.A case was registered on Friday after the intervention of PTI lawmaker Javed Warriach, the report said.Farooq Rind, a senior lawyer and former district bar president, said the Bheels had been living in the area for over a century and most of them were farm workers and extremely poor.The accused landlords, Rind said, were notorious for picking up fights with other villagers over petty issues. He has promised free legal aid for the complainant, the report said.Hindus form the biggest minority community in Pakistan. According to official estimates, 7.5 million Hindus live in Pakistan. However, according to the community, over 9 million Hindus are living in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/outrage-as-hindu-family-tortured-in-pak-for-fetching-drinking-water-from-mosque-101632191241863.html
21-09-2021||World||Canada polls: Justin Trudeau’s party leads in Atlantic provinces; full results likely to be declared today||Results for the snap elections called by Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau started to trickle in from Monday evening, with Trudeau’s Liberal party leading in 23 of 32 parliamentary districts in the Atlantic provinces of Canada. Polls are yet to conclude in Quebec and Ontario which together sends 199 representatives to the Parliament, more than half of the national total.Even though Trudeau’s party is leading in Atlantic provinces it secured less seats from the last election, when it had won 27 of the 32 seats. Trudeau’s biggest opponent Erin O’ Toole's rival Conservative party is lagging behind but has added four more seats in the province to its election tally. The Conservatives are currently leading in nine seats.Trudeau called a snap election early in hopes of securing a parliamentary majority, after leading a minority government since 2019. A minority government is entirely reliant on the support of opposition parties to pass legislation. A party needs at least 170 seats in the 338-seat House of Commons in Canada to qualify as a majority government. The Liberals have been surviving on 155 seats since 2019. Counting for all 338 seats are expected to take longer than usual as many voters opted for mail-in-ballots due to Covid-19.Also Read: Canada elections: Indo-Canadian MPs in Justin Trudeau cabinet expected to retain their seatsBanking on his government’s effective handling of the coronavirus pandemic and effective vaccine roll-out, Trudeau called for the snap elections last month. However, if he fails to win a majority his party will be forced to rely on opposition parties, such as the left-leaning New Democratic Party (NDP) or the Greens, once again, to pass legislation.Trudeau, whose father Pierre Trudeau governed Canada as the Prime Minister, has tried to persuade voters that the country should be governed by a party that believes in science as the coronavirus pandemic rages through the globe. This is in stark contrast with the pitch of Trudeau's rival O’Toole whose party has said vaccination will be a “personal health choice” and has been critical of lockdowns and vaccine mandates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canada-polls-justin-trudeau-s-party-leads-in-atlantic-provinces-full-results-likely-to-be-declared-today-101632190582424.html
21-09-2021||World||El Salvador prez Nayib Bukele changes Twitter profile description to 'dictator'||El Salvador’s bitcoin-pushing president apparently changed his Twitter profile description to “dictator” Monday, in what might be an ironic comment on last week’s protests against him.The office of President Nayib Bukele did not respond to requests for comment on the profile change, but there was no clear sign the president’s account had been hacked.Bukele is a heavy Twitter user, and after his description changed to “dictator,” he continued tweeting normally Monday about bitcoin. The price and potential of the cryptocurrency appears to fascinate Bukele, and he made bitcoin legal tender in El Salvador, the first country to do so.Not everyone was charmed by the tactic.“Changing his Twitter profile to call himself the dictator of El Salvador is a very childish act on the part of the president," said legislator Johnny Wright Sol, a member of the opposition Nuestro Tiempo party.“This is part of the president's strategy," said lawyer Eduardo Escobar, of Citizen's Action, a civic group devoted to government accountability. “He is trying to ridicule the feelings of the public or the opposition.”Last week, thousands of people gathered in El Salvador’s capital for the first mass march against Bukele, who protesters say has concentrated too much power, weakened the independence of the courts and may seek re-election.Bukele, known for his wry style, dismissed the Sept. 15 demonstration by saying protesters “took to the streets to fight a dictatorship that doesn't exist.”The populist president elected in 2019 has maintained high popularity with his vows to stamp out corruption that was rampant among the country’s traditional parties. But some Salvadorans say he is becoming a dictator for real.Bukele’s New Ideas party won a congressional majority this year and immediately after taking its seats in the National Assembly in May, it replaced the five members of the Constitutional Chamber and the independent attorney general who had balked at several of Bukele’s earlier actions.Soon after, the Constitutional Chamber tossed aside what had long been interpreted as a constitutional ban on consecutive presidential reelection, setting the stage for Bukele to potentially seek a second term in 2024. Bukele has not so far announced plans to seek reelection, but critics assume he will.Some marchers last week protested the controversial decision by Bukele’s government to roll out a digital bitcoin wallet known as the “Chivo” one week ago. The system has been down frequently for maintenance.Some marchers wore T-shirts that read “NO To Bitcoin.” A few demonstrators vandalized the special ATM machines set up to handle bitcoin transactions, but which have been inoperable anyway much of the time. The cubicle housing one ATM machine was destroyed.The digital wallet appears to have been overloaded by the sheer number of Salvadorans looking to take advantage of the $30 bonus that the government put in each account to incentivize adoption.Bukele, the main promotor of using the cryptocurrency, acknowledged the government’s three-month rollout may have been too ambitious. He said technical glitches had prevented the app from working on some kinds of phones.Any business with the technological capacity to do so is required to accept payment in bitcoin, but no private citizen is required to use it.Recent public opinion surveys in El Salvador have said a majority of Salvadorans oppose making the bitcoin an official currency. Still Bukele says there are now 1.6 million users of the digital payment system in the Central American nation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/el-salvador-prez-nayib-bukele-changes-twitter-profile-description-to-dictator-101632188460157.html
21-09-2021||World||NASA selects Moon site for ice-hunting rover||NASA on Monday announced it would land an ice-seeking rover on a region of the Moon's south pole called the Nobile Crater in 2023.The space agency hopes the robot will confirm the presence of water ice just below the surface, which could one day be converted into rocket fuel for missions to Mars and deeper into the cosmos."Nobile Crater is an impact crater near the south pole that was born through a collision with another smaller celestial body," Lori Glaze, director of NASA's planetary science division told reporters.It is one of the solar system's coldest regions, and has only so far been probed from afar using sensors such as those aboard NASA's Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter and the Lunar Crater Observation and Sensing Satellite."The rover is going to get up close and personal with the lunar soil, even drilling several feet down," said Glazer.The robot is called Volatiles Investigating Polar Exploration Rover, or VIPER.Its dimensions are similar to a golf cart -- five feet by five feet by eight feet (1.5 meters by 1.5 meters by 2.5 meters) and looks somewhat similar to droids seen in Star Wars. It weighs 950 pounds (430 kilograms).Unlike rovers used on Mars, VIPER can be piloted in near real time, because the distance from Earth is much shorter -- only around 200,000 miles (300,000 kilometers) or 1.3 light seconds.The rover is also faster, topping out at 0.5 mph (0.8 kph).Solar-powered VIPER comes with a 50-hour battery, is built to withstand extreme temperatures, and can "crab walk" sideways so that its panels keep pointing toward the Sun to maintain charging.In terms of the mission's scientific goals, the VIPER team wants to know how frozen water reached the Moon in the first place, how it remained preserved for billions of years, how it escapes and where the water goes now.The mission is part of Artemis, America's plan to return humans to the Moon.The first crewed mission is technically set for 2024, but will likely take place significantly later as various aspects are running behind schedule.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nasa-selects-moon-site-for-ice-hunting-rover-101632188311736.html
21-09-2021||World||Joe Biden to deliver maiden UNGA address as US President today||US President Joe Biden will be delivering his maiden address at the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) on Tuesday. Biden landed in New York, where the United Nations (UN) headquarters are located, to rally adversaries and allies alike a month after a botched US pullout from Afghanistan and a diplomatic animosity with one of its oldest ally France.Biden met UN secretary-general Antonio Guterres right after landing in New York on Monday evening. The President offered brief remarks before the meeting started, where he endorsed the assembly's commitment to achieving “prosperity, peace and security for everyone” as an ongoing coronavirus pandemic and climate change ravage the globe.He also drew a parallel between the vision of the UN and America, insisting that neither have “ever been short on ambition”. "The strong partnership between the United States and the UN is based on common values and principals, and at this moment, those bonds are more important than ever. America's back and we believe in the United Nations and its values," Biden said.Also Read: PM Modi to address UNGA, meet Biden, Harris in USBiden, experts opine, will be using his Tuesday’s address to make a case for American leadership at the world stage. After five years of his predecessor Donald Trump vowing to put “America first”, US allies are waiting to see what Biden brings to the table for them, especially after he spent his first foreign tour to Europe in June declaring to the world that “America is back”.White House officials have announced to the press that the President intends to use his maiden address to emphasize on the need for world leaders to work together in dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic, climate change, and world trade. The American President also plans on limiting his time at UNGA due to coronavirus concerns and will continue with diplomatic outreach either one-on-one or virtually from his official address in Washington.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-to-deliver-maiden-unga-address-as-us-president-today-101632187247281.html
21-09-2021||World||No country should ask us to form 'inclusive govt' in Afghanistan, says Taliban||Days after Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan's comments over the government formed in Afghanistan, the Taliban expressed that countries have no right to ask the Islamic Emirate to establish an 'inclusive' government in Afghanistan.The remarks came from Taliban spokesperson and Deputy Information Minister Zabihullah Mujahid after Pakistan and several other countries reiterated the Taliban to form an inclusive government in Afghanistan."Pakistan or any other country has no right to ask the Islamic Emirate to establish an 'inclusive' government in Afghanistan," Mujahid told Daily Times when he was asked for his reaction on PM Imran Khan's recent remarks on the Afghan government.A few days back, Khan accepted that Islamabad has started negotiations with the Taliban for an inclusive government that would include minorities in the country.Earlier, another Taliban leader, Mohammad Mobeen had also expressed that Afghanistan do not give the right to anyone to call for an inclusive government in the country."Does the inclusive government mean that the neighbours have their representatives and spies in the system?," he said during a debate show on Afghanistan's Ariana TV.Mobeen's statement is a strong indication that the Taliban are in no mood to accept calls for such a government that has representations of other groups.Meanwhile, the Taliban also insist that their government is inclusive with the representation of other ethnicities, Pakistan Times reported. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/no-country-should-ask-us-to-form-inclusive-govt-in-afghanistan-says-taliban-101632182606597.html
21-09-2021||World||Earthquake of magnitude 6.0 rocks Japan||A 6.0 magnitude earthquake occurred in Japan at 1:55 am (IST) on Tuesday, said National Center for Seismology (NCS).The quake occurred at 1593 kilometres NE of Tokyo at a depth of 10 kilometres."Earthquake of Magnitude: 6.0, Occurred on 21-09-2021, 01:55:24 IST, Lat: 46.23 & Long: 152.56, Depth: 10 Km ,Location: 1593km NE of Tokyo, Japan," tweeted NCS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/earthquake-of-magnitude-6-0-rocks-japan-101632181089348.html
21-09-2021||World||Honour your pledges: UK PM to world leaders||UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson urged leaders of the world’s major economies including the United States to deliver on their commitments towards a $100 billion per year climate fund with less than six weeks to go before a UN climate summit.Johnson and UN secretary-general António Guterres hosted a roundtable of world leaders on Monday to address major gaps on emissions targets and climate finance.“Too many major economies - some represented here today, some absent - are lagging too far behind,” Johnson said. “I’ll stress that again - for this to be a success we need developed countries to find that $100 billion.”The closed-door meeting during the annual high-level week of the UN General Assembly includes leaders and representatives from a few dozen countries representing industrialised nations, emerging economies and vulnerable developing countries, said Selwin Hart, assistant secretary-general and special adviser to Guterres on climate action.Johnson told reporters that he is hopeful the US can deliver on a promise to step up its share of money towards the $100 billion annual goal but “we’ve been here before” and “we’re not counting our chickens”.US climate envoy John Kerry, who represented the United States at Monday’s meeting, said Washington would deliver more climate aid ahead of the October 31-November 12 COP26 Climate Change Conference in Glasgow, Scotland.“The United States is crucially important,” Johnson said. “It will send a massively powerful signal to the world.”“The alarm bell needs to be rung,” he told reporters last week. “Countries are not on target, really, to bridge these gaps in mitigation, finance and adaptation.”“Will the developed world finally materialise the $100 billion of annual support to developing countries?” Guterres told reporters. “We are not yet there,” he added. “But today there were encouraging declarations in this regard.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/honour-your-pledges-uk-pm-to-world-leaders-101632164279543.html
21-09-2021||World||Indian PM Narendra Modi to meet Joe Biden on Sept 24||Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi and US President Joe Biden will hold their first bilateral meeting on Friday (Sept 24), ahead of the first ever in-person summit of leaders of the Quad at the White House in Washington DC on the same day. Narendra Modi will then leave for New York where he will address the UN General Assembly on Saturday (Sept 25) as the first speaker of the day.Indian external affairs minister S Jaishankar, meantime, arrives in New York on Monday for meetings that include the G-20 foreign ministers on Afghanistan and G-4 on UNSC expansion.The White House announced the Narendra Modi-Joe Biden bilateral meeting on Monday as part of the US president’s scheduled meetings for the week. The prime minister is also expected to meet Vice-President Kamala Harris but there have been no announcements of it yet, by either side.These will be Narendra Modi’s first in-person meetings with Joe Biden and Kamala Harris. He has met Joe Biden before, on his first visit to the US as prime minister in 2014. Joe Biden was vice-president at the time, in the administration of President Barack Obama. Narendra Modi and Kamala Harris have never met but have spoken on phone before.After the bilateral, Narendra Modi and Joe Biden will join Australia’s Scott Morrison and Japan’s Yoshihide Suga at the first in-person summit of Quad leaders that is being hosted by the US president at the White House. Joe Biden and Japanese PM Yoshihide Suga are slated to hold a bilateral after the Quad summit.The four leaders had held their first Quad summit virtually in March, and it was also hosted by the American president.At the in-person summit, they are expected to discuss the ongoing pandemic and their joint efforts to boost global vaccine supplies, the climate crisis, partnering on emerging technologies and cyberspace, and promoting a free and open Indo-Pacific. Among other things, they will announce an agreement to work together on the safety of the supply chain on semiconductors, according to reports.Prime Minister Narendra Modi will leave Washington DC later in the evening (Friday) for New York city, where he is scheduled to address the UN General Assembly (UNGA) on Saturday, as the first speaker of the day.Narendra Modi last addressed the UNGA in-person in 2019 as the 2020 meetings were held virtually amidst a raging Covid-19 pandemic that had hit New York state and city the hardest in the United States at the time turning them into ground zero of the worst public health crisis faced by the world in more than 100 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indian-pm-narendra-modi-to-meet-joe-biden-on-sept-24-101632163929050.html
21-09-2021||World||Canadians vote in pandemic election||Canada began voting on Monday in the 44th election that has turned into a battle between contrasting views of Liberal Party leader and incumbent Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and Conservative Party leader Erin O’Toole on the management of Covid-19.Trudeau cast his vote at a polling centre in Montreal, Quebec, while his rival O’Toole voted in the town of Bowmanville in Ontario. Voting across Canada’s six time zones started in the Atlantic island province of Newfoundland at 8.30am local time and was to wrap up in westernmost British Columbia at 7pm.Trudeau is pitching its management of the pandemic and leveraging the wedge issue of vaccine passports against the principal opposition leader O’Toole who has opposed imposition of mandatory vaccination.That single issue has bolstered Trudeau’s campaign to return to power in Ottawa, and indications on the eve of the polls were that he may even have an outside chance at capturing the majority he craved while precipitating snap elections on August 15.As per the latest data from the tracking website 338 Canada, the Liberals have 31.9% vote share translating to 148 seats, while their rival Conservatives have 31.4% support equal to 125 seats.The outlet CBC’s poll tracker gives the ruling party a 57% chance of forming a minority government but just 17% for a majority. The majority mark in the House of Commons is 170 and the ruling party captured 157 seats in 2019.Approximately, 6.3mn have voted prior to Monday, at advance polls that spanned four days and through mail-in ballots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canadians-vote-in-pandemic-election-101632163639004.html
21-09-2021||World||Body found in Wyoming likely to be of missing woman; police question boyfriend’s||Police and FBI agents searching a national park in Wyoming have found a body “consistent” with missing Gabby Petito, a 22-year-old woman whose disappearance has captivated the United States.The body was discovered on Sunday in a remote area of the Bridger-Teton National Forest, near the Spread Creek Dispersed campground where law enforcement officials had directed their search, FBI spokesman Charles Jones said.A formal identification of the remains has not been made and the cause of death is yet to be determined.Members of Petito’s family reported Petito missing on September 11, 10 days after her 23-year-old boyfriend, Brian Laundrie, returned home from a months-long cross-country trip in the van without her.The site where the body was found was not far from where two travel bloggers filmed the couple’s van, seemingly abandoned, along a dirt road near Spread Creek on the evening of August 27, two days after Petito’s last confirmed contact with her family. “Earlier today human remains were discovered consistent with Gabrielle ‘Gabby’ Petito,” Jones told a news conference.“Full forensic identification has not been completed to confirm 100% that we found Gabby, but her family has been notified of this discovery.”On Monday, police swarmed the home of Brian Laundrie wanted for questioning in the disappearance of his girlfriend,The officers served a search warrant, and local media reported that Laundrie’s parents were seen getting into a police van. Video showed at least a dozen law enforcement officers, including one wearing an FBI jacket, pulling up to the house in North Port, Florida, and rushing inside.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/body-found-in-wyoming-likely-to-be-of-missing-woman-police-question-boyfriends-101632163407215.html
21-09-2021||World||North London villa where Rabindranath Tagore translated Gitanjali up for sale||Heath Villas in Hampstead Heath in north London where Nobel laureate Rabindranath Tagore lived during a visit in 1912 has been put up for sale. The palatial villa was where Tagore translated his famous collection of poems ‘Gitanjali’.Earlier in 2015 and 2017, the West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee asked the Indian High Commission in London to look into ways of acquiring the property on behalf of the Bengal government so that the property could be converted into a museum and a memorial.“From our point of view, we are in the business of selling and as long as our client gets the value they seek and it meets all requirements under British law, all offers are welcome,” Philip Green, director of Goldschmidt & Howland, the estate agents handling the sale, told news agency PTI.The three-bed terrace house is valued at GBP 2,699,500. It is described as a stylish Grade II listed Victorian Villa constructed circa 1863.The Blue Plaque — a scheme run by the English Heritage charity to honour notable people and organisations associated with particular buildings across London — mentions Rabindranath Tagore and his year of stay.“It is a wonderful home in a spectacular part of London and we are privileged to be handling the sale. Its historical significance is recognised with the Blue Plaque but besides that, there has been a lot of interest because of its unique location, period features and beautiful views of the Heath,” Philip Green said.The Indian High Commission in London told news agency PTI it is unaware of any renewed interest in the property from the West Bengal government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/north-london-villa-where-rabindranath-tagore-translated-gitanjali-up-for-sale-101632163251597.html
21-09-2021||India||Assam, Nagaland CMs take part in Naga peace talks||KOHIMA: The Naga peace talks received a fillip on Tuesday, when the chief ministers of Nagaland and neighbouring Assam met with negotiators of the Indian government and the Isak Muivah-led National Socialist Council of Nagalim (NSCN-IM) in Dimapur. Three important meetings took place in Nagaland’s most populous city: between representatives of NSCN-(IM) and New Delhi’s emissary AK Mishra, between Nagaland chief minister Neiphiu Rio and his Assamese counterpart Himanta Biswa Sarma, and between the chief minsters and Mishra, the latest in a line of interlocutors who is a retired special director of the Intelligence Bureau. “At Dimapur today, we held a discussion with NSCN(IM) representatives in presence of Nagaland CM Neiphiu Rio about the ongoing pece talks with GoI (Government of India)....We are keen that the ongoing peace talks fructify into concrete results soon,” Sarma tweeted on Tuesday evening.Although details of the meetings were not immediately known, they were “positive” and the consultations will continue, according to people aware of the matter, including representatives of NSCN (IM), who declined to be named. The people said future meetings could take place in Delhi next. HT could not independently confirm this. Earlier, Naga peace talks were stalled in October 2019 over differences on issues related to the 2015 Framework Agreement, and NSCN-IM’s insistence on a separate Naga flag and constitution. Mishra, who will be in Nagaland till September 23, is scheduled to meet the working committee of seven Naga nationalist political groups (NNPGs) with whom the central government had signed an “agreed position” in 2017.The latest developments taking place in Nagaland since Mishra’s arrival a few days after Governor RN Ravi was transferred to Tamil Nadu have lead to expectations of an early resolution to the decades-old Naga peace process. However, it is unclear how New Delhi will balance two separate understandings with NSCN (IM) and the seven other groups. There is also the ceasefire agreement with the Niki Sumi-led faction of the NSCN (Khaplang) on September 8 last year. Meanwhile, the Assam Congress said that the participation of Sarma in the Naga talks could compromise Assam’s interest.“It has been reported that CM Nagaland and CM Manipur have also been asked to be part of the talks along with CM Assam. But we have come know thar CM Manipur has decided not to participate in the talks due to differences on “Greater Nagalim issue”, said Assam Congress president Bhupen Kumar Borah in a statement. NSCN-IM had been insisting on the final peace deal to encompass Greater Nagalim (areas in states neighbouring Nagaland including Assam where Nagas reside). Congress leaders demanded that the central government should immediately put the contents of the 2015 Framework Agreement in the public domain.“We also demand that the Prime Minister, Home Minister and Sarma should make their intentions public to the people of Assam before venturing into such doubtful and dubious expeditions in the name of peace talks,” Assam Congress said in a statement on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-nagaland-cms-take-part-in-naga-peace-talks-101632248774475.html
21-09-2021||India||‘No consensus’: Saarc foreign ministers’ meeting in New York cancelled||NEW DELHI: The secretariat of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (Saarc) informed the grouping on Tuesday that a planned meeting of foreign ministers in New York this week has been cancelled because of a “lack of concurrence” among member states.The grouping that brings together Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, the Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka has been largely moribund since its 19th annual summit, which was to be held in Islamabad in 2016, was cancelled after an attack on an Indian Army camp at Uri that was blamed on Pakistan-based terrorists.The strained relations between India and Pakistan also affected Saarc’s functioning, which operates on the principle of consensus. India has sought to broaden regional cooperation through other groupings that exclude Pakistan.An official letter sent by the Saarc secretariat to the foreign ministries of the eight countries on Tuesday said it received a note verbale or unsigned diplomatic correspondence from Nepal’s foreign ministry that stated the informal meeting of foreign ministers, which was to be held on the margins of the UN General Assembly in New York on September 25, “will not take place” because of the “lack of concurrence from all member states”.Besides the strained relations between India and Pakistan, there has been a question mark over the meeting because of the status of Afghanistan following the takeover of the country by the Taliban last month. The interim setup created by the Taliban in Kabul has not been formally recognised by any country, and India has questioned its legitimacy as it is not inclusive and was not formed through negotiations.In recent years, the strains in India-Pakistan relations have been reflected at the Saarc foreign ministers’ meetings in New York. In 2019, Pakistan foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi boycotted the speech of his Indian counterpart at the Saarc meet to protest changes in the special status of Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-consensus-saarc-foreign-ministers-meeting-in-new-york-cancelled-101632248655760.html
21-09-2021||India||Sharad Pawar ‘backstabbed’ Congress, can never be our leader: Sena’s Geete||Shiv Sena leader and former Union minister Anant Geete has said that Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar, who once “backstabbed” Congress, cannot be a “guru” for Sena workers.The Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government of the Sena, NCP and Congress in Maharashtra was only an “adjustment”, he said at a rally in Raigad district, his home turf, on Monday.While the opposition BJP claimed that Geete expressed the views of Sena workers, an NCP leader said he had been sidelined and the comment did not warrant reaction.Pawar is considered to be the architect of the MVA, formed after the Sena severed its alliance with the BJP in 2019. “Pawar cannot ever be our leader as this government is merely an adjustment. Let people use as many accolades for Pawar as they want, but our guru is only (late Sena supremo) Balasaheb Thackeray. As long as this government is functioning, it will go on...If we separate, our home is Shiv Sena...,” he said.The former MP added: “Pawar formed his party by back-stabbing Congress. If Congress and NCP cannot become one, the Sena also cannot toe the Congress policy entirely. Congress and NCP were not always cordial (to each other).” Dismissing Geete’s remarks as his personal opinion, Sena leader Sanjay Raut said: “Pawar is a national leader, and at this moment, we are together in this government which is functioning properly… He (Geete) is not connected with the government; some leaders may have personal opinions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sharad-pawar-backstabbed-congress-can-never-be-our-leader-sena-s-geete-101632248654718.html
21-09-2021||India||India says UK vaccine rule is ‘discriminatory’||New Delhi: India on Tuesday urged the UK to change a policy requiring visiting Indian nationals to quarantine even if they are fully vaccinated, describing it as “discriminatory”.The issue was raised by external affairs minister S Jaishankar during a meeting with his British counterpart Liz Truss on the margins of the UN General Assembly in New York late on Monday. The issue of vaccine certification has emerged as a fresh irritant in bilateral ties as Indian nationals who have received both doses of Covishield, the local variant of Britain’s AstraZeneca vaccine, will be considered as unvaccinated and will have to quarantine for 10 days under new British travel rules that will come into effect from October 4. Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla told a media briefing on Tuesday that India could consider imposing “reciprocal measures” against countries that don’t accept the country’s vaccine certification. The basic issue, Shringla said, is that Covishield is a licensed product of a UK company that is manufactured in India, and five million doses of the vaccine have even been supplied to Britain at the request of the UK government, and used by the National Health Service.“Therefore, non-recognition of Covishield is a discriminatory policy and does impact on those of our citizens travelling to the UK,” he said.“Urged early resolution of quarantine issue in mutual interest,” Jaishankar tweeted after his meeting with Truss. Shringla said the minister raised the issue “strongly” with Truss and was given certain assurances “that this issue would be resolved”. The UK said on Monday it is working with India on the recognition of Covid-19 vaccine certification issued by Indian authorities following criticism of the new travel restrictions, suggesting that the recognition of the certificates themselves is an issue to be worked out. A British high commission spokesperson said: “We are engaging with the government of India to explore how we could expand UK recognition of vaccine certification to people vaccinated by a relevant public health body in India.” The new UK rules, which were unveiled on Friday, were described by Britain as an effort to change the current “red, amber, green traffic light system” to a single red list of countries and “simplified travel measures” for arrivals from around the world. Under the rules, only people who have got both shots of a double dose vaccine such as the Oxford-AstraZeneca, Pfizer or Moderna or the single shot Janssen vaccine “under an approved vaccination program in the UK, Europe, US or UK vaccine programme overseas” will be considered fully vaccinated. People who have received these jabs in Australia, Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados, Bahrain, Brunei, Canada, Dominica, Israel, Japan, Kuwait, Malaysia, New Zealand, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, South Korea or Taiwan will also be considered fully vaccinated, the UK added. UK recognises the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine that is marketed by AstraZeneca as Vaxzevria, but not Covishield. In August, phase 2 /3 trials by Serum Institute of India established the bio-equivalence between the doses. The findings of the trial was released as preprint by The Lancet.Congress MP and former minister Shashi Tharoor said he had cancelled a planned book tour of Britain to protest against the rules. “It is offensive to ask fully vaccinated Indians to quarantine,” he said.Shringla said India had offered some partner countries the option of mutual recognition of vaccine certification. “Obviously, as we go along, we will have to see how it goes. But if we don’t get satisfaction, we would be within our rights to impose reciprocal measures,” he said. Shringla said the Covid-19-related travel restrictions of the US policy had been gradually liberalised and India’s category within the American policy had been upgraded. He noted, for instance, that visas for Indian students were being speeded up by the US. Going forward, a number of Indian professionals are expected to be given American visas and it was “positive news” that fully vaccinated people would be allowed to travel to the US, he said. The Indian side was especially upset by the new rules as vaccination-related travel restrictions had been repeatedly taken up with the UK at the highest levels, including by Shringla and Jaishankar, in recent months. Experts have weighed in on the controversy, urging regulatory authorities around the world to accept the World Health Organization’s emergency use listing to recognise coronavirus vaccines. “We cannot have multiple *classes* of vaccines for travel. The Multilateral Leaders Task Force ‘calls on all regulatory authorities around the world to...support the acceptance of the WHO Emergency Use Listing procedure’,” Gita Gopinath, the chief economist at the International Monetary Fund, said in a tweet on Saturday, a day after the UK’s new rules were announced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-says-uk-vaccine-rule-is-discriminatory-101632248595512.html
21-09-2021||India||Decisive decade for the world: Biden at UNGA||WashingtonIn his first speech at the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) since taking office, US President Joe Biden on Tuesday said it was “a decisive decade for our world” which will “quite literally determine our futures”, as he vowed to pivot from post-9/11 conflicts and take a global leadership role on crises ranging from climate to the Covid-19 pandemic.The high-level segment of the 76th UNGA began in New York on Tuesday.Biden called on UN member states to work together to confront common challenges such as the climate crisis and Covid-19 and underscored his commitment to multilateralism, citing the elevation of the Quad group with India, Australia and Japan to summit-level engagement and said the Indo-Pacific was among the most consequential regions in the world.In his maiden address at the UN general assembly, the US President defended the messy end to the Afghanistan war, said America was ready to compete with China economically and ideologically but was not seeking to relaunch another Cold War, and reaffirmed support for multilateral bodies such as the UN and World Health Organization that were attacked and abandoned by his predecessor Donald Trump.Biden said that in his view, the world is at an “inflection point in history”. He said the US will double its financial commitment on climate aid and spend $10 billion to fight hunger.“We’ll stand up for our allies and our friends and oppose attempts by stronger countries to dominate weaker ones, whether through changes to territory by force, economic coercion, technical exploitation or disinformation. But we’re not seeking – I’ll say it again – we are not seeking a new Cold War or a world divided into rigid blocs,” Biden said.“The United States is ready to work with any nation that steps up and pursues peaceful resolution to share challenges even if we have intense disagreement in other areas,” Biden said.Biden stressed a decidedly contrasting theme in his speech to Trump’s America First approach as he called for countries to work together. Citing the death and devastation brought on by the Covid-19 pandemic, the American President said “our shared grief is a poignant reminder that our collective future will hinge on our ability to recognise our common humanity, and to act together… I believe we must work together as never before”.Defending his decision to end the Afghanistan war, he said: “We’ve ended 20 years of conflict in Afghanistan. And as we close this period of relentless war we’re opening a new era of relentless diplomacy of using the power of our development aid to invest in new ways of lifting people up.”The US President has faced criticism and questions at home and abroad about the pullout of international troops from Afghanistan, including from allies and partners such as India, and of the chaotic evacuation marked by the killing of 13 US troops and about 200 Afghan civilians. Ten people were killed in a US drone strike during that period who turned out to be civilians, including seven children, and not Islamic State-Khorasan operatives as the US initially described them.The US President went on to reiterate the importance of working together with other countries and multilateral bodies. Over the last eight months, he said, he prioritised “rebuilding our alliances, revitalizing our partnerships, and recognizing they are essential and central to America’s enduring security and prosperity”. He spoke of NATO and EU, which also faced withering criticism and harsh words from Trump.“We elevated the Quad partnership among Australia, India, Japan and the United States to take on challenges ranging from health security to climate to emerging technologies,” Biden said of the Quad, which is scheduled to hold its first in-person summit meeting on Friday, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Australia’ Scott Morrison and Japan’s Yoshihide Suga at the White House. The first summit of the group was held virtually in March at President Biden’s initiative, elevating engagement of the group rapidly from the level of officials to ministers.Though the US President did not name China, it formed the backdrop for chunks of his speech. Arguing that the world faced a choice between those who support western democratic values and authoritarian regimes like China, he said: “The future belongs to those who give their people the ability to breathe free, not those who seek to suffocate their people with an iron hand authoritarianism.”“The authoritarians of the world, they seek to proclaim the end of the age of democracy, but they’re wrong.”Overcoming global challenges “will hinge on our ability to recognize our common humanity”, Biden said.Biden added that he remains committed to peacefully resolving a dispute with Iran over its nuclear program. He vowed to defend US ally Israel but said a two-state solution with the Palestinians is still needed but a distant goal.He said the US wants “sustained diplomacy” to resolve the crisis surrounding North Korea’s nuclear and ballistic missile programs. North Korea has rejected US overtures to engage in talks.Discussing oppression of racial, ethnic and religious minorities, Biden singled out China’s Xinjiang region where rights groups estimate that one million Uyghurs and other ethnic minorities have been interned in camps.UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres, who begins a second five-year term at the helm of the world body on January 1, warned earlier of the dangers of the growing gap between China and the United States, the world’s largest economies.“I fear our world is creeping towards two different sets of economic, trade, financial and technology rules, two divergent approaches in the development of artificial intelligence - and ultimately two different military and geopolitical strategies,” Guterres said.“This is a recipe for trouble. It would be far less predictable than the Cold War,” Guterres said.With inputs from agencies||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/decisive-decade-for-the-world-biden-at-unga-101632248593953.html
21-09-2021||India||Data protection bill: In old draft, JPC proposed to back some safeguards||The draft report of the joint parliamentary committee (JPC) on the data protection bill, drawn up when it was headed by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Meenakshi Lekhi, was finally circulated last week among the members of the panel as a summary of proceedings, people aware of the matter said. The report was in penultimate stages and some of its key suggestions -- while still under discussion -- may likely be retained in the report that will now be drawn up under the new chairperson, BJP’s PP Chaudhary, the people said on condition of anonymity. The JPC has been looking into the draft law since 2019 and has been given several deadline extensions -- the latest being due to a change in several members, including the chairperson, after Lekhi was inducted as a minister. The report drafted at the time was yet to be circulated for final inputs by members despite their demands.  As per the summary now shared, the report proposed to treat social media platforms as publishers -- a move that would make them liable for content posted by users -- and to add back the condition of “just, fair, reasonable and proportionate” in Section 35, which deals with exemptions that the government can claim in accessing personal data, one of the people cited above said. This was of particular concern because the bill cleared by the government allowed for the government to claim an exemption as long as it felt it was “necessary or expedient” to do so in a particular set of circumstances, such as those relating to national security. The test of “just, fair, reasonable and proportionate” was part of the first version of the law, which was presented as the recommendation of the Srikrishna Committee.The summary, the people cited above said, also proposed to refer the 2019 Bill as the data protection bill, 2021 and that it be applied irrespective of any other law governing contractual relations between a data fiduciary and a data principal in so far as they relate to the contours of the bill. It will supersede other laws, including the information technology act and even the telegraph act, experts said, if the recommendations are accepted and included in the final legislation. The summary report also says the Information Technology Act was unable to manage social media intermediaries, and that “the Act had not been able to regulate social media platforms adequately because the Act has not been able to keep at pace with the changing nature of the social media ecosystem”. The Personal Data Protection Bill, 2019 has general provisions regarding social media platforms and intermediaries and the committee felt the need to immediately regulate such platforms. The person mentioned above said the “designated intermediaries are working as publishers of the content, owing to the fact that they have the ability to select the receiver of content and also exercise control over the access to any such content hosted by them, therefore, a mechanism must be devised for their regulation”. Many of these are part of changes being considered by the JPC, which is studying the personal data protection bill, sent to it for further deliberation after parliamentarians objected to the version introduced in Parliament in 2019, the officials said.The final report of the JPC is yet to be tabled in Parliament and the committee has now sought until the winter session to submit its report. To be sure, the central government will decide the final shape of the bill that will be presented to Parliament for legislation.As far as the ability of the government to seek exemptions, the committee said section 35 of the Act should include the test for “just, fair, reasonable and proportionate procedure” to curb any misuse. Any requests to override protections to personal data would require the government meet the tests of necessity, proportionality and legitimate state action as laid down in the Puttuswamy judgment, the summary added. A proposal to allow data principals to choose how their data will be handled after their death was also included, the person mentioned above said. Asked if the IT Act had failed to regulate intermediaries, Supreme Court lawyer NS Nappinai said it was a possibility. “But for this, the IT Act has to be reviewed for amendments. Buttressing shortfalls in IT Act through a data protection law may not be the solution,” she said. Nappinai added that the proposed Section 35 has drawn the most flak. “Sometimes I feel that many other important concerns get overlooked due to the focus on this provision. The PDP 2018 had a similar provision but exemptions were only permissible through parliament enacted law. Even that was considered a dilution. That any executive act or procedure has to be “just fair reasonable or proportionate” is a sine qua non (it is obvious),” she said. “If that is an addition being proposed, it does not really protect against misuse, but merely reiterates the obvious.” Nappinai highlighted that the clubbing of personal and non-personal data is untenable. “Assuming that PDP and NPD have now been possibly compressed into a single enactment, the same is not entirely unwelcome but to do so as in Sec. 91 of PDP 2019 is completely unsustainable. If the errors of that provision have been carried over, the same is likely to be afflicted with the malaise of excessive delegation of parliamentary powers to government authorities,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/data-protection-bill-in-old-draft-jpc-proposed-to-back-some-safeguards-101632247876341.html
21-09-2021||India||Channi, Sidhu arrive in Delhi, discuss Punjab cabinet expansion with Congress leaders||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, his two deputies Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and OP Soni, and state Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu met the central leadership of the Congress in Delhi on Tuesday to discuss the expansion of the state cabinet, said people aware of the details. The party high command was represented by All-India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary (organisation) KC Venugopal and AICC Punjab in-charge Harish Rawat. Rajya Sabha member Ambika Soni also met Channi and his team separately.With less than five months to go for the assembly elections in the state, Channi and Sidhu are keen to expand the council of ministers to accommodate some people from the group that took on former CM Captain Amarinder Singh. They also want to get cracking on an 18-point agenda drawn up by the central leadership to deliver on the election promises made by the party in 2017. “The new cabinet will see the induction of a few new faces by keeping out some of those who were part of the Amarinder Singh cabinet and involved in controversies to give it a fresh look and make a clean break from the previous setup,” a person familiar with the developments said on condition of anonymity. The names doing the rounds for inclusion in the cabinet include Inderbir Singh Bolaria (Amritsar south), Amrinder Singh Raja Warring (Gidderbaha), Pargat Singh (Jalandhar Cantt), Sangat Singh Gilizian (Urmar) and Madan Lal Jalalpur (Ghanaur). Gilzian, who has been seeking due representation for backward classes in the cabinet, had made a personal request to Rahul Gandhi for inclusion in the new cabinet when he was in Chandigarh to attend the oath-taking ceremony of the new chief minister and his two deputies on Monday, said sources. There is speculation that Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi and Sham Sunder Arora may not find a place in the new team. They formerly held ministries such as social justice, sports and industriesbut were embroiled in controversies related to disbursal of funds and land. Several legislators, including former ministers Balbir Singh Sidhu and Sadhu Singh Dharamsot and MLA Parminder Singh Pinky, are also camping in Delhi in the hope of getting ministerial berths. Channi and Sidhu did not speak to the media or respond to calls. The chief minister, his deputies and the state chief will fly from Delhi to Amritsar on Tuesday nightwhere they will pay obeisance at the Golden Temple and visit the Durgiana Mandir early in the morning. On their way to Chandigarh, they are likely to visit Dera Sachkhand Ballan, a place revered by the Scheduled Caste community in Jalandhar. Meanwhile, the AlCC made two more appointments in the state Congress on Tuesday: Yoginder Pal Dhingra has been appointed general secretary while Gulzar Inder Chahal is the new treasurer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/channi-sidhu-arrive-in-delhi-discuss-punjab-cabinet-expansion-with-congress-leaders-101632247576304.html
21-09-2021||India||UP teen raped in moving bus on Yamuna Expressway: Police||AGRA: A 14-year-old girl was allegedly raped in a moving private bus when she was travelling with her family on the Yamuna Expressway on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday, police said. According to the police, based on the complaint by the girl’s mother, a first information report (FIR) was lodged against two support staff of the bus at Shikohabad police station of Firozabad. According to the FIR, a 30-year-old woman boarded the bus with her 14-year-old daughter, and 18-year-old niece. They were seated in the front portion of the bus (near the driver’s seat). The Kanpur-bound AC sleeper bus left the Badarpur Border in Delhi around 11pm on Monday and was on its way to Agra on the Yamuna Expressway when the incident took place, police said. In the FIR, the woman said two staff on the bus, identified as Bablu and Anshu, offered her liquor when she went into one of the AC cabins of the bus. After she threw the glass out of the window, Bablu caught hold of her hand and broke her bangles. When she moved out of the cabin, she found her daughter was missing from the seat, according to the complaint. “My daughter was seen coming out of another cabin and was in tears. She said that one of the staff, Anshu, outraged her modesty,” the FIR stated quoting the woman. She alleged that the bus was not stopped despite her requests to the driver and fellow passengers. “Both the accused, Bablu and Anshu, got off the bus. While Bablu got down at Tappal in Aligarh, Anshu alighted at Naujheel area of Mathura. Teams are being sent to these districts and contact has been established with SSP Mathura as we found their location in Mant town. SSP Etawah has also been alerted as the accused belong to the district,” said AK Shukla, SSP (Firozabad). “A case has been registered against the accused under Sections 376 (rape), 354 (molestation) of the Indian Penal Code besides Section 3/4 of the Protection of Children against Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act,” Shukla added. The complainant registered the FIR at Shikohabad police station after her relatives reached there, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-teen-raped-in-moving-bus-on-yamuna-expressway-police-101632247334799.html
21-09-2021||India||After Owaisi's house vandalised, he asks PM Modi who ‘radicalised these goons’||All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief Asaduddin Owaisi targeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah after his Delhi residence was vandalised by members of Hindu Sena on Tuesday. Sharing the pictures of his official residence at Delhi’s Ashoka Road, Owaisi said that the vandals were armed with axes and sticks as they pelted stones at his house and destroyed the nameplate.“My Delhi residence was vandalised today by radicalised goons. Their cowardice is well known & as usual they came in a mob, not alone. They also chose a time when I was not home. They were armed with axes and sticks, they pelted stones at my house, my nameplate was destroyed,” the Lok Sabha MP said wrote on Twitter.
21-09-2021||India||Kerala, Karnataka mull restrictions in theatres as daily Covid-19 cases decrease||With the number of single-day coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infections reducing in the states of Kerala and Karnataka, both governments have said that a decision on either reopening theatres or allowing them to function with full capacity would be taken soon.Karnataka’s health minister K Sudhakar on Tuesday said that the state government might consider allowing 100% occupancy in theatres and also revoke some other restrictions on swimming pools and pubs. “The government wants to support the theatres. We are aware that the entire film business, including cinema theatres, cinema staff have suffered huge financial losses. The government is thinking positively,” news agency PTI quoted him as saying.However, the minister also struck a cautious tone saying that the government does not want the infections to flare up due to the reopening and a decision would be taken accordingly. “In two-three days we will discuss with the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC-consisting of experts), following which the chief minister along with senior ministers will take a final decision,” he added.Also read | Covid R-value drops below 1 in September, remains above 1 in some major citiesThe state currently allows theatres to run with half their capacity while the film industry has been pressing for the full operation of theatres. “We had earlier planned to allow all activities in all the districts on reporting less than 2% (positivity), so as cinema theatres are already in loss, and the entire film industry has suffered financial losses, the government will have to stand by them,” Sudhakar further said.Meanwhile, in neighbouring Kerala too, the state government had hinted that a decision regarding the reopening of theatres could be expected soon.Saji Cheriyan, state minister for cultural affairs and fisheries, said that the government would consider reopening theatres in the next phase. Unlike Karnataka, in Kerala theatres have remained shut for nearly six months due to the second wave of infections in the state, according to a report by the Malayalam news website Mathrubhumi.“The current situation in the state is comparatively better. Of course, we are thinking about its reopening. After reaching an understanding, a decision will be taken in this regard soon,” Cheriyan said, according to PTI. Further, he also highlighted that the test positivity rate (TPR) in Kerala has shown a decline in the past few days. The state has also recently announced 90% inoculation of first doses to eligible beneficiaries there and is also planning to reopen educational institutions from October.On Tuesday, Karnataka logged 818 new infections of Covid-19 and 21 fatalities as the tally there reached 2,969,361 and the death toll touched 37,648. While in Kerala, 15,768 more people tested positive for the disease and 214 succumbed to their illness.So far, 4,539,926 people have been infected by the virus and 23,897 have died in Kerala. The active caseload stood at 13,741 in Karnataka while in Kerala it was 161,195, according to the latest data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-karnataka-mull-restrictions-in-theatres-as-daily-covid-19-cases-decrease-101632244889427.html
21-09-2021||India||Agri, food exports rise nearly 22% in April-August period, data reveals||India’s export of agricultural and processed-food items increased 21.8% in dollar terms between the five months of April and August 2021 compared to the corresponding year-ago period, beating pandemic-induced disruptions, official data released on Tuesday showed. “Quick estimates” of export of products monitored by the Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority rose to $7,902 million in April-August 2021 from $6,485 million in April-August 2020. The jump in exports of agricultural and processed food products during the first five months of current fiscal “is in continuation of growth in exports witnessed in the financial year 2020-21”, an official statement said. Rice exports grew 13.7% from $3,359 million in April-August 2020 to $3,820 million in April-August 2021, according to the data. Export of fruits and vegetables clocked a 6.1% growth in dollar terms, while there was a 142.1% jump in export of “other cereals”. Meat, dairy and poultry products sold abroad increased 31.1% in the first five months of the current fiscal (2021-22), the data showed. Exports are key to driving farm incomes. India’s farm exports grew five times from just $8.7 billion in 2004-05 to $42.6 billion during 2013-14. They then fell sharply to $33 billion in 2016-17 and had been muted since. Trends show a reversal of stagnation of farm exports. In the financial year ended March 2021, the country exported farm produce worth nearly $42 billion, a growth of about 18%, on the back of a rise in global commodity prices, according to official data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/agri-food-exports-rise-nearly-22-in-april-august-period-data-reveals-101632244997467.html
21-09-2021||India||AUKUS has no link with Quad, won’t impact grouping’s functioning, says Shringla||The new security alliance between Australia, the UK and the US has no link with the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue and will have no impact on the functioning of the grouping, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said on Tuesday ahead of the first in-person Quad Summit. Shringla’s remarks, the first official response to AUKUS from the Indian side, came against the backdrop of widespread speculation on whether the new security alliance would dilute the Quad’s agenda or affect the working of the grouping that brings together India, Australia, Japan and the US. “Let me make it clear that the Quad and the AUKUS are not groupings of a similar nature,” Shringla told a media briefing ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to the US, during which he will participate in the maiden in-person Quad Summit on September 24. The Quad is a “plurilateral grouping of countries with a shared vision of their attributes and values” and the four members have a shared vision of the Indo-Pacific as a free, open, transparent and inclusive region, he said. “On the other hand, AUKUS is a security alliance between three countries. We are not party to this alliance. From our perspective, this is neither relevant to the Quad nor will it have any impact on its functioning,” he added. The new alliance was unveiled last week by Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson and US President Joe Biden against the backdrop of China’s assertive actions across the Indo-Pacific, and its first initiative is aimed at equipping Australia with nuclear-powered submarines built with technology from the US and the UK. France, a close strategic ally of India, reacted angrily to the new alliance as it resulted in Australia scrapping a nearly $90-billion deal to build 12 French-designed conventional submarines. Responding to a question on whether there are any nuclear proliferation-related concerns regarding AUKUS, Shringla said Australia had already clarified that it would be working on nuclear-propelled submarines but “it would not have any nuclear weapons and, as such, will not be in contravention with any of Australia’s or international commitments with regard to the issue of nuclear proliferation”. He said there is also no link between the Malabar naval exercise and the Quad, just “as there is no link between the AUKUS and the Quad”. The Malabar exercise is conducted by the navies of India, the US and Japan, and Australia has joined the drills for the second consecutive year in 2021. Shringla said the Quad has come a long way as a grouping, from initially holding meetings of senior officials to organising a meeting of foreign ministers in 2019 and moving to a virtual summit in March this year. “As we go along, I think we have already found a lot of common ground,” he said. The Quad has also adopted a “positive and proactive agenda” with an array of initiatives at the global level to address contemporary issues such as the Covid-19 pandemic, supply of vaccines to Indo-Pacific nations, new and emerging technologies, climate change, infrastructure, maritime security, education, and humanitarian assistance and disaster relief. “The Quad will deal with all issues that would further its objectives of seeing our common vision of an Indo-Pacific region that is free, open and inclusive. From that perspective, the Quad will function and will do what it takes. The effort is to move on areas that would seek to co-opt and enable the Quad to cooperate with our Indo-Pacific partners,” Shringla said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aukus-has-no-link-with-quad-won-t-impact-grouping-s-functioning-says-shringla-101632243074217.html
21-09-2021||India||India to not buy Pfizer, Moderna Covid-19 vaccines as local production jumps: Report||India's government will not buy Covid-19 shots from Pfizer/BioNTech and Moderna, three government sources told Reuters, mainly because domestic output of more affordable and easier-to-store vaccines has jumped.That essentially means the globally popular vaccines, which their makers have pledged not to sell to private parties during the pandemic, will not be available for now in the world's two most populous countries - China and India.The Indian government has also declined to meet the US companies' requests for legal protection over any side-effects from the use of their shots, which are currently made only in the United States or Europe, two of the sources said.No company has received such protection in India."Earlier, there was a shortage, there was a need," said one of the sources, referring to India's appeal to the companies in April for vaccines when infections exploded and shots were in short supply."Their price will be high. Why should we take on their conditions?"A second source said: "The government will not buy Pfizer and Moderna vaccines. They are free to have private tie-ups after necessary regulatory clearances. But sovereign indemnity is clearly something we can't give".A Pfizer spokesperson in India said discussions were ongoing and it remained committed to bring the vaccine to the country.The company reiterated that "during the pandemic phase, it would supply the Covid-19 vaccine only to central governments and supra-national organisations".Moderna and India's health ministry did not immediately respond to requests for comment.Moderna, through its Indian partner Cipla, already has emergency-use authorisation in India for its vaccine, which, like the Pfizer one, needs ultra-cold storage - facilities that much of India lacks.Both vaccines cost several times more than India's main shot, Covishield, a licensed version of the AstraZeneca drug.India's monthly domestic output has trebled since April and will reach 300 million doses in October, according to Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya, who on Monday announced a restart of India's vaccine exports from the October quarter.The government, however, is expected to buy locally filled and finished doses of Johnson & Johnson's vaccine, Reuters reported on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-not-buy-pfizer-moderna-covid-19-vaccines-as-local-production-jumps-report-101632241304079.html
21-09-2021||India||'Not right in any way': TN requests Centre to postpone resumption of Covid vaccine exports||The Tamil Nadu government on Tuesday requested the Centre to postpone resumption of exports of Covid-19 vaccines, saying only one third of the country's population have been fully inoculated so far and 115 crore vaccines are still required to give the shots to all the people. Minister for medical and family welfare Ma Subramanian put forth the request after Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Monday said that exports of surplus Covid-19 vaccines would resume next month under the 'Vaccine Maitri' programme. Talking to reporters after unveiling the simulation centre at Apollo Hospitals in Vanagaram on Tuesday, Subramanian said the global medical fraternity welcomed the vaccination programme in India, as inoculating people holds the key in the fight against the Covid-19 virus. However, shortage of vaccines had resulted in Tamil Nadu being unable to hold vaccination camps on September 20 and today, he said. The Minister pointed out that the Centre had announced that 80 crore people nationwide have received the jabs, of which 61 crore have received the first dose. "Considering the total population of 1.3 billion people who need to be inoculated, 70 per cent of them were identified to be above the age of 18 years, which is 97.30 crore," he said. Subramanian said that till date 20.77 lakh people, or one third of the population have received the second dose. So the country still requires another 115 crore doses to vaccinate every one, he said. The minister said he had raised with Mandaviya, the issue of vaccinating those in this age group, as was being contemplated by other countries, to which he had replied that he would inform him after holding discussions with the officials. "Considering all these (issues), the news of resuming vaccines for exports will not be right in any way.. On behalf of the people of Tamil Nadu, we request Prime Minister (Narendra Modi) and the Union Health Minister to postpone the idea to resume vaccine exports and set a target to inoculate all the people in the country", Subramanian said. On the initiatives taken by the Tamil Nadu government to vaccinate people, he said 45.34 lakh people have been given the shots in 60,000 camps state-wide on September 12 and 19. The government requires 12.12 crore vaccines to vaccinate people in the state, he said, adding that 6.06 crore people aged above 18 years have been identified as eligible to receive the shots. "Till date we have vaccinated 4.37 crore people and still need 7.50 crore vaccines" he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-right-in-any-way-tn-requests-centre-to-postpone-resumption-of-covid-vaccine-exports-101632240701198.html
21-09-2021||India||TMC asks high court to greenlight Abhishek Banerjee’s Tripura rally; rejected||AGARTALA: The Tripura high court on Tuesday rejected a petition by Trinamool Congress (TMC) to seek permission for a public rally by party leader Abhishek Banerjee in state capital Agartala, declining to interfere with the administration’s order issued a day earlier that prohibits public rallies between September 21 and November 4 in West Tripura district.Tuesday’s court verdict comes as a huge setback to the TMC that intended to amp up the campaign against the Biplab Deb-led government with Banerjee’s roadshow on September 22 but could not get the requisite police permission.Tripura’s top law officer Siddhartha Shankar Dey said the single bench of justice Arindam Lodh heard lawyers from the TMC and the government. “After hearing everyone, the high court declined to interfere with the state government’s order imposing restrictions on public gatherings,” the state’s advocate general said.The TMC has already twice rescheduled Banerjee’s rally, initially proposed for September 15, due to the refusal of the police to give the requisite approval.On Monday, West Tripura district magistrate Rajib Datta imposed prohibitory orders in the district banning any kind of meeting or gathering in the Sadar sub-division where Agartala prominent spots for public meetings are located including Rabindra Shatabarshiki Bhawan, Swami Vivekananda Maidan, Agartala Town Hall and Orient Chowmuhani.“Any kind of meeting/procession/public gathering by any political party in Sadar Police Sub Division (East Agartala and West Agartala areas) is prohibited w. e.f. 6 A.M of 21.09.2021 to midnight 04.11.2021,” said the notification issued on September 20.The notification said there was an apprehension that political parties activists might attempt to do mischief and any kind of violence in the capital city might lead to sporadic clashes among the political parties that will impact the law and order of the state.TMC Rajya Sabha member Santanu Sen said it was proof that the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party was afraid of his party.“The BJP government is scared of us, and that’s why they are trying to stop our activities. But we are with the people, and we will stick to them in the coming days as well,” Sen said.Veteran Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader Pabitra Kar said, “ This restriction is an attempt to restrain democratic work of the opposition parties. Despite this, we are working for the people and will continue our activities in future too.” BJP spokesperson Nabendu Bhattacharjee said his party will abide by the decisions of the state government and the high court. “Everybody should obey this,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-asks-high-court-to-greenlight-abhishek-banerjee-s-tripura-rally-rejected-101632239533661.html
21-09-2021||India||Why can’t Modi-Shah duo break narcotics syndicate in Gujarat, asks Congress||The Congress on Tuesday questioned why Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah were unable to stop the drug supply and break the narcotics syndicate in Gujarat, a day after the Directorate of Revenue and Intelligence seized 3,000 kg of Afghan heroine worth nearly ₹21,000 crore from two containers at the Mundra Port. “The fact is, Gujarat has witnessed and has become one of the favourite destinations (of drug smuggling), which is unfortunate. Gujarat has become a safe haven. Why is Mr Modi, the Prime Minister of India, who is from Gujarat, Mr. Amit Shah, who is the Home Minister of India, also from Gujarat unable to control this, unable to break into the drug syndicate?” said Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera. He also questioned why the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) does not have a full-fledged Director General for the last 18 months. “These are questions we all need answers to,” said the Congress leader. HT reported how the consignment, originating from Taliban-ruled Afghanistan was shipped to Gujarat on September 13-14 via Iran’s Bandar Abbas Port and was hidden inside the containers of semi-processed Afghan talc, imported by a firm based in Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-can-t-modi-shah-duo-break-narcotics-syndicate-in-gujarat-asks-congress-101632238694434.html
21-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM Modi, Macron vow to ‘act jointly’ in Indo-Pacific and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Modi, Macron vow to ‘act jointly’ in Indo-Pacific as France fallout with US, AustraliaPrime Minister Narendra Modi and French President Emmanuel Macron on Tuesday vowed to “act jointly” in the Indo-Pacific region, the French presidency said, amid fallout with Australia and the US due to the AUKUS deal. During a telephonic conversation, Macron assured PM Modi of continued “commitment to the strengthening of India's strategic autonomy, including its industry and technology base, as part of a close relationship based on trust and mutual respect." [Read more…]Covid R-value drops below 1 in September, remains above 1 in some major citiesWith the daily new Covid-19 infections in India receding slowly, researchers have found that the R-value or the reproductive number for Covid-19 in the country has dropped below 1 in September. The value denotes how many people an infected person impacts on average and is an indicator of how efficiently a virus spreads. [Read more…]ED to probe money laundering in 3,000 kg of Afghan heroin detected at Mundra PortThe Enforcement Directorate (ED) is all set to launch a money laundering investigation into the seizure of the largest ever consignment of Afghan heroin – approximately 3,000 kg heroin worth ₹21,000 crore – from two containers at Mundra port in Gujarat last week, as the case has larger international ramifications, people familiar with the developments said. [Read more…]Drone heard along Indo-Pak border; Search operation finds nothingTarn Taran A joint team of the Punjab Police and the Border Security Force (BSF) personnel launched a search operation at the international border near Khalra village of Bhikhiwind sub-division in Tarn Taran district on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday, after a drone was heard in the area. [Read more…]KBC 13: ₹1 crore contender calls Amitabh Bachchan's pocket square 'badaa bekar'. WatchA new promo for an upcoming episode of Kaun Banega Crorepati 13 was shared online on Tuesday. It showed host Amitabh Bachchan in conversation with contestant Pranshu Tripathi, who wasn't too impressed with the actor's outfit. [Watch here]Dia Mirza makes strong summer statement for virtual meetings in blue khadi suitFrom being unappreciated to being trendy, khadi fabric has made it to the ramp and United Nation Environmental Programme's Goodwill Ambassador, Dia Mirza is all for flaunting it as she recently donned it for some virtual meetings. Making a strong summer statement in the blue khadi suit, Dia reminded one of “clean air and blue skies” as she sizzled in the unique mix of the western suit and Indian kurta. [Read more…]Questions will be asked': Pietersen, Gavaskar 'astonished' as Punjab Kings ignore Gayle on 42nd birthdayFormer cricketers Sunil Gavaskar and Kevin Pietersen wershocked to see Punjab Kings leave out Chris Gayle from their Playing XI on the occasion of the swashbuckling batsman's 42nd birthday. PBKS skipper KL Rahul that the four overseas players the team went ahead with for Match 32 of the IPL 2021 against Rajasthan Royals in Dubai are Nicholas Pooran, Adil Rashid, Aiden Markram and Fabian Allen. [Read more…]Lamborghini hits triple century in India, Urus SUV captains supercar teamLamborghini on Tuesday announced that it had delivered 300 units of various models to customers in India. And while it has been a rather slow going over 12 years of presence in the country, the past few years have seen a jump which is also thanks to the resounding success of Urus SUV here and the world over. [Read more…]Long term JioPhone plan priced at ₹749 on launch; 2GB data per monthThe JioPhone is a popular option in the feature phone space and Reliance Jio is now spicing up its appeal with a new plan. This is the JioPhone plan priced at ₹749. The newly launched JioPhone ₹749 prepaid long term recharge plan is the most expensive plan and at the same time, the most affordable. How? When the long-term plan benefits are counted, it comes across as being quite affordable. That means the high JioPhone plan price will not pinch much. [Read more…]||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-modi-macron-vow-to-act-jointly-in-indo-pacific-and-all-the-latest-news-101632236797247.html
21-09-2021||India||Covid R-value drops below 1 in September, remains above 1 in some major cities||With the daily new Covid-19 infections in India receding slowly, researchers have found that the R-value or the reproductive number for Covid-19 in the country has dropped below 1 in September. The value denotes how many people an infected person impacts on average and is an indicator of how efficiently a virus spreads.The R-value, which was 1.17 in August end, has reduced to 0.92 in mid-September indicating the slowing down of the transmission of the disease, news agency PTI reported citing researchers from the Institute of Mathematical Sciences in Chennai.However, the data also showed that the R-value remained above 1 in some cities namely, Mumbai, Chennai, Kolkata and Bengaluru while in Delhi and in Pune it remained below 1. Also, in Kerala and Maharashtra, two of the worst affected states in the country, the R-value was below 1.Also read | India's fresh Covid infections fall to 26,115; active cases lowest in 6 months“The good news is that India's R has continued to be less than 1, as is that of Kerala and Maharashtra, the two states having the highest number of active cases,” PTI quoted Sitabhra Sinha of the Institute of Mathematical Sciences as saying. The value was recorded to be 1.17 at the end of August, declined further to 1.11 between September 4 and 7 and fell below 1 since then.In the four cities, the R-value was found to be 1.09 in Mumbai, 1.11 in Chennai, 1.04 in Kolkata and 1.06 in Bengaluru. The R-value witnessed a declining phase after the devastating second wave of infections in India. It was recorded at 1.37 between March 9 and April 21 in the country, during the peak of the second wave. According to the latest update, the R-value was found to be 0.92 between September 14 and 19.On Tuesday, 26,115 new Covid-19 cases and 252 related deaths were reported in the country. The death toll currently stands at 445,385 and the active caseload was recorded at 309,575, according to data from the Union ministry of health and family welfare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-r-value-drops-below-1-in-september-remains-above-1-in-some-major-cities-101632236713164.html
21-09-2021||India||ED to probe money laundering in 3,000 kg of Afghan heroin detected at Mundra Port||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) is all set to launch a money laundering investigation into the seizure of the largest ever consignment of Afghan heroin – approximately 3,000 kg heroin worth ₹21,000 crore – from two containers at Mundra port in Gujarat last week, as the case has larger international ramifications, people familiar with the developments said. HT reported on Monday that the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) had seized the consignment after it was smuggled from Afghanistan’s Kandahar district via Iran’s Bandar Abbas port. Five people including a Chennai based couple – Govindaraju Durga Purna Vaishali and her husband Machavaram Sudhakar, two Afghan nationals and another Indian citizen have already been arrested by the DRI in the case. A senior ED official said –“With a possible Taliban-Pakistan-Afghanistan link emerging in the high-quality heroin consignment smuggled through a shell company, it is a fit case to be probed under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) and to seize the assets of conspirators.” The consignment, originating from Afghanistan, now under Taliban rule, was shipped to Gujarat on September 13-14 via Iran’s Bandar Abbas Port and was hidden inside the containers of semi-processed Afghan talc, imported by a firm – Ashi Trading Company - based in Andhra Pradesh’s Vijayawada. Vijayawada Police said in a statement on Tuesday that the drugs consignment has no link with the city except that an address linked to the couple is from there. “It has been learnt that Durga Purna Vaishali, resident of Chennai had taken GST registration in August 2020 on the address at Satyanarayana Puram, Gadiyaramvari Street, Vijayawada. Sudhakar, a resident of Chennai, is the husband of Vaishali. The above building is owned by Govindaraju Taraka who happened to be the mother of Vaishali,” said a Vijayawada police statement. It added that Vaishali took Import and Export Licence (IEC Code) from the Director General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) for export and import purpose”. It said the smuggled heroin in the guise of talcum powder that landed at Mundra Port was intended to reach Delhi, but not to Vijayawada as alleged in some sections of the media. The two containers had 1,999.58 kg and 988.64 kg heroin packed respectively, layered between the talc to avoid detection by security and customs officials. Officials have said the substance is “very high quality” heroin originated in Afghanistan and it is worth ₹7 crore per kg in the international market, which makes it the largest seizure in India ever. There have already been multiple meetings among central agencies to discuss the impact in terms of drugs smuggling, infiltration of foreign terrorists and terror activities in India following the Taliban’s takeover of Kabul on August 15. The Afghanistan government had briefly banned the export of talc in 2015, which is a major source of funding for both Taliban and Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP) as they get $10 to $12 per tonne mined talc, used in baby powder, in Nangarhar, Sherzad and Achin areas, said a counterterrorism official who asked not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-to-probe-money-laundering-in-3-000-kg-of-afghan-heroin-detected-at-mundra-port-101632236473452.html
21-09-2021||India||India's next Air Chief Vivek Chaudhari flew missions during 1999 Kargil war||NEW DELHI: The government on Tuesday announced that Air Marshal Vivek Chaudhari will take over as the next chief of the Indian Air Force after Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria retires on September 30. Chaudhari is currently serving as the IAF’s vice chief.The government has followed the seniority principle in appointing Chaudhari to the top job. He will be the senior-most IAF officer the day Bhadauria retires. An experienced pilot, Chaudhari has logged more than 3,800 hours of flying on a variety of fighter planes such as MiG-21, Mig-29 and Sukhoi-30. He has commanded important fighter bases in his military career including one in Kashmir. He also flew several air defence missions during the 1999 Kargil war with Pakistan. Chaudhari was commissioned into air force’s fighter stream in December 1982. Before taking over as the IAF’s vice chief, he commanded the Western Air Command at a time when the IAF was inducting its new Rafale fighter jets at Ambala and operationalising them at the earliest was a top priority amid the border row with China. He earlier held the appointment of IAF deputy chief at the Air Headquarters in Delhi and steered a raft of key procurements. He was closely associated with the Rafale programme as the deputy chief --- he was the head of the bilateral high-level group monitoring the progress of the fighter jet project in France.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-marshal-vivek-chaudhari-is-next-iaf-chief-says-govt-101632236173527.html
21-09-2021||India||Air Marshal V R Chaudhari appointed next Chief of Air Staff||The Centre on Tuesday appointed Air Marshal Vivek Ram Chaudhari as the next Chief of Air Staff. He will assume charge after Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria retires on September 30. He took over as the Vice Chief of Air Staff on July 1 from Air Marshal HS Arora. Having flown a variety of fighter aircraft and with a flying experience of more than 3,800 hours, Chaudhari was commissioned into the fighter stream of the Indian Air Force on December 29, 1982. Air Marshal Chaudhari was Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief of Western Air Command from August 1, 2020.Decorated with Param Vishisht Seva Medal, Ati Vishisht Seva Medal and Vayu Sena Medal, the Air Officer has held various command, staff and instructional appointments at various levels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-marshal-v-r-chaudhari-appointed-next-chief-of-air-staff-101632234029333.html
21-09-2021||India||HT This Day: September 23, 1986 — Historic ‘tie’ at Chepauk||Cricket history was re-enacted at the Chepauk here today when the first Test between India and Australia ended in an incredible and pulsating tie. Amid scenes of mounting tension and excitement, India, chasing a victory target of 348 runs in 87 overs, were all out for 347 in the penultimate ball of the five-day match. The only other tie in cricket history took place 26 years ago. That was when Richie Benaud’s Australia tied with Frank Worrell’s West Indies in the dramatic first Test at Brisbane in December, 1960. When Australia declared their second innings this morning at the overnight score of 170 for five, it was a fair decision by skipper Allan Border who, in his wildest of dreams, would not have imagined of a breathtaking finish to the match. And in the end, it was Kapil Dev’s India who narrowly missed greater glory by just one run. An Indian victory was very much on the cards till the penulatimate over when they needed only seven runs from 12 balls with two wickets in hand. However, that was not to be as left arm spinner Ray Bright dismissed Shivlal Yadav and then off-spinner Greg Mathews trapped last man Mahinder Singh leg-before in the fifth ball of the last over to tie the match. The tireless efforts of Bright and Mathews also saved Australia from the embarrassment of losing the match after piling up the mammoth total of 574 for seven in the first innings. At one stage during the mandatory session of 20 over’s, Australia had almost given up the match when they resorted to pressure tactics and gamesmanship. It was to the credit of umpires Data Dotiwala and Vikram Raju that they withstood the pressure and called the bluff when the Australians indulged in time-wasting tactics, perhaps, with the hope of fading light intervening on their behalf. “We are upset”, was terse comments of Australian team manager Alan Crompton about the match. Cricket manager and former skipper Bob Simpson was gracious when he said: “It was the right result for positive cricket.” Skipper Kapil Dev dedicated the Indian performance to team effort. But be had special praise for two seasoned campaigners, Sunil Gavaskar and Mohinder Amarnath, for the build-up of the Indian innings. “Though we lost wickets, we were also gaining runs,” was how Kapil justified the Indian strategy during the mandatory overs. India were favourably placed at the start of the 20 mandatory overs at 230 for three. It was only when they tried to hit out against the accurate spin attack of Mathews and Bright that they began to lose wickets. The last four wickets, which fetched 152 runs in the first innings, could get only 16 runs this evening. Various interpretations could be made from the different cameos of the Indian onslaught. The most commanding innings came from Gavaskar who missed his 33rd Test hundred by just 10 runs. The most stylish knock came from Amarnath, the most fortuitous form Srikkanth, while Chetan Sharma and Yadav vied for the most unselfish. Besides, there was the pleasing 39 from Pandit and an audacious, unbeaten 48 from Shastri. The match rules stipulated that India had 67 overs at their disposal for four and a half hours play, besides the 20 mandatory overs. A target of 348 in a day suggested a need of concentration rather than a reason for consternation. Instead, it was a pleasant surprise for the 25,000 fans that thronged the giant Chidambaram Stadium when India accepted the challenge right from the start. The pitch offered encouragement to the spinners but it seemed possible to score runs if enough patience and application could be mustered. Gavaskar and Amarnath certainly showed the necessary qualities with a 103-run stand for the second wicket although Srikkanth had lost his patience just before lunch. Earlier, paceman McDermott was slugged out of the firing line. Left-arm speedster Reid varied pace with optimism but with unavailing results. And till tea, when India were 193 for two, Australia’s efforts were maximum perseverance with minimal inspiration. After Gavaskar’s dismissal, when Jones took a diving catch at cover, Azharuddin showed good reflexes and Pandit exemplary footwork as they raised visions of an Indian victory. There then followed a slump when Azhar and skipper Kapil left in quick succession. It was then that Shastri took charge with two on-side sixes off Mathews. Thereafter, fortune fluctuated when Chetan and More fell to Bright. Yaday, too, swing Mathews for a six before he was bowled by Bright. At that stage India were 344 for nine with eight balls to go. Maninder safely played two balls from Bright and then Shastri got ready to face Mathews in the last over. After a defensive push, Shastri took two runs when Waugh misfielded at mid-wicket. The Indian vice-captain then took a single to tie the scores. With the Australian fielders swooping around like vultures, Maninder survived the fourth ball before he fell leg-before to Mathews. Mathews was the epitome of accuracy. His haul of five for 146 took his match figures to 10 for 249. Bright, who claimed five wickets for 94 runs, too was never far away from the stumps but at times his line wavered. “Mathews and Bright helped our cause at the right moment,” said skipper Border. They also salvaged some of the Aussie pride in the process. Dean Jones and Kapil Dev shared the Man-of-the-Match award for their batting exploits in the first innings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-september-23-1986-historic-tie-at-chepauk-101632232813525.html
21-09-2021||India||HT This Day: September 22, 1995 — A day of devotional frenzy||India was gripped by unprecedented devotional frenzy today as idols of Ganesh and other leading deities of the Hindu pantheon ‘‘consumed” milk offered to them by devotees who thronged temples in thousands since early morning.Life came to a virtual stand-still in the Capital with large crowds con verging on temples big and small In every corner of the city. Office goers and schoolchildren were also seen queuing up although housewives were predictably, in the forefront.Reports from State capitals in different corners of India said that similar phenomena had been observed almost everywhere. Be it Bombay, Calcutta or Bangalore, all metropolitan cities were gripped by the same frenzy. Cities like Lucknow, Bhopal, Jaipur and other towns like Indore, Ambala, Shimla, Meerut, Kanpur, Siliguri all reported similar occurrences.However, places not well-served by telecom links did not seem to be affected. A Hindustan Times correspondent currently visiting Jharsuguda in Orissa was flabbergasted when asked over telephone whether any such phenomenon had happened there.In Delhi, the police had to intervene outside many major temples as crowds became unmanageably large and disputes erupted about positions. In the queue in a by-lane off Janpath, people were seen climbing on to a Himachal Tourism bus where a small idol of Ganesha on the dash-board apparently also accepting milk.Such was the impact of the “phenomenon” that supplies of milk ranout by late morning and devotees were seen sharing small bowlfuls among themselves. The milk was usually offered to idols in a smallspoon and in many cases the idols appeared to absorb the offering.According to the acting Head priest of the Laxmi Narain Temple (Birla Mandir), devotees started arriving around 6 a.m. saying they had heard that Lord Ganesh had broken his “eternal divine fast” and would accept milk.The 60 year-old priest said he himself then offered a cup of milk to the idol which was “immediately consumed”. By 11 a.m. an estimated 10,000 devotees had visited the temple and offered milk to various idols of the Shiva family and over 100 litres of milk had been“consumed”.The news of this so-called chamatkar spread with incredible rapidity.While the head priest of the popular Hanuman Mandir in Connaught Place said worshippers started arriving by 5.30 a.m., in other places word spread that idols of Ganesha would consume milk only between 10 a.m. and 1 p.m.The telecom revolution resulted in this phenomenon replicating itself throughout India by Mid-day while the Indian diaspora located in countries as far apart as Hong Kong, Australia and England claimed similar phenomena had been observed there too, at different times during the day. When the phenomenon did not occur in at least two temples in the U.S. preists said it would be because of the time difference.A distinct pattern was noticeable in Delhi about the spreading of the news. Announcement were made from loudspeakers of the main temple in many localities, resulting in crowds gathering quickly. Thereafter, devotees rushed to smaller temples where the phenomenon appeared to replicate.Rationalists scoffed at the reports, attributing it to mass hysteria or normal surface tension, while others saw a definite political ploy in what was said to be deliberate bid to invoke religious passion with an eye to the next year’s Lok Sabha poll. But as the day wore on, more and more people appeared to be convinced that a most inexplicable phenomenon had indeed taken place.By the evening, reports flowed in of even brass and wood idols of Ganesha absorbing milk. Callers claimed to have witnessed plastic statues even of Madonna “consuming” offerings of milk.People experimented with idols in their homes apparently with missed results. It worked in some case, while in others the deity stubbornly refused to during the offering. Callers claimed that idols at home would consume milk only after a particular chant addressed to Shiva was devoutly recited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-september-22-1995-a-day-of-devotional-frenzy-101632232513374.html
21-09-2021||India||Vegan food products to get their own FSSAI-launched logo. Check how it will look||The Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) will soon launch a logo for vegan food products for the first time ever. FSSAI chief executive officer Arun Singhal told news agency ANI that there is a movement brewing for veganism as many people want to completely avoid dairy-based products due to various reasons including allergy.While people are aware of the green dot for vegetarian food and brown for non-vegetarian food, there’s no logo to identify vegan food products, said Singhal.“For them, we have the vegan food logo that will help people to make their choice," ANI quoted Singhal as saying.FSSAI drafted rules for vegan food products after the Cental government outlined vegan foods and mentioned the compliance requirement. Vegan foods are completely plant-based and do not originate from animals in any form, including ingredients, additives and processing aids of animal origin.Vegan food products can not make use of milk and milk products, fish, poultry, meat, egg or egg products, honey bee or honey products, materials of insect origin like silk, dyes, bone char used in sugar bleaching among others, according to the draft regulations."The food products or ingredients to be called vegan shall not have involved animal testing for evaluating the safety of the final product or ingredient and shall not contain any animal-derived GMOs or products prepared using an animal-derived gene for manufacturing the ingredients or products," the draft rules say.Vegan foods and food products will have a green square with the letter ‘V’ in it to help consumers identify them properly.Meanwhile, FSSAI also plans to introduce front-of-package (FoP) labelling on packaged foods which will provide simple nutrition information in a more accessible location. Singhal said that many countries which used FoP labels witnessed a reduction in consumption of junk food, reported PTI.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vegan-food-products-to-get-their-own-fssai-launched-logo-check-how-it-will-look-101632230462875.html
21-09-2021||India||Deliberating law to curb ‘involuntary religious conversions’: Karnataka minister||The Karnataka government on Tuesday said it is deliberating on introducing a law and taking other measures to check “involuntary religious conversions” after a ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator raised the issue in the state assembly and claimed his mother has been converted after she was “brainwashed”. Goolihatti D Shekar, the legislator, said there has been “heightened activity” around conversions. “In Chitradurga (district) and my constituency (Hosadurga) around 15,000-20,000 people have already been converted,” he said.Shekar said his mother was taken to a church and asked not to apply vermillion on her forehead, remove all photos of Hindu gods and puja items from the house. He claimed his mother was also asked to listen only to “Christian songs” and has even changed her ringtone, which has become an embarrassment within the family. “Dalits, backward classes, and even Muslims are converted,” he said.Shekar said those who resist are slapped with false cases of atrocities and even rape among other charges. He added that if some want to convert, it is their wish but that they should leave all the benefits of the faith or group they were entitled to and include themselves in the one they are joining.Also Read | Congress says Bommai govt’s Bill on religious structures aimed at vote-bankOther legislators supported the proposal for a law against conversations, which they said was disturbing the peace of society.Assembly speaker Visweswara Heggade Kageri said he had spoken about the issue in detail between 1999 and 2001 during the SM Krishna-led Congress government in the state. “There are many other states which have this law, and it would be useful if we too bring in something,” said Kageri.Devanand Fulsasingh Chavan, a Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S) legislator, alleged Christian missionaries were targeting the vulnerable Banjara community in his constituency of Nagthan in Vijayapura district. He added entire settlements of these communities have been converted in recent years.Araga Jnanendra, the state home minister said the government is aware of these developments and deliberating on the law and other measures at the earliest. He sought details of organisations slapping false charges. Jnanendra said the charges will be investigated and action will be taken against such people or missionaries.BJP-ruled states such as Madhya Pradesh have criminalised what they call forced religious conversion, including through interfaith marriages. Critics of the legislation say they are being misused to target minorities.There have also been allegations, especially against Christian missionaries, that they lure weak and oppressed people and convert them by promising monetary and other rewards.“For adult baptism, we ask the concerned party to go to the court to make an affidavit or a notary and in that we record that it is not out of force and out of voluntary commitment to come to the church for Baptism,” Rev PK Samuel, the Bishop of the Church of South India told Hindustan Times on Tuesday.The Reverend said that the CSI is a mainline church and does not use such (forceful) methodology.“Unless there is a court affidavit or notary, we do not allow Baptism in my church and all the priests have been given this instruction. This (pattern) has not been there now but for the last 20-25 years,” he said. There are 125 churches in the Diocese.“We allow children because the parents belong to the church,” the Reverend added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deliberating-law-to-curb-involuntary-religious-conversions-karnataka-minister-101632229753047.html
21-09-2021||India||Could mull imposing reciprocal measures: India on new UK vaccine policy for travellers||India on Tuesday urged the UK to change a policy requiring visiting Indian nationals to quarantine even if they are fully vaccinated, describing it as discriminatory.The issue was raised by external affairs minister S Jaishankar during a meeting with his British counterpart Liz Truss on the margins of the UN General Assembly in New York late on Monday. The issue of vaccine certification has emerged as a fresh irritant in bilateral ties as Indian nationals who have received both doses of Covishield, the local variant of Britain’s AstraZeneca vaccine, will be considered as unvaccinated and will have to quarantine for 10 days under new British travel rules that will come into effect from October 4. Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla told a media briefing on Tuesday that India could consider imposing “reciprocal measures” against countries that don’t accept the country’s vaccine certification. The basic issue, Shringla said, is that Covishield is a licensed product of a UK company that is manufactured in India, and five million doses of the vaccine have even been supplied to Britain at the request of the UK government and used by the National Health Service.“Therefore, non-recognition of Covishield is a discriminatory policy and does impact on those of our citizens travelling to the UK,” he said.“Urged early resolution of quarantine issue in mutual interest,” Jaishankar tweeted after his meeting with Truss. Shringla said the minister had raised the issue “strongly” with Truss and was given certain assurances “that this issue would be resolved”. The UK said on Monday it is working with India on the recognition of Covid-19 vaccine certification issued by Indian authorities following criticism of the new travel restrictions. A British high commission spokesperson said: “We are engaging with the government of India to explore how we could expand UK recognition of vaccine certification to people vaccinated by a relevant public health body in India.” The new UK rules, which were unveiled on Friday, were described by Britain as an effort to change the current “red, amber, green traffic light system” to a single red list of countries and “simplified travel measures” for arrivals from around the world. But they triggered anger in India, with many describing the rules as discriminatory. Congress MP and former minister Shashi Tharoor said he had cancelled a planned book tour of Britain to protest against the rules. “It is offensive to ask fully vaccinated Indians to quarantine,” he said.Shringla said India had offered some partner countries the option of mutual recognition of vaccine certification. “Obviously, as we go along, we will have to see how it goes. But if we don’t get satisfaction, we would be within our rights to impose reciprocal measures,” he said. Shringla said the Covid-19-related travel restrictions of the US policy had been gradually liberalised and India’s category within the American policy had been upgraded. He noted, for instance, that visas for Indian students were being speeded up by the US. Going forward, a number of Indian professionals are expected to be given American visas and it was “positive news” that fully vaccinated people would be allowed to travel to the US, he said. The Indian side was especially upset by the new rules as vaccination-related travel restrictions had been repeatedly taken up with the UK at the highest levels, including by Shringla and Jaishankar, in recent months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/could-mull-imposing-reciprocal-measures-india-on-new-uk-vaccine-policy-for-travellers-101632229273345.html
21-09-2021||India||Tripura govt restricts political events as TMC seeks to make inroads||The Tripura government has imposed restrictions on public meetings and processions of political parties till November 4 in the West Tripura district, where the state capital Agartala is located. The move comes a week after the state police twice disallowed Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Abhishek Banerjee’s rally in Agartala on Wednesday.In a notification by West Tripura district magistrate Rajib Datta, prohibitory orders have been imposed and meetings or gatherings have been barred from September 21 till November 4 citing “an apprehension” that political activists might attempt mischief and lead to violence.“Any kind of meeting/procession/public gathering by any political party in Sadar Police Subdivision (East Agartala and West Agartala areas) is prohibited w. e.f. 6 A.M of 21.09.2021 to midnight 04.11.2021,” said the notification.An officer at the state police headquarters said that they are yet to receive the order copy, though they heard of it. Also Read | Rule of law is replaced by rule of jungle, says Tripura opposition leader Manik SarkarA single judge high court bench of justice Arindam Lodh on Tuesday rejected TMC’s petition for staying the notification.TMC leader Shantanu Sen said the state’s Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government is scared of them and that is why it is trying to stop their activities. “But we are with the people, and we will stick to them in the coming days as well.”BJP leader Nabendu Bhattacharjee said, “We will obey the decisions of both the state government and the high court. Everybody should obey this.”Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader Pabitra Kar said, “This restriction is an attempt to restrain the movements of the opposition parties.”TMC leader Kunal Ghosh separately fell ill during questioning by police related to a political violence case lodged in Khowai district last month. Sen said Ghosh cooperated with the police and was rushed to the hospital because of low blood pressure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-govt-restricts-political-events-as-tmc-seeks-to-make-inroads-101632228132865.html
21-09-2021||India||PM Modi, Macron vow to ‘act jointly’ in Indo-Pacific as France fallout with US, Australia||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and French President Emmanuel Macron on Tuesday vowed to “act jointly” in the Indo-Pacific region, the French presidency said, amid fallout with Australia and the US due to the AUKUS deal. During a telephonic conversation, Macron assured PM Modi of continued “commitment to the strengthening of India's strategic autonomy, including its industry and technology base, as part of a close relationship based on trust and mutual respect."Macron’s office said that the shared approach of the two countries within the framework of the Euro-Indian relationship “aims to promote regional stability and the rule of law, while ruling out any form of hegemony.” It stated that bilateral cooperation will be further strengthened in all areas, particularly on the economic front. France also welcomed India’s decision to resume deliveries of vaccines to COVAX from next month.The telephonic conversation was held days after the US, the UK, and Australia announced a defence deal under which America and Britain will provide Australia with the technology to build nuclear-powered submarines.Also Read | India shares challenges that led to AUKUS formation: Aus envoy Barry O’FarrellThe new security pact, which is seen as an attempt to challenge China’s increased assertiveness in the region, was a major setback for France as it led to the cancellation of a $40 billion French submarine order from Australia. French called the deal a “stab in the back” and recalled its ambassadors from the United States and Australia.PM Modi and Macron also expressed serious concerns over the ongoing political and humanitarian crisis in Afghanistan. Both leaders shared concerns about the possible spread of terrorism, narcotics, illicit weapons and human trafficking in Taliban-controlled Afghanistan.They stressed the need to allow humanitarian organisations to operate in Afghanistan and respect the fundamental rights of Afghans. They also agreed to coordinate ahead of multilateral summits such as G20 and COP26, the French presidency said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-macron-vows-to-act-jointly-in-indo-pacific-as-france-fallout-with-us-australia-101632227623841.html
21-09-2021||India||‘Those in Delhi using Jammu & Kashmir as laboratory’: Mehbooba Mufti||Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chief Mehbooba Mufti on Tuesday remarked that leaders like former Prime Ministers Jawaharlal Nehru and Atal Bihari Vajpayee had a vision for Kashmir, but the present dispensation at the Centre is bent on creating a divide between the Hindus and the Muslims.The former Jammu & Kashmir chief minister slammed the Bharatiya Janata Party-led (BJP) government at the Centre and said that those in Delhi are using the Union territory as a laboratory and are experimenting here."Those in Delhi are using Jammu & Kashmir as a laboratory and are experimenting here. Leaders like Nehru and Vajpayee had a vision for Jammu & Kashmir but this government creates a divide between Hindu and Muslims. Sardars are now Khalistani, we are Pakistani, only BJP is Hindustani," Mehbooba Mufti was quoted as saying by news agency ANI at a press conference in Srinagar.Mufti criticised the Union territory's administration's decision to change the names of government-run schools after slain security personnel and said these exercises won't automatically fetch students jobs.“They are only changing names (naming schools after martyrs) but children will not get employment by changing names,” the PDP leader was quoted as saying.Mufti asked what Prime Minister Narendra Modi was doing to tackle the high unemployment rate in the Union territory.In August last, Jammu divisional commissioner Raghav Langer notified that all government-run schools in the Union territory will be renamed after Indian Army jawans, CRPF and state police personnel who were killed in the line of duty. In a letter to the deputy commissioners of 10 Jammu districts, he asked them to identify government schools that can be named after the slain soldiers.ALSO READ | Will continue to explore possibilities to get J&K’s spl status back: MehboobaSupporting the strike called by the traders’ body in Jammu on Wednesday, against the opening of Reliance retail stores in the city, Mufti said the shops will destroy small businesses. "What we have in the country, they (BJP government) are selling to corporate houses", she was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.On Sunday, the PDP chief said her party would fight the upcoming assembly elections in Jammu & Kashmir while ruling out any alliance with the BJP.Mufti also accused the BJP of playing politics over the issues of Taliban rule in Afghanistan, and Pakistan's purported role in it, to attract votes in Kashmir. She said the government doesn't talk about farmers rights and unemployment, and alleged that the BJP has brought miseries to the people of the country and left Jammu and Kashmir “destroyed”.ALSO READ | Don’t know why PM gets angry when I talk about holding dialogue with Pak: MehboobaComing down heavily on the BJP, Mufti said that it is not Hindus but the “democracy and India which are in danger under the BJP rule”, which has undone all the "good work" of the past 70 years of the Congress. She remarked that the BJP is selling national assets and raising the prices of essentials commodities to fill its coffers to "buy or intimidate" opposition legislators.The PDP leader claimed all projects which were launched during her tenure as the chief minister of Jammu & Kashmir have been halted by the BJP-led government at the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/those-in-delhi-using-jammu-kashmir-as-laboratory-mehbooba-mufti-101632224450005.html
21-09-2021||India||Search ops in Jammu and Kashmir’s Uri enters third day. Key points||A search operation launched by the Indian Army to flush out infiltrators in Uri in Jammu and Kashmir entered the third day on Tuesday, according to officials. The army launched the operation along the Line of Control (LoC) after it detected some suspicious movement in the Uri area of Baramulla district early on Sunday. “The search operation is still underway in Uri," the army said in a statement on Tuesday, according to news agency ANI.Officials have said that the search operation is being conducted to ensure that nobody has crossed over the border. News agency PTI reported citing a defence spokesperson that the search operation was on in the area but did not elaborate if the forces found anything after the reports of major infiltration bid in the Uri sector.Also watch | Big infiltration bid on Uri attack anniversary, Army's search enters 3rd day
21-09-2021||India||Maharashtra governor and Uddhav Thackeray face off over Saki Naka rape case||Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and the state’s coalition government led by Shiv Sena are engaged in a tussle over the Saki Naka rape and death case with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray telling Koshyari that his support for the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) demand to call a special session of state assembly to discuss the incident will be “lethal for democracy”.Earlier, Koshyari had requested Thackeray to consider BJP’s women lawmakers demand for a special session to discuss the issue of women security. In response, Thackeray said that since violence against women was a national issue, Koshiyari should request Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah to call a four-day special session of the Parliament over the issue.A week ago, a delegation of BJP women MLAs (members of legislative assembly) met the governor and urged him to direct the state government to convene a two-day special session of the state legislature to discuss violence against women in the backdrop of rape and murder of a woman at Saki Naka in Mumbai. Following this, Koshyari wrote a letter to the chief minister and said that he may consider the demand.On September 20, Thackeray responded with a strongly-worded four-page letter and referred to the cases of rape and murder of women in BJP-ruled states such as Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Uttarakhand and Jammu and Kashmir (a Union territory) and said that the issue was not only limited to Saki Naka. “As the governor you have expressed concern over violence against women in the backdrop of Saki Naka case. We are also concerned about the same. But the matter is not limited only to Saki Naka, in fact it is a nationwide problem and hence the entire women community is looking at you with hope. Thus, I want you to demand from Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah to call a four-day special session of the Parliament to discuss it in detail. Saki Naka case can also be discussed during the same session,” stated Thackeray in his letter.Thackeray also pointed out that Mumbai Police had acted swiftly and arrested the suspects immediately. Koshyari and the Maharashtra government have been locked in a bitter tussle for quite some time. The governor is yet to clear the 12 names approved by the state cabinet in November last year to be appointed as the members of the legislative council. Every six years, 12 members are nominated to the Upper House of the state legislature by the governor on the recommendation of the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-governor-and-uddhav-thackeray-face-off-over-saki-naka-rape-case-101632224352452.html
21-09-2021||India||Demand for air travel picks up as airlines allowed to operate up to 85% capacity||The demand for air travel has picked up since the civil aviation ministry last week allowed airlines to operate up to 85% of their pre-Covid capacity domestically, according to airlines and industry experts. Airlines expect the air traffic to be back to pre-Covid levels by the end of this year as the fare cap has been being removed and travellers are starting to fly more.“We expect domestic air travel to reach pre-pandemic level by December 2021,” said a spokesperson for IndiGo, India’s largest airline by market share.Experts said with Canada and the US easing their travel restrictions for Indians, the international market is gradually opening up and that too will increase the passenger numbers. “We urge the government to allow more bubble flights with fewer travel restrictions to more and more countries. As an industry, our objective should be to be at full scheduled service by summer for all international destinations. It will require a lot of heavy lifting by the government to get us there,” the IndiGo spokesperson said.Also Read | ‘Within our rights to impose reciprocal measures’: Shringla on UK vaccine ruleGaurav Bhatia, executive director, Bird Group, which owns Amadeus software for ticket reservation and distribution in India, said the increase in the capacity will enable airlines to operate more flights and push up passenger loads significantly. “In addition to providing more options on the existing routes, it will also open up more domestic routes. We forecast bookings to increase by over 25% by the end of September 2021. The trend will only be upward moving thereon. Bookings were already on the rise, as per our data, even before the new guidelines kicked in.”Bhatia said changes in fare fixing mechanisms will bring much-needed cheer for the airlines. “Cheaper fares will be on offer for flyers; a move that will stimulate the market and strengthen revenue management cycles.”IndiGo said it is pleased with the decision to allow airlines to operate with 85% capacity. “The demand has certainly picked up and we are expecting it to strengthen further in the upcoming festive season. We are bullish about the overall growth and demand for domestic travel and increasing the cap to 85% is a welcome move,” said the IndiGo spokesperson.There has been an uptick in passenger growth in the last few months and business travel has also started to slowly grow, said rating agency CRISIL. According to CRISIL, air traffic in the domestic sector will not be back to pre- Covid levels before March 2022. “With private offices opening up, many of the employees are slowly returning to their base locations. While these are the positives, we are still at least two quarters away from getting back to pre- Covid levels in the domestic route,” said Jagannarayan Padmanabhan, director (transport and logistics), CRISIL Infrastructure Advisory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/demand-for-air-travel-picks-up-as-airlines-allowed-to-operate-up-to-85capacity-101632224052397.html
21-09-2021||India||After Punjab, hope for a Dalit CM in Uttarakhand too, says Harish Rawat||Former chief minister of Uttarakhand and Congress general secretary Harish Rawat has said that he “wants to see a Dalit CM in Uttarakhand also.” Rawat’s comment on Monday assumes significance as the party has appointed Charanjit Singh Channi as the first Dalit Sikh chief minister of Punjab.Rawat made the statement while addressing a public meeting during the party’s Parivartan Yatra in Laksar constituency of Haridwar. Rawat played a major role in ending the crisis in Punjab, a state that holds the charge. Also, Uttarakhand has 18% Dalit voters with the majority of them in Haridwar district where he made the statement on Monday. Also Watch | Explained: What Charanjit Channi’s choice as Punjab CM says of the CongressRawat returned to Uttarakhand on Monday to join the concluding day of the second leg of Parivartan Yatra in Haridwar along with party state president Ganesh Godiyal, party state in-charge Devendra Yadav and leader of Opposition Pritam Singh. “History has been made in Punjab as Congress leadership under party national president Sonia Gandhi, a son of Dalit has been appointed the CM. I want to pray to the almighty to let me witness a Dalit becoming the CM of Uttarakhand in my lifetime,” he said. With the statement coming months before the next assembly elections, political analysts say Rawat “hit two birds with a stone.” “Rawat has played his cards cleverly. Firstly, he has tried to gain the support of the Dalits for the Congress with his statement. Secondly, being the senior-most leader in Uttarakhand Congress, he is obviously wanting to become the CM if the party wins. But if he fails, then he has indicated that he won’t allow any of his rivals in the party to become the CM but only a Dalit face...right now it is his loyalist Pradeep Tamta,” said senior political commentator Jai Singh Rawat. Another political analyst, MM Semwal, agreed and said, “With the Punjab development still fresh, Rawat tried to take advantage of it in Uttarakhand. Though he is thanking party national president Sonia Gandhi for it, he also played a major role in it while being the state unit’s in-charge. So by playing that card, he tried to portray himself as the messiah of Dalits in Uttarakhand.” The BJP meanwhile, called the move as “Congress’ hypocrisy when it comes to Dalits.” Party state president Madan Kaushik said, “By making Channi the Punjab CM months before the assembly elections there, Congress’s Punjab state in-charge has revealed its hypocrisy towards Dalit as he has also declared that the party will contest the assembly polls under Navjot Singh Sidhu. That means Channi’s Dalit face is of importance for them only till the polls.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-punjab-hope-for-a-dalit-cm-in-uttarakhand-too-says-harish-rawat-101632223692463.html
21-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Karnataka's religious structures bill aimed at vote bank, says Cong and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Congress says Bommai govt's bill on religious structures aimed at vote-bankThe Congress on Tuesday hit out at the Basavaraj Bommai-led government for introducing the Karnataka Religious Structures (Protection) Bill, 2021, that sought to protect illegal religious structures built on a public place. Read moreAssam foreigners’ tribunal says NRC is finalA foreigners’ tribunal in Assam’s Karimganj district has called the updated National Register of Citizens (NRC) final even as it is yet to be notified and declared a resident of the area an Indian national citing his inclusion in the document. Read moreChina: PLA soldiers killed at Galwan Valley now part of education on patriotismThe People’s Liberation Army (PLA) is citing the example of Chinese soldiers killed during the Galwan Valley clash with Indian border personnel in mid-June 2020 to teach lessons on patriotism to China’s primary schoolchildren. Read moreIn special edition, Limca Book of Records honours frontline Covid-19 workers, innovatorsIn a special edition, the Limca Book of Records (LBR) has honoured frontline Covid-19 workers, as well as innovators who, it said, helped the country with their “selfless acts” during the ongoing coronavirus pandemic. Read moreBharat Biotech completes phase 2/3 trials of Covaxin in children, to submit data by next weekBharat Biotech on Tuesday said that the phase 2/3 trials of Covaxin for inoculation in children under the age of 18 are over. Read more‘The mystery will remain’: Irfan Pathan explains why Chakravarthy can be a 'huge X-factor' for team India in T20 WCVarun Chakravarthy on Monday night justified his selection for the upcoming T20 World Cup, which begins next month in the UAE and Oman. Bowling against Royal Challengers Bangalore, the mystery spinner registered the magical figures of 3 for 13, after dismissing the likes of Glenn Maxwell, Wanindu Hasaranga and Sachin Baby. Read moreKangana Ranaut objects to Alia Bhatt's ‘kanyadaan’ ad: ‘Stop manipulating naive consumers’Actor Kangana Ranaut has reacted to a new advertisement featuring actor Alia Bhatt. In the commercial, for a bridal wear brand, Alia played a bride who doesn't agree with the practice of ‘kanyadaan (giving one’s daughter away)' at some Indian weddings. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-karnataka-s-bill-on-religious-structures-aimed-at-vote-bank-says-congress-and-all-the-latest-news-101632222655335.html
21-09-2021||India||Assam foreigners’ tribunal says NRC is final||A foreigners’ tribunal in Assam’s Karimganj district has called the updated National Register of Citizens (NRC) final even as it is yet to be notified and declared a resident of the area an Indian national citing his inclusion in the document. Bikram Singha, the resident, was declared a doubtful voter whose citizenship was under suspicion after the state’s border police registered a case against him in 2008. The tribunal on September 10 declared him an Indian citizen based on the appearance of his name in the updated NRC published in 2019.“Preparation of NRC for Assam was directed by the Hon’ble Supreme Court in a time-bound manner and fixed a time schedule whose last step was mentioned as Finalization of Final updated NRC. Final NRC In Assam has been published as per direction and monitoring of the Hon’ble Supreme Court, so there should not be any doubt about finality or legality of NRC for Assam...,” said Sishir Dey, a member of the tribunal.“..Notification for preparation of NRC in Assam was issued by Register General of India. Final NRC, (i.e. Supplementary List of NRC together with Draft NRC) has been published on 31.08.2019 which is available online on the official website of NRC Assam wherein also it’s referred and mentioned as ‘Final NRC’. This legal position is still in force. The National Identity Cards have yet to be issued to the Citizens whose names have been included in Final NRC. But there is no doubt that this NRC Assam published in 2019 is nothing but Final NRC...”Also Read | Assam Police arrest 450 land brokers in crackdown against ‘Dalal Raj’The NRC was updated on the basis of the Assam Accord of 1985, which was signed after a six-year-long agitation against undocumented immigrants. The process took four years to complete under the supervision of the Supreme Court, which ordered revision of the 1951 list. The final list announced on August 31, 2019, excluded over 1.9 million applicants. As many as 33 million people applied to be included on the list that identifies Indian citizens.Singha, a resident of Jamirala village in Karimganj district, was earlier declared a doubtful voter by the tribunal on the basis of an ex-parte judgement after he failed to appear before it. He remained untracked for a while. Singha later appeared before the tribunal delaying its order by almost two months. Dey heard his case on September 1. But Singha’s lawyer could not produce adequate documents which could establish his family was living in India prior to 1966, the year when Citizenship Act was first amended.Singha’s name was included on the voter list in 1997. His other documents, including a land deed of 1968, showed his father and grandfather lived in Jamirala village before 1968. His father served as an Indian Air Force employee after 1972. But the documents could not help him to prove his citizenship in the tribunal. No document could establish the fact that they were residents in Assam prior to 1966.Singha’s lawyer argued as his name appeared in the final NRC in August 2019, he should be considered as Indian citizen. She referred to the White Paper on Foreigners’ Issue published by Assam’s home and political department in October 2012 and said it says anyone born between January 26, 1950, and July 1, 1987, can be considered an Indian citizen by birth irrespective of the nationality of parents.Dey cited Section 6A and Section 3 of the Citizenship Act and added it is clear that Section 6A deals with persons who came to Assam from a specified territory. “Their children are not covered by the provisions of section 6A but are covered within the ambit of section 3 of the Citizenship Act 1955. Thus Section 3 of the Citizenship Act is applicable in Assam as the rest of India unless and until it’s repealed, amended or struck down. Nothing of these has happened yet.”The Assam government on September 4 directed the foreigners’ tribunals to refrain from passing consequential orders and stick to “opinion” while passing judgement on a person’s nationality. Soumen Choudhary, a lawyer, called the tribunal’s verdict in Singha’s case a welcome judgement. “The evidence from...(Singha)’s side has been overwhelming. The NRC part can be a trendsetter if confirmed by the high court.”Kamal Chakraborty, a social activist who helped many doubtful voters to fight their cases, called for the need for a more humane approach while dealing with such matters. “Many genuine Indian citizens are facing allegations of not being Indian just because courts delay their hearings. At one point, I started believing that foreigners’ tribunal courts have no use because they do not have the courage to pass a judgement. But this judgement has changed my opinion. This will help many others to fight their cases.”Those left out of the final NRC were assured that they would not be declared foreigners and have the option of filing appeals. But they have not been issued rejection slips, which would enable them to file appeals. The NRC is yet to be notified by the Registrar General of India. Several applications seeking re-verification of the list are pending in the Supreme Court.The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party has argued that 1.9 million people excluded was much lower than the actual number of undocumented immigrants in the state. It insisted that nearly 200,000 genuine Indians were left out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-foreigners-tribunal-says-nrc-is-final-101632222612470.html
21-09-2021||India||In special edition, Limca Book of Records honours frontline Covid-19 workers, innovators||In a special edition, the Limca Book of Records (LBR) has honoured frontline Covid-19 workers, as well as innovators who, it said, helped the country with their “selfless acts” during the ongoing coronavirus pandemic. Released on Monday, the book is 2020-2022 combined edition of LBR, its publishing house, Hachette India, said.The special edition puts spotlight on various aspects of India's fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, including the Vande Bharat mission, which was announced in May last year. As the world's largest repatriation exercise, it saw India evacuate, across six phases thus far, its citizens stuck from various countries, who got stuck there due to restrictions put in place to curb the spread of the viral illness.The edition further talks about Covaxin and Covishield, the first two vaccines which were approved for the nationwide vaccination drive, which began on January 16. Covaxin, developed by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Limited in partnership with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), is the country's first home-made shot against this contagious disease. Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), meanwhile, manufactures the Oxford University-AstraZeneca shot locally as Covishield.The book also narrates the story of Noccarc Robotics, a start-up founded by Nikhil Kurele and Harshit Rathore. Set up in 2017, the Pune-based start-up developed two critical care medical devices to address urgent needs in Covid-19 times: Noccarc V310 and Noccarc H210. While the former is an ICU ventilator, the latter is a high flow oxygen therapy device.Thomas Abraham, magaing director, Hachette India, described this as a “landmark.” Abraham said, “Despite interruptions and disruptions from the past two years, the LBR is back. I am particularly delighted that I was part of the book from its inception, and now, once again, as it leaves 30 editions behind. India at its best marches on.”In the last 24 hours, India logged 26,115 new Covid-19 cases and 252 fresh fatalities, according to the Union health ministry. Active cases, it said, are at their lowest in 184 days, while recovery rate has mounted to 97.75%, highest since March last year. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-special-edition-limca-book-of-records-honours-frontline-covid-19-workers-innovators-101632219322446.html
21-09-2021||India||Bharat Biotech completes phase 2/3 trials of Covaxin in children, to submit data by next week||Bharat Biotech, the Hyderabad-based biotechnology company and the makers of Covaxin Covid-19 vaccine, on Tuesday said that the phase 2/3 trials of Covaxin for inoculation in children under the age of 18 are over. The company also said that it expects to submit the data to the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) by next week.Bharat Biotech’s chairman and managing director Krishna Ella also said that the data analysis following the trials is currently underway and the report would be submitted soon. “Paediatric Covaxin just completed phase 2/3 trials. The data analysis is going on. We will be submitting the data (to the regulator) by next week. The number of subjects (volunteers) is touching 1,000,” news agency PTI quoted him as saying.Also read | Covaxin's wait continues, WHO ‘delays’ emergency use nod till October 5Further, Ella also announced that the phase 2 trials of the company’s intranasal vaccine against Covid-19 is expected to conclude by the end of September. The intranasal vaccine creates an immune response in the nose, an entry point for the virus into the human body, thus offering protection against the infection and transmission of the virus, he noted.The trials for the intranasal vaccine are being conducted on about 650 volunteers, who have been grouped into three cohorts. The first group received Covaxin as the first dose and the intranasal as the second, the second group got intranasal shots for both doses while the third group received it for the first dose and Covaxin for the second, Ella said. Each dose has been administered following a 28-day gap, he added.Briefing on the production of Covaxin, Ella said that it would reach 55 million doses in October against the 35 million doses in September. “We are supplying 35 million this month. Next month we will be definitely supplying 55 million doses. Production at Bangalore is catching up very fast,” PTI quoted him as saying.The Union government on Monday said that it would resume export of Covid-19 vaccine doses to other countries under the Vaccine Maitri initiative from October. Commenting on this, Ella said that the company is ready to export the shots if the Centre permits, but is currently not in a hurry to look for overseas markets.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-biotech-completes-phase-2-3-trials-of-covaxin-in-children-to-submit-data-by-next-week-101632221086743.html
21-09-2021||India||Money laundering case: No interim relief to TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee, wife||The Delhi high court on Tuesday refused to grant any interim relief to Trinamool Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee and his wife Rujira against the summons from the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in a money laundering case. The court fixed the date for the next hearing to September 27.It also asked the central agency to reply within three days to an appeal from the couple challenging the summons issued in an alleged coal mining scam. The petitioners had sought the court's direction in setting aside the summons. Abhishek and Rujira wanted the ED to be directed to not summon them to the national capital and carry out any further examination in Kolkata.Also read | I will hang myself publicly if…: TMC’s Abhishek Banerjee on ED summonsThe matter was listed before Justice Yogesh Khanna for hearing.Banerjee, who is also the nephew of Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee, was issued summons under Section 50 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002, that required personal appearance of him along with a voluminous set of documents.The ED opposed the plea saying money laundering has national and trans national ramifications and its investigation is not restricted to any police station or area.Also read | ED grills Abhishek Banerjee for almost 9 hours in illegal coal mining caseThe petitioners alleged they had serious apprehensions about the fairness of the investigation being conducted by the ED owing to the fact that the respondent was adopting a pick-and-choose attitude with respect to certain persons and was giving undue benefit and protection to complicit individuals and extracting false, baseless and malicious statements from them."The respondent agency is also selectively leaking information to the media with the intent of harming the reputation of the petitioners and encouraging a media trial, the details of which are further elaborated in the accompanying petition, in order to falsely embroil the Petitioners in baseless and scandalous allegations," read their plea.The CBI has already interrogated the TMC leader in the case.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-interim-relief-to-tmc-mp-abhishek-banerjee-his-wife-in-money-laundering-case-101632219120719.html
21-09-2021||India||Congress says Bommai govt's Bill on religious structures aimed at vote-bank||The Congress on Tuesday hit out at the Basavaraj Bommai-led government for introducing the Karnataka Religious Structures (Protection) Bill, 2021, that sought to protect illegal religious structures built on a public place.Congress MLA NA Harris said the Bill was tabled in the Assembly as part of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) vote-bank politics. “They demolished temples, now they are saying they will protect them. They are making fools out of people. They should not touch any religious structure. It's being done for vote-bank. Everything cannot be made legal. They should have had a discussion (on the issue),” Harris was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.They demolished temples, now they're saying they'll protect them. They're making fools out of people. They shouldn't touch any religious structure. It's being done for vote bank. Everything can't be made legal. They should've had a discussion: Karnataka Congress leader NA Harris pic.twitter.com/31wNDhyI1IAccording to multiple reports, the Bill was framed in the wake of a court directive to demolish all structures “constructed on public places without the authority of law”, while also mandating that such structures would not come up in future.“It is considered necessary to provide for the protection of religious construction in public places before the date of commencement of this Act in order to protect communal harmony and not hurt the religious sentiments of the public,” it said.The Bill would cover all institutions of all faiths and include temples, mosques, churches, gurdwaras and so on.Revenue minister R Ashok said the government introduced the Bill to protect temples. “We have to protect institutions of all religions," he added.BJP leader CT Ravi said some issues could have been avoided had the Bill been brought up earlier, adding the Congress was doing drama over the issue. “We welcome the Karnataka government's decision,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-says-bommai-govt-s-bill-on-religious-structures-aimed-at-votebank-101632217630011.html
21-09-2021||India||Assam Police arrest 450 land brokers in crackdown against ‘Dalal Raj’||Assam Police have arrested 453 land brokers in raids conducted across the state since Monday night as part of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government’s crackdown on ‘dalals’ or brokers operating in land revenue and circle offices.The raids followed two weeks after chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma told land revenue and circle officers to get rid of land brokers from their offices before October 3. “On Monday night, Assam police rounded up nearly 450 land brokers from different parts of the state. We have a list of nearly 700 such persons involved in taking illegal commissions from common people and harassing them. We will try and get all of them by Tuesday evening,” Sarma said on Tuesday. “I again warn government officials not to be in touch with these land brokers and help citizens without taking any bribes or through intermediaries. We want to change the existing system and put an end to ‘dalal raj’ (rule of brokers). I also request residents not to take help of brokers for any work,” he added. Earlier this month, Sarma complained to land revenue department officers about no land-related issues faced by commoners getting resolved without bribing brokers. Urging all officers to dispose of all pending files in their offices quickly, the CM informed that the government would launch Mission Basundhara, a scheme to help residents address their land-related issues like mutation, correction of names, sale permission, updating of records etc., from October.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-police-arrest-450-land-brokers-in-crackdown-against-dalal-raj-101632216371812.html
21-09-2021||India||On Narendra Giri’s death, Adityanath says all aspects being probed, guilty will be punished||The death of Narendra Giri, a top Hindu seer, is being investigated from all aspects and the guilty will not be spared, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Tuesday as several political parties, including the Shiv Sena, sought a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the crime. Adityanath said the case will be solved soon and that evidence has been collected in connection with the seer’s death. “The postmortem will be done tomorrow… I politely request everyone to not give unnecessary statements during the process and let the investigating agencies do their work," Adityanath was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also watch | Mystery over top Hindu priest's death: PM Modi, Yogi remember Narendra Giri 
21-09-2021||India||‘Hindutva strangulated’: Shiv Sena seeks CBI probe into Narendra Giri’s death||Shiv Sena on Tuesday attacked the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Uttar Pradesh government over the death of seer Narendra Giri in mysterious circumstances, and claimed that “Hindutva was strangulated in Uttar Pradesh.” The leader of former BJP ally sought a CBI probe into Giri’s death in line with the demand by some other political parties.Giri was the head of Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad, which is the apex decision-making body of the 13 recognised Hindu monastic orders of the country. He was found hanging from a ceiling fan in his room at his Prayagraj Math on Monday evening. A purported suicide note was found from his room and it named his disciple, Anand Giri, and two others, police said. All these three people have been arrested. Police also said that his disciples at math had said that the Mahant’s room was bolted from inside. However, some have expressed surprise at the mysterious circumstances surrounding his death.Sena leader and chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut said Narendra Giri was an “important seer”, who was at the forefront of Ayodhya-Ram Janmabhoomi movement and his death was “suspicious” and even though it was being called a case of death by suicide, his followers believed it to be a case of “murder”.“When Sadhus were killed by a mob in Palghar, that time the BJP called it an attack on Hindutva and hue and cry was raised from Uttar Pradesh as well. The manner in which Narendra Giri’s suspicious death has come to light, I think someone has strangulated Hindutva in Uttar Pradesh. This case should also be probed by CBI or the Central Bureau of Investigation. The mysterious death should be probed independently,” Raut said in New Delhi.Raut was referring to the lynching of two Hindu ascetics and their driver in April 2020 at Gadchinchale village in Palghar district. Following the lynching incident, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath had called his Maharashtra counterpart, seeking stringent action against the perpetrators of the crime.A senior UP police officer said that the suicide note said that though Giri wanted to live with dignity, he was unhappy due to some reasons. He claimed that his disciples have confirmed that the handwriting in the note was that of Mahant Narendra Giri but anything concrete could be said only after proper investigations.Prime Minister Narendra Modi and UP CM Yogi Adityanath condoled Giri’s death. Expressing sorrow on his death, the PM hailed Giri for playing a vital role in uniting saints of different streams while remaining true to the spiritual traditions. Adityanath termed his death a huge loss to the spiritual world.Deputy UP CM Dinesh Sharma, while expressing sadness over the seer’s death, said the state government will get it investigated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hindutva-strangulated-shiv-sena-seeks-cbi-probe-into-narendra-giri-s-death-101632214511596.html
21-09-2021||India||Kejriwal promises job quota for Goa residents ahead of state polls||Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday announced one job for each family in Goa and 80% reservation in private sector jobs for local residents if his party forms the next government in the state. Kejriwal, who made similar promises in poll-bound Uttarakhand on Sunday, also announced a monthly income support of ₹3,000 for unemployed youths in Goa till they land jobs.Addressing reporters here, the Delhi chief minister said unemployment was one of the biggest issues facing the state and the Covid-19 pandemic has added to the woes. “Corona has made people unemployed, people have gone bankrupt. For many years, Goa has not had mining, there was unemployment on that front too. Many youngsters are forced to leave the state. We have to create job opportunities here. You need an honest government with good intentions,” he said. “Government jobs are reserved for Goans with 15 years of domicile... we will bring a law to reserve 80% private jobs for Goan youth. We will ensure employment to one youngster per household, and a monthly stipend of ₹3,000 till that happens,” he added. The AAP chief arrived in the state on Monday for a two-day visit, to drum up support for his party ahead of polls in February next year. He also tried to woo the people dependent on mining and tourism sectors, the major recruiters in Goa. While mining came to a standstill after the Supreme Court in February 2018 cancelled the renewals of 88 operational mining leases and asked that they be issued afresh, the Covid-19 induced lockdown has adversely affected the tourism industry.Kejriwal assured a monthly remuneration of ₹5,000 to families dependent on the two industries till these sectors are normalised. “Tourism dependent families are unemployed and they will be given ₹5,000 per month. Likewise, mining dependent families will also get a monthly stipend of ₹5,000,” he said. Kejriwal promised to set up a skills university offering various courses, through tie-ups with corporates, to students who complete Class XII and assured jobs on completion of the course. Taking a dig at the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the state for allegedly “copying” the AAP’s governance model by promising free water and doorstep services scheme of his government, Kejriwal said: “Why vote for ‘duplicate’ when you can vote for the ‘original’?”Asked how he intends to fund his poll promises in Goa, Kejriwal said it would be through ‘honesty’. “When the Delhi government was formed, it was revenue negative. The CAG report now says that the Delhi government is running in profit. We achieved it through honesty. There is no lack of revenue in Goa, there is a lack of intent,” he said.This is Kejriwal’s second visit to the state in the last two months. In his earlier visit in July, he had assured free electricity up to 300 units per month in the state if his party was voted to power. In the 2017 Goa assembly polls, the AAP had drawn a blank.Reacting to Kejriwal’s announcements, BJP leader and former MP Narendra Sawaikar said: “It is easy to say anything. These are hollow promises. The people of Goa have seen the work done by the BJP government over the last nine-and-a-half to ten years and will vote on the basis of that.” “Unless the AAP strengthens its base and moves around on the ground, such promises will not cut ice with the electorate enough to win election,” a political analyst, who refused to be named owing to his past associations with various political parties, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kejriwal-promises-80-private-job-quota-for-locals-if-voted-to-power-in-goa-101632214451808.html
21-09-2021||India||Assam govt has been communicating with ULFA: Sarma on talks with Paresh Baruah||Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma has said his government had maintained some communication with the head of rebel group Paresh Baruah ever since he took charge of the administration. He further said he had sought permission from Union home minister Amit Shah to directly talk to Baruah if the need arose. Sarma said Shah asked to ensure that the dialogue was held in a structured manner.The chief minister said everything was at a preliminary stage and it would be a long-drawn, urging everyone to not draw any immediate conclusion over the latest developments.“As of now, I only took permission to speak to him (Baruah) over the phone or through other media so that we can give a push to the peace process. But those are very preliminary things. No conclusion should be drawn and it will be a long affair,” Sarma was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.So, as of now I only took permission to speak to him (Baruah) over the phone or through other media so that we can give a push to the peace process. But those are very preliminary things, no conclusion should be drawn & it will be a long affair: Assam CM Himanta Biswa Sarma (2/2)The CM held a meeting with the home minister in New Delhi on Sunday following which he said he was partly involved in the ongoing peace process with the NSCN-IM, but was not officially holding any negotiation with the Naga rebel group.As convenor of the NEDA, I have sometimes talked to some political parties (in Nagaland) in the past," he said. Sarma is the convenor of the North East Democratic Alliance (NEDA), the northeast version of the NDA where major parties of the region are constituents.Regarding talks with the ULFA, Sarma said if things moved in a proper direction, the central government may get involved in peace parleys with the outfit at a later stage.Sarma assumed charge as Assam chief minister on May 10 replacing Sarbananda Sonowal who was later given charge at the Centre and will soon likely to become a Rajya Sabha member.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-govt-has-been-communicating-with-ulfa-sarma-on-talks-with-paresh-baruah-101632212648183.html
21-09-2021||India||Maharashtra resident doctors threaten to go on strike from next week||The Maharashtra State Association of Resident Doctors (MARD) has threatened to go on a strike from next week if their demands including waiver of tuition fee for postgraduate medical students, Covid incentives, and better hostel facilities at government-run medical colleges are not met.State medical education minister Amit Deshmukh promised the fee waiver over a month back, but it is yet to be implemented. In August, a delegation of resident doctors met Deshmukh with a list of their demands.Also Read | Maharashtra ACB gets nod to launch second inquiry against Param Bir Singh“The file regarding fee waiver and Covid incentives has been forwarded by the Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) to the state medical education minister but to date, we have not heard any update from the state government. Therefore, MARD has decided to call for a strike of all resident doctors unless our demands are met,” said Pranav Jadhav, vice president, MARD. He added the association is giving a seven-day notice to the government before going on the strike.In a tweet following his meeting with the delegation on August 11, Deshmukh said, “For the last year and a half, resident doctors have been at the forefront of our fight against Covid-19 by working day in and out for months together. Our department is positive of bringing about necessary changes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-resident-doctors-threaten-to-go-on-strike-from-next-week-101632213011746.html
21-09-2021||India||‘Britain should get their act together’: Shashi Tharoor on new travel rules||Congress MP Shashi Tharoor has slammed the British government for its new travel rules that would make 10-day institutional quarantine mandatory for Indians inoculated with both doses of Covishield vaccine, Oxford-AstraZeneca jab manufactured in India.Urging the British to get “their act together”, Tharoor said the country cannot have it both ways. The Serum Institute of India (SII) is manufacturing the vaccines developed by Oxford University and pharma giant AstraZeneca.“Either you (UK) ask Serum Institute of India (SII) to make those vaccines and ship it to Britain or you say you don't accept the vaccines. You can't have it both ways,” the Thiruvananthapuram MP said.Tharoor also accused the UK government of “double standards” and said he had pulled out of a debate at Cambridge university and from launch events for the UK edition of his book as he had no time to “sit in quarantine for 10 days”.“Double standards applied by the UK are impossible to understand. I personally don't have time to go to a country and sit in quarantine for 10 days. So I've cancelled my trip,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The UK government’s new Covid-19 travel rules, which will come into force from October 4, will consider Indians inoculated with both doses of the Covishield vaccine to be unvaccinated and require them to undergo institutional quarantine for 10 days.The rules have provoked severe backlash against the British government as Covishield is one of the two major vaccines used in India’s domestic vaccination programme. Moreover, the UK expanded its vaccine approval norms to include the likes of Japan, Singapore, Malaysia and 14 other countries but failed to recognise the vaccine passport issued by India. India has taken up the issue with Britain at the highest diplomatic levels.Congress leader Jairam Ramesh has also hit out at the UK government’s new rules and accused it of indulging in racism. Serum has supplied Covishield doses even to the UK, but now the country is refusing to recognise the same vaccine. "Absolutely bizarre considering Covishield was originally developed in the UK and The Serum Institute, Pune, has supplied to that country too! This smacks of racism," Ramesh tweeted on Monday.External affairs minister S Jaishankar and foreign secretary Harsh Shringla both have repeatedly asked the UK to remove the travel restrictions placed on Indians and called for mutual recognition of vaccine passports.The UK government has declared that it will consider the Covid-19 vaccine jabs administered by the public health bodies in Australia, Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados, Bahrain, Brunei,Canada, Dominica, Israel, Japan, Kuwait, Malaysia, New Zealand, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, South Korea or Taiwan to be valid.However, vaccinated individuals travelling from India would have to take a pre-departure test and a Covid-19 test on or before day two of the visit, and on or after day eight, in addition to quarantining for 10 days on arrival.Following severe backlash, the UK government has said it was working with India “to explore how we could expand UK recognition of vaccine certification to people vaccinated by a relevant public health body in India”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/britain-should-get-their-act-together-shashi-tharoor-on-new-travel-rules-101632211512642.html
21-09-2021||India||'I want to thank you...': Bengal BJP chief's message to people trying to save state from 'becoming Afghanistan’||Sukanta Majumdar, the newly-appointed chief of the Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) West Bengal unit, on Tuesday thanked people who, he said, “are trying to save the state from becoming Afghanistan.” Majumdar, whose predecessor Dilip Ghosh was made a national vice-president of the party in a reshuffle on Monday, also warned those leaving its Bengal unit for the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC), saying that their defection won't finish the BJP.Also Read | BJP MP Sukanta Majumdar replaces Dilip Ghosh as party's Bengal president“I thank the people who are trying to save West Bengal from becoming Afghanistan. Our fight has to continue against the Taliban in West Bengal,” he said, according to news agency ANI. Taking a jibe at the TMC, the Balurghat parliamentarian said that it has become “a family-owned property in the garb of a political party,” referring to its supremo and chief minister Mamata Banerjee, and her nephew Abhishek. On the contrary, he said, it is only the BJP which gives important responsibilities to ordinary people. Also Read | Sukanta Majumdar, new Bengal BJP chief, promises to live up to expectations“If central forces are deployed for local body polls, then we will show them what we can do,” Majumdar also said.If some people think that by leaving BJP they will finish the party, it won't happen. Our fight has to continue against the 'Taliban' in West Bengal. If TMC dares to let us vote using central forces in local body polls, we'll show them what BJP can do: WB BJP chiefIn the bitterly contested assembly elections, which took place here across an unprecedented eight phases, from late March to late April, and in the shadow of the ongoing coronavirus pandemic, the TMC secured a third consecutive term by winning 213 seats. The BJP, meanwhile finished second, registering its best-ever haul with 77 seats. Banerjee, however, lost to her former protege, BJP's Suvendu Adhikari, from Nandigram. She now faces a by-election against Priyanka Tibrewal on September 30, from Bhabanipur.In the wake of election results, several leaders jumped ship to Banerjee's camp. Two high-profile exits from the BJP are those of Mukul Roy and Babul Supriyo. While Roy's entry marks his return to the Trinamool, Supriyo is in his first stint.    "||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-bjp-chief-thanks-people-trying-to-save-state-from-becoming-afghanistan-101632208098562.html
21-09-2021||India||‘Jobs for youth, skill university’: AAP’s 7 employment guarantees in Goa||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday made seven guarantees about increasing employment in the state of Goa, which will witness assembly elections next year. Addressing a press conference, Kejriwal, who is also the national convener of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) said, “The youth in Goa is extremely disturbed. They don't have employment. Despite being educated, they are unemployed. Many youths from poor families don't have work either. The Covid-19 pandemic led to the loss of employment and many families have been affected. ”Kejriwal pointed out that due to unemployment, a majority of Goa's youth is leaving the state and it is important to create job opportunities.Also Read| ‘Nobody is helpless’: Praful Patel nudges Cong to decide on Goa poll allianceThe first guarantee which he gave was that Goa's youth will have right over state government jobs, and they will be recruited on a merit basis. “I was told that it is not possible to get a government job in Goa without any bribe or recommendation or without being well-connected with any minister or MLA. This will be stopped.”My 7 Guarantees for Goa's youth▪️Jobs for Goans, not just for MLA's relatives▪️1 Job/family for unemployed▪️3000/month until then▪️80% pvt jobs reserved for Goans▪️5000/month for unemployed in tourism due to COVID▪️5000/month for mining ban affected▪️Skill UniversityKejriwal also promised that arrangements will be made to provide jobs to one unemployed youth in every household. “The third guarantee is that till the time the youth does not get employed, the person will get ₹3,000 per month as unemployment allowance.”Eight per cent of jobs in the private sector will be for the Goan youth, Kejriwal announced his fourth guarantee, adding a law will be introduced for the same. “Families dependent on tourism who became unemployed due to Covid will be given ₹5,000 per month until their employment is restored,” the Delhi CM announced his fifth guarantee for increasing employment in Goa.Also Read| 'Kejriwal jo kehta hai...': Delhi CM promises free electricity in Goa if AAP wins 2022 pollsFamilies dependent on mining and are suffering due to the closure of mines will also be given ₹5,000 per month until mining activity resumes, the sixth guarantee said. The seventh and final guarantee which Arvind Kejriwal gave is the creation of a skill university in Goa, similar to the one in Delhi, where children will be able to learn their preferred skill after Class 12 so that they can become employable.Earlier this month, the AAP launched a campaign against the problem of unemployment in Goa and asked people to not vote for parties that have failed to provide jobs.Apart from bringing in employment reforms in Goa, the Kejriwal-led party also announced four guarantees in the power sector. They included providing 300 units of free electricity every month to each family in Goa, waiving off all old and pending electricity bills, ensuring 24x7 power supply and providing free electricity to the state's farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-poll-bound-goa-arvind-kejriwal-makes-7-employment-guarantees-101632206102487.html
21-09-2021||India||IED recovery case: NIA conducts searches at 7 locations in Jammu and Kashmir||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) carried out searches at seven locations in connection with the recovery of Improvised Explosive Device (IED) in Jammu on June 27, news agency ANI reported. The searches were carried out in Anantnag, Baramulla, Srinagar, Doda and Kishtwar, ANI report further said.It quoted officials to say that the raids were conducted based on interrogation of some arrested Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) terrorists.The NIA took over the investigation in the case on July 19, which came to light after an attack on Indian Air Force (IAF) base on June 27, in which two personnel were injured. The attack was carried out by Pakistan-based terrorists with the help of drones, which dropped the payload.Drones have been repeatedly spotted in the region since the attack.The IED, weighing around five-six kilograms, was recovered by Jammu Police from a suspected LeT operative who was tasked with using it at a crowded place. Director General of Police (DGP) Dilbag Singh had said that a major terror attack was averted with the discovery of the IED.The NIA has raided a number of locations across the union territory during the course of its investigation and even arrested a terrorist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ied-recovery-case-nia-conducts-searches-at-7-locations-in-jammu-and-kashmir-101632210247991.html
21-09-2021||India||Before Punjab CM Channi, here are Dalit leaders who held top post in country||Charanjit Singh Channi became the first Dalit chief minister of Punjab on Monday a day after the ruling Congress nominated him for the post. A member of the Ramdasia community, he is among a handful of Dalits who have served as chief ministers: -- Damodaram Sanjivayya (Andhra Pradesh) was the first Dalit to become a chief minister. He held the post from January 1960 to March 1962. In 1962, Sanjivayya went on to become the first Dalit chief of the Congress.-- Bhola Paswan Shastri, a freedom fighter, served as Bihar’s chief minister from 1968 to 1971. He was also the first Dalit to be elected as the state’s top official.Also Read | Punjab CM Channi, Sidhu to visit Delhi, hold talks on cabinet expansion-- Ram Sundar Das, another freedom fighter, became the second Dalit chief minister of Bihar in 1979.-- Mayawati, the Bahujan Samaj Party chief, a Dalit, has served as Uttar Pradesh chief minister four times. She is also the lone woman member of the community to have held the post.-- Congress leader Sushilkumar Shinde, a Dalit, has served as the Maharashtra chief minister as well as a Union minister.-- Jitan Ram Manjhi served as Bihar’s third Dalit chief minister from May 2014 to February 2015.-- Jagannath Pahadia served as Rajasthan chief minister from June 1980 to July 1981. He was the first Dalit to hold the post in the state. A Congress leader, Pahadia also served as the governor of Haryana and Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/before-punjab-cm-channi-dalit-leaders-who-held-the-top-post-in-country-101632209770895.html
21-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Erin O'Toole takes jibe at Justin Trudeau and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Sent back with another minority mandate’: Elections lost, Erin O'Toole takes parting shot at Justin TrudeauThough Trudeau's Liberal Party is leading in Canadian elections, it is set to finish below the majority mark of 170 in the House of Commons. Read morePunjab CM Channi, Sidhu to visit Delhi, hold talks on cabinet expansionPunjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi will meet Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in New Delhi to hold talks on the expansion of the state cabinet. Read moreMithali Raj completes 20000 international runs, hits fifth consecutive fifty in women ODIsIndia women’s skipper Mithali Raj reached another remarkable milestone in her illustrious career during the first ODI against Australia on Tuesday. Read moreDiljit Dosanjh responds to those who question his allegiance to Punjab, says their 'mental level' isn't up to the markDiljit Dosanjh has responded to critics who question his allegiance to his home state Punjab on the basis of how much time he spends there. Read moreEsha Gupta in nude bralette and waist-high slit skirt set is ravishing, see all picsNude colours are all the rage this season, and this style statement even has the stamp of approval from our favourite celebrities in the industry. Read more2021 Yamaha YZF-R15 V4.0 launched in India; gets Traction Control, Quick ShifterIndia is the first country in the world to have received the new-generation R15. The bike has been priced from ₹1.68 lakh. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-erin-o-toole-takes-jibe-at-justin-trudeau-and-all-the-latest-news-101632206307115.html
21-09-2021||India||Assam: Union minister Sarbananda Sonowal files nomination for RS polls||Union minister Sarbananda Sonowal filed nomination papers for the vacant Rajya Sabha seat from Assam on Tuesday. The former chief minister of the state was accompanied by current CM Himanta Biswa Sarma, Atul Bora of Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) and Pramod Boro of the United Peoples Party Liberal (UPPL)-- the latter two are presidents of parties in alliance with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Assam . “I congratulate Sonowal on his nomination so that he can contribute towards Assam and northeast’s development from the floor of the parliament as well as a minister of the Union cabinet,” Sarma said after filing of nomination papers. With the Congress and other opposition parties not naming any candidate for the polls to be held on October 4, Sonowal is expected to win the election uncontested. The last date for filing of nominations is Wednesday. The present Rajya Sabha seat had fallen vacant after former Bodoland Peoples’ Party (BPF) leader Biswajit Daimary resigned earlier this year and joined the BJP. He later contested as a saffron party candidate in the assembly elections held earlier this year and was elected Speaker of the new assembly. Sonowal, who had won from the Majuli assembly seat, was inducted as a member of the Union cabinet in July this year. He is expected to resign from his assembly seat after October 4. “We decided against fielding any candidate for this Rajya Sabha polls as the numbers are not in our favour,” Assam Congress president Bhupen Kumar Borah said on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-union-minister-sarbananda-sonowal-files-nomination-for-rs-polls-101632207310740.html
21-09-2021||India||2 pilots die as army helicopter crash-lands in J&K's Udhampur district||Two pilots succumbed to their injuries after a helicopter of the Indian Army force-landed near Patnitop in Udhampur of Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday. The pilots had been evacuated and rushed to a treatment facility, an army spokesperson said, adding further details were being ascertained.In a statement, the army said one of the deceased was a captain, while the other one was a major. Their families were being informed.“Today, during a training sortie in the Patnitop area, the Indian Army Cheetah Helicopter crash-landed in the Shiv Garh Dhar area in Udhampur district,” the army added.Earlier, a police officer said a search team was rushed to the spot. It was the locals who launched the rescue operation and evacuated the injured men from a deep gorge. The officer said the chopper either crashed or crash-landed on a hill. “Search parties have been rushed to the area, but it will take around one and a half hour to reach there by foot. Dense fog in the area is making it difficult for the searchers to pin point exact location,” he added.DIG, Udhampur Reasi Range Suleman Choudhary, said, “We got information and dispatched a police team towards the Shiv Garh Dhar.” (With inputs from bureau)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/helicopter-crashes-in-j-k-s-udhampur-district-search-teams-rushed-to-spot-101632206349016.html
21-09-2021||India||Sharad Pawar backstabbed Congress, can't be Shivsainik's guru: Anant Geete||Amid repeated reports of rumblings within the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA), a senior leader of the Shiv Sena has hit out at Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) supremo Sharad Pawar calling him a backstabber who cannot be a “guru” for his party’s functionaries. Anant Geete, a former Union minister, further said the MVA government, comprising the Sena, NCP and Congress, was just an adjustment.According to a report by PTI, Geete said Pawar had "backstabbed" the Congress to form his party and cannot be a "guru" for Shivsainiks, a place reserved for the late Balasaheb Thackeray.Also read | Uddhav Thackeray refers to Union minister as future colleague, BJP plays safePawar is considered the architect of the Sena-led MVA government which came to power in 2019 after the Sena parted ways with its decades-old partner BJP over power-sharing issues.Addressing a rally in his home turf Raigad on Monday, Geete said, “Sharad Pawar cannot ever be our leader as this government (MVA) is merely an adjustment. Let people use as many accolades for Pawar but our 'guru' is only (late) Balasaheb Thackeray. As long as this government is functioning, it will go on… If we separate, our home is Shiv Sena and we will always stick with our party.”Also read | BJP, MVA polls apart; Sena the new targetWhile stating that he did not harbour any "ill-intention" towards the Sena-headed government and wanted it to succeed, the former MP from Raigad, “If the Congress and NCP cannot become one, the Shiv Sena also cannot toe the Congress policy entirely. The Congress and NCP were not always cordial either.”The NCP was formed on May 25, 1999, by Pawar, PA Sangma and Tariq Anwar after they were expelled from the Indian National Congress for disputing the right of Italy-born Sonia Gandhi to lead the party. The NCP later became a part of the Congress-led UPA governments at the Centre in which Pawar served as agriculture minister.In Maharashtra, the Congress and NCP shared power till 2014 when the Aghadi government was defeated by the BJP.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sharad-pawar-backstabbed-congress-can-t-be-shivsainik-s-guru-anant-geete-101632205653008.html
21-09-2021||India||Amended Bill in Rajasthan legitimises child marriages, says NCPCR||The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) on Monday wrote to Rajasthan governor Kalraj Mishra expressing concern over the passage of the Registration of Marriages (Amendment) Bill in the state saying it legitimises child marriages.“The Commission is apprehensive that the enactment of Registration of Marriages (Amendment) Bill, 2021 may have a serious impact on the physical, psychological, social and education of minors in the State,” the commission said in its letter to Mishra. It added the Bill provides for the registration of child marriages. “The Bill further states that the marriage between a bridegroom who has not completed 21 years and a bride who has not completed 18 years of age could be registered by parents or guardians within 30 days of the marriage.”The Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party opposed the Bill even as Rajasthan minister Shanti Kumar Dhariwal maintained registering a child marriage does not give it legal status. Dhariwal said anyone who organises such marriages even after they have been registered will face consequences. He cited a 2006 Supreme Court order and said it directed registration of all types of marriages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amended-bill-in-rajasthan-legitimises-child-marriages-says-ncpcr-101632204490559.html
21-09-2021||India||Maharashtra ACB gets nod to launch second inquiry against Param Bir Singh||The Maharashtra government has given the go-ahead to the state Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) for another open inquiry against former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh over corruption charges, people aware of the matter said. ACB is conducting a separate inquiry against Singh on the complaint of police inspector Anup Dange, who has alleged that Singh demanded ₹2 crore for reinstating him through a relative when he was under suspension last year.The latest inquiry against Singh is based on a complaint submitted in April by police inspector BR Ghadge. A First Information Report (FIR) was registered against Singh in April on the basis of Ghadge’s complaint alleging criminal conspiracy, destruction of evidence, and under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities Act).Also Read | Pornography case: Raj Kundra may walk out of jail todayIn his complaint, Ghadge accused Singh of corruption and taking money for postings of senior inspectors.Singh did not answer phone calls and messages for his comment.The state home department gave the go-ahead for the second probe on Monday. ACB can now call witnesses, suspects, record their statements and issue lookout circulars.Under open inquiries, ACB generally carries out preliminary probes against government employees, scrutinises their transactions, banking activities, financial dealings, property details to see if they have amassed any assets disproportionate to their known sources of income.If any cognisable offence is indicated, the ACB registers an FIR under the Prevention of Corruption Act and begins an investigation.Complaints started piling up against Singh after he wrote a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray this year alleging that former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh allegedly asked Mumbai police officers to collect ₹100 crore every month from the bars and restaurants. The letter prompted a Central Bureau of Investigation probe against Deshmukh and forced him to resign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-acb-gets-nod-to-launch-second-inquiry-against-param-bir-singh-101632202870204.html
21-09-2021||India||Military Nursing Service dy DG wins National Florence Nightingale Award for 2020||The National Florence Nightingale Award, the highest national distinction a nurse can achieve, has been conferred upon Brig SV Saraswati, deputy director-General of Military Nursing Service (MNS) for 2020. President Ram Nath Kovind conferred the award in a virtual ceremony on Brig Saraswati for her contribution as a nurse administrator.“As a renowned operation theatre nurse, she has assisted in more than 3,000 lifesaving and emergency surgeries and has trained residents, operation room nursing trainees and auxiliary staff in her career,” the defence ministry said in a statement.Also Read | Uri infiltration: Army search ops enter 3rd day; mobile services suspendedBrig Saraswati is from the Chittoor district of Andhra Pradesh and was commissioned into the MNS on December 28, 1983. She has served in the MNS for more than three and half decades, especially in perioperative nursing.She has served at several pan-India Army hospitals and United Nations Peace Keeping Forces in Congo, according to the government statement, where she has done various outreach activities for the troops and trained more than 1,000 soldiers and families in basic life support.She received the General Officer Commanding-in-Chief Commendation (2005), the United Nations Medal (MONOC) (2007), and the Chief of the Army Staff Commendation for her outstanding service (2015).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/military-nursing-service-dy-dg-wins-national-florence-nightingale-award-for-2020-101632201550255.html
21-09-2021||India||Farmers in Odisha continue to be the poorest: Govt surveys||Despite a separate budget for agriculture from 2012-13 and around ₹9,000 crore cash assistance to millions of farmers under the Kalia scheme since January 2019, farmers in Odisha continue to be the poorest in the country, two surveys conducted by the Centre have found.The All-India Debt & Investment Survey, 2019, conducted between January and December 2019 by the National Sample Survey Organisation (NSSO), the report of which were released this month, showed that the average value of assets (AVA) per farmer household in the state was ₹6.21 lakh. According to the last such NSSO survey in 2013, the AVA per farmer household in Odisha was ₹5.71 lakh.As per the latest NSSO survey, the AVA in rural Odisha was ₹5.32 lakh while in urban Odisha it was 13.41 lakh. It showed the rural farmer households in Odisha were the poorest in the country. They were poorer than those in rural Assam with an AVA of nearly ₹7 lakh. In Jharkhand, the AVA in rural households was ₹8.6 lakh. In Chhattisgarh, it was ₹8.9 lakh and ₹7.89 lakh in West Bengal.Also Read | Three government school teachers suspended for submitting fake OTET certificateThe Situation Assessment of Agricultural Households and Land and Livestock Holdings of Households in Rural India, 2019, conducted by the National Statistical Office, the report of which was released last week, showed that the average monthly income of an Odisha farmer was ₹5,112. The income was second lowest after that of farmers in Jharkhand ( ₹4,895).In 2021-22, Odisha allocated ₹17,469 crore budget for agriculture. The allocation was almost double of ₹5,627 crore allocated in 2012-13.Farmer leaders said despite this, they are not surprised by the findings of the surveys as there has been no significant investment in the agriculture sector in the state in areas like irrigation.“More than 45% of the farmers in Odisha are sharecroppers who have very little landholdings or are landless. If they toil in the lands of others, how much would they earn? If they till their own land, the rising input cost, as well as lack of remunerative prices for the harvest, locks them in a cycle of debt. The announcement of the Naveen Patnaik government about irrigating at least 35% farmlands in all the 314 blocks of the state has remained a mere slogan. Besides, there is no separate mandi for cotton, maize, onion or any other vegetable produce. How would the income from farming grow?” asked Ashok Pradhan, convener of the Paschima Odisha Krushak Sangram Samanwaya Samiti, a farmers’ association.Farmer leader Akshay Kumar said despite assistance under the Kalia scheme and having a separate budget for agriculture, Odisha has failed to create agricultural infrastructure. “Whatever is being done is only for short term relief measures. Besides, as a coastal state, farmers in the state are bearing the brunt of climate change almost every season. This year, rains arrived in September when paddy sowed in western Odisha districts has almost died. The farmers in Odisha lurch from one crisis to another without any major support from the government.”Another farmer leader Saroj said the Kalia scheme or PM-Kisan failed to benefit the intended beneficiaries as such schemes cannot address a deep-rooted problem. “Multi-pronged approach and systemic change can bring gradual transformation. While the Odisha government keeps demanding the Centre raise paddy MSP to ₹2,930, it is yet to give the bonus to farmers like neighbouring Chhattisgarh. It is interested in paying lip service.”State agriculture minister Arun Sahoo said his government is committed to ushering in sustainable growth in the agriculture sector. “The existing network of procurement centres is being strengthened to benefit small and marginal farmers.” He said a new agriculture policy aims to cash in on the untapped potential of the state’s agriculture sector while ensuring environmentally, economically and technologically inclusive growth. “Farmers are being imparted training on the use of technology in terms of emerging agriculture issues and solutions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-in-odisha-continue-to-be-the-poorest-101632199750211.html
21-09-2021||India||India's fresh Covid-19 infections fall to 26,115; active cases at lowest in over 6 months||India's daily count of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) witnessed a major fall, as 26,115 more people tested positive for the viral illness, the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) dashboard showed on Tuesday. With the addition of new patients, the nationwide infection tally has jumped to 33,504,534, as per the data.The number of active patients in the country fell by 8606 to 309,575. Active cases comprise 0.92% of the overall caseload; this is the lowest contribution of active cases towards the nationwide tally since March 2020, the health ministry noted in a statement. It also highlighted that these are at their lowest in more than 6 months, or 184 days.In another significant development, the percentage of people who have recovered from Covid-19 till now, has mounted to 97.75%, highest since last March. With the addition of 34,469 people who were discharged after recovery, the total number of such cases in the country now stand at 32,749,574. Meanwhile, 252 fresh daily fatalities took the toll to 445,385 or 1.33% of the total cases.The ministry also noted that both weekly (2.08%) and daily positivity rates (1.85%) remained below 3%, staying under the mark for the last 88 and 22 days respectively. 1,413,951 samples were tested for the contagious disease on September 20, taking total number of samples tested thus far to 555,035,717, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said. COVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes @PIB_India @mygovindia @COVIDNewsByMIB #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/YYv51yKYwOOn the vaccination front, at least 818,513,827 vaccine doses have been administered since the nationwide drive began on January 16. Of these, 9,646,778 were administered on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-fresh-covid-19-infections-fall-to-26-115-active-cases-at-lowest-in-over-6-months-101632196675605.html
21-09-2021||India||Come November, fliers from India, other nations can enter US with vaccine proof||Amid widespread concerns over travel restrictions to the United States, a senior government official said President Joe Biden announced on Tuesday strict protocols will be in place beginning early November to prevent the spread of coronavirus from international passengers.Once the protocol is in place, fliers from several countries, including those from Europe, the UK, India and Brazil, would be allowed to enter the US with proof of vaccination.The new policy will replace a patchwork of travel bans first instituted by President Donald Trump last year and tightened by his successor Joe Biden that restricted travel by non-citizens who have in the prior 14 days been in the United Kingdom, European Union, China, India, Iran, Republic of Ireland, Brazil or South Africa.According to a report by news agency ANI, the official said all adult foreign nationals would have to be fully vaccinated to enter the country.Also read | Afghanistan, vaccine protocol discussed as UK, India foreign ministers meet“Today, President Biden announced that beginning in early November, US will be putting in place strict protocols to prevent spread of Covid-19 from passengers flying internationally into the US by requiring that adult foreign nationals traveling here be fully vaccinated,” the senior official was quoted as saying.He said, “But we’re very proud of the fact that we’ve been able to develop a protocol that would permit travel by individuals and families and business people from the EU and UK, as well as from Brazil and India and other countries, to the United States with proof of vaccination.”Also read | Working with India, says UK on recognising Covishield vaccine certificateAs the US would soon be moving towards a consistent requirement for all international fliers, there would be no specific restriction for individual countries. “Critically for our European partners and the UK, this policy means that we'll no longer be implementing current 212(f) travel policies for individual countries as of early November. We’ll be moving to a consistent requirement for all international air travelers coming to the US,” he added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/come-november-fliers-from-india-other-nations-can-enter-us-with-vaccine-proof-101632197405711.html
21-09-2021||India||Kerala auto driver wins ₹12 crore in lottery||Sometimes lady luck seems to be hiding inside 'fancy' things. At least it so happened to a Kerala auto driver who will now smile all his way to the bank with the help of a 'fancy' lottery ticket that fetched him a ₹12 crore jackpot. A day after the Onam bumper lottery results were announced, the lucky winner was identified on Monday as Jayapalan P R, an auto driver from Maradu near here. The result was announced on Sunday and the ticket bearing serial number TE 645465 emerged as the lucky winner."I bought the ticket on September 10 from Tripunithura. I found this number as a fancy number," Jayapalan told reporters. The auto driver would take home over ₹7 crore of the total bounty, after deduction of tax.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-auto-driver-wins-rs-12-crore-in-lottery-101632195049268.html
21-09-2021||India||Uri infiltration: Army search ops enter 3rd day; mobile services suspended||The Army’s operation to track down a group of infiltrators that sneaked into Uri along the Line of Control (LoC) in the Baramulla district of Jammu and Kashmir entered into the third day on Tuesday even as mobile voice calls and the internet were suspended in the area on Monday afternoon.The operation was launched after the Army said it detected movement of the infiltrators close to LoC and since then the forces have been trying to locate them. People aware of the matter said the Army had inputs that a fresh group of infiltrators has sneaked into Uri via Gawahalan village taking the cover of darkness and thick foliage. The operation is going on and a high alert has been sounded for the Army camps located in the area.Also Read | Don’t approach higher offices for redress of grievance: J&K admn to government employeesLocals said that from Monday afternoon, mobile and internet services have been suspended in the area as the Army believes that the fresh group of infiltrators could use mobile phones to get in touch with their local contacts.Uri is located close to the LoC and is among shortest routes for infiltration even as a three-tier security cover is in place in the region. Defence spokesperson Col Emron Masavi on Monday confirmed that suspicious movement was detected along the LoC over the weekend. “Search of the area is under progress,” he said.Army’s 15 Corps commander Lt General DP Panday told journalists on Monday that there have been two successful attempts of infiltration in Kashmir. He added one group of infiltrators was neutralised in Bandipora and an operation to track down another group is underway.This year, there has been a significant drop in infiltration attempts along the LoC, the Army has said. September and October are crucial vis-a-vis infiltration attempts as passes and ridges generally used for the infiltration close due to heavy snowfall from November.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-operation-to-track-down-infiltrators-continues-in-kashmir-101632196510615.html
21-09-2021||India||‘Astrology no excuse to resile from vow to marry, avoid rape case’: Bombay HC||Bombay high court has refused to accept ‘astrological incompatibility’ as a valid reason for a Badlapur resident to resile from his promise to marry his girlfriend and get himself cleared of the charge of rape under the guise of false promise of marriage.33-year-old Avishek Mitra had moved HC after an additional sessions judge at Dindoshi rejected his plea for discharge from the rape case, registered by Borivali police on the basis of a complaint lodged by his girlfriend, a Borivali resident.She alleged that the two knew each other since 2012 as they worked together at a five star hotel in Mumbai and during the course the accused exploited her emotionally to have physical relationship with him, under false promise of marriage.She added that when she conceived, the accused forced her to abort, claiming that he wanted to marry her, but two years later. However, she said, from December 2012, he started avoiding her and on December 28, she lodged a police complaint.As the assistant commissioner of police referred them for counselling, the accused appeared along with his parents on January 4, 2013 and unconditionally agreed to marry her. Two days later, the complainant withdrew her complaint, but to her surprise, on January 18, the accused wrote to the counsellor backtracking from marriage.Eventually, the complainant filed a fresh complaint and the police registered an offence, and subsequently also filed a charge-sheet against the accused. The accused moved HC after the trial court last year rejected his plea for discharge.Before HC, it was argued on his behalf that the material on record did not suggest that there was absolutely no intent on his part to marry the complainant when he entered upon the relationship, nor could it be suggested that the promise to marry was false.His counsel added that at the most it could be regarded as a case of breach of promise on account of astrological incompatibility, since the horoscopes of the two did not match. A single judge bench of justice Sandeep Shinde refused to accept the contention. “It is apparent that the applicant in the guise of astrological incompatibility of the horoscopes avoided the promise,” said the bench. “Thus, I am convinced that the material on record suggests, it is a case of false promise to marry which apparently vitiates the complainant’s consent,” justice Shinde concluded and dismissed the plea of the accused for discharge.“In the case in hand, there is sufficient material to suggest that since inception, the applicant had no intention of upholding his promise to marry the complainant,” said the judge. “Prima-facie, I am of the view that the applicant prevailed over the complainant to withdraw her first complaint by promising that he would marry her. However, his intentions were otherwise. Had the intentions been bonafide and true, the applicant would not have addressed a letter to Mr Parulekar (counsellor) and resiled from his promise tomarry the complainant.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/astrology-no-excuse-to-resile-from-vow-to-marry-avoid-rape-case-bombay-hc-101632195009917.html
21-09-2021||India||Widespread rain likely over MP, east Rajasthan, Uttarakhand this week||Widespread rain is likely to continue over parts of central and northwest India particularly Uttarakhand this week, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).A low pressure area is lying over southern parts of Gangetic West Bengal and neighbourhood. A cyclonic circulation is lying over east Rajasthan & neighbourhood and extends upto mid-tropospheric levels. The western part of the monsoon trough is lying south of its normal position and its eastern end is near its normal position. Widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls very likely over east Rajasthan and west Madhya Pradesh till September 25,and over east Madhya Pradesh, Vidarbha till September 23 and Chhattisgarh, Madhya Maharashtra, Marathawada and Konkan and Goa till today. Also Read | India can achieve net zero in greenhouse gases emission by 2065-70, says MontekScattered to fairly widespread rainfall with isolated heavy rain is very likely over Uttarakhand till September 25. Widespread and heavy rain is likely to continue over Odisha and Gangetic West Bengal today. A cyclonic circulation likely to form over eastcentral and adjoining northeast Bay of Bengal around September 25. It is likely to move westnorthwestwards and reach Odisha coast during the subsequent 48 hours. Under its influence, a fresh spell of heavy rainfall is likely over Odisha and adjoining areas from September 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/widespread-rain-likely-over-mp-east-rajasthan-uttarakhand-this-week-101632194949934.html
21-09-2021||India||Assam Congress says it suffered due to alliances, to go alone in by-polls||The Congress party said on Monday it will fight the upcoming assembly by-polls in Assam on its own since it has suffered due to alliances in the past. “We’ve suffered due to alliances. Local leaders have been disheartened due to losses sustained in the last assembly polls. We want to strengthen our roots and contest the coming by-polls alone,” Assam Congress president Bhupen Kumar Borah said during an interaction with senior journalists in Guwahati. Congress had formed a ‘mahajot’ (grand alliance) of 10 parties for assembly polls held earlier this year to counter the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its allies. It managed to win 29 seats while the grand alliance bagged 50 of the total 126 seats. The BJP and its allies returned to power with 75 seats. Last month, Congress decided to sever ties with the All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF), a partner in the ‘mahajot’ which had won 16 seats. By-elections to six assembly seats are expected to take place in coming weeks. Two seats were left vacant after the deaths of lawmakers, one each from Bodoland People’s Front (BPF) and United Peoples Party Liberal (UPPL) due to Covid-19. Three other seats fell vacant after two Congress and one AIUDF MLA shifted to the BJP. The sixth seat is likely to be vacated by former chief minister and Majuli MLA Sarbananda Sonowal, who joined the Union cabinet earlier this year. Sonowal is expected to win Assam’s vacant Rajya Sabha seat without contest since opposition parties, including the Congress, haven’t decided on fielding any candidate yet for the October 4 poll. Borah said on Monday that the Congress is still undecided whether it will contest all the six seats where by-polls will be held.Notification for the by-polls to the assembly seats is yet to be released. “We need to be realistic. We lost the Majuli seat by over 48,000 votes in the assembly polls. Hence, it might not be reasonable to contest from there. We will definitely contest four of the six seats. Applications have been invited from prospective candidates and the deadline for it is September 27,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-congress-says-it-suffered-due-to-alliances-to-go-alone-in-bypolls-101632193269969.html
21-09-2021||India||Afghanistan, vaccine protocol discussed as UK, India foreign ministers meet||The situation in Afghanistan and the early resolution of the issue of Indian travellers to the UK having to quarantine for 10 days figured in a meeting between external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his British counterpart Liz Truss on the margins of the UN General Assembly in New York. Both India and the UK have expressed concerns about the lack of inclusivity in the new setup created by the Taliban following the group’s takeover of Afghanistan last month. The two countries have also said that Afghan soil should not become a hub for terrorism. “Exchanged views on developments in Afghanistan and the Indo-Pacific. Urged early resolution of quarantine issue in mutual interest,” Jaishankar tweeted after his meeting with Truss on Monday. Jaishankar said he had also discussed progress on the Roadmap 2030 that aims to elevate relations to a comprehensive strategic partnership over the next decade. The road map was adopted at a virtual summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his UK counterpart Boris Johnson in May, when the two sides also launched an Enhanced Trade Partnership and unveiled plans to finalise an interim trade deal by mid-2022. Also Read | Afghanistan crisis, China border row major security challenges for India: ShringlaThis was Jaishankar’s first meeting with Truss since she was appointed the UK foreign secretary last week, replacing Dominic Raab. Truss has played a key role in advancing trade ties with India in her former role as secretary of state for international trade. The issue of vaccine certification emerged as a fresh irritant in India-UK ties as Indian nationals who have received even the AstraZeneca vaccine as considered to be unvaccinated under new British travel rules that will come into effect from October 4. The UK said on Monday it is working with India on the recognition of Covid-19 vaccine certification issued by India authorities following criticism of the new travel restrictions. A British high commission spokesperson said: “We are engaging with the government of India to explore how we could expand UK recognition of vaccine certification to people vaccinated by a relevant public health body in India.” The UK is committed to opening up international travel “as soon as is practicable” and the new rules were a “further step to enable people to travel more freely again, in a safe and sustainable way, while protecting public health”. The new rules, which were unveiled by Britain on Friday, were described by the UK as an effort to change the current “red, amber, green traffic light system” to a single red list of countries and “simplified travel measures” for arrivals from around the world. The Indian side was especially upset by the new rules as vaccination-related travel restrictions had been repeatedly taken up with the UK at the highest levels, including by foreign secretary Harsh Shringla and external affairs minister S Jaishankar, in recent months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/af-vaccine-certification-figure-in-meeting-between-india-uk-foreign-ministers-101632192789640.html
21-09-2021||India||Army's combing ops continue in Uri; mobile services, internet snapped||The Indian Army operation in Jammu and Kashmir's Uri is going on for more than 30 hours, Hindustan Times' sister publication Livehindustan reported on Tuesday. The forces launched the combing operation after detection of suspicious movement along the Line of Control (LoC) on the intervening night of September 18 and 19.Mobile telephony and internet services were suspended in the Uri sector on Monday due to the ongoing operation of the Army, news agency PTI reported. The soldiers also intensified its combing operation, PTI reported quoting officials.The Army had detected the “suspicious movement” along the LoC in Uri Sector on the night intervening September 18 and 19 following which an operation was launched in the area.Earlier, a police team in Noor Bagh area of Srinagar was attacked by terrorists on Saturday."A team of Police while laying cordon came under fire from terrorists in Noor Bagh, Srinagar. Terrorists fled the scene -1 pistol and 1 AK 47 recovered. Reinforcement of Police and CRPF expanded the cordoned area. Search underway," said Jammu and Kashmir Police.According to Jammu and Kashmir police, terrorists fled after firing and dropped their weapons.A labourer was shot dead by unidentified terrorists in the Nehama area Kulgam district on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/armyc-combing-ops-continue-in-uri-mobile-services-internet-snapped-101632191742324.html
21-09-2021||India||PM Modi to focus on counter-radicalisation at UNGA to fight extremist ideologies||Addressing the plenary session of the SCO Council of Heads of State on September 17, Prime Minister Modi called for SCO to develop a strong network between the moderate, tolerant, and inclusive institutions and traditions associated with Islam in India. He asked almost all SCO countries to address the challenge of increased radicalism in the region, which is at the root of the challenges of peace, security, and trust deficit.With Taliban military occupation of Afghanistan and its extremist ideology set to dominate the UNGA this week, Prime Minister will talk about counter-radicalization and other tools to fight political Islam in his speech on September 25. It is the weaponization of religion with an aim to capture political power that has led to bloodshed in Af-Pak region.This important statement came as the first SCO Summit met after the departure of American and NATO forces from Afghanistan and Taliban once again took complete control over the country. Concerns have once again risen about the fate of the Afghan people, impact on regional stability and security, and the likelihood of Afghanistan once again becoming a well spring of terrorism. At the very least, Taliban have already shown that their extremist ideology is not a thing of the past.Prime Minister Modi has made five important points. One, he has pointed to the Islamic heritage of India, which is inclusive, tolerant, and moderate. Two, this version of Islam has been the prevalent one in the region for centuries. Three, as he has argued over the past several years, the fight against terrorism will succeed when terrorism is delinked from religion and when the more enlightened, progressive and inclusive vision of Islam prevails over the radical and extremist interpretation of Islam, for political purpose, in this contest of ideas. Four, he has once again, as he had done in Central Asia tour in 2015, reminded the world of the spiritual links between India and Central Asia. Five, he has rejected the idea of an inevitable clash of civilisations.PM Modi also sees Afghanistan in that context. In his address at the inauguration of the Afghan Parliament building in December 2015 or during the inauguration of the Salma Dam a few months later, he lauded the tradition of liberalism, the message of Sufi saints of Afghanistan and the achievements of the country in literature and poetry. At the SCO Summit, he was once again making the point that the Taliban way of life is not either natural or inevitable for the people of Afghanistan. This is an important message that we will carry to Washington DC and UNGA in New York.With Taliban military occupation of Afghanistan and its extremist ideology set to dominate the UNGA this week, Prime Minister will talk about counter-radicalization and other tools to fight political Islam in his speech on September 25. It is the weaponization of religion with an aim to capture political power at the behest of an ambitious and unscrupulous neighbour Pakistan that has led to bloodshed in Af-Pak regionBeyond the state sponsorship of terrorism by Pakistan against India as a politico-military strategy, terrorism has also sprung from violent and extremist twists given to certain schools of Islamic thoughts. Some of it is framed against occupation and injustice by the western world or for political purpose. Often, though, it has also turned into a contest between different strains for domination, leading to spiralling level of violence. Institutions of undivided India have taken different forms in independent India and Pakistan.This is not the first time PM Modi has spoken about the need for advancing the traditions of Sufism and the liberal worldview of Islam to combat terrorism and extremism. He spoke at length on this issue in the keynote address to the World Sufi Forum in Delhi in March 2016. Just as he had called for reviving the ancient Buddhist links for a peaceful future in Asia in his address to the Parliament in Mongolia.In his remarks, PM Modi has once again highlighted that in addition to the instruments of diplomacy, military and intelligence, it is important to win the battle of ideas, hearts and minds to deal with the security challenges in the region. This was also a clear message to Pakistan that has sought to use Islam to pursue its own political aims and project the existence of a polarised religious order in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-focus-on-counter-radicalisation-at-unga-to-fight-extremist-ideologies-101632191284445.html
21-09-2021||India||Coal scam case: Delhi HC to hear Abhishek Banerjee’s plea challenging ED summons||The Delhi high court will on Tuesday hear a plea filed by Trinamool Congress (TMC) general secretary Abhishek Banerjee and his wife Rujira, challenging summons issued to them by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in connection with its investigation into an alleged coal scam case. Abhishek is the nephew of TMC supremo and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee.The Enforcement Directorate’s investigation is based on the Central Bureau of Investigation’s (CBI’s) First Information Report (FIR), which was registered in November 2020 regarding alleged mass coal pilferage in Eastern Coalfields Limited mines in Kunustoria and Kajora regions of the state.Both Abhishek and Rujira sought the Delhi high court’s direction to set aside and quash the summons issued to them. Last week, the petitioners sought direction from the ED to not summon them to New Delhi and carry out the investigation in Kolkata, by saying that they are permanent residents of the city and the coal scam case pertains to the state of West Bengal.According to the plea, the ED issued fresh summons to Abhishek on September 10, under Section 50 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002, requiring the personal appearance of him along with a voluminous set of documents on September 21 in the national capital.The TMC general secretary and his wife have alleged that they have serious worries about the fairness of the investigation being carried out by the ED, "owing to the fact the respondent is adopting a pick and choose attitude with regard to certain people and is giving undue benefit and protection to complicit individuals and in return extracting false, baseless and malicious statements from them", news agency PTI reported on Monday.The plea also read that the central agency was selectively leaking information to the media, with an intention of harming the reputation of the petitioners and encouraging a media trial.Previously, the ED asked Abhishek Banerjee to appear before it on September 6, while Rujira on September 1. Rujira had expressed her inability to appear before the ED on September 1 by citing the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and requested the agency officials to visit her residence in Kolkata.“This refers to summons dated August 18, 2021, asking me to appear in person in New Delhi on September 1. I am a mother of two infants, and travelling to New Delhi physically alone in the midst of the pandemic will put me and my children at grave risk,” she said in a letter addressed to ED’s assistant director Sumat Prakash Jain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coal-scam-case-delhi-hc-to-hear-abhishek-banerjee-s-plea-challenging-ed-summons-101632189138637.html
21-09-2021||India||No indication of potential 3rd wave yet in Maharashtra: Minister||As active Covid-19 cases dipped below 42,000 for the first time in seven months, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Monday said there was no indication of a third wave hitting the state as of now. The state administration, however, will be watching the situation for a fortnight due to the festival season.“As of now, there is no indication of a potential third wave in Maharashtra. However, the daily tally is likely to increase owing to crowding to celebrate festivals. But if we ramp up the vaccination drive, it will help in containing the transmission rate,” Tope said while talking to reporters in Jalna on Monday.Maharashtra recorded 2,583 fresh Covid infections on Monday, pushing the state’s count to 6,524,498. The number of active cases reduced to 41,672 as 3,836 recoveries were reported in the past 24 hours. It was for the first time in the past seven months that active cases dipped below 42,000 since the beginning of the second Covid-19 wave in the state. On February 2, the number of active cases in Maharashtra stood at 41,586.The state on Monday also reported 28 infection-related casualties, pushing Maharashtra’s Covid death toll to 138,546. Ahmednagar reported 12 deaths, most in the state..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-indication-of-potential-3rd-wave-yet-in-maharashtra-minister-101632189129539.html
21-09-2021||India||PM Modi to address UNGA, meet Biden, Harris in US||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will have bilateral meetings with both US President Joe Biden (September 24) and vice president Kamala Harris (September 23) in the course of a busy three-day trip to the US that will see him addressing the United Nations General Assembly in New York as the first speaker of the day.The highlight of the trip is also the first in-person meeting of Quadrilateral Security Dialogue, or Quad, leaders on September 24, with Modi, Japanese PM Yoshihide Suga and Australian PM Scott Morrison being hosted by Biden in the White House. The US President will also host a gala dinner the same day.According to people in US and Indian diplomatic circles, Modi will also meet one-on-one with five chief executives of top American companies on September 23. While Apple CEO Tim Cook is expected to be one of the five who will meet the Indian PM in Washington, the other names are still being finalised. The same day, Modi will also have bilateral meetings with Suga and Morrison.
21-09-2021||India||Row over BJP leader Uma Bharti’s remark on bureaucrats||Bhopal: Former Madhya Pradesh chief minister and senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Uma Bharti courted controversy by saying bureaucrats are there only to “pick up our (leaders’) slippers” and that they have “no standing to delay anything.” After a two-minute video, in which the leader was purportedly seen making the controversial remarks, went viral on social media on Monday, she apologised for her comments.HT cannot independently verify the authenticity of the video, which was shared by several social media users.“Aapko nahi pata bureaucracy kuchh nahi hoti, chappal uthanewali hoti hai. Chappal uthati hai hamari. Hum log hi raji ho jate hai uske liye. (You do not know that bureaucracy is nothing. Bureaucracy is there to pick up our chappals (slippers). They pick up our slippers. We only got agreed for that),” Bharti is heard saying in the video.In the video, Bharti was seen interacting with some people and commenting on reservation. “Nothing is going to happen with reservation till it applies in the private sector. Everything is going to be privatised. The government land is being handed over to the private sector and what will happen with reservation…,” Bharti is heard saying in the video.Meanwhile, state Congress committee spokesperson Narendra Saluja said, “BJP senior leader Uma Bharti raised an important issue of privatisation but also insulted bureaucrats. She should apologise bureaucrats for undermining them. BJP leaders should also clear their stand on this.” However, BJP spokesperson Rajneesh Agrawal said, “Uma Bharti was talking informally with some people on her residence and it is her personal opinion. She is the right person to comment on that.”On Monday evening, Uma Bharti through number of tweets clarified her position. “I am thankful to the media for showing my full video. I am talking in favour of bureaucrats that some incompetent leaders use the name of bureaucrats to hide their incompetency,” she tweeted.“The bureaucrats always supports true and strong leader,” Bharti said in another tweet.She also said she was talking informally with a delegation of OBC leaders at her residence in Bhopal but she shouldn’t have used bad words. “I learned today that I should talk sensitively even among the limited people,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/row-over-bjp-leader-uma-bharti-s-remark-on-bureaucrats-101632168128079.html
21-09-2021||India||Rule of law is replaced by rule of jungle, says Tripura opposition leader Manik Sarkar||AGARTALA: Former Tripura chief minister, CPM heavyweight and leader of opposition, Manik Sarkar, alleged that after the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) came to power in the northeastern state in 2018, ‘jungle raj’ or lawlessness has been prevailing in the state and there is no implementation of the Indian Constitution. In an interview with Hindustan Times, Manik Sarkar, who was chief minister of Tripura for 20 years from 1998, also spoke about the Trinamool Congress’ continuing efforts to build its base in the state. Edited excerpts: How do you see the status of the Left parties in Tripura after the BJP came to power? The opposition is under attack in Tripura. They cannot exercise their democratic rights. We have never raised slogans of uprooting the existing government from the very beginning. I was restrained several times during my visit to different areas. Besides, many opposition legislators are also facing objections while entering into their own constituency. Being an opposition leader, I have to go to each and every constituency. People are struggling with poverty, hunger and other basic amenities. Should I not go to them? Opposition voices are scuttled here, there is no freedom and rule of law. How would you rate the BJP government in Tripura? The BJP failed to implement what they promised before coming to polls in 2018. Many of our party offices were set ablaze, party supporters’ houses were attacked and even the media is under attack. Advocates who stood beside the attacked people, also faced attacks. Practically, rule of law is replaced by rule of jungle. If we want to say in one sentence, there is no implementation of Indian Constitution in Tripura. Tripura witnessed a volatile situation recently. What do you think the reason for the situation? The BJP government has become unpopular due to its anti-people policies and attacks on democratic rights. They are getting more and more detached from people; these fascist attacks are out of desperation. The administration, on the other hand, has been arm twisted and pressurised by ruling party. Without any space to work freely, Tripura Police, which won Presidents Colour during our tenure, isn’t able to perform. We are absolutely unsatisfied with the action taken on the attacks on our party workers. But Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb accused CPM of violence and blamed the party of trying to plunge Tripura into lawlessness? (Laughs) People have seen what happened. What will be the Left Front’s strategy to fight the 2023 assembly polls? Our strategy is to stand by the working class people- farmers, daily wage labours, minorities, indigenous, other backward classes etc. We want to ensure peace and restoration of democracy. We shall build movement among the people.We accepted the verdict of the people in 2018. But, people have started raising questions about performance of the ruling government. Those who were misled earlier, have realised and confessed that they have made a gross error. A government, within so less period, cannot become isolated from the masses. We are in our real place - connected with the masses. That’s why, we had to face attacks. If we would have been in power, then attacks on party offices, vandalisation of former chief minister Dasarath Deb’s statue and other (incidents of) violence would not have happened.Apart from the BJP, the Left Front now has another contender, Trinamool Congress. Is there any possibility of forging an alliance with TMC or any other regional party for 2023 polls? The Left Front came into existence through ceaseless struggle on the basis of common people’s livelihood issues. So, from where does the question of poll alliance comes? The Trinamool Congress has not come to Tripura for the first time. They have been coming here since formation of their party here. We are expressing ourselves and they are also doing the same. People will decide which one is right and which one is not. So far, the Left Front is not thinking about electoral alliance with any party. Our daily activities are different from electoral politics. We don’t do politics only for the votes. So, question of political alliance doesn’t arise with any other party. If there is no chance of a pre-poll alliance with TMC, will the resultant division of votes help the BJP gain majority in the elections? How can you say who is helping whom in what ways? (smiles) How confident is the Left Front of winning Assembly polls in 2023? We are not thinking about this now. We are working to ensure food and shelter for the people and to restore democracy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rule-of-law-is-replaced-by-rule-of-jungle-says-tripura-opposition-leader-manik-sarkar-101632167771929.html
21-09-2021||India||Supreme Court seeks report over Aravalli encroachments||The Supreme Court on Monday said that unauthorised properties on forest land cannot be granted any protection, as it sought a report from the municipal body of Faridabad, within a week, on illegal structures located in the Aravalli forest and reasons for not demolishing them.The court has scheduled a hearing in this regard on September 27 and directed the commissioner of the Municipal Corporation of Faridabad (MCF) to present a chart of illegal properties. The court will also hear a clutch of petitions against the alternative housing scheme of the Haryana government for people evicted from Khori Gaon, an unauthorised settlement that encroached on 150 acres of the Aravalli forest.A bench of justices AM Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari said, “We direct the commissioner, MCF, to submit an area-wise chart disclosing the structures standing on forest land not demolished, along with justification for not demolishing the unauthorised structure, by the next date of hearing.”Senior advocate Arun Bhardwaj, appearing for the MCF, informed the court that its orders will be complied with. The MCF has, so far, identified 140 illegal structures, including farmhouses, of which only 10 have been demolished.Owners of farmhouses and banquet halls in Faridabad, who were issued show cause notices for demolition by MCF, also approached the top court with petitions against the MCF’s actions. The bench agreed to deal with these petitions on October 4. The owners were served notices under Section 4 of the Punjab Land Preservation Act (PLPA), 1900.The owners sought protection till then as their representations had been dismissed by a common order passed by the deputy conservator of forests, Faridabad, last week. The bench remarked, “We cannot protect you. We will not interfere if you are an unauthorised structure or situated on forest land. On both criteria, the corporation must proceed against such structures.”Senior advocate PS Patwalia, appearing for a few owners of the affected structures, said that in 2019, the state government amended the PLPA, by which the land on which these structures were raised have been exempted from the applicability of Section 4 of PLPA. But this amendment has not been put into effect due to a March 1, 2019 order of the Supreme Court in the MC Mehta case, which states, “State government not to act without permission of the court under the Amendment Act.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-seeks-report-over-aravalli-encroachments-101632167448082.html
21-09-2021||India||India jumps to 46th spot in 2021 Global Innovation Index||India has improved its ranking in the latest Global Innovation Index (GII), moving up two positions to 46, the 2021 report released Monday showed. India has seen a rising trajectory over the past several years, improving its rank significantly from 81 in 2015. “The consistent improvement in the GII ranking is owing to the immense knowledge capital, the vibrant start-up ecosystem, and the amazing work done by the public and the private research organizations,” Niti Aayog, the government’s think tank, said in a statement. Switzerland topped the league table, followed by Sweden, the US and the UK, said the report by the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO). Among Asian economies, South Korea jumped to the fifth position, up from 10 last year. China was in the 12th position. India attributed its improved performance due to the pivotal role played by the Department of Atomic Energy, the Department of Science and Technology, the Department of Biotechnology and the Department of Space.Niti Aayog, in partnership with lobby group Confederation of Indian Industries and the World Intellectual Property Organisation, will virtually host the India launch of the GII and the Global Innovation Conclave on September 21-22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-jumps-to-46th-spot-in-2021-global-innovation-index-101632167227888.html
21-09-2021||India||Supreme Court rejects Class XII student’s plea seeking resumption of schools, says cannot take over governance||The Supreme Court on Monday refused to entertain a plea filed by a Class XII student from Delhi seeking directions for the resumption of in-person classes in schools across the country, observing that the court “cannot take over governance” nor can it “issue a judicial diktat for sending all children to schools, oblivious of dangers it may pose”. A bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and BV Nagarathna said the reopening of schools was dependent on several factors peculiar to each state that only governments could factor in before making a decision. “The governments are answerable to people and they are also conscious that children will have to be ultimately sent to schools. We cannot by judicial diktat say you shall send all children to schools, oblivious of the danger that may be there. The complexities of governance immediately make this a matter where the court should not start issuing directions,” the bench told advocate Ravi Prakash Mehrotra appearing for the student, Amar Prem Prakash.The court emphasised leaving “something to the democratic way of life that people have chosen for themselves”. “Sending children to schools is the most fundamental duty of the local authorities and they are very well aware of it. Let us leave something to the government. The Supreme Court cannot take over governance. Let the government make these decisions,” the bench said. Prakash filed his petition claiming that deprivation of regular schooling was affecting the psyche of the student community leading to depression and social reclusiveness. His plea also mentioned the difficulties faced by underprivileged children, many of whom were unable to join virtual classes due to their weaker financial situation. But the bench said right at the outset that the Constitution puts education in the concurrent list that empowers both the Centre and states to regulate it. “You ask this child to focus on his education and not involve himself in seeking constitutional remedies. How can we ask all states to reopen schools? See how misplaced this petition is. Imagine the situation in Kerala, Maharashtra. Do you think the situation in Kerala is the same as it is in Delhi? We have just about come out of the second wave (of Covid-19). The third wave is still looming. We aren’t saying it will come and fortunately there are reports saying the situation will by and large remain under control but we will have to keep our guards on,” remarked the bench. It added: “Schools are reopening in different states in a phased manner. Many states have already opened schools for children between Class 8 and 10. Things are moving in the right direction...Vaccination is progressing apace. This court will not issue such orders.” At this point, Mehrotra argued that this petition was filed last month when several states remained indecisive about reopening schools. But the bench remained unimpressed: “The governments are ultimately answerable! They are also conscious of the need for children to gradually go back to school...Let the states find out where the spike is taking place, which are those areas within the state. There are states with 75 districts; some have 52 districts; there are states with high density of population in some districts and other districts with less density...these are matters which we should leave to the government.” Pointing out that states like Karnataka and Delhi have already decided to reopen schools gradually, the court said that these are issues that require balancing of interests of children who are home — how they are being affected physically, psychologically, and mentally — with the dangers they might find themselves in if they mix in school. “Can we divorce this issue from the policy decisions of vaccinating children which the government will decide in due course? This (subject) is too sensitive in terms of social policy, scientific data and available means to vaccinate children and school staff. For courts to issue such directions will not be proper,” underlined the bench. “We cannot pick up children in the first standard and combine them with these children who are making their foray into higher education...We cannot put our little children in any kind of danger. The government themselves have to tread with the greatest care when it comes to sending children to schools. When the governments are treading with so much caution, a constitutional court has to be more cautious and circumspect,” it said. Mehrotra, on his part, argued that the petition was not asking for an omnibus direction to reopen schools but was trying to highlight certain issues that were bothering the student community who wanted their redressal.But the bench retorted: “We are not saying this petition is only for publicity but these are areas fraught with dangers and we cannot venture into it. A child files a petition and we have an omnibus statement that children should go to schools. There is no scientific data provided. Of course, children should go to schools. School is the essence of childhood but how can we pass a judicial order to say irrespective of anything else, they shall be sent to school? We don’t need to queer the pitch today.” It added that the court was aware of certain incidents that happened in several other countries after schools reopened. “We are conscious of what is happening across the world. We will have to be very careful. This is a sensitive issue of social policy. Children are to be vaccinated, also relevant are the available means of vaccinating children, teachers, staff etc. You may withdraw this and pursue your remedies with the Delhi government. Let us not enter into a fraught area,” the bench told Mehrotra. Mehrotra opted to withdraw the petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-rejects-class-xii-student-s-plea-seeking-resumption-of-schools-says-cannot-take-over-governance-101632166927825.html
21-09-2021||India||Top seer Narendra Giri found dead in Prayagraj, disciple detained||PRAYAGRAJ President of the Akhil Bhartiya Akhara Parishad and Mahant of Bade Hanuman temple of Prayagraj Narendra Giri was found dead inside his room at Baghambari Gaddi Math on Monday, police said. Giri was found hanging from a ceiling fan by a rope, officials said. SP (City) Dinesh Kumar Singh said a police team reached Baghambari Gaddi Math in the evening on receiving the information and found Giri hanging; forensic field units are carrying out an investigation and people in the Math were being questioned in this connection. A purported suicide note was found from the room and it named his disciple, Anand Giri, and two others as responsible for the extreme step, police said. “Based on the suicide note, we detained Anand Giri in Haridwar with help of Uttarakhand police. Anand Giri is being brought to UP for further questioning,” said Prashant Kumar, ADG (law and order), UP.Senior police officials including IG Prayagraj Range KP Singh and SSP Sarvshrestha Tripathi also reached the spot. Inspector General of Police KP Singh said police received a call from the Ashram at around 5.25pm informing them that Giri was found hanging in his room at the guest house of Baghambari Gaddi Math. Prima facie, it appeared that Giri committed suicide by hanging himself. His disciples at the math informed that the room was bolted from inside, said IG (Prayagraj range). “The eight-page suicide note mentions that Mahant Narendra Giri took the extreme step as he was not happy with some of his disciples. The suicide note also mentions his will about the ashram. The suicide note also mentions names of many disciples. Giri in the note said he wanted to live with dignity but was unhappy due to some reasons . His disciples have confirmed that the handwriting was of Mahant Narendra Giri but anything concrete could be said only after proper investigations,” the IG said. A heavy crowd of devotees assembled outside Baghambari Gaddi Math as news of his death spread in Prayagraj. PM Narendra Modi and UP CM Yogi Adityanath condoled the death. The PM expressed sorrow on his death and hailed him for playing a vital role in uniting saints of different streams while remaining true to spiritual traditions. Adityanath termed the death a huge loss to the spiritual world and prayed that God give strength to his disciples and followers to bear the loss. Deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya had met the 62-year-old Giri on Sunday. “I am unable to believe that Mahant Narendra Giri could have committed suicide. I am shocked, pained and at a loss of words. I knew him since childhood and he was always very brave. I had sought his blessings on the morning of September 19. He was very normal then…,” Maurya said in a tweet in Hindi. Meanwhile, AAP MP Sanjay Singh in a tweet expressed pain at the death of Giri under suspicious circumstances and demanded a CBI inquiry, claiming that neither the common man nor saints were safe under the present government. Deputy CM Dinesh Sharma while expressing sadness over the death said the state government would get the death investigated. Giri hailed from the trans-Ganga area of Prayagraj. He belonged to Shri Panchayati Akhara Niranjani, one of the ancient monastic orders of the country and of which he was the serving secretary as well. Giri was elected president of the all-powerful Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad, the apex decision-making body of the 13 recognised Hindu monastic orders of the country in 2014 for five years. He was re-elected to the post at a meeting of the Akhara Parishad held in Haridwar in October 2019. In May 2021, Giri had a fallout with his disciple and noted yoga guru and the then “Chote Mahant” of Bade Hanuman temple Swami Anand Giri, following which Anand Giri was expelled from Baghambari Math and Niranjani Akhara. Anand Giri had been accused of continuing to have connections with his family in violation of the set norms of conduct for sanyasis. He was also accused of financial irregularities associated with the temple fund, a fact that was confirmed at the time by secretary of the Akhara, Mahant Swami Ravindra Puri. The action against Anand Giri had followed a complaint against him in this regard by Narendra Giri. However, within a few days, Anand Giri had formally sought forgiveness from Narendra Giri and the Panch Parmeshwar of the Shri Panchayati Akhara Niranjani. Narendra Giri had then forgiven him and lifted the ban on Anand Giri from entering Bade Hanuman temple and the Baghambari Math that had been imposed on him at the time of expulsion.If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist. Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918, Roshni Foundation (Secundrabad) Contact Nos: 040-66202001, 040-66202000, ONE LIFE: Contact No: 78930 78930, SEVA: Contact No: 09441778290||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/narendra-giri-president-of-akhil-bharatiya-akhara-parishad-found-dead-in-prayagraj-police-suspect-suicide-101632166567857.html
21-09-2021||India||Supreme Court rejects plea seeking resumption of schools||The Supreme Court on Monday refused to entertain a plea filed by a Class XII student from Delhi seeking directions for the resumption of in-person classes in schools across the country, observing that the court “cannot take over governance” nor can it “issue a judicial diktat for sending all children to schools, oblivious of dangers it may pose”.A bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and BV Nagarathna said the reopening of schools depended on several factors peculiar to each state that only governments could factor in before making a decision. “The governments are answerable to people and they are also conscious that children will have to be ultimately sent to schools. We cannot by judicial diktat say you shall send all children to schools, oblivious of the danger that may be there. The complexities of governance immediately make this a matter where the court should not start issuing directions,” the bench told advocate Ravi Prakash Mehrotra appearing for the student, Amar Prem Prakash.“Sending children to schools is the most fundamental duty of the local authorities and they are very well aware of it. Let us leave something to the government. The Supreme Court cannot take over governance...,” the court said.Prakash in his plea claimed that deprivation of regular schooling was affecting the psyche of student community leading to depression and social reclusiveness.The bench said the Constitution puts education in the concurrent list that empowers both the Centre and states to regulate it. “You ask this child to focus on his education and not involve himself in seeking constitutional remedies...,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-rejects-plea-seeking-resumption-of-schools-101632166240768.html
21-09-2021||India||Opposition terms Channi appointment ‘electoral gimmick’||The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday termed the appointment of Dalit leader Charanjit Singh Channi as the new chief minister of poll-bound Punjab an “electoral gimmick”, and cautioned Dalits against the Congress’s “double standards”. The 117-member Punjab assembly is set to go to the polls early next year.Channi (58), the first Dalit chief minister of Punjab, was sworn in on Monday, a day after he was unanimously elected as the leader of the Congress Legislature Party of Punjab. The development comes two days after Amarinder Singh’s sudden exit from the state’s top post, after months of infighting between him and Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu.BSP chief Mayawati, former Uttar Pradesh chief minister and currently an ally of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) in Punjab, welcomed Channi’s appointment but said, “Making a person belonging to Dalit caste as the chief minister of Punjab is nothing but an election stunt. I have come to know through the media today that assembly elections in Punjab will be fought under a non-Dalit leader and not under Channi.”“The reality is that Congress and other political parties think of Dalits only in times of crisis.”The Congress’s decision to name Channi, who belongs to the Ramdasia Sikh community, assumes significance as poll-bound Punjab has a population of nearly 31.9% from the community.The BJP, too, alleged that Congress picked Channi merely to grab Dalit votes. “This is an old habit of the Congress. It believes that it can capture the Dalit vote bank by making a Dalit chief minister for a few months. A conspiracy is being hatched in Punjab to grab Dalit vote bank,” said party general secretary and state in-charge, Dushyant Kumar Gautam.He noted that the Congress made Dalit leader Sushil Kumar Shinde Maharashtra chief minister in 2003, but replaced him with Vilasrao Deshmukh when it won the 2004 assembly elections. “The Congress has humiliated Dalits innumerable times.”Hitting back, the Congress accused opposition parties for “insulting” a Dalit chief minister.“I want to tell all our friends in the media, please, you also do not grudge the young Dalit leader and the role assigned him as chief minister of Punjab. He will be our face (in the upcoming state elections) along with Navjot Singh Sidhu which is natural,” said Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala.Alleging that the BJP, SAD, Aam Aadmi Party and BSP have “unwarrantedly, shamelessly and regrettably” attacked the candidature of Channi, he added: “We would urge Narendra Modi ji, J P Nadda, Sukhbir Singh Badal, Arvind Kejriwal and Mayawati ji to not grudge the rightful due of a Dalit’s son who is today the CM of Punjab, and instead of shamelessly criticising him, they should hail his elevation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-terms-channi-appointment-electoral-gimmick-101632165854644.html
21-09-2021||India||Happy to see economic recovery: Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman||Days after announcing the mechanics of the bad bank that will remove ₹2 lakh crore of bad debt from the books of banks, and weeks after announcing a framework that will make more people eligible for loans and scrapping the retrograde retrospective tax, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman discussed these, and the state of the economy, in an extensive interview with Hindustan Times. Edited excerpts:You announced on Thursday that the government will provide ₹30,600 crore in guarantees to the National Asset Reconstruction Company Ltd to buy ₹2 lakh crore of bad loans from banks. This will be in a 15:85 split, with NARCL offering banks cash for 15% of the value of the assets and issuing security receipts for the rest (partly guaranteed by the government), which the banks can sell in the market. Do you think there will be appetite for these securities?Yes. That these assets have been sitting without resolution need not give us the impression that they have no value. The resolution formula is the one that will be given priority. Not liquidation. When you look at resolution – there is an implicit message being given that these are workable assets, and that with some doing they will be valuable. There will definitely be interest in the market.I lay a lot of emphasis on the professionals (managing the assets), which is why, along with NARCL, we have set up India Debt Resolution Company Ltd. It will have panels of experts; panels because the assets belong to various categories. These panels will deal with assets in domains in which they have expertise. With that kind of specialised application of mind on each of these assets, we think they will be made up in such a way, and valued in such a way, that the market will find it interesting. Bank officials do not have that kind of specialisation.IDRCL is key to this, right?IDRCL is 49% owned by the banks themselves; the Indian Banks Association will have to drive the process as these assets belong to the banks; IBA will have greater oversight on this. It is in their interest to have these run efficiently.There’s also a fee (against the guarantee) that NARCL will have to pay (to the government); the fee becomes higher with time; so the sooner you sell an asset, the better it is.Are you confident this will work?Yes, because this entire mechanism was driven by the banks; many of these big-ticket exposures are through consortia; unless all banks agree, no resolution is possible. Now because it’s through IBA, it’s for them to constantly keep moving towards better resolution, towards consensus.So something we have all been talking about for ages -- a bad bank -- is finally here.In a slightly different formation which will be a lot more transparent and owned by the banks themselves. In a country like the US, 99% of the banks are private. In India you have the public sector holding a big share. Is this a transient mechanism?At this stage, we are not describing what happens after five years. ₹2 lakh crore will have to be cleared in five years. Beyond that I envisage that the banks themselves will be professional enough to figure out how they are going to handle their non-performing assets. If at that time -- small asset reconstruction companies are not able to handle assets over ₹500 crore, and that is why we said this mechanism is for assets of ₹500 crore and above -- there is a need to continue with this for larger assets, they will continue.The misuse of a section of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC), where creditors agree to take huge haircuts, sometimes in excess of 90% on even good underlying assets, has resulted in demands for strengthening the law. Do you agree?Yes and no. Where the haircuts are so significant, I think some banks have also been sitting up and saying we can’t accept this. In one recent case that resulted in a 98% haircut, I was glad that two banks voiced dissent, and they also probably went to the court and sought a stay. Such course corrections highlight that the weakness is not IBC itself but in the way the issues are being resolved. So I would look for a solution to that rather than tinkering with the act itself. Where amendments are required to strengthen the act, I am in favour of them. But in practice, if there are ways in which people are either gaming it or conveniently giving an inference that is, in spirit, not in line with the law, I think other ways of legal redressal are required. It is not a weakness in IBC but in how people are gaming it. So we will have to see both – I am happy to strengthen IBC because it is one of the better ways of resolving; it focuses on resolution of a going concern rather than liquidation.India recently announced the launch of Account Aggregators (AAs allow individuals and enterprises to share credit and financial information relating to their accounts or transactions with one financial or service entity with others, with their explicit permission, so as to prove their credit worthiness) which could broaden the credit base even as it makes it easier for financial institutions to lend. How do you see the acceptance of these?The small and medium enterprises and the middle class will benefit from this. We are all worried about data privacy, and while there is a data privacy law that will come, taking this avenue to provide comfort to borrowers has been received well. I think the fact that people have grasped the details of AA shows that people are willing to see how it helps optimise the system.Are nudges required? AAs will become stronger only if more organisations with which people have dealings, telecom companies for instance, become part of the network.Nudges are required for many things the government is doing – even small digital adaptations that people have to do. A lot of small nudges have been happening in the past year, and that is evident in the way UPI (United Payments Interface) has been growing – we are extending it to overseas Indians now. The AA framework also needs a nudge. This is a great leap forward.But like you said, a privacy law and a data protection framework are needed.Necessary consultations will have to happen. They can’t be bypassed. If the stakeholders are brought on board; [if] their inputs are used to strengthen the law – then there is greater acceptability when it is passed. I don’t think there will be a delay; the more the consultation, the better it is. That process will be done.India has been ahead of the curve on many things – UPI, for instance, and AAs, but seems to be lagging behind on adopting cryptocurrencies.It may not be the best example, but take El Salvador. The way in which they went ahead to accept it (Bitcoin) as a currency. You’d think common people don’t care about digital currency; but the public took to the streets against the move. It’s not a question of literacy or understanding – it’s also a question of to what extent this is a transparent currency; is it going to be a currency available for everyone? El Savador may be an exceptional place where they tried some experimentation. There are other countries that are talking about the central bank having a legitimate cryptocurrency. That could be a possibility.A lot of consultation took place; RBI’s views were also taken; now we have to formulate this in the form of a Cabinet note on the balance we can strike. This is not an era where you can say I don’t care about what’s happening, or we don’t want to do anything. At the same time, are we yet ready to go the El Salvador way? We have to be sure that a futuristic thing can’t be shut out.I remember one edit writer for Mint suggesting four-five years ago that we should have our own Bharatcoin.We have to evolve something suitable for our systems. India has the strength of the technology; fintech gives us the command over the instrumentalities with which you can play; our economy is full of possibilities. So we have to be cautious; but we have to think it through.You recently scrapped the controversial retrospective tax and also offered a resolution for companies slapped with this tax. What has been the response, especially from companies such as Cairn and Vodafone?It’s been positive. We have had a round of discussions and haven’t heard any voices of discord. One of them had paid, and the government will have to pay them back but that should close the chapter, we shall not pay interest, etc. And they should end all litigation. Those details are being worked out.Vodafone is also a shareholder in Vodafone Idea, which is a beneficiary of the telecom package your government announced recently. Do you think enough has been done for the sector?Definitely. The way in which the package has come – it also brings in reforms. It removes a lot of anomalies, and constraints. Business has been given space to breathe. Government wants that sector to be run in a free manner and also have more than two or three players. For free and fair competition, markets should be given play; and customers will benefit.But with companies being allowed to pay some of the amounts being deferred under a moratorium through equity, the government could end up owing chunks of Indian telecom.I think it will be a special undertaking (a company set up for that purpose), not the government.Are you happy with the pace of economic recovery?I’m happy to see recovery; at this stage we want to have very positive signs from all segments so that mutually they create this thing called sentiment. If sentiment becomes positive, it creates a multiplier effect.What is your take on the growth vs inflation debate?I don’t think they are mutually exclusive. It is possible to have some level of inflation without affecting consumers. And growth need not be curbed because of inflation. Our push for growth will continue.At last week’s GST Council meeting, it was decided the timing for moving fuel under GST was not appropriate. When will it be?To a large extent, that depends on states feeling comfortable. States feel that they have very few items on which they can have a consideration to increase or decrease tax. Tax on fuel, liquor are in their hands. They feel that at this time they need to have revenues, and reach a level where they can let it go. I wouldn’t want to push states at a time like this. A post-Corona situation is not the kind of circumstance in which any state will have a comfort level (with doing this). At this stage, I am also not holding back any money that is due to them; and we are also ensuring they can borrow more.You have extended the cess but states have been asking for an extension on compensation, which under the GST Act ends next year.In the 43rd council meeting in October 2020 it was decided that the borrowing undertaken to meet the compensation can only be paid from cess, so it needs to be extended. Those amounts borrowed last year, and the amount we have to borrow this year despite higher revenues and paying up the dues -- just to pay back the borrowed amount, we need to continue cess till March 2026. By law, compensation can be paid from cess at 14% for five years. This is being duly complied with. Beyond 2022, compensation need not be given, but cess has already been extended for paying the loan already taken till 2026. Where is the possibility of extending compensation?So, there will be a shortfall in compensation this year also?There will be a little shortfall in compensation, and this year also we will have to borrow.Will you follow the same formula as last year?Yes, we will.Coming to the issue of excise on fuel, would the government consider cutting excise to bring down prices?The only very strong case for me to put forward – excise levied by the Centre is not value added; it is fixed. If it were value added, each time the price increases, it goes up. And prices are going up. So, I have to balance this with what’s happening in the states (Editor’s Note: Tax on fuel levied by the state is value added). It’s also a question of time. I won’t be able to comment on it beyond that.Do you worry about a possible taper tantrum and money exiting Indian markets if interest rates overseas are raised?There’s no point worrying; it’s more for the government and RBI to keep watch and smoothen any impact here; you can sense it in time if you keep a watch. There is a conscious effort to do this by RBI and the government. We are keeping a watch.There’s been a push by some countries to have India agree to net zero commitment on emissions. This could have an economic impact. What are your thoughts on this issue?The principle that the defaulter should pay holds good. The legacy units we may have are still not of that volume as that, which ages ago, the developed world benefited from; today, they can say these are environmentally unfriendly. If countries like us have to meet our development requirements, you’d still have to have some thermal units; coal dependence will be there to some extent. We are committed to closing legacy thermal units that are inefficient, coal guzzlers which have poor productivity levels, but completely removing thermal is impossible. Our economy has different regions at differing levels of development. We still have active mines. India speaking on this should be taken seriously because the PM has invested and is committed in renewable energy. Till now, what we have achieved in terms of our commitment in COP 21 have all been achieved with India’s own funds. That $100 billion supposed to be given to developing countries (by developed countries) has not even materialised. We have completely fulfilled our commitment in COP 21 but I don’t think we can rush into net zero.Last question. Are you satisfied with where India is now?I feel reassured. Indians have faced it all (because of Covid), have suffered, and have shown grit to come out of it. How much ever you do — and our government tried doing as much as it could – will not be enough. This is the kind of pandemic the world has not seen before, so I am willing to hear everything people say of what we could have done [better] and so on. But I am immensely grateful to the people of India. And looking at the way the vaccination drive is progressing, I feel we will come through it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/happy-to-see-economic-recovery-finance-minister-nirmala-sitharaman-101632165549044.html
21-09-2021||India||Patil: 99% of speed breakers on Karnataka highways unscientific||Karnataka public works minister C C Patil on Monday admitted that 99% of speed breakers on the state’s highways and roads are “unscientific”.The minister said this in the assembly while responding to a question raised by senior Congress MLA K R Ramesh Kumar during question hour, seeking details on authorized roads humps or speed breakers on the 52-km Hoskote-Madikere Cross road and 82-km national highway 234 connecting Mulbagal and Chikkaballapura.Patil, in his written reply, said the 52-km road has 33 authorized ‘raised pedestrian crossings’ and that 70 out of 84 road humps on NH 234 are unscientific.Unhappy with the answer, Kumar asked, “Are there any procedures for this? Is there anything-why it should be put and by whom? If there are so many unscientific humps, are there no officials? Why do you lay the roads spending crores?”Questioning whether officers don’t conduct inspections, he demanded that the minister suspend the engineers concerned. “If you suspend officials, then such speed humps will go....if there are some protests by locals, humps are put...to whom have you given this state to?”Conceding that road humps have become a menace, Patil said suspending officials was not the solution and that unscientific road humps come up at the behest of locals and at several instances, they get it installed by getting the contractor, in the absence of officials.“I agree that of all speed breakers, 99 per cent won’t be scientific...with the help of district Deputy Commissioners and Police, we will make all honest efforts to remove unscientific road humps,” he said, adding that this problem was not created overnight.Further, Kumar questioned Patil as to why he was “not applying his mind” with regard to the road leading to the Kempegowda International Airport.“You have the police to check speeding. You also allow tempos, auto rickshaws and scooters on the same road. People wanting to catch their flights on time get late,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/patil99-of-speed-breakers-on-karnataka-highways-unscientific-101632165430487.html
21-09-2021||India||Congress turns heat on BJP over petrol and diesel prices, demands tax cuts||The Congress in Karnataka on Monday protested against rise in prices of petrol and diesel by riding bicycles as the party continued to criticise the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) at the Centre and in the state for piling on the burden on common people.“The prices have increased drastically after Narendra Modi became Prime Minister. Both Central and state BJP governments are looting common man. Diesel price was just ₹47 and Petrol was just ₹75 when crude oil price had crossed more than $120 during Shri Manmohan Singh tenure,” Siddaramaiah, the leader of the opposition and former chief minister, said .The protest is part of the Congress’s ongoing campaign to pressure the Basavaraj Bommai-led Karnataka government to reduce the taxes on fuels and other essential commodities that have added to the burden of the state’s population who are severely impacted due to the Covid-19 pandemic-induced lockdowns.Siddaramaiah said that even BS Yediyurappa cannot save the BJP in the upcoming 2023 assembly elections.The Congress is trying to tear into the BJP which appears to be on the back foot with its internal political rumblings over issues like the caste census, reservation row, mishandling of Covid and its unwillingness to reduce the duty on fuel and other essential commodities.“People are frustrated with the steep increase in petrol and other essential commodity prices, and waiting for this government to end the term. People fear about cases being slapped on them if they voice their frustration against the government. People will teach BJP a great lesson in the upcoming elections and will send their leaders back to home,” the former chief minister said.The Congress and Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S), the two main opposition parties in the state, are trying to push the Bommai government to a corner in the ongoing monsoon session of the Karnataka legislature.Siddaramaiah has been a vocal critic of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the “Modi wave” that has helped the BJP win elections in Karnataka and other parts of the country.“Narendra Modi government has increased excise duty of diesel from ₹3.45 to ₹31.84 and excise duty of petrol is increased from ₹9.21 to ₹32.98. Let him reduce excise duty by 50%. Narendra Modi government has collected about ₹23 lakh crore as excise duty in last 7 years,” Siddaramaiah said.The Congress has travelled to the opening day of the monsoon session on bullock carts to mark their protests on September 13.DK Shivakumar, the president of the Karnataka Congress, said that the increase of prices of energy and other essential commodities was the doing of the BJP which was “pickpocketing” the state’s population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-turns-heat-on-bjp-over-petrol-and-diesel-prices-demands-tax-cuts-101632165429436.html
21-09-2021||India||Bill tabled by Karnataka government to protect religious structures from demolition||The Basavaraj Bommai-led BJP government in Karnataka on Monday tabled a bill in the assembly to protect religious structures from being demolished, a move seen as a way to circumvent court orders.The government tabled the Karnataka Religious Structures (Protection) Bill, 2021 and is scheduled to take it up for discussion on Tuesday.The bills “empowers the state government to make rules regarding the manner and conditions subject to which religious structures existing on the date of commencement of this act shall be protected.”The move comes at a time when the BJP has been at the receiving end of criticism from right-wing and other groups over a video of a temple torn down in Nanjangud by Mysuru district authorities. While the bill is scheduled to be taken up for discussion in the lower house on Tuesday, there remains questions if all religious structures that have been constructed on encroached land will be protected. The bill is also likely to set a precedent on how the government views encroached property and how such matters will be addressed.The Bommai government is moving quickly to pass a bill which will not only minimise the backlash but also has the potential to pander to religious groups ahead of the yet-to-be announced zilla panchayat elections, and 2023 assembly polls.“Provision empowers the state government to make rules regarding the circumstances in which protection to religious structures in respect of which any case relating to the removal is pending in any court of law,” the bill states.The Bommai government discussed the plan to bring such a bill at a cabinet meeting on Monday, a senior minister said, requesting not to be named due to the ongoing monsoon session.The developments come after a video of a temple in Nanjangud being torn down by an earth mover on September 12 had gone viral on social media with Mysuru-Kodagu member of Parliament Prathap Simha raising the issue to target authorities who were carrying out the drive with no consultations. The BJP has seen a backlash even from its own support base which, the party feared, would dent its prospects in the yet-to-be announced zilla and taluka panchayat polls as well as 2023 assembly polls. The demolition drive also brought together voices from various political parties with the likes of Siddaramaiah, the Congress’ leader of the opposition, and GT Deve Gowda, a senior JD(S) legislator, also voicing their anger against the driveChief minister Bommai had ordered authorities across the state to halt any such plans to demolish religious structures in the state. Speaking at the state working committee meeting in Davangere on Sunday, former chief minister and senior BJP leader BS Yediyurappa assured the cadre of bringing about a bill to save temples. Bommai had assured to discuss the matter in detail and discuss the same in the cabinet meeting on September 14, Hindustan Times reported. The Karnataka high court had pulled up authorities for failing to take action against illegal structures built on government land, prompting the Mysuru district administration to act. On August 12, the HC said the Supreme Court has stated that all illegal religious structures that were built after September 29, 2009 shall not be tolerated. The HC is hearing a petition to ensure compliance with the Supreme Court order on the matter. “It is considered necessary to provide protection of religious constructions on public places constructed before the date of commencement of this act, in order to protect communal harmony and not hurt the religious sentiments of the public,” the bill states in its objects and reasons. The bill further states that the provisions “empowers the state government to make rules regarding the circumstances in which protection to religious structures in respect of which any case relating to the removal is pending in any court of law.”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bill-tabled-by-karnataka-government-to-protect-religious-structures-from-demolition-101632165368312.html
21-09-2021||India||Rajasthan man arrested by Bengaluru police on charges of spying||The Central Crime Branch (CCB) in Bengaluru on Monday said it had arrested one person in connection with espionage activities in which this individual is suspected to have taken pictures of sensitive installations and shared them with foreign agencies.“On information of military intelligence, CCB traced and arrested one accused who took photos of vital installations, defence establishments and shared them with foreign agencies,” Joint Commissioner of Police (CCB) Sandeep Patil said in a statement on Monday.The accused is a native of Rajasthan and a case has been filed under the Official Secrets Act and Indian Penal Code, the official said.The photos were allegedly taken in other states and not Karnataka. Though the modus operandi of the accused remains unclear or the location from where the photos were taken, a city like Bengaluru has several defence establishments.Patil, addressing reporters in Bengaluru, said that the person was suspected to have taken pictures of certain defence establishments.“The suspect was taking certain photographs and other details of certain defence establishments and allegedly sharing with certain foreign entities. So in this regard an FIR has been registered and investigation has been taken up by Bengaluru police,” Patil said.The suspect was also in possession of a military uniform which he was not authorised to have.“The matter has been taken seriously and a very detailed investigation will be conducted in this regard,” Patil said.Bengaluru is home to Hindustan Aeronautics Limited, labs of the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), National Aerospace Laboratories and even the headquarters of Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO), among other public and private establishments. Patil refused to divulge more details of the suspect or the complete nature of the offence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-man-arrested-by-bengaluru-police-on-charges-of-spying-101632165307997.html
21-09-2021||India||Karnataka: BJP banks on booths to make inroads into JD(S) bastion Mandya||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has been busy trying to mobilise support in Karnataka’s Mandya district, about 100 kms from Bengaluru, keeping zilla and taluka panchayat elections in mind though poll dates are yet to be announced.District leaders of the BJP said the party is making efforts to make inroads in Mandya, known as the ‘sugar city’. “Till now we never went directly to people but are now attempting to reach every booth, creating awareness on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s development programmes as well as the state government’s,” said KJ Vijay Kumar, BJP’s Mandya district president. “There are 1,794 booths in Mandya and we have almost touched 1,400 till now,” Though analysts, political leaders and locals say the BJP has little chance to wrest the district from the JD(S), they do acknowledge the slow-yet-steady rise of the saffron party in Mandya, which could help it reap benefits in the future. Mandya and its Vokkaliga-dominated electorate mostly support the Janata Dal (Secular) and its supremo, HD Deve Gowda. However, the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, fought not entirely on the basis of caste, showed that the JD(S) can be defeated after Gowda’s grandson and then sitting chief minister HD Kumaraswamy’s son, Nikhil, lost by a huge margin to BJP-backed independent, Sumalatha. The JD(S) won all seven seats in the district in 2018 assembly polls as the Vokkaligas, who nursed a feeling of neglect under Siddaramaiah’s reign between 2013-18, stood behind Deve Gowda-led JD(S). The BJP is eyeing a bigger piece of this region (Old Mysuru) to help it return to power on its own in 2023, analysts say. At the heart of BJPs campaign, at least in Srirangapatna taluk of the district, is a mosque which, the right-wing groups believe, is a temple that was converted by Tipu Sultan. The BJP is sparing no opportunity to use the alleged forced conversion history of Tipu Sultan, the 17th century ruler of Mysuru, to mobilise the Hindu support base. A difficult proposition, analysts said, since Hindus are not a cohesive support base and are fragmented based on caste and sub-castes. NS Rame Gowda, former vice-chancellor of the Karnataka State Open University, said the BJP’s sphere of influence is not high in the district considering the caste factor but acknowledged the waning strength of the Congress in Mandya. The Congress and JD(S) share a bitter rivalry in Mandya and other parts of the state and disenchanted workers from both parties have preferred to move to the BJP. “The JD(S) and Congress will fight it out with either party getting slight edge. But there is no room for the BJP in the upcoming zilla and taluka panchayat elections nor any other polls,” a Congress leader said, requesting not to be named. The BJP won its first-ever seat in the district in the December 2019 bypolls when KC Narayana Gowda, who defected from the JD(S), won the seat and was made a cabinet minister for his role in helping BS Yediyurappa come back to power. “JD(S) is weakening not just in Mandya but other parts of the state as well,” said Professor Chambi Puranik, a political analyst.The JD(S) has often teamed up with the BJP to either lend support or get backing to defeat the Congress, which is considered the common enemy. Sumalatha, the sitting MP from the district and the only Independent to have ever won from the state in a general election, said that far too much importance has been given to caste in the political discourse and most of the elections fought now are “issue-based”.“I feel the BJP will have to work very hard to gain dominance in Mandya and I hope they do because we need to have a third party there,” Sumalatha said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnatakabjp-banks-on-booths-to-make-inroads-into-jd-s-bastion-mandya-101632165248960.html
21-09-2021||India||Farmers’ stir around Delhi sponsored: Karnataka chief minister Bommai||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai’s remarks, terming the farmers’ protests around Delhi as ‘sponsored’ during his reply in the assembly on Monday over the issue of price rise, saw heated exchanges between the ruling BJP and opposition Congress. “It (farmers’ protest) is sponsored by you (Congress) in Delhi. Farmers’ protest happened around Delhi. It did not happen anywhere else in the country because it is sponsored,”Bommai said.Congress leaders and legislators took strong exception to this, with party state president D K Shivakumar even terming the statement as an “insult” to the farmers and demanded that he apologise to them.Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah too termed it as the “most irresponsible” remark.Bommai’s “sponsored protest” comments led to a heated exchange between ruling BJP and opposition Congress legislators, throwing the House into chaos for some time.The CM, however, stood by his comments, saying the protest by farmers, who claim to be from Punjab and Haryana, was sponsored. “It has a political background, it has your sponsorship. It is for the sake of MSP (Minimum Support Price) politics,” he said.Alleging that commission agents at the markets were also behind the protest as they are worried by the new farm laws, he asked Congress not to ‘mislead’ the people of the country.Countering senior Congress MLA Ramesh Kumar’s query to spell out whether the protest was sponsored by ‘foreign hands’ and who was behind it, Bommai pointed that during Indira Gandhi’s tenure in 1972-75 these forces were blamed for every protest in the country, whether it was farmers or labourers.“But we are not saying foreign hands, as foreign agents have already been close to the administration....foreign agents and commission agents who want to control APMCs are sponsoring this protest,” he added.Rebuking Siddaramaiah for his recent comments, accusing BJP governments in the state and Centre of “criminal loot”, Bommai, while initiating the debate, asked “does this mean governments of all parties in the past that increased prices have indulged in criminal loot?” In reply, the LoP said the CM, by this statement, has admitted that criminal loot has taken place and pointed out that he had borrowed these words from former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee, who had used it when he was Jana Sangh MP in 1973 and Indira Gandhi was Prime Minister, in protest against the seven paise increase in fuel prices. To Bommai’s query on why he was in “pain” hearing his reply, Siddaramaiah said “why should I be in pain? Narendra Modi and you should be pained as you people have indulged in criminal loot,” resulting in heated exchanges between treasury and opposition benches.Continuing his attack on Congress, Bommai said, “during our time there has been 30 per cent rise (in petrol price)...they (Congress or UPA) had raised 60 per cent during their time.””If you are upset with the word criminal loot,lets call it Congress loot...there is no issue.”This irked Congress members and Siddaramaiah raised slogans like “BJP loot”, “BJP is indulging in criminal loot”, “Narendra Modi government is looting the country”.Bommai, reacting to it said, “what Congress and Siddaramaiah is doing is nothing but scriptures in the devil’s mouth. With what authority are they saying such things at us? What moral right do you have after looting the country for so long?” Both party members then shouted slogans, accusing each other of looting the country.Noting that the price rise issue has been discussed several times in the assembly, irrespective of which party was in power or in the opposition, Bommai said rise in prices of petroleum products began in the 1960s-70s and there were various reasons for it.“India is an importer and consumer of crude oil and not the producer.. 85 per cent we import, so price fluctuation in the international market will have its impact on consumer countries like ours,” he said.Pointing out that during the discussion, opposition MLAs targeted only the Narendra Modi government on the issue of price rise, the CM listed out the petrol price rise from 1973, which varied from 60 to 150 per cent.“From 2014-2021 the price has risen from about ₹77 to 100, almost 30 per cent. Whichever party is in power the prices have consistently risen.. so blaming the current party in power is not right,” he said.Bommai said out of ₹36 lakh crore revenue gained from 2014-21 from petroleum products, the Centre has given almost 40 per cent of it to states.He also said that procurement of paddy and what has exponentially increased during the NDA rule compared to UPA. Also, MSP for various crops have been increased and the benefits have been transferred to farmers.The CM also charged the Congress with increasing excise duty over the years.Stating that monetisation does not mean sale, he hit back at Congress’ opposition to National Monetisation Pipeline, saying it was also done during UPA rule. He cited the amount of ₹80,000 crore raised by monetising Bombay-Pune highway. Bommai also hit out at Siddaramaiah and Congress on the issue of sales tax and said they do not have any moral right to question the government as it was they who raised it and did not slash it, despite demands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-stir-around-delhi-sponsored-karnataka-chief-minister-bommai-101632165247824.html
21-09-2021||India||Top religious leaders seek restraint, peace in Kerala over ‘narcotic jihad’ row||Top religious leaders in Kerala called for peace and restraint in remarks after a meeting convened by Cardinal Mar Baselios Cleemis, the head of Syro-Malankara Catholic church in the state capital in the wake of Pala Bishop’s ‘narcotic jihad’ jibe recently.After the meeting, the Cardinal said the meeting was not called either, to support or criticise anyone, rather remind and request that all religious leaders are duty-bound to maintain peace and harmony in the state. “We have to maintain utmost peace. Our words and deeds should not provoke anyone,” he said, adding such meetings will continue in future, which will help iron out differences if any. To a question, the Cardinal said narcotic is narcotic, and no prefix or suffix is needed on this. Representative of Thangal family (Muslim League supremo) Munavarali Shihab Thangal, Palayam Imam Suhaib Moulavi and Swami Jnana Thapaswi of Santhigiri Ashram participated in the meeting. “Our words should not hurt anyone. Kerala is known for its harmony and peace. We will have to work together for the prosperity of our state,” said Suhaib Moulavi. When asked, the leaders said if the government is calling an all-party meeting they will welcome it but can’t direct it to call a meeting. Though a section of religious leaders participated in the meeting, another section kept away from it. The majority section of the Catholic Syro-Malabar church did not participate. Pala Diocese is part of this sect. Similarly, Jamat-e-Islami and Samastha did not attend. On September 9, while addressing a religious congregation in one of the churches in Kottayam Pala Bishop Mar Joseph Kallaranghatt said Catholic girls and youth are becoming victims of “narcotic jihad” and decried authorities for turning a blind eye towards it. The Bishop’s controversial statement triggered war words between different communities and political parties and provocative rallies were held at some places. Despite mounting criticism, he is yet to dilute his position. Opposition Congress and BJP have been asking the government to call an all-party meeting for some time but the government is yet to respond. “It seems the government is waiting to vitiate atmosphere more,” said opposition leader V D Satheesan. In the wake of the controversy, party leaders had called on many religious heads. Meanwhile, SNDP (Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana Yogam), a socio-cultural body of Ezhavas, general secretary Vellapally Natesan criticised the Bishop, saying cassock is not a licence to say anything and create a rift in the society. “I personally feel maximum conversions are carried out by Christian missionaries. Even if “love jihad” takes place only a few women are converted but missionaries convert whole families and at times an area exploiting backwardness of people,” he said in Alapuzha, adding the Bishop’s statement was inappropriate and uncalled for.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-religious-leaders-seek-restraint-peace-in-kerala-over-narcotic-jihad-row-101632165189620.html
21-09-2021||India||NEET adversely impacts government school students: Tamil Nadu panel report||The Tamil Nadu government on Monday finally made the justice A K Rajan committee report on the impact of NEET on medical admission in the state public, which highlighted that if the centralised NEET continues for medical college admission, Tamil Nadu may go back to the pre-independence days of barefoot doctors.Much of the reports’ findings cement the state’s arguments against the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET), which the state government feels favours the privileged, and is against social justice. NEET became a reality in the state in 2017, following a Supreme Court order asking Tamil Nadu to follow the rest of the country. Data from the report shows that the state board students achieved the majority seats in the pre-NEET period, and compared to English medium students, the Tamil medium students obtained at least some share. “Similarly, the government students achieved a small number of seats. However, in the post-NEET period, that little share, too, was lost, resulting in further disproportionate seat sharing,” the report found. The seat shares for CBSE students increased ‘exponentially’, while English medium students grew to become the largest seat holders in the post-NEET period from the status of second largest in the pre-NEET era, the report stated.The reports also showed that the average of government school students enrolled in MBBS courses went from 14.44% in the pre-NEET period to a negligible 1.7% in 2020- 21 post-NEET. The report finds a trend where post-NEET, the student size fell by 18.5% and 14.1% in government-aided schools, concurring that they would have migrated to the CBSE to have an edge in the exam. The report criticised the single window exam system for the entire country stating that it promotes coaching rather than learning, which puts repeaters in an advantageous position. “The coaching Centres make the students as ‘marks scoring machines’, as learning is discouraged in favour of coaching,” the report said. NEET is successful mainly for the repeaters (71 per cent in 2021), and those students who have gone through coaching (99% in 2020), data from the report shows. The report shows also said that Tamil-medium students getting into government and private medical colleges have fallen drastically. The percentage of Tamil-medium students who got into medical colleges came down to 1.6% in 2017 from 19.79% in 2010. In contrast, the number of students from English-medium, who secured admission in medical colleges, went up to 98.41% in 2017 from 80% in 2010. The previous AIADMK regime’s bid to get an exemption – similar to what the DMK has done now bypassing a Bill – was unsuccessful as the President didn’t give assent to the legislation, which was originally passed as parliamentary law. So, in 2020, the AIADMK introduced a 7.5% internal reservation for government school students to be admitted to medical colleges. “Until the 7.5% reservation was introduced, in 2020-21, the government students were the worst affected lot by the NEET,” the report said. The DMK, after coming to power in May, with one of its poll promises being the scrapping of NEET, formed the justice AK Rajan committee comprising nine members, including the state Health Secretary, Director of Medical Education. The committee had worked for a month to examine the impact of NEET on social and economically backward students. Three medical students in Tamil Nadu died by suicide out of fear just last week that they cannot clear NEET which was held last on September 12. It takes a toll since NEET got introduced in 2017 to more than 14 students’ deaths.Their 165-page report concludes that if NEET continues for a few more years, the healthcare system of Tamil Nadu will be “very badly affected”. The committee, which received more than 86,000 comments from stakeholders, including political parties, non-political organisations, NGOs, educationists, public authorities, and social organisations, with a majority who were against the conduct of NEET.It warns that there may not be enough doctors posted at the various Primary Health Centres and in Government Hospitals. “Further, the rural and urban poor may not be able to join the medical courses,” the report states. “Ultimately, Tamil Nadu may go back to pre-independence days, wherein small towns and in villages only ‘bare-foot’ doctors catering for the needs were available. Tamil Nadu as a state would go down in the rank among States, in the Medical and Healthcare system.”The report has come up with seven recommendations for the state. It includes eliminating NEET through legal and legislative procedures. Medical education comes under the state list of the constitution, whereas standards to higher education come under the union list in which the state may not have powers over legislation. Alternatively, it suggests the state pass a bill that requires the assent of the President and to use class 12 board exam marks as sole criteria for admission--both of which is what the state did a week ago in the assembly. “This will ensure social justice and protect all vulnerable student communities from being discriminated against in admission to medical education programmes,” the report states. The report also makes a crucial recommendation for the reformation of school education so that learning is fostered through changes in curriculum, teaching methods to assessment-based board examination. This would empower students with subject knowledge, skills such as reasoning, decision making, and social disposition. “Especially, the rote form of learning assessment that leads to coaching shall be eliminated and that the acquired knowledge and skills shall be focussed,” the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/neet-adversely-impacts-government-school-students-tamil-nadu-panel-report-101632165130083.html
21-09-2021||India||Periyar: A social justice champion and beyond||Periyar was one of the most underrated social revolutionaries and political philosophers of twentieth century. Indian political system and its north centric obsession placed him at the periphery more as a dissent than as an untiring crusader for social justice. This prejudice is due to the nature of political discourse revolving around the great divide based on Aryan-Dravidian identity, language, socio-religious and cultural ethos. Periyar challenged the foundations of Indian philosophy with its roots in the Brahmanical Hindu worldview of caste and karma. Periyar remains hugely influential and relevant to the politics in Tamil Nadu because of his stance on caste, social justice and rationalist worldview of religion. One need not be an atheist to understand and appreciate Periyar. He continues to be the chief patriarch of Dravidian movement and parties committed to social justice. It is important to cite here “Article (15) (4) : Nothing in this Article or in clause (2) of Article 29 shall prevent the State from making any special provision for the advancement of any socially and educationally backward classes of citizens or for the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe”. It is this amendment which enabled the appointment of the Mandal Commission whose recommendations mark a watershed in the social history of India. First Amendment to the Constitution of India was made on the appeal and initiatives undertaken by Periyar to defend reservations. It is therefore necessary to acknowledge that his birthday being declared as the “Social Justice Day”, by the Government of Tamil Nadu recently is a message in the right direction. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) underestimates the social impact and political influence of Periyar. He remains the chief patriarch of the Dravidian movement in the twentieth century and continues to inspire the youth in Tamil Nadu. The dynamics of Dravidian movement is still tractable and remains a livewire despite the decline in ideological commitment among major Dravidian parties like the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) and the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK). Given the massive erosion and capitulation of AIADMK to the manuvres of BJP, DMK appears like the main rival of BJP. Periyarism continues to be the real challenger for its entry and growth in the state. It is the social ideology of the Dravidian movement and struggle spearheaded by Periyar stands as the great barrier between the BJP and its claim to power in a state like Tamil Nadu.It is important to observe that DMK has been on a steady decline since 2009 surrounded by mega corruption cases, political scams and succession dilemmas. DMK has virtually been revived by the challenges thrown up by the BJP because of the social and ideological foundations of the Dravidian movement. This has been demonstrated by the 2019 general elections as well as state assembly elections in May 2021. Today, Periyar remains the heart of battle between forces of Dravidian social ideology and Hindutva of the BJP more than ever before. DMK understands this reality more than ever before and therefore wants to consolidate the course and direction of politics in Tamil Nadu. In choosing to attack, humiliate and damage Periyar, BJP is hugely underestimating the social consolidation and political mobilisation that has been taking place in Tamil political society for over centuries in relation to caste, religion, language and identity. Periyar deserves to be placed beyond the north – south divide due to his lifelong struggle against the caste system in India and even dared to challenge Gandhi over his compromises. His leaving the Congress in 1927 was a momentous decision based on his political and ideological convictions rather than quest for power and personal glory. His heroic leadership and battle at Vaikom temple entry movement in 1924 and the lifelong resistance against caste based social order are distinct metaphors of his specific action and integral philosophy of his life. His departure from the Congress marked the beginning of the self-respect movement both as an inward journey and the course of politics in the Madras Presidency and later in Tamil Nadu. Periyar’s reasoning and rationalism sprinkled with brutal arguments were based on scientific knowledge and lifelong quest for justice. Though Periyar’s political journey and personal life was subject to a public scrutiny due to his marriage to a much younger woman known as Maniyammai many years after the passing away of his first wife, he remained an ardent defender and advocate of women’s rights over education, marriage, childbirth and property rights. He was first among those who wanted the women to join police and military services. His materialistic understanding of history, socialistic orientation and his attempts to integrate co-operative movement within the self respect movement has not received sufficient attention even among his followers.Periyar’s discourse on non-party politics and his debate with his chief disciple C.N.Annadurai (Anna) are among the finest revelations of the contradictions and dilemmas of power politics. He was stunned by the dynamics of power politics when Anna and others chose to move away to form DMK in 1949 and again overwhelmed at the success of DMK in 1967. During this period of nearly two decades neither Periyar lost his influence nor DMK failed to pay its emotional tributes to the chief patriarch of the movement. DMK has since then both lost its way and made an impressive comeback because Periyar remains as the touchstone of politics in Tamil Nadu. Prof.Ramu Manivannan is a scholar-social activist in areas of education, human rights and sustainable development through an initiative “Multiversity.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/periyara-social-justice-champion-and-beyond-101632165068079.html
21-09-2021||India||Madras high court orders eviction of illegal occupants of TN’s temples||The Madras high court has directed the Tamil Nadu government to immediately evict all those who are occupying the properties of a temple in the city as tenants/lease holders illegally and recover the revenue loss from officials of the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) department and the temple, who had colluded with the tenants/lease holders.Justice S M Subramaniam gave the direction while disposing of a writ petition from K Senthilkumar last week.The petitioner submitted that land measuring 3,227 square feet on MTH Road, belonging to Sri Agatheeswarar Swamy temple in Villivakkam was assigned to his ancestor, who had put up a superstructure some 30 years ago. In 2011, the petitioner acquired the property registered in his name by the Sub-Registrar. As the temple initiated eviction proceedings, he moved the high court with the present petition.Disposing of the same, the judge directed the Tourism, Culture and Endowment department and the HR&CE to complete the eviction proceedings in all aspects and take over possession of the properties and deal with the same in accordance with the provisions of the HR&CE Act and more specifically, for the benefit of the temple administration, immediately.They shall conduct an enquiry to assess the financial loss occurred to the temple and initiate all appropriate actions against the persons concerned for the recovery of the financial loss caused to the temple.They shall also look into the active or passive collusion on the part of the authorities in dealing with the temple properties in such a manner and initiate appropriate action against those who had contributed for the maladministration of the temple properties, the judge said.The judge observed that fraudulent and illegal encroachments of temple properties is a crime against society at large. Misappropriation of the funds of the temple is undoubtedly an offence and all such offences are to be registered and the offenders are liable to be prosecuted by the State as it is the controller of these shrines and the offences are also committed against the government, he said.Temple properties are allowed to be looted by few greedy men and by few professional criminals and land grabbers. Active or passive contribution and collusion by the officials of the HR&CE department cannot be overruled. These lapses, negligence, dereliction of duty on the part of such public officials are also to be viewed seriously and all appropriate actions in this regard are highly warranted, the judge added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madras-high-court-orders-eviction-of-illegal-occupants-of-tn-s-temples-101632164952204.html
21-09-2021||India||Tamil Nadu to sponsor professional education of government school students: CM Stalin||Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin on Monday announced that the state government would cover the full cost of professional education of students from government schools securing admission under the newly created 7.5% quota. “The government would take care of tuition, college, and counselling fees,” Stalin said, after handing over allotment letters for the first batch of students. Stalin issued admission letters to 50 students who would be admitted to the premier Anna University in Chennai under the 7.5% quota. The newly carved out reservation will ensure that at least 10,000 students would be able to get into engineering colleges and 350 students would join other professional courses, Stalin added. “This will ensure that the families of students, their hometowns and the state are taking the path to development,” he said.The chief minister likened this to a rural development scheme and the move comes ahead of rural local body polls scheduled for October in nine reconstituted districts. He recalled how, in 2016, the state had abolished the common entrance exam for professional courses as it put rural and poor students at a disadvantage. He added that the state has initiated a legal battle to abolish the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) for undergraduates the same way. Three medical students in Tamil Nadu died by suicide fearing failure to crack NEET last week, taking the toll to more than 14 students deaths since the examination was introduced in the state in 2017. Last year, the AIADMK, during its regime, introduced a 7.5% horizontal reservation to government school students, who cleared the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) for admissions into undergraduate medical colleges. A day after that the DMK, which was in opposition then, promised it would sponsor the tuition fee for government students in private colleges. Hours later, Palaniswami announced that they would come up with a revolving fund to pay the fees. In August, Tamil Nadu passed a Bill in the assembly to provide 7.5% reservation to students who have studied from class 6 to 12 in state government schools for admissions into professional courses. These include engineering, law, veterinary, fisheries and agricultural courses in universities, private colleges, government, and government-aided colleges. The Bill stated that the government had decided to take affirmative action so as to bring about real equality between government school students and private school students by setting apart a certain percentage of seats on a preferential basis. The decision was based on the recommendation of the justice (retired) D Murugesan committee, which was constituted by the DMK soon after it formed the government to address the issue of fewer government students getting into professional courses. The commission recommended not less than 10% of seats be set apart for government students to enter professional courses without affecting the existing reservation of the state. Students from government schools who got admission in government engineering colleges are 6.31% while it is just 0.44% in government-aided colleges, Stalin had said in the assembly in August. Only 3% of those who joined veterinary courses and 4.89 % who joined agriculture courses had been from government schools. The Bill was passed unanimously with the support of all parties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-to-sponsor-professional-education-of-government-school-students-cm-stalin-101632164951042.html
21-09-2021||India||Canada resumes flights to India after four months||Canada’s largest airline, Air Canada, has resumed operations in India after a four-month-long suspension due to the COVID-19 pandemic.Responding to a passenger’s query on resumption of flights to India, Air Canada on Twitter said it is resuming flight to Delhi.”Yes, the route is resuming,” Air Canada replied to a Twitter user.The airline said that the passengers who plan to travel to Canada (Toronto) must carry an RT-PCR test or Rapid PCR test taken not more than 18 hours before departure.“The only accepted COVID-19 tests are an RT-PCR test or a rapid PCR test that must be taken no more than 18 hours before your departing Air Canada flight to Canada from the COVID-19 Testing Centre & Lounge across from Terminal 3 at Indira Gandhi International Airport in Delhi,” the airline said.“Air Canada requires either of these specific tests. No other test from any other clinic within India will be accepted, even if you are connecting from a different city,” it added.The airline suspended India operation since April this year due to the sudden surge in COVID cases.According to flight radar, Air Canada AC-42 is currently en route to Delhi from Toronto and it is expected to land tonight.In addition, Air Canada has also confirmed to the passengers that a passenger “may also be able to travel if you provide proof of a certified positive PCR test result taken between 14 and 180 days before your scheduled departure flight to Canada,” Air Canada Covid testing requirements guidelines read.Air Canada flight operation to India is taking place under the Air Bubble agreement between 28 countries which includes Canada.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/canada-resumes-flights-to-india-after-four-months-101632164650814.html
21-09-2021||India||Afghanistan crisis, China border row major security challenges for India: Shringla||The situation in Afghanistan and the border standoff with China are among the security challenges confronting India, which is concerned about the recent changes in Kabul and their implications for the region, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said on Monday. While India’s immediate focus has been on evacuating its nationals from Afghanistan, the country has backed efforts to ensure that Afghan soil isn’t used for sheltering terrorists or planning terror attacks, Shringla said while addressing JP Morgan’s India Investor Summit. Speaking on the theme “India’s foreign policy and its strategic imperative: The way forward”, he said New Delhi has told Beijing that peace in the border areas is essential for developing bilateral ties in the wake of Chinese attempts to unilaterally alter the status quo on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) over the past year. Shringla said India is “naturally concerned about the recent changes within Afghanistan and their implications for us and the region”. He noted the recent UN Security Council resolution 2593 demands that Afghan territory should not be used for “sheltering, training, planning or financing terrorist acts”, and specifically refers to terrorist proscribed by the UN, including those from Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM). Most Indians were able to leave Kabul in August, and a number of Afghans, including minorities, who wanted to travel to India, have also been able to do so. “However, this process could not be completed due to the security situation at the airport. Resumption of flights from Kabul airport is, therefore, a priority,” he added. India is also monitoring developments related to the humanitarian needs of Afghanistan. “In UNDP’s assessment, there is an imminent threat of poverty levels rising in Afghanistan. There is also a threat of an imminent drought and a food security crisis. It is important for the humanitarian assistance providers to be given unrestricted and direct access to Afghanistan,” Shringla said. The distribution of humanitarian assistance has to be done in a non-discriminatory manner to all sections of Afghan society, and India’s approach to Afghanistan is guided by the civilisational relationship with the Afghan people, he said. He recalled India’s development aid worth $3 billion and more than 500 projects spread across all 34 provinces of Afghanistan, and said these initiatives had earned the country tremendous goodwill. Shringla listed the standoff with China and the situation in Afghanistan among the geopolitical challenges in India’s immediate neighbourhood. These situations were a reminder that traditional security challenges remain even while new realities are making themselves felt. “Chinese attempts over the last year to unilaterally alter the status quo in Ladakh have seriously disturbed peace and tranquillity in the border areas. These acts are in violation of our bilateral agreements and have inevitably impacted other aspects of the bilateral relationship,” he said. “We have made it clear to the Chinese side that peace and tranquillity in border areas is essential for development of our relationship. Development of India-China relationship can only be based on ‘three mutuals’ – mutual respect, mutual sensitivity and mutual interests,” he added. Shringla reiterated India’s stated position that the largely positive trajectory of India-China ties in the past 40 years was largely due to the agreement between the two sides to ensure peace and tranquillity in the border areas. India has insisted that the overall normalisation of relations with China is linked to disengagement and de-escalation at friction points on the LAC. On the other hand, Beijing has said New Delhi should take forward relations in other areas while dealing with the border standoff separately. Shringla listed several “megatrends” the country is contending with, including a rebalancing in which global activity is moving towards Asia, the rise of China, the pressure on international systems, the vulnerability of global supply and value chains, emerging technologies, and “a battle between schools of thought”. “The pandemic and its fallout pose the most serious challenge to policymakers in a generation and more. Governance structures, national and international, have been and are being subjected to unprecedented stresses,” he said. India is seeking strategic autonomy, but this does not mean “seeking self-centred arrangements or turning the country inwards”, and the country will work for a less skewed distribution of economic activity by “making Indian businesses and the Indian economy more globalised”, he pointed out. Shringla said India is set to participate in the first in-person Quad Summit in the US next week and the four members of the grouping are engaged on issues of connectivity, infrastructure, emerging technologies, climate action, education and Covid-19 responses, including vaccine collaboration and resilient supply chains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afghanistan-crisis-china-border-row-major-security-challenges-for-india-shringla-101632164467848.html
21-09-2021||India||Bengal BJP will not contest Rajya Sabha bypoll: Suvendu Adhikari||Kolkata: The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in West Bengal on Monday decided not to contest the Rajya Sabha bypoll on October 4, a development that will pave the way for election of the Trinamool Congress (TMC) nominee unopposed.Last week, the TMC had named Sushmita Dev, who recently joined the party after quitting the Congress, as its candidate for the bypoll. The bypoll was necessitated after TMC leader Manas Bhunia vacated the Rajya Sabha seat following his victory in the assembly election from Sabang in West Midnapore district. “BJP will not nominate any candidate for Rajya Sabha bypoll due in West Bengal. Outcome is predetermined. Our focus is to make sure unelected CM to be unelected once again. Jai Ma Kali,” Suvendu Adhikari, leader of opposition in West Bengal assembly, tweeted. Adhikari, who defeated chief minister Mamata Banerjee in Nandigram during the April assembly elections, was referring to her contesting bypoll from Bhabanipur seat in Kolkata. Banerjee has to win the bypoll to become a member of the assembly in order to continue in the chair. Reacting to the BJP’s decision, TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh said: “At least 24 BJP legislators are opposing the leader of the opposition (in the state legislative assembly). The party would get less votes than what they have calculated. Many would not even go to vote and give multiple excuses. That’s why they are not naming any candidate for the Rajya Sabha bypoll. As days go by, the number of BJP legislators are going to drop and the number of TMC legislators are going to increase. Jai Ma Durga.” Earlier too on August 9, the BJPs unit in the state had not fielded its nominee for by-election for a Rajya Sabha seat, paving the way for TMC nominee Jawhar Sircar to be elected unopposed. The TMC controls 11 out of 16 Rajya Sabha seats, while the Congress has two and CPI(M) one. Last week, TMC leader Arpita Ghosh had resigned from the Upper House on instructions of the party high command. The seat is now vacant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-bjp-will-not-contest-rajya-sabha-bypoll-suvendu-adhikari-101632164289071.html
21-09-2021||India||Naga peace talks resume after 2 years||Kohima Former special director of Intelligence Bureau (IB) AK Mishra on Monday held talks with Isak-Muivah faction of National Socialist Council of Nagalim (NSCN-IM) to revive the Naga peace process that was stuck since October 2019 over the rebel group’s insistence on a separate Naga flag and constitution, people familiar with the developments said. During the two-hour long meeting, the NSCN-IM stressed on the need to follow the 2015 Framework Agreement in letter and in spirit while a member of the outfit’s collective leadership Rh. Raising said that any solution without recognising the Naga flag and constitution would be unacceptable to both the rebel group and the Naga people, the people cited above added. The former IB official and top NSCN(IM) leaders, led by the group’s general secretary Thuingaleng Muivah, arrived in Dimapur on Saturday to resume the peace talks which got delayed following a fallout between interlocutor RN Ravi and the NSCN (IM) in 2019. It is learnt that around 25 top NSCN (IM) leaders sat with Mishra for the meeting on Monday.The Centre has also directed Assam chief minister and North East Democratic Alliance convener Himanta Biswa Sarma to meet the negotiating parties. Sarma, who was earlier tasked by Union home minister Amit Shah to act as go-between along with Nagaland chief minister Neiphiu Rio when the relationship between Ravi and NSCN (IM) soured, is expected to arrive in Dimapur on Tuesday.Rio already left for the Nagaland city from the state capital on Monday. According to Raising, the NSCN (IM) has not held talks with politicians or political leaders but was ready to sit with them if they were assigned by the Centre.On whether the NSCN (IM) was ready to sit across the table with other Naga insurgent groups for deliberation of a final settlement, the NSCN leader said there would be only “one solution” which would be inclusive and they could be a part of it.On September 18, all lawmakers in Nagaland under chief minister Rio agreed to form an opposition-less government, the ‘United Democratic Alliance’, to facilitate a final solution to the Indo-Naga political issue, one that is “inclusive, honourable and acceptable” to all. The move compounded expectations of an early solution to the issue. However, NSCN (IM) leaders believe that sealing the final peace deal would depend on the sincerity and commitment of both the Centre and Naga leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/naga-peace-talks-resume-after-2-years-101632164169690.html
21-09-2021||India||At meeting convened by the UN, Bhupender Yadav seeks transparency on climate finance||New Delhi: Union environment minister Bhupender Yadav raised the issue of transparency on climate finance and technology transfer from developed countries to developing nations at an informal, closed-door roundtable of heads of states convened by the UN secretary general, Antonio Guterres and UK Prime Minister, Boris Johnson on the 1.5 degree C climate goal, on Monday.Yadav told the participants (mostly heads of states. A list will be released by UN) that in light of the recent findings from Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s report and the latest NDC Synthesis report (released by United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change) that the developed countries have collectively emitted more than their estimated emission allowances in 2008-2020 period hence they should take greater action on mitigation and provide financial support to developing countries.“Yadav stressed that even at the UNFCCC there is a very urgent need for giving due importance to adaptation and discuss whether the scale of resources is commensurate with the scale of the needs of developing countries… he called upon the developed countries to fulfil their promise of the USD 100 billion per year goal made in 2009. COP26 should focus on climate finance in scope, scale and speed and transfer of green technologies at low cost,” a statement from MoEFCC said on Monday.Officials familiar with the meeting said India hasn’t made any commitment to enhance its nationally determined contribution (NDC) yet because it will be decided at the highest level of the government.“We have however made it clear that we are on track to meet our NDC and have a very ambitious renewable energy goal which surpasses the NDC. We will be part of the solution and not problem creators. Transparency on climate finance and technology transfer is what we have asked for ahead of COP 26 because that will be key in determining actions of developing countries,” the official said. He added that “the commitment to enhance NDC can be taken only at the highest levels which has not yet taken place. India at the moment doesn’t plan to announce a net zero emissions target,”Immediately after the meeting, UN secretary general Antonio Guterres held a short media stakeout where he said there is a high chance that the upcoming UN climate change negotiations (COP 26) in November will fail. “We still dramatic improvements in NDCs for mitigation of emissions. I understand the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities (CBDR) but it is also essential that emerging economies go the extra mile in mitigating emissions. All G20 members should come on board because they represent 80% of emissions,” he said adding that the world needs decisive action now and commitments for net zero emissions by 2050 from all countries.He also explained why he thought that COP 26 could end in failure. Though some countries have made encouraging statements on Monday about delivering on the 100 billion a year climate fund commitment from developed nations, it is yet to be delivered on and remains open as to how developed world will build trust on delivering that money. There is also this sense that developed countries that have announced net zero commitments are passing the buck to emerging economies saying its their turn to take emission cuts while the developing nations are arguing that developed countries have historical responsibility to take larger emission cuts and earlier than the developing countries. “We need solidarity otherwise we are headed for catastrophe,” added Guterres saying that it was still possible keep global warming under 1.5 degree over pre-industrial levels.The meeting took place days after the UNFCCC released its NDC synthesis report which said that present NDCs and the increase in global emissions may lead to a temperature rise of about 2.7C by the end of the century compared to pre-industrial levels. The available NDCs of all 191 Parties taken together implies an increase in global greenhouse gas emissions of 16% in 2030 compared to 2010. Around 113 Parties have submitted new or updated NDCs as on July 30, 2021. This would lead to a decrease in greenhouse gas emissions by 12% in 2030 compared to 2010. Out of the 113 parties, 70 countries indicated carbon neutrality goals around the middle of the century. This goal could lead to even greater emissions reductions of about 26% by 2030 compared to 2010, the UNFCCC said on September 17.The Informal Climate Leaders Roundtable on Climate Action follows the recent report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and comes less than six weeks before the COP26.PCC’s report last month flagged that the world may have lost the opportunity to keep global warming under 1.5 degree C over pre-industrial levels. The 1.5 degree C global warming threshold is likely to be breached in the next 10 to 20 years by 2040 even if carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions decline rapidly to net zero around 2050, it said.Some experts said it was time for India to enhance its NDC with certain programmes it was already working on like the commitment to increase renewable energy by 450 GW by 2030. These enhancements to NDC can be conditional to delivery of climate finance from developed countries. “India’s domestic plans on renewable energy, electric mobility, green hydrogen, and net zero railways are very ambitious. These could also be announced as updates to its NDC, perhaps conditional on low-cost climate finance. On their part, rich countries with a large historical climate footprint need to respond to the palpable frustration among developing countries over the persistent lack of climate finance,” said Ulka Kelkar, director-climate program, World Resources Institute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-meeting-convened-by-the-un-bhupender-yadav-seeks-transparency-on-climate-finance-101632164168245.html
21-09-2021||India||Kerala auto driver hits ₹12 crore jackpot||The day-long suspense over the winner of the ₹12 crore Onam bumper lottery came to an end after K Jayapalan, a native of Kochi and an auto-driver by profession, submitted the winning ticket in a bank negating the claim of another fortune hunter. The result was announced on Sunday and lottery ticket No TE 645465 got the first prize of ₹12 crore. Soon after the results got public, the process of lottery draw was live on many channels, a native of Wayanad who is working in Dubai as a cook claimed himself to be the winner. He said that he transferred money for two lottery tickets ( ₹600) to a friend and one of them fetched the bumper prize. However, his claim was found to be a farce after the real winner emerged.“I regularly take lottery tickets from my meagre income. This time along with Onam bumper, priced ₹300, I bought 10 daily tickets also priced at ₹40 each. I came to know about the prize only in the morning and deposited the winning ticket in my bank,” said Jayapalan. He said he was staying in a rented house with his family and he was also looking after two of his sisters. He said his first priority is owning a house. He said he had purchased the winning ticket on September 10 after he got some good income on that day.The lottery department said after deducting the agent’s commission and tax the recipient will be getting ₹7.39 crore. The department earned ₹127 crore through the sale of the lottery and the net profit from this particular ticket was ₹30.55 crore. Lottery tickets and liquor are major non-tax revenue earners for the state. On average 90 lakh tickets are sold daily and at least one lakh vendors are there. For a normal ticket priced at ₹40, a seller gets a commission of ₹seven per ticket. It provides succour to many differently-abled and economically weaker sections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-auto-driver-hits-rs-12-crore-jackpot-101632164111043.html
21-09-2021||India||Dilip Ghosh replaced as BJP’s Bengal chief, Sukanta Majumdar takes over||New Delhi/Kolkata: The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday replaced Dilip Ghosh with Balurghat MP Sukanta Majumdar as the party’s West Bengal unit chief , months after a bruising poll loss and amid a stream of high-profile defections to the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) in the state. Ghosh, the firebrand Medinipur MP who served as the state unit chief for six years, was named national vice-president of the BJP. Former Uttarakhand governor Baby Rani Maurya, who stepped down earlier this month, was also appointed national vice-president of the party. “The BJP is a big family and there can be some differences among its members. I am confident that those who in the BJP for ideological reasons will not leave. I apologise to our workers who might have felt neglected,” said Majumdar shortly after the announcement. The reshuffle -- which come into effect immediately -- end months of speculations fuelled by Ghosh’s differences with several state BJP leaders, including youth wing president Saumitra Khan, who even threatened to quit last year after Ghosh withheld appointments made by him. “The central leadership did what it thought was right. I had a long discussion with J P Nadda over several issues. As a worker of the party I will follow the new state president,” said Ghosh.The change in leadership in Bengal comes when the party is wrangling with infighting in the state unit and embarrassment at the defection of senior leaders to the TMC, including former party vice-president Mukul Roy and Asansol MP Babul Supriyo. The move also underlines the BJP’s continued focus on north Bengal, a region it dominates and won 30 of the 54 assembly seats in the April-May state polls. Majumdar was one of the party’s seven MPs from the region who won in 2019 and is considered a non-controversial, soft-spoken leader.Ghosh and Majumdar were both longtime members of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, Majumdar holds a doctoral degree in botany from the North Bengal University and is a first-time MP. State leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari congratulated both Ghosh and Majumdar. “…I wish them very best and believe that both would give their best to strengthen the party,” he tweeted. Ghosh was appointed party unit chief in December 2015, replacing Rahul Sinha. In 2020, he was named president for a second term despite resistance from party cadre.Many found his style abrasive. “Ever since Ghosh was appointed there were many complaints about how he functioned with the party workers. Some found his working style autocratic. Post the assembly election, complaints about his working style were conveyed to the national leadership. The change in the state leadership has been exacerbated by the most recent development of BJP leaders joining the TMC,” said a state functionary on condition of anonymity. During Ghosh’s tenure, the BJP grew from a side player to the main opposition party in Bengal, winning an unprecedented 18 of the 42 Lok Sabha seats in 2019 – its best-ever performance. The party hoped to topple the TMC from power in assembly elections earlier this year, and mounted a spirited campaign, but ultimately was roundly defeated, winning just 77 seats to the TMC’s 213.Since then, the party has lost several senior leaders to the TMC and its strength in the assembly is down to 71. Still, many credit him for having expanded the party’s base, especially in rural areas, in a state the BJP has traditionally little electoral traction.“People blame him for taking a hardline stance but it is also relevant to see that he was trying to create space for the party in a state where the TMC indulged in political violence,” a second functionary said on condition of anonymity. Ghosh frequently made news for controversial statements that left the party leadership embarrassed. In 2019, he said Indian cow’s milk contained gold, and in September that year, called students of Jadavpur university “anti national”. His comments during the election campaign on chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s clothes also rakes up a controversy.But his characteristic style also helped him garner popularity. “Maybe Ghosh is a bit rustic but he became a darling of the crowds,” said a BJP leader close to Ghosh.Ghosh won the Kharagpur assembly seat in 2016 -- one of only three seats the party won in that election -- but the party lost it to the TMC in the 2019 bypolls. The BJP won the assembly seat again in the recent polls. Supriyo, who joined the TMC on September 18, was known as a staunch critic of Ghosh. “I do not want to comment on organizational changes in the BJP. However, I hope Ghosh changes the language in his social media messages,” Supriyo said. Maurya’s appointment in the party ranks came months ahead of scheduled assembly elections in her home state of Uttar Pradesh. The senior Dalit leader’s resignation from the governor’s position had triggered speculation that she could return to electoral politics in UP next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dilip-ghosh-replaced-as-bjp-s-bengal-chief-sukanta-majumdar-takes-over-101632163927705.html
21-09-2021||India||Patna court orders FIR against RJD, Cong leaders over ‘bribe’||Patna: A Patna court has ordered registration of a first information report (FIR) against six people, including Rashtriya Janata Party (RJD) leaders Tejashwi Yadav and Misa Bharti, and Congress state chief Madan Mohan Jha, for allegedly taking ₹5 crore from a man on the pretext of giving him a party ticket from Bhagalpur constituency during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, people familiar with the developments said. The Congress had fought the polls in alliance with the RJD and three other regional parties united under the banner of Grand Alliance that year.Patna chief judicial magistrate (CJM) Vijay Kishore Singh passed the order on Saturday on the basis of a complaint filed by Supreme Court lawyer and Congress leader Sanjeev Kumar Singh on August 10 this year.In his petition, Sanjeev alleged that he was promised a Congress ticket from Bhagalpur parliamentary seat on January 15, 2019, by Tejashwi, Misa, Madan Mohan, Congress spokesperson Rajesh Rathore, former speaker Sadanand Singh and his son Subhanand Mukesh. He added that he also paid ₹5 crore to Tejashwi and Jha at the RJD office in Patna a few days later.“When I did not get the ticket and asked them to refund the money, they assured to provide me with one from Gopalpur (Bhagalpur) and my brother from Rupauli (Purnia) constituencies. We did not get any tickets,” the petitioner said. Sanjeev also accused Misa, Sadanand, Subhanand and Rathore of threatening to kill him and said they eventually refused to return the money on February 10 this year.The CJM’s order has been sent to Patna’s senior superintendent of police (SSP) to lodge an FIR against the named accused, Sanjeev told reporters on Monday. Sunil Kumar Singh, station house officer of Kotwali police station, told HT they were yet to receive the court’s order.RJD MLA Bhai Birendra dismissed all allegations against Tejaswi and Misa. “This is a baseless allegation. Produce proof before levelling such allegations,” he said.BJP Rajya Sabha member Sushil Kumar Modi said distributing election tickets in exchange for money was not unusual for the RJD. “Giving tickets in lieu of money and making ministers has been part of the RJD culture. Now Tejashwi is following Lalu Prasad,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/patna-court-orders-fir-against-rjd-cong-leaders-over-bribe-101632163872385.html
21-09-2021||India||NDA to welcome its first-ever batch of women cadets in January 2023, Centre tells Supreme Court||New Delhi: The National Defence Academy (NDA) will be ready to welcome its first-ever batch of women cadets in January 2023 after they sit for the entrance exam in May next year, the Union government informed the Supreme Court on Monday. “Entrance examination for entry into NDA is held twice in a year and the government proposes to have the necessary mechanism in place by May 2022, i.e. the time by which the UPSC (Union Public Service Commission) is required to publish the first notification of the Year 2022 for entrance examination for entry to NDA,” stated the government’s affidavit submitted before a bench, led by justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul. The government highlighted that a study group has been constituted by the defence services, comprising of the experts to expeditiously formulate the comprehensive curriculum for women cadets at the joint defence service training institute of the Indian armed forces and a Board of Officers (a team of senior officers) has been convened to give a holistic and futuristic proposal for training of women cadets at NDA. The affidavit, however, has not clarified how many women cadets will be trained in the first batch, saying that the intake will depend on a mix of factors, including the cadre ratio and the desired cadre structure, capability of the specific service academy to absorb the intake, and the envisaged requirement and employment by the respective defence services. The development came after the top court on August 18 directed that women can also sit for the upcoming NDA examination while holding that the policy that restricts their entry into the elite institution is based on “gender discrimination”. Following this interim directive, the Union government on September 8 conceded that it has taken an in-principle decision to throw open the doors of the NDA to women cadets, but wanted an exemption for this year’s admission, exams for which are to be held in November. To this, the bench, which also included justice MM Sundresh, called for an affidavit to place the developments along with the future plans and fixed the matter for a hearing on September 22. The order was passed on a petition filed by Kush Kalra for equal opportunity for women at NDA and the Indian Naval Academy. Appearing for the petitioner, senior counsel Chinmoy Pradip Sharma and advocate Mohit Paul contended that the categorical exclusion of eligible female candidates from NDA was unconstitutional and done entirely on the basis of their sex. Under the current eligibility criteria, only male candidates who have cleared Class 12 level or its equivalent, and are in the age group of 16-and-a-half and 19 are eligible to apply. Those who clear the NDA exam are called for interview by the Service Selection Board (SSB), and following a medical exam, candidates are recruited in the army, navy, and air force wings of NDA, and for the INA course for pre-commission training. NDA was commissioned in 1955. The affidavit, filed on Monday, began by putting on record the decision: “The Government of India, in line with its commitment, hereby place on record its clear and categorical stand that the women candidates shall be considered for entry in the three defence services, in the existing streams, through the NDA.” It added: “It is needless to add that any dilution of physical training and service subjects like parameters of firing, endurance training, field craft and living off the land kind of aspects for the defence services women candidates or officers would invariably impact the battle worthiness of the armed forces adversely.” The affidavit also emphasised that the execution of the decision will require deliberate planning and meticulous preparation to ensure smooth induction and seamless training of such women candidates. “While medical standards for male candidates are in place, appropriate medical standards for women candidates are in the process of formulation. The same needs to be done before they join the academy,” stated the government. It added that the Directorate General Armed Forces Medical Services and the body of experts shall be undertaking the required exercise for the three defence services will determine and formulate the medical standards taking into account various aspects like their young age, nature of training to be undergone as also functional and operational requirements of the army, navy and air force. The affidavit further said that various amenities pertaining to accommodation, training capacity, security and privacy arrangements, physical segregation of living quarters, associated physical and electronic surveillance measures, additional administrative and miscellaneous requirements in terms of gender specific getting ancillary requirements etc. will have to be worked out. It stated that one of the key facets of accommodation of women candidates have to be a robust physical separation between male and female residential areas.“All the changes that are highlighted above and which are required to be put into place to induct women candidates through NDA in compliance of the Supreme Court order shall necessarily entail reasonable time,” pleaded the government. The government has also requested the bench to wrap up Kalra’s petition after taking on record its “affirmative stand” to open the entry of women candidates for entry in all the three defence services in the existing streams through NDA, and the commitment to publish the notification in May 2022 for entrance examination permitting women candidates to apply. Breaking the glass ceiling that endured for 65 years, the top court on August 18 rejected the government’s argument that the restriction against women from training at the Pune-based NDA was a policy decision while issuing the interim order to let them sit for the upcoming exam in November. It had also implored the government to “take a more constructive view of the matter”. After the nudge, the government, through additional solicitor general Aishwarya Bhati, informed the bench on September 8 that the decision to allow women in NDA has been made in consultation with the three chiefs of the armed forces and the competent authority in the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nda-to-welcome-its-first-ever-batch-of-women-cadets-in-january-2023-centre-tells-supreme-court-101632163811627.html
21-09-2021||India||UK in talks with India to recognise Covid vaccination certificate for travel: Envoy||The UK on Monday said it is working with India on the recognition of Covid-19 vaccine certificate issued by the latter, following criticism of new British travel rules that considered travellers who have received even the AstraZeneca jab to be unvaccinated. The latest changes in the UK government’s travel restrictions had upset the Indian side as travellers who have got both doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine would have to undergo 10 days of quarantine. “We are engaging with the government of India to explore how we could expand UK recognition of vaccine certification to people vaccinated by a relevant public health body in India,” a British high commission spokesperson said. The UK is committed to opening up international travel “as soon as is practicable” and the new rules were a “further step to enable people to travel more freely again, in a safe and sustainable way, while protecting public health”. The new rules, which were unveiled by Britain on Friday and become effective from October 4, were described by the UK as an effort to change the current “red, amber, green traffic light system” to a single red list of countries and “simplified travel measures” for arrivals from around the world. However, under the rules, only people who have got both shots of a double dose vaccine such as AstraZeneca, Pfizer or Moderna or the single shot Janssen vaccine “under an approved vaccination program in the UK, Europe, US or UK vaccine programme overseas” will be considered fully vaccinated. People who have received jabs under public health bodies in Australia, Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados, Bahrain, Brunei, Canada, Dominica, Israel, Japan, Kuwait, Malaysia, New Zealand, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, South Korea or Taiwan would also be considered fully vaccinated. The rules provoked consternation in India as people who have received both doses of Covishield, the local version of AstraZeneca and one of the two main jabs used for the domestic immunisation programme, would be considered unvaccinated. People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that the UK has constantly reviewed visa rules throughout the pandemic to keep borders open while gradually and safely restarting travel. The UK will continue to review scientific evidence on other vaccines and keep health measures under regular review, the people said.Visa applications for all categories from Indian nationals continue to be processed and people do not need to be vaccinated to travel to the UK, they added. Regardless of an Indian national’s vaccination status, the person must take a pre-departure test, and a Covid-19 test on or before day two of the visit, and on or after day eight, and self-isolate for 10 days. Travellers can opt to shorten their home quarantine to around five days under the UK’s “Test to Release” service. The Indian side was especially upset by the new rules as vaccination-related travel restrictions had been repeatedly taken up with the UK at the highest levels, including by foreign secretary Harsh Shringla and external affairs minister S Jaishankar. Shringla had, during his visit to the UK in July, called for early removal of travel restrictions for Indians and the mutual recognition of Covid-19 vaccination certificates. He had pointed out that France was clearing travellers from India without quarantine if they were fully vaccinated and had a negative test. The new UK rules are expected to mostly affect students, who are now returning in large numbers to British universities. The change will mean they will have to pay extra for more tests and to quarantine. India has been pushing for mutual recognition of Covid-19 vaccination certificates in negotiations with countries around the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-in-talks-with-india-to-recognise-covid-vaccination-certificate-for-travel-envoy-101632163627757.html
21-09-2021||India||BSP, BJP term appointment of Dalit leader Charanjit Singh Channi as Punjab CM an ‘electoral gimmick’||The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday termed the appointment of Dalit leader Charanjit Singh Channi as the new chief minister of poll-bound Punjab an “electoral gimmick”, and cautioned Dalits against the Congress’s “double standards”. The 117-member Punjab assembly is set to go to the polls early next year.Channi (58), the first Dalit chief minister of Punjab, was sworn in on Monday, a day after he was unanimously elected as the leader of the Congress Legislature Party of Punjab. The development comes two days after Amarinder Singh’s sudden exit from the state’s top post, after months of infighting between him and Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu.Mayawati, former Uttar Pradesh chief minister and currently an ally of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) in Punjab, welcomed Channi’s appointment but said, “Making a person belonging to Dalit caste as the chief minister of Punjab is nothing but an election stunt. I have come to know through the media today that assembly elections in Punjab will be fought under a non-Dalit leader and not under Channi.”“The reality is that Congress and other political parties think of Dalits only in times of crisis,” she added.The Congress’s decision to name Channi, who belongs to the Ramdasia Sikh community, assumes significance as poll-bound Punjab has a population of nearly 31.9% from the community.The BJP, too, alleged that Congress picked Channi merely to grab Dalit votes. “This is an old habit of the Congress. It believes that it can capture the Dalit vote bank by making a Dalit chief minister for a few months. A conspiracy is being hatched in Punjab to grab Dalit vote bank,” said party general secretary and state in-charge, Dushyant Kumar Gautam.He noted that the Congress made Dalit leader Sushil Kumar Shinde Maharashtra chief minister in 2003, but replaced him with Vilasrao Deshmukh when it won the 2004 assembly elections. Similarly, he said, Jagannath Pahadia was picked as Rajasthan’s chief minister in 1980, but removed within a year. “The Congress has humiliated Dalits innumerable times,” he added. Hitting back, the Congress on Monday attacked the opposition parties for “insulting” a Dalit chief minister.“I want to tell all our friends in the media, please, you also do not grudge the young Dalit leader and the role assigned him as chief minister of Punjab. He will be our face (in the upcoming state elections) along with Navjot Singh Sidhu which is natural,” said Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala.Alleging that the BJP, SAD, Aam Aadmi Party and BSP have “unwarrantedly, shamelessly and regrettably” attacked the candidature of Channi, he added: “We would urge Narendra Modi ji, J P Nadda, Sukhbir Singh Badal, Arvind Kejriwal and Mayawati ji to not grudge the rightful due of a Dalit’s son who is today the chief minister of Punjab, and instead of shamelessly criticising him, they should hail his elevation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsp-bjp-term-appointment-of-dalit-leader-charanjit-singh-channi-as-punjab-cm-an-electoral-gimmick-101632163508225.html
21-09-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi, Sachin Pilot held marathon meet amid Rajasthan political rumblings||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and former Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot had a marathon meeting on September 17 in which they discussed the Rajasthan situation and the larger goals of the party for the 2024 Lok Sabha elections, people aware of the development said.Incidentally, the meeting — the first exclusive between the two leaders this year — was held a day before Captain Amarinder Singh was asked to resign as Punjab chief minister by the Congress high command.Pilot was the deputy chief minister and Rajasthan Congress president till July 2020 but lost both posts after he rebelled against chief minister Ashok Gehlot.According to party functionaries, the issue of Pilot’s reinstatement in Rajasthan was one of the key issues that were discussed “at length” during the meeting. “But no major change in the Rajasthan government can be expected now. The party is now fully focused on the forthcoming elections in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Uttarakhand,” said a senior leader on condition of anonymity.These elections are due in the first half of 2022.While Pilot and Gandhi remained unreachable for comments, two senior leaders maintained that the Congress will look at the 2024 objectives while it shuffles state units and governments.“In Rahul Gandhi’s scheme of things, reshuffles in states will be done primarily to meet larger objectives in the 2024 elections. So, if any change happens and Pilot returns to the Rajasthan government, it has to be seen in the context of the Congress’ preparations for the next general election,” said another senior leader.Rajasthan, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh are the only states where Congress is in a direct contest against the BJP in a largely bipolar political order. The party needs to maximise its seats in these states to be in a position to defeat the Modi government as well as retain the leadership role in 2024.“In this context”, a senior Congress functionary said, “Pilot has explained in the meeting why he needs to go back to Rajasthan. The two leaders also discussed that more than a year would be required for Pilot to work to prepare for the 2024 elections in the state.”While Congress has replaced Captain Amarinder Singh with Charanjit Singh Channi as chief minister in Punjab, the ground situation in Rajasthan is different as Gehlot still has control over the party. It was evident when Pilot rebelled but Gehlot was able to save the government.“Gehlot enjoys the support of more than 100 MLAs in the state,” said a state cabinet minister considered close to Gehlot.(With inputs from Sachin Saini)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-sachin-pilot-held-marathon-meeting-amid-rajasthan-political-rumblings-101632163269663.html
21-09-2021||India||58% of accused named in post-poll violence cases held, Bengal tells SC||The West Bengal government has informed the Supreme Court that it arrested around 58% of the total accused named in connection to the post-poll violence cases, while claiming that the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) acted with bias in alleging that only a handful of arrests were made.In its written submission submitted before a bench led by justice Vineet Saran, the state government attacked NHRC, stating that the report submitted by the commission’s panel before the Calcutta high court made “incorrect and misleading statements” in observing that merely 3% arrests were made in the total cases.“With respect to 1,429 cases initiated by (West Bengal police), it will show that there are total 8,852 accused. Number of arrests/ persons surrendered/ enlarged on bail is 5,154. Notices served under Section 41A CrPC are 2,989. Hence, the percentages of arrests/ persons surrendered/ enlarged on bail comes to approximately 58% and not less than 3% as contended by the committee,” stated the note.Notices under Section 41 Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) are issued in cases where reasonable information exists about involvement of a person in a cognisable offence.The state has submitted its note in its appeal against August 19 order of a five-judge bench of the Calcutta high court transferring probe to the Central Bureau of Information (CBI) into murder and rape cases in the state following declaration of assembly election results on May 2 this year.Among other things, the high court also relied on data submitted to it by the NHRC-appointed committee in ordering the probe by CBI into allegations of serious offences such as rape and murder while minor incidents of violence were directed to be inquired into by a special investigation team (SIT). The SIT was set up by the state government on September 2.The matter came up for hearing before the top court on Monday but it was adjourned to September 28 for detailed arguments. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal appeared for the state government. Senior counsel Harish Salve, Mahesh Jethmalani, advocates Priyanka Tibrewal, J Sai Deepak and Suvidutt MS appeared for some of the petitioners before the Calcutta high court. Tibrewal, who will contest against West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee in the by-election to the Bhabanipur seat on September 30, is also a petitioner in the case.Meanwhile, the state government told the court that the police has so far examined 2,877 complaints relating to post-poll violence. Out of this, the note added, 1,356 complaints have been found to be not true while FIRs have been lodged in 651 cases and 405 non-cognisable reports have been submitted in trial courts.The state pointed out that the law-and-order machinery, including both Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) and the state police, were under the superintendence of the Election Commission of India (ECI) and the Model Code of Conduct (MCC) remained in force till May 3, and hence, ECI was responsible for the law-and-order situation till May 3.“The special bench (of the Calcutta high court) had ignored the established fact that the law-and-order situation in the state was effectively brought under control by the proactive and timely intervention of the state authorities, especially post May 5, after the Hon’ble chief minister of the state (Mamata Banerjee) was sworn-in and the law-and-order machinery of the state was revamped by replacing the DGP and other supervisory officers including the ADG (law and order), SPs and Police Commissioners, who were appointed by the ECI,” emphasised the note.Referring to the seven-member committee constituted by NHRC to gather facts about the post-poll violence incidents, the state government contended that the panel comprised at least three persons who are currently associated with the Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP). The state named committee members Rajiv Jain, Atif Rasheed and Rajulben Desai as having links to the BJP, adding their inclusion gave rise to reasonable likelihood of bias and vitiated the independence of the entire committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/58-of-accused-named-in-post-poll-violence-cases-held-bengal-tells-sc-101632163152107.html
21-09-2021||India||Muzaffarnagar riots case: UP court acquits 20||A local Uttar Pradesh court on Monday acquitted 20 people due to lack of evidence in connection with a 2013 Muzaffarnagar riots case. Additional district sessions judge Baburam acquitted the people after all witnesses turned hostile during the hearing, people familiar with the matter said. Special counsel for riots Narendra Sharma said the case was in connection with the violence in Kutbi village during the riots. A special investigation team (SIT) probing the riots cases had filed a chargesheet against the accused under sections 392, 436, 295, 147, 148 and 149 of Indian Penal Code for allegedly setting ablaze and looting several houses on September 8, 2013. Sharma said the hearing of cases related to the riots is underway in the court of ADG.Months before the 2014 general elections, the riots in August and September of 2013 between Jat and Muslim communities in Muzaffarnagar killed at least 60 people and displaced another 50,000.Police had registered 510 cases and arrested 1,480 people in connection with the riots.After investigation, the SIT filed charge sheets in 175 cases.Till now, local courts have decided 98 cases and acquitted 1,137 people due to lack of evidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/muzaffarnagar-riots-case-up-court-acquits-20-101632163149348.html
21-09-2021||India||Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, OP Soni take oath as deputies to Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi||Chandigarh Punjab Congress leaders Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and O P Soni were sworn in as two deputies to Charanjit Singh Channi, who took oath as chief minister, at Raj Bhawan on Monday. Son of former Congress president Santokh Singh and a resident of Dharowali village in Gurdaspur, Randhawa is a three-time legislator who currently represents Dera Baba Nanak assembly constituency in the district. The 62-year-old had led the tirade against former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and sought his ouster over unfulfilled poll promises, particularly action against those who were involved in incidents of desecration of Guru Granth Sahib as well as police firing on those protesting the same in 2015 when the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) - Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) combine was in power.Randhawa had also raised the issue of bureaucrats’ dominance in the Amarinder-led government and sought a better representation of elected representatives in running of the state’s affairs.He was also a part of the section of Congress leaders that facilitated the elevation of Navjot Singh Sidhu, a bitter critic of Singh, as state Congress chief. However, when Randhawa’s name was floated for the post of CM, Sidhu opposed it, and put his weight behind Channi. The Congress leader from Majha heartland was in fact among four frontrunners for the top job in the state after Singh stepped down from the post on Saturday. He, however, had to settle for the deputy chief minister’s role after Channi was selected for the top post. Randhawa was first elected as an MLA from Fatehgarh Churian in 2002 when he fought against SAD’s Nirmal Singh Kahlon. He was, however, defeated by Kahlon in 2007. He shifted to Dera Baba Nanak constituency from where he registered consecutive wins in 2012 and 2017.Besides Randhawa, the party high command picked five-time Amritsar MLA Soni as the second deputy to the chief minister. One of the tallest Hindu leaders who rose from the ranks, Soni was the first mayor of the holy city. The 64-year-old was first elected as MLA in 1997 and always emerged victorious in the assembly elections. The only time he lost was in the 2009 Lok Sabha elections, by a narrow margin, to then BJP leader Sidhu. A staunch Amarinder loyalist, Soni, however, was upset with the former chief minister when he was not given a berth in his (Singh) first cabinet in March 2017. A year later, he was given the environment and education portfolios but in 2018, he was divested of the environment department. In the last reshuffle of the Singh’s cabinet, Soni was given a low profile department of medical education to which he had shown great resentment. He is quite a popular leader in Amritsar due to his polite and friendly nature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sukhjinder-singh-randhawa-op-soni-take-oath-as-deputies-to-punjab-chief-minister-charanjit-singh-channi-101632163092644.html
21-09-2021||India||Congress leader Sunil Jakhar hits out at Harish Rawat over Sidhu remark, Congress in damage control||Congress leader Sunil Jakhar criticised party general secretary Harish Rawat on Monday for saying the upcoming elections will be fought under Punjab unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, forcing the party to go into damage control mode barely a day after naming a new chief minister to stem infighting.The party on Sunday named three-time lawmaker Charanjit Singh Channi as Punjab’s first Dalit chief minister, hoping to end months of squabbling between Sidhu and former CM Amarinder Singh for control of the party. But hours later, Rawat, who is the party’s Punjab incharge, said that the party will go into the polls, scheduled early next year, with Sidhu as its face.“Mr Rawat’s statement that “elections will be fought under Sidhu”, is baffling. It’s likely to undermine CM’s authority but also negate the very ‘raison d’etre’ of his selection for this position,” tweeted Jakhar, who was replaced as party unit chief in July 2021, to make way for Sidhu.Party leaders later said that both Channi and Sidhu will be the face of the party’s election campaign. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the next elections will be fought under the leadership of both Channi and Sidhu and attacked the Bharatiya Janata Party, Akali Dal, Bahujan Samaj Party and Aam Aadmi Party for insulting a Dalit chief minister.“Our faces will be Charanjit Singh Channi and Navjot Singh Sidhu as also ordinary Congress workers and leaders who will be supporting them. If anybody says one or the other will be the face, intentionally or otherwise, it is being misinterpreted by the media,” he told reporters.On Sunday, Punjab Congress in charge Harish Rawat said that the upcoming state assembly elections will be fought under the leadership of party’s state unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. “It (Congress face for upcoming state assembly polls) will be decided by the Congress president, but given the circumstances, elections will be fought under Sidhu, who is very popular,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. He alleged the BJP, SAD, AAP and BSP had “unwarrantedly, shamelessly and regrettably” attacked the candidature of Channi.“We would urge Narendra Modi ji, JP Nadda, Sukhbir Singh Badal, Arvind Kejriwal and Mayawati ji to not grudge the rightful due of a Dalit’s son who is today the chief minister of Punjab, and instead of shamelessly criticising him, they should hail his elevation,” the Congress leader said.BSP chief and former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Mayawati accused the Congress of tokenism. “I also came to know from the media that the next assembly polls in Punjab would be contested under leadership of a non-Dalit. This means that the Congress still does not fully trust Dalits,” she saidJakhar, a Hindu face, was a frontrunner for the chief minister’s post after Amarinder Singh resigned on September 18, following months of internal strife that left the state unit divided months before polls. The 67-year-old leader is the son of former Union minister Balram Jakhar and helmed the Punjab unit of the Congress between 2017 and 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-leader-sunil-jakhar-hits-out-at-harish-rawat-over-sidhu-remark-congress-in-damage-control-101632162912114.html
21-09-2021||India||India to resume export of Covid vaccines from October||India will resume export of surplus coronavirus vaccines, prioritising dispatches to the global vaccine sharing initiative Covax and other countries to “fulfil its commitment towards the world” from the quarter beginning in October, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya announced on Monday.India, the world’s largest vaccine maker, stopped exports in April this year to accelerate the domestic inoculation drive at a time the second wave of Covid-19 infections exploded in the country. The exports will be facilitated under the government’s “Vaccine Maitri” initiative, through which India sent out a little over 66 million doses as grants or part of commercial commitments, including to Covax. “India will be resuming export of vaccines under Vaccine Maitri in order to fulfil the commitment of India towards COVAX, and other countries, in line with our motto Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam (sanskrit for “the world is one family”). The surplus supply of vaccines that we expect to produce in the last quarter will be used to fulfil our commitment towards the world for the collective fight against Covid-19,” Mandaviya said at a briefing in New Delhi. Monday’s announcement is timely. This week, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Washington, where vaccines are likely to be discussed at a summit of the leaders of the Quad countries -- the United States, India, Japan and Australia.There have also been calls to restart exports as supply constraints have been minimised. Since April, monthly vaccine output in India has more than doubled and is set to quadruple to over 300 million doses by October, Mandaviya said. In September, 235 million shots -- 200 million of the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine and the remaining of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin -- will be available, government officials said last week. Another 10 million may be in the offing with the Zydus Cadila vaccine expected by the end of this month or early October, according to a person aware of the matter. The overall production is expected to hit 1 billion doses by the end of 2021, the minister said, adding that only the excess supplies will be exported.The AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine, called Covishield, forms the backbone of India’s vaccination drive.It is also one of the pillars of Covax -- a partnership of vaccine developers and countries set up by Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, the Coalition of Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (Cepi), and World Health Organization.Early into the pandemic, Covax bet on Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), which manufactures Covishield in India, for a major chunk of vaccine supplies. Gavi provided an initial $150 million funding to SII as part to an agreement to guarantee half of the company’s production for Covax. The April move to halt exports, which were never officially banned by the government, severely hit Covax donations and exacerbated vaccine inequities between the richer global north and poorer global south. According to Our World in Data, just 1.9% of the population in low-income countries has received at least one dose. In high-income countries, this proportion is 66.5%.Data by the United Nations till September 15 shows around 113 million shots have been donated to Covax -- of which US-made Moderna jab makes up 45%, and AstraZeneca shot 29%. The United States has donated the most vaccines under the facility, followed by Japan and the UK. India’s vaccination drive, marred by supply issues in the first few months, has picked up pace in recent weeks. On average, the country is inoculating around 7.5 million people a day for the last two weeks. The government aims to vaccinate all of its adult population of around 944 million by December, and has administered at least one shot to 64% of them. Mandaviya on Monday also appreciated the leaps made by Indian scientists in vaccine research and development. “Earlier, vaccines were produced in other countries first and India would get vaccine doses 5-10 years later. This time, India produced the vaccine against Covid-19 around the same time when other countries produced it. Our rate of vaccination is also increasing…” said Mandaviya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-resume-export-of-covid-vaccines-from-october-101632162847674.html
21-09-2021||India||Kerala high court pulls up Kerala for not handing over churches to Orthodox faction||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM The Kerala high court on Monday pulled up the state government over inaction to implement the Supreme Court verdict on the tussle between two warring church denominations and subsequent custody of six churches in the state. While questioning the delay in handing over these churches to the Orthodox faction, Justice Devan Ramachandran said the government can’t simply cite the law and order problem and delay the takeover. These churches are under the control of Jacobite believers, and they fiercely resist the move of handing them over to the rival faction, as per the situation on ground.The high court said the SC, in its final verdict in 2017, gave the right to administer 1000-odd churches and parishes to the Orthodox faction and the Jacobites have no ground to occupy these churches. The government again pleaded its helplessness and cited a law and order problem in implementing it. The court observed that it was duty-bound to obey the order of the judiciary. The court said the government’s continued silence and helplessness are frightening. It reminded the government that it can’t absolve its duty by simply citing law and order. It asked the government to file a detailed reply and posted the plea for further hearing on Sept 29. A non-Catholic community, the Malankara Syrian Orthodox church has two factions, Orthodox and Jacobites, fighting against each other ever since the split in 1912 across the country. After several rounds of legal battles, the Supreme Court gave a final verdict in favour of the Orthodox faction in 2017. Since then, the Jacobite faction that controlled some of these churches is not ready to give up and still controls 25 churches, while building several new ones to keep its flock together.Earlier, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan tried to broker peace between the two factions but failed to make much headway as both sides stuck to their positions. Later, Prime Minister Narendra Modi also intervened at the behest of Goa Governor PS Sreedharan Pillai but failed to break the ice. “We will go by the law of the land. How can anyone resist the verdict of the highest court citing muscle power?” asked the Orthodox churches spokesman Biju Oommen. “We were denied justice. We still hope we will get justice,” said a Jacobite church trustee Joseph Mar Gregorios.POSSIBLE GRAPHICWhat is the tussle? The Malankara Christian church split into two groups in 1912 - Jacobite and Orthodox. After many years of differences, both reunited in 1959, but the truce lasted till 1972. Since then, both factions have been flexing muscle, which often spilt over to streets. The fight is over the control of 2000-odd churches and the huge wealth in the treasury. The Orthodox Church is headquartered in Kottayam, and Jacobites, who consider the Patriarch of Antioch, based in Beirut, as their supreme leader. Both factions differ in their leadership but they share the same rites of worship. Usually, they won’t encourage marriage between feuding community members and refuse to bury in their cemeteries. What does the Supreme Court judgment say? The Supreme Court in 2017 upheld the 1934 constitution of the Malankara church and gave Orthodox group control over more than 1000 parishes and churches in Kerala. Orthodox is an indigenous group, but the Jacobites faction has more followers and a majority of churches are under their control. Out of 1064 churches, whose ownership rights are under dispute, 16 have remained closed for years without any worship.Why is the government delaying the implementation of the SC order?Believers, mainly Jacobites, threatened suicide if force was applied to evict them. At several places, street battles ensued. Fearing bloodshed, the government was forced to go slow, which angered different courts. In 2018, the Supreme Court summoned the then chief secretary Tom Jose and threatened to send him to jail if the verdict in the Piravam church case was not implemented. Later, it was forcibly evicted and given to the Orthodox faction. Some of the churches, like Mulanthuruthy in Ernakulam, are very old, believed to be built in AD 1200.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-hc-slams-govt-s-delay-in-handing-over-6-churches-to-orthodox-faction-101632134468145.html
21-09-2021||Today's||India’s financial system gets a reset||India’s non-performing assets (NPAs) increased at the beginning of the last decade because of the natural turn of the business cycle, but also because much of the underwriting was done based on political due diligence rather than commercial due diligence. As we entered a strong dollar cycle globally from 2011-12 to 2020-21, the chickens came home to roost with the pandemic being the final kick.A new reformist and anti-cronyist government in 2014 ironically worsened things in the short-term. Inflation targeting, the Insolvency Bankruptcy Code (IBC), the Real Estate Regulatory Act and the Goods and Services Tax increased uncertainty, even though they were growth enhancers in the long-term.We also overdid the checks and balances on public sector lending, and some good solvent businesses entered the spiral of illiquidity even as many underlying frauds were exposed. Credit growth stalled and the NPA ratio worsened, with non-performing to gross loan ratio crossing around 10% in 2018, a number last seen in 2002. Despite some fiscal and monetary easing pre-Covid-19 (around 2019), it was clearly not enough.Also Read | Indian spot gold rate and silver price on Tuesday, Sep 21, 2021An entire way of doing business was reset as India Inc was forced to embrace digitalisation and formalisation more thoroughly. The earlier mechanism of inflating invoices, setting up projects with next to no real equity, and, if things went south, the sovereign picking the tab, was no longer viable. Equally, siphoning off large sums from minority shareholders made less sense now because of better transnational vigilance as well as limits on spending huge sums in cash domestically.Demonetisation led to a lot of cash entering the banking system, but some of the benefits were wasted for two reasons. One, the then Reserve Bank of India governor, Urjit Patel, let the rupee strengthen inordinately in 2017-18 without seeing through inflation pressures — this gravely hurt exports and industry. He should have, instead, built up reserves. Two, the increase in personal peak income tax rates in 2019 was another stick, when a carrot was required to improve compliance.Nonetheless, the bold steps outnumber the mistakes. Corporate tax rates were cut and a bunch of aggressive reforms have continued right through the pandemic. India’s Unified Payment Interface is being taken global, and the equally revolutionary account aggregators idea will lead to tax and payment meta-data being used for better analytics, and, hence, cheaper as well as more widespread credit. India is leading the world in public digital goods, and China’s recent crackdown on walled data gardens is a doffing of the hat. Sooner or later, America will follow, despite all the entrenched lobbies.But, in the here and now, bank balance-sheets remain damaged. IBC has led to some clear gains, and we now even have a prepackaged version for micro, small and medium enterprises. The idea of not immediately having a bad bank was based on avoiding moral hazard — if banks know they will be bailed out by having their worst assets bought with reasonable or no haircuts, they will have zero incentive to do any diligence. That is a valid fear but, right now, we are at the other end of the spectrum — economic-financial sadism and masochism.The pandemic has given us an opportunity to make a clean start, and we must grab it with both hands. Already, lower bond yields have partially repaired bank treasuries to some extent (lower yield means higher bond prices). If we are to build trillions of dollars worth of infrastructure in this decade, then we will need all hands on the deck — developmental financial institutions, capital markets (INVITs, REITs where the government is also liberalising), and, of course, healthy private and public banks.Also Read | On cryptocurrency, Sitharaman says ‘we have to be cautious but think it through’A consortium of banks coming together and floating an asset reconstruction company (ARC), with the government giving a limited guarantee for the paper (security receipts) that this National Asset Reconstruction Company Limited (NARCL) will issue, may well be just what the doctor ordered. ARC will remove almost $30 billion of NPAs from the system in two phases, and because the said debt will be owned by one entity, the further resolution through IBC is likely to be faster. The government guarantee is a reasonable $4 billion, is time-bound, may not even be used but is absolutely critical. It may be a more efficient use of capital than more direct bailouts, though that cannot be ruled out. Depending on how this evolves, we may have to readjust a bit.Healthy financial intermediation allows, for example, the young who are rich in human capital but not financial capital to borrow from those who have the latter. It allows the poor and the neo-middle class to climb onto the property ladder while systematically building an equity portfolio as well as reducing risks through insurance.India cannot fully copy either the Anglo-American model of capital markets first because financial literacy remains an issue here (and indeed globally), nor can we copy the East Asian-Continental European model of banks having close ties to industry and unions because our society and polity is much more heterogeneous.Thankfully, we do not have to choose — while we will learn from everyone, we will craft our own way based on our genius, away from false binaries, and let others discuss the Indian model of finance. And that model just received a big reboot over the last few months.Harsh Gupta Madhusudan is the author of A New Idea of India, and an investor by professionThe views expressed by personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/indias-financial-system-gets-a-reset-101632229333521.html
21-09-2021||Today's||The WTO threat to Indian agriculture’s MSP regime||Commerce minister Piyush Goyal, while addressing the informal ministerial meeting of a group of 33 countries (G-33), remarked that the Agreement on Agriculture (AoA) at the World Trade Organization (WTO) is riddled with imbalances and tilted against developing countries. The minister is right.
21-09-2021||Today's||15 years after SC’s order, police reforms languish||On the 15th anniversary of Police Reforms Day, here is a question — why hasn’t the Supreme Court (SC)’s order on police reforms, delivered on September 22, 2006, been implemented yet? What are the impediments to reforms aimed at making the police more efficient, free from extraneous influences, and responsive to people’s needs?
21-09-2021||Today's||The future of work depends on aligning technical skills with soft skills||When the pandemic hit, it brought corporate India to a near stand-still and changed the way business was conducted across industries, irrespective of size.
21-09-2021||Today's||Scientifically Speaking | Can the world’s most popular banana be saved?||I have tasted bananas from all over the world, but I have yet to come across the wide variety of delectable bananas that I have eaten in India anywhere else. Of these varieties, my personal favourite is a small yellow banana found across South India that has the wonderful consistency of custard, a fruity aroma, and a heavenly taste. These bananas don’t ship well since they have thin skin and bruise easily. But anyone who has not tasted this banana has no idea what a banana should taste like. This is, of course an opinion, and not a fact.
21-09-2021||Editorials||The real deficit in India’s health care system||A new report by the World Health Organization (WHO) and the Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI) has revealed that India’s health system struggled during Covid-19 because the country doesn’t have an adequate number of trained health personnel. For example, the nurse-doctor ratio is 1.7:1, and that of allied health workers to doctors is 1:1 India’s High-Level Expert Group (HLEG) on Universal Health Coverage recommends a nurse-doctor ratio of 3:1. Other than the lack of an adequate number of health workers, there is also a considerable variation in the number of health personnel available across states and the rural and urban areas.
21-09-2021||Editorials||UK is wrong on vaccines||Travellers to the United Kingdom (UK) will not be considered fully vaccinated if they have received their coronavirus vaccines in India from next month. According to the UK’s new travel rules, only people from European Union nations, the United States and 17 other countries are allowed to skip mandatory home isolation and testing requirements on arrival. The rule has justifiably triggered angry reactions. India is, after all, one of the largest manufacturers of vaccines for years, the credentials of its industries are on solid footing, and one of the vaccines being used was developed by none other than one of England’s most renowned institutions: the University of Oxford. UK’s inexplicable position will erode goodwill in India, especially since it has no scientific basis.
