01-08-2021||Both my brothers called yesterday in back-to-back calls. One lives in the same city as me and often gets in touch when he is on his way to work. The other lives in another continent and his calls tend to bookend my days. His mornings are my end of day and vice versa. As we discussed family life and teenage children||Learning to be present in the age of estrangement||By the time I had finished these two calls, I had rearranged the entire furniture in our living and dining rooms as well as changed the tablecloth, cushion covers and bedsheet on the diwan. I must have looked oddly hyperactive as I talked animatedly while deftly balancing the cellphone, and moving tables and chairs across the rooms as noiselessly as possible. When the calls were over, I stood back and admired the new colours and neatness around me. I used the same phone to take a photo and sent it to my husband who has been away for 10 days. As if to say, “Come back soon, look how nice everything is looking here.”In the conversations with my siblings, we had been navigating through complex and confusing emotional terrain. We were acknowledging knots in our relationships that we didn’t yet know how to untangle. At the same time, almost subconsciously, I was fixing something else that I could improve immediately. I was administering a small dose of therapy to myself.This is a metaphor for our lives, stranded by the pandemic, I thought to myself. When grappling with things larger than ourselves, our self seeks balance by focusing on the small details we do have control over. I may not be able to fix the big hurts, but I can dress up the superficial wounds. Small acts of attention will eventually add up to restore us.A year-and-a-half of living through this disruptive Covid-19 pandemic has offered many unexpected insights. Sometimes, we are too close to see the patterns. Often, they repeat and it’s hard to miss the lesson staring at us.An important learning has been about how to be present. One of the first challenges of the lockdown was that we found ourselves cut off from those who were far from us. We responded to the restriction of no commuting and no long-distance travel by quickly finding ways to meet online in cyberspace. It took a couple of months of work-from-home and schooling via the Internet for our children to point out to us that while we were spending more time at home than we had ever before, they missed our presence in their lives, perhaps even more acutely.Being in the same space with each other all the time has not necessarily translated to being together. The pressure to stay connected to those who are physically far away but available online has drained us of the emotional energy required to pay attention to those who are right there besides us. Our intimate spaces are paying the price of our constant availability in our workplaces and other online spaces.The age of the pandemic is threatening to become a time of great estrangement if we do not see the signs in time and fight off the temptation that technology constantly entices us with. We need our homes to be a place of rest and restoration again, not just a space where we recharge our devices that connect us to the world outside. The family we are stuck with will thrive again when we log off from others and bring our attention back to each other.Collectively we have been overwhelmed by death, disease and the loss of order in both our public and private lives. We must find ways to heal ourselves incrementally as the traumas pile up. Small acts of beauty will heal us. Caring will restore us.— The writer is a filmmaker & author. natasha.badhwar@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/learning-to-be-present-in-the-age-of-estrangement-291197
01-08-2021||P V SINDHU gasps for breath||Breathless  in Tokyo||The Olympics, in the midst of a Covid-19 emergency in Japan, are on in Tokyo, and we’re back to being rabidly fanatical over a medal won or mourning our humiliation in this festival of youth. The third wave of Covid-19 might be upon us soon, but our eyes are on Tokyo. Maybe it is right, too, for sport embodies life, its vitality — sport is antithetical to the ebbing of life. The animal speed of athletes, their amazing resilience, are a reminder that those who live on must carry on. Life must go on, sport must go on.Sportspersons aren’t immune to emotion, though; Simone Biles, the greatest gymnast in the world, could not cope with the pressure of expectations in an era of segregation forced by the pandemic. How many athletes lost out on vigour and confidence after a bout of Covid-19? The case of Punjab boxer Simranjit Kaur might be just one among many — there are no certainties in sport, but before she got infected in April, she seemed a good bet for a medal in Tokyo. On her Olympics debut, though, she seemed completely listless, enervated in her bout against a good Thailand boxer, Sudaporn Seesondee. Did Covid-19 beat Simranjit before Sudaporn did?Disappointing showIndia’s performance has been disappointing so far, to say the least. That’s the norm at the Olympics. However, the expectations this time were very high — India had sent its largest-ever contingent, much was expected from the 15 shooters among them. There were world No. 1s in the group, a gold medal was considered a certainty in the 10m mixed-gender pistol event by Manu Bhaker and Saurabh Chaudhary. But the shooters have misfired. Within the camp, unfriendly firing has begun; NRAI boss Raninder Singh declared that there will be a rehauling of the coaching set-up. Perhaps, an evaluation of the NRAI administration — the individuals who appointed these coaches — would help identify the problem, too?As to the fans baying for the blood of our young shooters — remember, our greatest shooter, Abhinav Bindra, won one medal in five Olympics. Our officials tend to count their medals before they’re minted — we won three in Beijing and six in London, so it should be over 10 in Rio and Tokyo. No, it does not work like this. One starts from scratch every time.There will, also, be the usual hand-wringing over our low per-capita medal-winning; high above us are tiny Kosovo, Latvia, Fiji and Serbia. But the problems are systemic and deep-rooted. Ours is a nation of malnourished people, a large majority barely getting decent food, competing in sports that have a long tradition and history in the western world. Dutee Chand, India’s best woman sprinter, was 27 kg at age 11. Then, even top nations must spend money like water to win medals — in 2012, the United Kingdom’s average spending on a cycling medal was £2.2 million, and for a swimming medal the figure was £8.4 million. So let’s be happy with what we’ve got in Japan, which is in the midst of an ‘extremely frightening’ Covid situation — to paraphrase the singer Nina Simone, “ain’t got no gold, but we’ve got life”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/breathless-in-tokyo-291196
01-08-2021||Baghelawala is a small village in Moga district of Punjab located off the Moga-Ferozepur road. As you enter the village||The ‘Brave Lion’ of Baghelawala||On October 15, 1970, in this village was born Zora Singh, appropriately named by his parents as he would prove to be a “Brave Lion” later in life. Having completed his schooling, this boy, who was passionate about joining the Army, was recruited in the Sikh Light Infantry Regiment on December 3, 1987.A veteran of Op Pawan in Sri Lanka, he moved with his battalion to J&K’s Krishna Ghatti sector in January 2001. A month later, information was received at our headquarters of the presence of an infiltrated group of militants in the thickly wooded forest area of Khanetar in Poonch district. The task to search for and eliminate this group was given to the Ghatak Platoon and a patrol party of B Company of 1 Sikh LI and a Ghatak Platoon of 4 Grenadiers under their Adjutant, who volunteered for the operation. He briefed them and they set about the search from two opposite directions. Three days of toil in the area gave no results. The troops were running low on rations and were fatigued, but continued the search on the fourth day.Lance Havaldar Zora Singh, with the patrol party of B Company of 1 Sikh LI, was in the lead when he saw some suspicious movement next to a dhok (an abandoned hut). As he approached the hut, Zora Singh spotted a lookout militant sitting outside and he immediately opened fire. He dropped the lookout and charged at the dhok, wanting to catch the rest of the party by surprise. However, the militants rushed out with all guns blazing. In the exchange of fire, L Hav Zora Singh received a burst of AK-47 in his stomach. Despite being wounded, he pressed on, dragging himself forward. He eliminated two fleeing militants before he himself collapsed having received a direct shot to his head. It was this unprecedented act of courage and devotion to duty that paved the way for the remaining party managing to eliminate three more militants. The two, who had escaped, fell into the ambush of 4 Grenadiers and were subsequently eliminated.L Hav Zora Singh displayed a high standard of leadership and indomitable courage and made the supreme sacrifice for the success of the task assigned to his paltan. For this unparalleled courage and devotion to duty, he was awarded the Kirti Chakra (the second highest award for bravery in peacetime, after the Ashoka Chakra). The award was received by his wife Manjit Kaur from President Dr APJ Abdul Kalam.Manjit Kaur was totally shattered. Zora Singh had left behind a daughter, seven years old, and two sons, aged four and a year-and-a-half. With the support of his battalion, the village and the civil administration, this young widow set about dauntlessly bringing up and educating her children. An epitome of fortitude herself, the Veer Nari picked up a job as a Class IV employee in the village school, named after her late husband.Today, after 20 years of hard work and toil, she is proud of her achievements. Her daughter, having completed her Masters, has migrated to Europe, her elder son has moved to Australia on a work permit and her youngest son has recently completed his Bachelors in Commerce from Moga. A feat even the late braveheart would be very proud of.There are many more like Manjit Kaur in our country who are re-writing their destiny in a similar manner as their brave husbands gave their today for our tomorrow.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-brave-lion-of-baghelawala-291193
01-08-2021||At what distance should I keep myself from others in order to build with them a sociability without alienation and a solitude without exile? — Roland Barthes||Upstaged by the pandemic||Democracy and theatre were inextricably linked in Greece during the 5th century, and it was considered mandatory for the citizens to attend theatre, share stories and engage in socio-political issues. The citizens were expected to collectively consider, through metaphor, and, through storytelling, a way to understand their daily problems. Theatre was the space for collective thinking and collective problem sharing, almost like a confessional, where issues were discussed, analysed and, perhaps, resolved.March 2020 created a seismic shift in the way we functioned and lived. Suddenly, it dawned on us that one’s life is not only unpredictable but also insecure. Confronted with challenges never previously encountered weighed heavily on our notion of ourselves in the social space, creative space, domestic space, political space, and may I dare to add, our religious space. Our humanity is being tested every day, while we falter, seeking hope and affirmation, while sitting on a pile of debris. Each one of us is struggling desperately to adjust to the liquid environment, with a fluid sense of change.What makes us ‘alive’ is the recognition and belief that every single individual can make a difference. That art can make a difference. That art can humanise, help one survive, no matter how adverse the situation may be. The blips and beeps of our existence are transformed into stories, as a witness to the times, as well as a documentation of its history.But who will support this barrage of images that are waiting to be told, and shared? In such a scenario, what does one do? You gather all that you believe in, wrap it around your body and forge ahead.Theatre has been impacted in unprecedented ways during Covid-19. Theatre, as we know, is ensemble work, where actors, in a rehearsal space, feel, respond, touch and share. Breath on breath, sweat on sweat, it is an intimate space that questions time-tested assumptions and dilemmas, about life and humanity, the ebbs and flows of living.The migration of theatre from physical space to digital space changed something that was intrinsic and basic to the nature of this art form.Necessity creates strange bedfellows. The available platform was digital. You either jump into virtual reality or perish, was the anxiety.Isolation, sanitisation and physical distance are not conducive to making a performance. This forced shift from stage to screen has disturbed the natural order of what performance-making and performance-sharing is all about. One live actor, one live audience and the connection that transpires between them, is the basic ingredient that cooks the performance.The actor waiting in the wings, the excitement of the first bell, the crush of people thronging into an auditorium, the entry, the exit, the adrenaline rush, were missing in this virtual reality. Try performing in an empty auditorium, and you will get what I am trying to say.An actor from Amritsar, rehearsing with a co-actor from Pune, with the director ensconced in Mumbai, creates unusual dynamics. No smell, no touch, no feel, no taste. Through Zoom, a play gets made, and then digitised and showcased.Theatre for me is sweat and blood, savouring the tears and joys of the actor, a shared space in a segregated world. Where the unsaid is said and the invisible is made visible.Theatre is also about community, and to see it transformed into a space of isolation, a space of sanitised safety, contradicts the very nature of performance-making. Rehearsing alone, going solo, has become the new norm, upending the entire notion of a ‘live’ theatre with a ‘live’ audience. This digital interface, which is the screen, is a distancing agent that separates what it seeks to unite. Yet, it is the only available means of communication during the pandemic. Ironical and contradictory.Art is not technology. It is useful but not vital. I suppose it’s a bit crazy to be romantic and stuck in nostalgia, lamenting on the way things were, in the face of a fast-changing reality.This is not in any way to trash what is happening. Exciting works have emerged, and I, too, have been a participant with my play ‘The Black Box’, which was not only performed ‘live’ but was also streamed through a digital platform. A dual existence, a dual vision, a dual way of being viewed was the outcome. I found that a play meant to be viewed frontally, through the invisible fourth wall, once filmed, allowed for multiple viewpoints. Was it the play? Or did it take a life of its own, not exactly envisaged during the making? Questions that assailed but had to be shooed aside for expediency. Previously, a play was filmed for documentation, but ‘Black Box’ was filmed as an intersection between theatre and films, with an attempt to not lose out on the values of it being a theatrical production, and not viewed as pure documentation.The pandemic, it seems, will determine future directions — in the choice of narratives and subject matter, based on the technology gaze.Initially the digital space was welcomed as an alternative, an interim space, an interruption in the natural order of things until theatre houses open and we are lured back into its seductive charms. The way the virus is rampaging, I fear it may be here to stay, for longer than one imagined.As a theatre director, I know that I have to un-define all my conventional beliefs and habits, and turn this new encounter with technology into an adventure. Free my imagination from the definitions accumulated over time. Yet, do we have the methods, the expertise, and the funds to enter the new world? Questions that are philosophical, pragmatic, creative and rhetorical!Welcome to the new world. A world without shadows, a world without applause, a world without noise, a windowless chamber in which fear lurks and echoes in a cacophonous silence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/upstaged-by-the-pandemic-291190
