02-08-2021||---||Indian schizophrenia||The 22-hour visit by US Secretary of State Antony Blinken to New Delhi last week has exposed the schizophrenia in Indian minds about the world’s only remaining superpower. Five days before his meeting with External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, the US Acting Assistant Secretary of State for South Asia, Dean Thompson, held a comprehensive briefing for the Washington media on the visit. It summed up the ongoing agenda of a bilateral relationship whose glass is full, to use a descriptive figure of speech. The following morning, the public discourse in India centred around half a sentence in the briefing that Blinken will raise the issue of human rights and democracy in India.It got prominence because that is the way a vocal segment of Indian society wants to look at Indo-US relations. Thompson said Blinken would raise the rights matter ‘because we firmly believe that we have more values in common on those fronts than we don’t’, which means Washington will reiterate its broad commitment to freedoms, civil rights and democratic values. In turn, India too will reiterate such commitment and insist that it upholds those values. End of matter.‘We believe India is going to be a really important part of continuing those conversations and building strong efforts on those fronts in partnership as we go forward,’ Thompson added. So, the US intends to partner with India in building democracy and advancing human rights in the world. This is not what Indians who assail the Modi government and its comradely state administrations on human rights, equality and democratic values want the US to do. The reality is that anything different is not going to happen.The US fights for human rights only in countries which are its adversaries or enemies: Russia, China, Iran, Cuba, Belarus, Venezuela, Nicaragua, Syria and so on. The list is long enough to create an impression that the US is a global crusader for those whose rights are being trampled upon by authoritarian governments and forces spawned by regressive ideologies. India does not fit this bill. New Delhi is not Washington’s adversary. Therefore, contrary to what critics of the Modi government wish for, neither Blinken nor President Biden will do anything to provide any comfort to such critics.The other side of the Indian schizophrenia is a tendency among die-hard supporters of the US in this country to take Washington for granted. And to give excessive importance to the American administration. Sometimes it descends to such ridiculous levels as to exaggerate the persona of even a Deputy Assistant Secretary in the Administration or a mere Consul General in an Indian metropolis. Will any respectable American media report anything said by a Director in the Ministry of External Affairs in New Delhi? Or a statement by an Assistant Secretary-General of an Indian trade body?Such lily-livered cravenness distorts the realities of what is at play in Indo-US ties today. It upsets a perceptional balance of how New Delhi and Washington do serious business: such balance, which contributed to stability in Indo-Soviet relations from 1971 until the break-up of the Soviet Union, is essential to realise the full potential of what is possible today between India and the US.There were many wheels within wheels which went into the conceptualisation of Blinken’s travel to India. And that of US Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin within 60 days of Biden taking office. In recent weeks, at least 150 members of both chambers of the US Congress have publicly come out in support of India on various counts. Israel is the only other country which can mobilise such extensive support on Capitol Hill. These were not mere statements of sympathy over the second Covid-19 wave or anything remotely similar to expressions of charitable offers of food under US Public Law 480 in the 1960s when there were starvation deaths in India.A resolution of solidarity with India passed by the US House of Representatives in June sums up the reasons why Washington stands by New Delhi at this time. When House members were negotiating the contours of this resolution between Democrats and Republicans to make it bipartisan, one point of agreement across the aisle was that India had stood by Americans in their hour of pandemic distress last year. Scores of House members recalled that India had lifted restrictions on exporting therapeutics to help Americans in need.Since the 117th US Congress convened on January 3, Indian Ambassador Taranjit Singh Sandhu has broken unprecedented ground in his outreach on Capitol Hill. He focused in particular on the Progressive Caucus, about whose support for India, frequent doubts were raised during the 116th Congress because many of its members were harsh on the Modi government’s policies when Trump was President. The results of the outreach were evident in the co-sponsorship of the June resolution in the House. Thirty-two of the resolution’s 41 co-sponsors were Democrats: several of them are ‘progressives’.In India, the ‘vaccine maitri’ initiative of sharing vaccines with needy countries severely hit by the pandemic, has been heavily criticised during the second wave. On Capitol Hill, on the other hand, the ‘vaccine maitri’ with Hispanic countries like Bolivia, Paraguay, Argentina and Mexico have won overwhelming support for India among the Hill’s Hispanic Caucus. The export of vaccines to such countries enabled Sandhu to gain access to Hispanic members of the US Congress.In the run-up to Blinken’s visit, John Walters, CEO of the influential Washington think tank, the Hudson Institute, referred to India as a ‘vaccine superpower’ when he hosted Sandhu for a one-hour discussion on what lies ahead for India and the US. Unfortunately, many Indians believe what is good for the goose is not good for the gander. The world has become far too globalised to take such a narrow view in the Covid-era diplomacy for a country of India’s size and capabilities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/indian-schizophrenia-291441
02-08-2021||---||Right to be forgotten merits attention||With three matters before the High Courts at Delhi, Chennai and Mumbai, respectively, the contentious issue of ‘Right to be forgotten’ (RTF) is back in debate. In the first instance, a former contestant of Big Boss, Madhurima, appealed to the Colors TV channel, to stop replaying a clip where she is seen hitting a co-contestant with a pan. She urged that repetitive viewing of the content is damaging her psychologically and disturbing her family.The second pertains to Ashutosh Kaushik, another TV celebrity, who petitioned the Delhi High Court for removal of all material concerning him which refers to a drunken driving case and to an altercation at a Mumbai café. He has claimed that RTF forms an essential component of the right to privacy. In the third matter, the petitioner pleaded before the Madras High Court that though he was acquitted of all charges, Google continues to display case material depicting him as an accused. Given that the same is resulting in serious damage to his reputation, he sought the court’s directions to redact his name from the judgment concerned.In simple terms, RTF is an individual’s right to have personal information removed from public sources, such as the Internet, search engines, databases, websites etc, once the information is no longer deemed to be necessary or relevant, as it contravenes with the idea of privacy. There is now a growing consensus on RTF across the world. For instance, a European court held that economic interests of a search engine could not justify an interference with a person's right to data privacy and RTF is supposed to strike a balance against other fundamental rights. Many jurisdictions provide for a requirement of a process for deletion of personal data on the request of an individual, which is then assessed by the search engines. However, this process is complicated as search engines apply strict criteria for such determination.India, at present, does not have any legislative framework regarding RTF. However, the proposed Personal Data Protection Bill, 2019, defines RTF as the ability of an individual to limit, delink, delete or correct the disclosure of personal information on the Internet that is misleading, embarrassing or irrelevant. It provides a definite right to have erased all such personal data which is no longer necessary for the purpose for which it was processed. After erasing personal data on a data principal’s request, the data fiduciary has to take all measures to notify such erasure to all relevant entities or individuals to whom such data has been disclosed and which could impact the data principal's right.The Personal Data Protection Bill, 2019, provides that if the data fiduciary fails to comply with a request for erasure put forth by the data principal, without providing any reasonable explanation or justification, the data fiduciary shall be liable for a penalty of up to Rs 5,000 for each day during which such default continues, subject to a maximum ofRs 10 lakh in case of significant data fiduciaries and Rs 5 lakh in other cases. The harsh penalty provided in the draft bill underscores a strict balance in the penal policy by adducing to principles of deterrence and retribution on the one hand, while balancing them with restoration and reformation aspect by upholding the Right to Privacy and RTF, on the other.Though the law has not yet been enacted, the courts have come forward to safeguard and protect the liberties of an individual by way of RTF, which is convergent in various judgments. In the case of Dharmaraj Bhanushankar Dave v State of Gujarat (2015), the concept of RTF came to the forefront, though the court did not per se recognise the right itself. However, in the case of KS Puttaswamy v Union of India (2017), the Supreme Court emphasised on the ‘Right to be let alone’ as an essential part of the autonomy and privacy of an individual. While emphasising the importance of the RTF, the court stated that,” it would only mean that an individual who is no longer desirous of his personal data to be processed or stored, should be able to remove it from the system where the personal data/information is no longer necessary, relevant or is incorrect and serves no legitimate interest.”I am of the view that RTF cannot be guaranteed unless there is a data protection law and supplementary rules which will apply to non-national entities, especially the search engines, even if they are not based within the territorial limits of our nation. If the services of non-national entities have an impact on the individuals of a nation, the law must be made applicable to such entities. The legislation must expressly deal with the liability of intermediaries and the companies managing search engines because the expression posted by the users on online platforms differs qualitatively as a form of data, from the back-end files, logs or profiles managed and regulated by data protection law currently. Further, the burden of proof of relevance or requirement of information must be on the commercial entities or search engines and not the individuals seeking its deletion. In order to implement RTF, privacy needs to be added as a ground for reasonable restriction under Article 19(2) by way of amendment to the Constitution.An amendment to Section 8(1)(j) of the Right to Information Act may be also made. The proposed amendment should provide that the personal data may need not be disclosed under the RTI Act if such disclosure is likely to cause ‘harm’ to a data principal, where such ‘harm’ outweighs the public interest in accessing information. Of course, such a law must have due regard for the values of promoting transparency and accountability in the functioning of the public authority.An application of RTF must balance several competing interests. Fundamental rights such as freedom of speech and expression, etc, must all be balanced with the RTF as a facet of the right to privacy. Despite the initial successes in judicial recognition of RTF, it must also traverse contentious landscapes of international and domestic laws and politics before the black letter of the law and legal processes, guaranteeing RTF as a concrete right, can be legislated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/right-to-be-forgotten-merits-attention-291442
02-08-2021||---||New ministry to spur cooperative reforms||THE Ministry of Cooperatives, created recently by the Government of India, is expected to give a fresh impetus to developing and promoting cooperatives in the country. In its vision, ‘Sahakar se Samriddhi’ (prosperity through cooperation), the government has stated that the new ministry will provide a separate administrative, legal and policy framework to strengthen the cooperative movement in the country.The cooperatives are a vital plank of inclusive growth in rural areas, particularly food security, poverty alleviation, and employment creation. The International Cooperative Alliance has defined cooperatives as people-centred enterprises, owned, controlled and run by members to realise their economic, social and cultural needs and aspirations. They present a democratic business model wherein people come together with complete equality and equity. It is said to be the people’s capitalism to counter private capitalism that causes the concentration of wealth.The socio-economic benefits of cooperative enterprises remain with the members and communities that establish them and steer their economic future. The cooperative system has the potential to neutralise the alleged adverse effects of globalisation and privatisation.Cooperatives are self-financing, self-reliant and autonomous. These are voluntary organisations of members who unite to achieve their common objectives based on values and not just profit. The core values driving the cooperative movement are self-help, self-responsibility, democracy, equality, equity and solidarity. Based on these values, the principles of cooperation are voluntary and open membership; democratic member control; member economic participation; autonomy and independence; education, training and information; cooperation among cooperatives; and concern for community.Over the years, the cooperatives have occupied a substantial space in the business world. There are about one million cooperatives in India. These are formed either under provisions of the Cooperative Societies Act, 1912, or the respective state laws; or the Central Multi-State Cooperative Societies Act.British India enacted the first Cooperative Credit Societies Act, 1904. In 1919, cooperation became a State subject, and provinces were authorised to make their cooperative laws under the Montague-Chelmsford Reforms. In 1942, the British government enacted the Multi-Unit Cooperative Societies Act, intended to cover the societies whose operations extended to more than one state.In 1958, the National Development Council (NDC) recommended a national policy on cooperatives. The Government of India enacted the Multi-State Cooperative Societies Act in 1984 and the National Policy on Cooperatives was adopted in 2002. The 1984 Act was replaced by a new Multi-State Cooperative Societies Act 2002 for the speedier promotion and development of cooperatives.According to the RBI, the contribution of cooperative financing institutions to rural and agriculture credit increased from 3.1 per cent in 1951 to an impressive 27.3 per cent in 2002. Available data shows that the combined balance sheet of all state cooperative banks, as of March 31, 2018, stood at Rs 2.26 lakh crore and that of the district central cooperative banks at Rs 5.25 lakh crore, with their net profits being Rs 1,030 crore and Rs 850 crore, respectively.The producers’ cooperatives, such as the Andhra Pradesh State Handloom Weavers Cooperative Society, and the consumers’ cooperative, such as Kendriya Bhandar, a welfare society for the Central government employees set up in 1963, Apna Bazar, one of the largest and oldest multi-state cooperatives, and Sahakari Bhandar, a cooperative chain of retail stores, are some of the other forms of successful cooperatives. The marketing cooperatives at the national level, such as Nafed and its affiliate cooperative marketing federations at the state level, play an important role in agriculture development and marketing. Amul, the country’s biggest food and dairy cooperative with an annual turnover of over Rs 38,000 crore, illustrates the singular success of the cooperative movement in the business world. Iffco is another major multi-functional cooperative organisation that has many offshore production and marketing facilities.The National Cooperative Union of India and the National Cooperative Development Corporation worked for the promotion of the cooperative movement in India. Initially tasked with planning, promotion and financing of agricultural schemes, they were given a broader mandate to finance projects of rural cooperatives in sectors like water resource development and conservation, agri-insurance, rural credit, sanitation and animal husbandry.The growth of the cooperative movement in the country has not been free from turbulence. Apart from disagreements within, financial irregularities and undue control and interference of the governments are identified as inhibitive factors. Though largely funded and managed as private members’ enterprises, the cooperatives are required to obtain too many approvals from the government for their business.Ideally, there should be no interference of the government in the working of these entities, except autonomous regulatory mechanisms for free and fair elections to the managing committees and an effective quasi-judicial system for the redress of grievances of the members and persons who deal with these enterprises. The government facilitation, either through financial assistance or technical guidance, should not be intrusive to distort their autonomy.However, honesty and transparency in business by the managing committees and members can only help prevent government interference.The new Union Ministry of Cooperatives will spur meaningful reforms to strengthen cooperative movement in the country. It should be instrumental in remodelling both the Central and state laws to make cooperative enterprises more competitive and self-sustaining. The ministry will, of course, have the onerous task of ensuring the recognition of cooperatives under various financial, commercial and tax laws. These need to be harmonised with the Central and state cooperative laws.Such an effort will induce administrative, financial and legal reforms in this sector to align it with global trade practices. It may also enable the solution of such hitherto ignored problems of the cooperative sector as lack of infrastructure, poor quality of management, over-indulgence of the government, stagnant membership, delay or non-conduct of elections, inadequate human resources, and absence of professionalism.Views are personal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/new-ministry-to-spur-cooperative-reforms-291450
