03-08-2021||---||US seeks stability, predictability in ties with China||The Biden administration despatched three senior officials to South Asia — Secretary of State Anthony Blinken to India (July 27-28), Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin (July 23 onwards) to Singapore, Vietnam and the Philippines and Deputy Secretary of State Wendy Sherman to Japan, South Korea, Mongolia and China from July 18 to 26 — to reaffirm China’s close ties with its allies and partners (both current and potential) and explore prospects of cooperation with Beijing amid its intensifying rivalry with her.The thrust of Secretary of State Blinken’s visit to India was mainly on renewing political dialogue with External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and National Security Adviser Ajit Doval and a call on PM Narendra Modi. Priority areas included preparing for PM Modi’s visit to the US and a physical meeting of the Quad Heads of State/Government later this year, assuring India that the Biden administration was working on a political settlement in Afghanistan which would also meet her concerns post the withdrawal of US troops.In a joint press conference, Blinken warned that Afghanistan would become a “pariah state” if the Taliban took control by force by committing atrocities against its own people.Blinken raised human rights concerns at the meeting with Jaishankar, met with a group of civil society representatives in New Delhi and told them that the US and India shared values such as the rule of law and freedom of religion. Much of these concerns were meant to assuage the feelings of Democratic Party factions in the US about the alleged neglect of minorities in India. Jaishankar told Blinken that both the US and India were democracies in progress which were trying to strengthen their polities.There was a convergence of views on the Indo-Pacific and how Quad could play an important role in coordinating maritime security, connectivity, cyber and digital concerns, reliant supply chains and Covid vaccine-related challenges.In New Delhi, Blinken also met Ngodup Dongchung, an emissary of the Dalai Lama, and Geshe Dorji Damdul, Director of Tibet House, the most high-profile contact the US government has had with the Tibetans since 2016 when the then President Barack Obama met the Dalai Lama in Washington.The visit of Wendy Sherman to China was marked by heightened rhetoric from her Chinese hosts, Foreign Minister Wang Yi and Vice Foreign Minister Xie Feng, who told her that the Biden administration had continued the “wrong China policies of Donald Trump by challenging China’s bottom line and intensifying Beijing’s suppression” and these risked big disaster if Washington did not take remedial action.Making three core demands to the US — don’t challenge or subvert China’s model of governance; remove sanctions for its alleged human rights violations in Xinjiang and Hong Kong; and don’t restrict China’s technological development — Wang said that if there was provocation from Taiwan independent forces, China had the right to take any measures to stop it.Vice Foreign Minister Feng criticised the US’s “competitive, collaborative and adversarial rhetoric” in which the “real emphasis is on the adversarial aspect, as the collaborative aspect is just an expediency and the competitive aspect is a narrative trap.” Feng added: “China had developed faster than the US in recent years and the trend of China’s economy exceeding that of the US in the future is irreversible.” The US was under the illusion to “contain China’s development to bring her to chaos and collapse, like it did to the Soviet Union.”Sherman called on China to rise above their differences and work as a responsible power on such global issues as climate change and the Covid-19 pandemic. She pressed for the release of some Americans and Canadians detained in China, saying that people are not bargaining chips and raised concerns about the pressure put on journalists in China.Wendy Sherman’s visit was part of the Biden administration’s effort to find “guardrails and parameters” of possible cooperation with China, climaxing with a Biden-Xi meeting for direct dialogue. Washington’s position was clarified by Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin when he said that the US hoped to build a constructive and stable relationship with China amid varied concerns and “disapproval of a range of China’s activities, including its assertions in the South China Sea, its aggression against India, coercion against Taiwan and genocide and crimes against Uighur Muslims in Xinjiang.” These differences are real, “the way you manage them counts; US will not flinch when its interests are threatened though it did not seek confrontation. The US will deter conflict in every case and every opportunity,” he added.Austin’s visit to South East Asia was a first by a cabinet official from the Biden administration and is taking place amid reports that US Vice-President Kamala Harris could visit Singapore and Vietnam this month. Austin said his trip underscored the enduring US commitment to the region and its interest in upholding a rule-based international order in the region, promoting ASEAN centrality. Austin pushed for more partnerships with the South East Asian countries for a “stronger, more stable regional order,” comments which were seen as taking on China in its own backyard.Wendy Sherman’s meetings with the Chinese officials at Tianjin were less cantankerous than those at Anchorage (March 2021) as America’s primary objective was to enhance its understanding of China’s position, reduce the potential for misperception and miscalculation which could lead to unintended conflict.Beijing made it clear that it was in a strong position also and would not compromise on its core interests and since Washington had upped the antagonism in recent months, it would have to make some goodwill gesture if it wanted China to reciprocate.Given their entrenched positions and strong domestic constituencies, a quieter dialogue will be necessary for a Biden-Xi meeting which could create greater stability and predictability in bilateral ties.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/us-seeks-stability-predictability-in-ties-with-china-292014
03-08-2021||---||Landslide-prone areas need tech support||The recent incidents of landslides, cloudbursts and flooding in Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Jammu & Kashmir, resulting in a heavy loss of life and property, have again put the spotlight on the need for early detection, warning and prevention system and adopting time-tested sustainable solutions, including zoning maps of landslides, floodplain mapping and taking flood-proofing measures.It’s high time we used sustainable solutions and ecologically proven techniques for avoiding flood-related disasters each year and also turn to apt investigative tools in determining causes for failure. Depending on the causes, proven technologies that meet specific needs have to be adopted so that the hill states sharing borders with neighbouring countries have all-weather roads and sustainable infrastructure.India accounts for about 18 per cent of the total global fatalities due to landslides in the hills. Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, J&K and Ladakh record more than 65 per cent of the landslides in the country, followed by the Northeast Himalayas and Western Ghats.Worldwide, to avoid loss of life and damage to infrastructure, floodplain mapping programmes and zoning of landslide and rockfall-prone areas are carried out. This is meant to generate and provide information to help minimise damage in flood/landslide/rockfall-prone areas. With the help of floodplain mapping and zoning of landslide and rockfall-prone areas, the impact of damage to humans and property can be minimised by not allowing habitation and development in these areas.Traditionally, natural events like rain and earthquake are known to cause a large movement of rock, soil and debris, but the construction of roads and buildings, mining and hydropower projects are now increasingly destabilising slopes, making them more susceptible to slippage. Similarly, for all-season sustainable roads and infrastructure in the hill states in the aftermath of a natural disaster, there is a need to use non-destructive and least-invasive techniques to build roads.The Geological Survey of India (GSI) is working on a national landslide susceptibility map under which areas are divided into different zones according to the probability of a landslide. It has already covered 85 per cent of the entire 4.3 lakh square km landslide-prone area of the country on a 1:50,000 scale map.Some of the engineering measures needed include carrying out a detailed sub-surface investigation of the affected areas. Non-Destructive Testing (NDT) is an integral aspect of sub-surface investigation which is recommended, despite a significant school of thought that does not believe in the efficacy of such investigations in Indian conditions — which is a myth. NDT actually reduces the cost and time of sub-surface characterisation when carried out along with appropriate validation with invasive techniques. The best tools in the NDT category for the hills will be Seismic, Electrical Resistivity and Ground Penetrating Radar (GPR). The GPR is very useful in subsoil investigations and offers concrete characterisation of different layers.While planning the repair of affected areas in the hills, it needs to be remembered that the outer and lesser Himalayas comprised unstable strata owing to the young folded mountains and these sections have very weak to poorly cemented sedimentary rocks that lack inherent strength. The construction of roads, dams and other infrastructural activity in such ranges and strata, regardless of extreme precautions and environment-friendly techniques that are least invasive, does not guarantee adequate protection to the foundation or the slopes; blasting, which is used as a faster and economical method of infrastructure construction, should be avoided.In recent projects for four-laning and six-laning of roads undertaken by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), the hill-cutting and widening works have been done using a combination of excavators, road headers and breakers. This minimises the extent of damage to the hill slopes and strata and in combination with remedial measures such as concreting with wire mesh and rock bolting, use of rockfall nets, concrete cladding, and proper diversion of surface runoff through catch drains, chutes and toe drains on berms, stability has been provided to the slopes.Ideally, the best way to develop roads in the hills was through the use of tunnels and connecting viaducts. This minimised disturbance to the existing hill slopes. One of the best examples is the Kalka-Shimla Heritage Rail, the alignment of which comprises 103 tunnels crossing geologically weak strata. Despite being over 100 years old, this rail line has been closed on rare occasions, indicating the robustness of the alignment in penetrating slopes in geologically competent formations and tunnelling when such formations are unavailable. However, economics often restricts development of such costly but far more permanent solutions. Thus, it is time that we adopt alternative technologies for our structures.Another area for adopting alternative technology was the use of emergency bridges like Acrow and Bailey bridges where bridges are required in the hill states immediately after damage to infrastructure. Modern emergency bridges, though costlier, give the advantage of two-lane traffic and allowing heavier loads that match permanent bridges designed for national highway requirements and in an extremely short time frame, thereby giving early relief and restoring commercial activity which is very important in a state where tourism is a major component of its economy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/landslide-prone-areas-need-tech-support-292036
03-08-2021||---||Limited Afghanistan role||In the last couple of weeks, a great deal has been written on Afghanistan. The American withdrawal, the Taliban offensive, Antony Blinken’s visit to New Delhi, have all shifted our minds to the developments there. The Afghan army chief, who was scheduled to visit, cancelled at the last minute, given the situation back home.The Blinken visit would have seen intense discussions on the subject of Afghanistan. And no doubt, the theme would be the kind of role India can play in shoring up the Afghan government.India should not see itself as a major actor, and play at best, a carefully limited role in the unfolding events in the country. We can provide technical backing to the Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF), perhaps some financial aid to the Kabul government, that’s all. In no way should we see, or allow ourselves to be set up, as competitors against Pakistan and China. That is something that geography decided, and politics, in the form of Pakistan, has confirmed. We have no land access to the country. Our limited access through Chabahar has been hampered by the state of poor relations between the US and Iran.Estrangement with Iran and Russia has also limited American options to dependence on Pakistan for any viable Afghanistan policy. Given our own problems with Islamabad, this limits our room for manoeuvre. Washington may be working towards shaping some kind of entente between India and Pakistan, but this remains, as always, a work in progress. Any potential role India can play now is hampered by our increased closeness to Washington which impedes our ability to work in tandem with Iran and Russia to shape a common policy on Afghanistan.There is a great deal of talk about how the Taliban have changed and how they could be brought into the governance system in the country and tamed. That is delusional. The Taliban are an ideological force who are unlikely to dilute their beliefs and ideas. It is simply not possible to fit them into the framework of a democratic government, which, for all its faults, the current government of Afghanistan is. As for their casual savagery, it is evident from reports that Reuters photographer Danish Siddiqui was either tortured to death or his remains deliberately mutilated. Either way, it provides little comfort for the unfolding future.The Taliban have learnt their lessons in their long exile. Their diplomacy is more subtle and hence the outreach to China whose working principle is ‘non interference’ in the internal affairs of any country. The only thing Beijing is focused on is self-interest, which in this case is the need to insulate Xinjiang from Islamist radicalism. The Taliban may have tolerated radical movements like the al-Qaeda, the East Turkestan Liberation Front, the Islamic Movement of Tajikistan, or even the LeT and the JeM, but they have little interest in spreading their own ideas abroad, simply because those have emerged from the unique Pakhtun tribal culture.Actually, the main reason why India should avoid any major commitment in that region is that there are greater priorities and challenges back home in the subcontinent. Primarily, they relate to the Chinese assertiveness on the borders. Even if we are able to achieve a status quo ante, as of April 2020 on the Line of Actual Control with China, things are not going to be the same again. The CBM regime built up so patiently between 1993-2012 is broken and is not likely to be restored soon.In the meantime, Beijing has made important inroads into South Asia, particularly in Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and Nepal. The case of Sri Lanka is well known. But Bangladesh, too, appears to be developing denser ties with China.In a recent paper for ORF, Sumanth Samsani has noted that net FDI from China has zoomed from $68 million in 2017, $506 million in 2018, to $1.159 billion in 2019. China has been particularly active in the country’s energy sector and has built several coal-based power plants, as well as bought three natural gas fields in the country. It is also financing the construction of the Payra Deep Sea port at a cost of $10-15 billion. Among the other infrastructure projects are the eight Bangladesh-China friendship bridges, an under-river tunnel, expansion of the Sylhet airport, and various highways and rail links, including that over the Padma river. And it is, by far, the largest supplier of defence equipment to the country.At the end of April, China’s Defence Minister Gen Wei Fenghe toured Bangladesh and Sri Lanka. In the remarks in the Dhaka leg of his visit, there was a warning on the importance of countries in the neighbourhood resisting ‘powers from outside the region setting up military alliances in South Asia.’ This was shortly after the first Quad summit that was held through a teleconference.Because of its weak economy and defence industry, India has not been able to convert its geographic and economic dominance in the subcontinent into political primacy, where in the words of Ashley Tellis, India ‘commands the consent, if not obedience, of its smaller neighbours.’ The state of our relationships with them still depends on who is ruling the country.In these circumstances, instead of distant Afghanistan and Central Asia, India needs to focus sharply on its ability to shape, by coercion or economic attraction, the policies of its immediate South Asian neighbours. And we are not even talking about Pakistan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/limited-afghanistan-role-292045
