04-08-2021||---||US waking up to ground reality in Afghanistan||EVEN as Afghanistan President Ashraf Ghani has blamed the speedy pullout of American troops for the worsening violence in his country, the Taliban have captured parts of the northern belt, an erstwhile stronghold of the Northern Alliance, thereby isolating the area from its old support bases in the Central Asian Republics. The Taliban have also captured important border crossings. From India’s perspective, what’s worrying is the change in the US stance.American President Joe Biden said recently that though the US was not going to walk away and would help Afghanistan’s armed forces, his own conclusion was that peace could be achieved only if the Afghan Government found a modus vivendi with the Taliban.The most important understanding between the US and the Taliban, which facilitated the pullout of American forces, was that the Taliban would ensure no militant attacks on the US emanate from the Afghan soil. It is evident from the terms of the US-Taliban agreement that the survival of the Taliban has become far more important to the US interests than anything else.The first part of Biden’s statement needs to be read in the context that the US does not want to be seen by the world as having let down its ally of the past 20 years. It is also problematic for Biden to be seen as someone not supporting a democratically elected government or showing concern for human rights of the Afghans and Afghan women’s plight.An analysis of the US-Taliban deal reveals that the long-term implications of the agreement are not limited to the facilitation of the withdrawal of US forces. Given the growing strength of the Taliban, the US has made a deal which helps it take care of its strategic interests in the region. At any point of time in future, the US cannot afford to act against the Taliban and thereby compromise its own interests in Afghanistan, unless the Taliban do something to harm US interests.Another key issue is the US’s search for bases in the neighbourhood of Afghanistan. It is being seen as a ray of hope that the US forces may still be available to support the Afghan Government against the Taliban, if the need arises. It is really not so. The US’s primary purpose behind this effort is to carry out operations against the Islamic State or al-Qaeda, if the Taliban are not able to deal with them on their own. The US may act from these bases against the Taliban only if it sees the Taliban becoming hostile to US interests.The Taliban, too, will need US help for nation-building, if they become a major player in the government. In simple terms, it may not appear to be so on the face of it, but in real terms, the US and the Taliban have struck a deal. This deal makes a lot of sense for the US. Not only does it take care of its threat of terrorism, but also this is, perhaps, the only way the US can neutralise the growing Chinese, Russian and Iranian influence in Afghanistan.Another important question is whether the Afghan Government would be able to checkmate the Taliban. The only currency in the hands of the Taliban all along has been the use of force. There are some indications that all may not be well with the Taliban operations.Their problem is not very different from the one which the Afghan army has faced all along in the past: that Afghanistan is a very rough country, extending over 650,000 sq km. An army of barely two lakh-plus was never good enough for the conduct of counter-insurgency operations in such a vast area and to keep it under its domination.As a result, see-saw battles between the Afghan forces and the Taliban have been going on all along in the recent past. The Taliban used to capture some towns to make a statement and eventually had to withdraw under pressure of the ANA and the latter, too, did not have the forces to hold the recaptured localities forever.The Taliban already find themselves stretched across the vast areas they have captured. They just cannot go on at the same speed. In the balance sheet of forces rallied against the Taliban are eight important warlords as well, though none of them appear to be of the calibre of the late Ahmad Shah Massoud.The ANA is supported by the Afghan Air Force, but, unfortunately, the ANA is not a professional army, like, say the Indian Army. Its biggest problems are nepotism and lack of discipline within the army. It has already capitulated at some places. The silver lining for the ANA is the large number of Tajik officers and men who are brave fighters and would not like to surrender. However, Pashtun officers and men may not be willing to pay the same price in their fight against the Taliban.The Taliban will struggle to capture and hold on to the bigger cities, but they are fairly competent to control the lines of communication, which will turn vital as the seizure of cities starts. The Taliban can wait, reorganise and keep hitting.It is pertinent to take note of the change in Ashraf Ghani’s stance. He has stated that “there might be a need to rebalance the situation and the larger goal of the government is to arrive at a political settlement in Afghanistan.” Evidently, he has realised the limits of the military power at his disposal and the implications of the US policy which is no more favourable to him. This is an acceptance of reality from a man who was not willing to cede space to the Taliban.The Taliban victories have eroded Indian influence, too. Since we did not send troops to fight the Taliban, the latter do not have a major grudge against India. In the past, the Taliban sounded fairly positive towards India, even at the cost of annoying Pakistan.India has opened the dialogue with the Taliban through backchannels. A recent statement from a Taliban spokesperson that India needs to be impartial to both the Taliban and the Afghan government looks to pose a new challenge. The larger question today is: how far is India prepared to go? What is our national interest? Is India willing to formally recognise a future Afghan set-up, even if it is Taliban-dominated? It may be wise to do so as it may help solve some of our problems and is a way to get the Taliban to moderate its stance on issues of our concern. These issues need to be debated at home and conveyed to the Taliban, lest we are overtaken by the events once again.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/us-waking-up-to-ground-reality-in-afghanistan-292439
04-08-2021||---||Services sector in need of revival package||The services sector in India has grown exponentially over the past few decades to become the most dominant segment of the economy. It now occupies the biggest share of the GDP at over 60 per cent. It has even eclipsed agriculture in becoming the topmost employer. According to projections made by the ILO, services account for a 44.2 per cent share of the total employed, compared to 43.2 per cent for agriculture in 2019.In this backdrop, Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal’s plans to create standards for the services industries appear to indicate the high priority being given to this area. Yet, it is intriguing that the minister has spoken about the need for standardisation in a sector where some segments like information technology have flourished due to benign neglect from officialdom initially. In fact, the services industries currently are more in need of support to survive the rigours of the pandemic rather than regulatory tangles.The fallout of Covid has been devastating on this sector, with many entities forced to a standstill last year during the national lockdown. They were limping back to normalcy when the second wave led to regional lockdowns that repeated the cycle of closures and job losses. The tourism and hospitality sector, for instance, has been severely affected and it has, in turn, impacted the livelihoods of millions.Domestic tourism has revived slightly over the past two months, though the visuals of crowds in scenic resorts have raised concerns over the prospect of super-spreader events. International tourism, however, has completely shut down. The result is that tourism-dependent states like Rajasthan as well hotels and resorts all over the country are facing enormous revenue losses. The timing constraints on all categories of restaurants have also left workers stranded after many establishments had to suspend operations.The repercussions of such closures can be visualised from the fact that 39 million jobs are reported to have been created in the tourism industry in fiscal 2019-20. This comprised eight per cent of the total employment in the country at the time.The aviation industry has also been hard hit by the curtailment of domestic and international flights. There are several ancillary service sub-sectors linked to aviation that have been impacted by the curbs on flying. These include maintenance operations, ground handling, catering and inflight sales, all of which are huge employers. Some other sectors have been equally hit, including construction and real estate, call centres and delivery services.In contrast, the vast segment of information technology and IT-related services has reaped a bonanza during the pandemic. The need for remote and online work has meant that IT has assumed enormous importance. The outcome has been that the profitability of IT firms, whether it be giants like TCS and Infosys or smaller companies and start-ups, has risen by big margins.Similarly, social intermediary companies, much in the news lately due to tussles over complying with new Indian IT rules, have profited from the focus on online work and entertainment. They have not only gained followers but also drawn in higher advertising revenues.But the rest of the services segment has been in a deep crisis ever since the pandemic was unleashed in March last year. Most job losses have been in this sector. Given the crisis as well as their enormous share in the country’s economy, it is baffling that the government has failed to include them in the various Covid revival packages unveiled over the past year. Services account for two-thirds of the total foreign direct investment inflows and 38 per cent of total exports.Services exports, according to the government’s own data, have been far higher than goods exports in recent years. In fact, India’s share in global commercial services exports touched 3.5 per cent in 2018 as compared to 1.7 per cent of merchandise exports.The traditional outlook on economic growth envisages that growth and development can be led only by the manufacturing sector. In other words, services can only be the product and not the driver of growth. The reality is that services have now been catapulted by technology to a position where they can be produced and traded just like manufactured goods. Studies by multilateral agencies like the World Bank are showing that services industries are contributing more than manufacturing to jobs and growth in many countries.This is all too evident in India where services have rapidly outpaced manufacturing and become the main force, driving both jobs and growth. The government needs to take cognisance of this new reality by providing a supportive revival package to the badly affected services sector. Instead, it seems to be looking at a way to engulf service industries with regulations to create a system of standards. Most likely, these will be drafted by bureaucratic committees more interested in imposing controls than facing the industry’s realities.When the Modi government came to power, it spoke reassuringly about minimum government and maximum governance. In fact, the reverse has taken place, with efforts to put in place increasingly more regulations and bureaucratic rules, rather than eliminating the existing ones. The services sector is being viewed in the same way as other industries, in other words, with suspicion, which is the opposite of the meaning of minimum government.Guidelines and regulations have their due place but excessive distrust leads to more red tape and controls. Regulations for the tourism industry, for example, need to be eased considerably. Setting up and operating restaurants, resorts and hotels should be made much easier and the plethora of approvals needs to be cut down drastically. Providing an easier environment for services industries will improve job potential in sectors which rely heavily on skilled manpower for their success.By neglecting the services sector or viewing it with distrust, the government is only going to constrain the development of the most significant segment of the economy, the one that has the potential to drive growth in the coming years. In case the approach to this sector continues to be hamstrung by the view that services are a peripheral element, it will be a lost opportunity at a time when there is a desperate need to make a push for higher growth.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/services-sector-in-need-of-revival-package-292446
04-08-2021||---||Fault lines come to haunt||History’s caprices have a way of catching up with the present times in the least expected ways. The shadow of the Partition has dogged and reshaped the history of three countries at all times but less seen and felt are the ramifications of a similar redrawing of borders demarcating the seven states of India’s Northeast that burst forth violently just when the troubled region seems to have made peace with itself. The irony could not have been starker when Assam and Mizoram went to ‘war’ recently. In ordinary circumstances, the use of the word ‘war’ to describe an intra-nation conflict might be unwarranted. But the sequence of events which erupted on the inter-state border between Vairengte (Mizoram) and Lailapur (Assam) last week reinforced the fragility of an entity that the BJP, like its predecessors, hoped would hang together largely through forced State agency and interventions. That’s not the way the seven ‘siblings’ will respond because unlike the Delhi establishment, regardless of which party is ruling, they do not perceive themselves as vassal states, even if they have accepted the terms of engagement set by the union government.The violence on the border was not without precedent. In 1985, when Assam and Nagaland were ruled by the Congress, a 400-km-long battlefield was created around Merapani, a small village in Doyang reserve forest along the disputed border areas between Assam and Nagaland. Merapani, a village in Assam, was besieged by the Naga Armed Police, equipped with medium machine-guns, three-inch mortars and rocket launchers which flattened out the swath of land, killing 40 people, of who 30 were Assam policemen, and displacing close to 30,000 villagers. Nagaland maintained that the provocation came when the Assam forest department constructed a check- post a little ahead of the Merapani police station close to a habitation that was home to the Lotha Nagas. Assam’s version was that the assault was the culmination of a series of uncalled for attacks on civilians for over a month. The clash is chronicled in history as the 1985 war of Merapani. There was another intense combat in 1979, days after the Assam and Nagaland chief ministers, Golap Borbora and Vizol Angami, ratified a peace accord. Both were from non-Congress parties, Borbora from the Janata Party and Vizol from the United Democratic Front. Naga villagers, helped by the police, swooped down on the Chungajan Junction area, killed over 50 Assamese villagers and permanently converted the places around seven reserve forests into conflict zones, undaunted by the CRPF and the Assam Reserve Police’s vigil.At the heart of the intra-states’ discord was a historical circumstance, going back to the colonial times: barring Tripura and Manipur, the other states, Meghalaya, Manipur and Nagaland, were carved out of Assam. Arunachal Pradesh, the largest north-eastern state, was birthed by a 1912-13 pact entered by the British India government with the indigenous tribes. NEFA was re-christened as Arunachal Pradesh in 1972, became a union territory, and attained statehood in 1987.The borders were etched in a ‘hurry’, which is unsurprising, considering it took just seven days for Cyril Radcliffe to map the western and eastern frontiers and divide the subcontinent. Nagaland was founded as an autonomous state within Assam in 1957 and conferred statehood in 1963. In 1972, when Assam’s Lushai Hills were separated as the union territory of Mizoram (it became a full state in 1987), Delhi used the legacy boundaries drawn by the British in 1933, instead of revisiting the exercise and viewing it with an open mind. There was a catch. In 1875, the British used another boundary to give some territory to the Mizos under a law, Bengal Eastern Frontier Regulation of 1873. This was overturned in 1933. The Mizos accepted the original 1873 one because they maintained it was done in consultation with their tribal leaders. By 1933, it was apparent that the colonial rulers had invested in the tea gardens on sloped land next to the Lushai Hills and developed commercial interests that turned their approach casual. Mizoram was like a palimpsest, whose borders were written and rewritten over and again, making it ripe for waging conflicts with its neighbour.The breach between Delhi and the Northeast was caused as much by geography and history as cultural misinterpretations. With the BJP, the last factor is enacted through the Sangh’s familiar and insular tropes: bashing Christian missionaries, religious evangelism, meat as the favoured food, and the adoption of a Western lifestyle, perceptions which melded with the ‘parivar’s advocacy of nationalism (fuelled by insurgency) and pan-Hindutva. Assam is the only state that sits comfortably with the Sangh’s ideology.While parts of Assam had serious reservations with the amended citizenship law that promised granting citizenship rights to all immigrants from Bangladesh, barring Muslims, the other states opposed it lock, stock and barrel, fearing that an influx of Bengali-speaking people would set off a demographic upheaval. Mariangela Mihai, an anthropology PhD candidate at Cornell University researching identity and ethnicity in Mizoram, recently wrote, ‘Thus, while the anti-CAA protests are discussed in terms of citizenship, identity and minority politics at a national scale, in Mizoram they highlight the invisibility of divergent indigenous politics at the margins of the state...Invisible as it may be, the long-term vision of Mizo resistance has powerful political consequences.’There are signs of an Assam-Mizoram rapprochement. However, the temptation to politicise the strife from both sides, with Meghalaya politicians leaning on Mizoram, does not augur well in the quest for a long-term solution. The disturbing assertions of political leaders, notably the Assam and Mizoram CMs, has shaken the bedrock of the six-year-old North East Democratic Alliance, formed as a regional equivalent of the NDA and helmed by Himanta Biswa Sarma, the Assam CM.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/fault-lines-come-to-haunt-292452
