05-08-2021||---||Hockey turnaround heralds a new dawn||I am not a morning person. But Tuesday morning was different. I was up early, as was the entire family, for the India-Belgium match in the Olympic hockey semi-final. The game moved us, like millions of Indian fans, from ecstasy to anxiety, and pain. The Indian men’s team was outplayed, yet this defeat did not leave us humiliated, it did not erase the earlier joy of watching that brilliant solo goal against Britain by Hardik Singh. Or the sheer pride of the Chak De moment when our women’s hockey team defeated Australia.It took me back nearly half a century ago, to my school days. The only claim to fame of my school, SGN Khalsa Higher Secondary School, Sri Ganganagar, with a preponderance of rural Sikh boys, was its sports prowess. In those days, 6-8 members of Rajasthan’s playing XI used to be from my school. My college, SGN Khalsa College, enjoyed the same reputation in hockey and athletics. I played hockey, never went beyond the school’s Team C, but was enough to be selected for AIR’s panel of hockey commentators for the Asian Games in 1982.Like everyone around me, I was an avid hockey fan then. Indian hockey was past its golden era, but not out of international reckoning. We had only heard about Dhyan Chand, but his son Ashok Kumar was our hero. I did not know much about Balbir Singh, but I remember how awestruck I was when I got to shake hands with Ajit Pal Singh, the legendary centre-half. The defining moment of hockey glory was the last minute goal by Aslam Sher Khan in the semi-final of the Kuala Lumpur World Cup in 1975 that India went on to win. There was no television in my town then. The pleasure of hockey came through Jasdev Singh’s radio commentary. You had to add visuals, action and colours on your own. For my generation then, Indian hockey team was the flag-bearer of our national pride. It wasn’t a safe bet, yet worth it.Like most of my friends, my passion for hockey quietly gave way to cricket. It began with the visit of Clive Lloyd’s team to India in the winter of 1974-75, a series in which Gordon Greenidge, Vivian Richards and Andy Roberts made their debut. My personal favourites were G. Viswanath, Brijesh Patel, and of course, BS Chandrasekhar, all from Karnataka. India lost the series, but not its pride. The introduction of astroturf in the 1976 Olympics had begun a steep and irreversible decline of Indian hockey, notwithstanding the facile gold in the 1980 Moscow Olympics. It coincided with the rise of cricket, leading up to the dream victory in the 1983 World Cup.Some friends came together to form a local cricket team, grandly named the Eleven Star Club. The new APMC yard, not yet inaugurated, was our cricket ground. TV had just entered my town, though not my home. Its five-metre-high antenna, the new symbol of social status, was more likely to catch Lahore TV station than our own Doordarshan’s signal from Amritsar. Cricket stars — I had added Kapil Dev to the list now — were the new national heroes. India was still an underdog, with an occasional upset that uplifted our pride. When India was not playing, I was happy to support West Indies or Pakistan and admire Vivian Richards or Zaheer Abbas. That was the heyday of Third World solidarity and the Non-aligned Movement.For nearly two decades after, I lost touch with the world of sports. Professional passions overshadowed my occasional interest in cricket. Hockey was a faint memory. Lagaan tickled, but failed to rekindle my interest in cricket. Chak De! India did bring tears, but for a world that did not exist anymore.By the time my sports fanatic son reconnected me to that world a few years ago, cricket was a new game. Twenty20 has changed the format and the pace, even for Test cricket. Thankfully, I don’t look down upon these changes. I love T20 matches. Who wouldn't enjoy a feast of sixers? I marvel at how a format designed for batsmen is now dominated by bowlers. I am truly in awe of the talent pool that Indian cricket is now.Yet, I don’t feel a thing. Cricket is now an extension of the entertainment industry. I cannot bear to read about the players’ auction. I fail to connect IPL teams to the cities and regions they supposedly represent. I know we are the hub of international cricket, but that does not add in any way to my national self-esteem. I see and hear India fans, within and outside the country, with face paints and T-shirts, but I cannot tell them from English football fans. I simply cannot join their roar. The victory in the 2007 T20 World Cup did not mean what the triumph in the 1983 cricket World Cup or the 1975 hockey World Cup meant.I felt something similar with our hockey teams in the Olympics this time. No doubt, hockey too has changed: the four-quarter format, the pace of the game, and the new set of rules. Yet it is the same game. The Indian women’s hockey team’s victory over Australia the other day tugged at my heart the same way as the victory of Ajit Pal Singh’s team did 46 years ago. The stories of women hockey players are not dissimilar to the stories of Indian hockey in the 1970s. I don’t care if they don’t win any Olympic medals. For me, even in their defeat, the women and men of Indian hockey are the new national icons.My story is not quite my story. It is very much the story of a generation that saw the transition from a thick yet porous post-colonial nationalism to the hard, flat and thin ultra-nationalism so typical of our times. Hockey of the 1970s and cricket till the 1980s represented the pride of the underdog, the hesitant entrant on the world stage. Mass hysteria around cricket today is the cultural carrier of boorishness, its outward confidence barely masking the hollowness inside. Ashis Nandy, who wrote a story of politics of colonialism around cricket, reminded us: “Cricket heroes have become, for the increasingly uprooted, humiliated, decultured Indian, the ultimate remedy for all the failures — moral, economic and political — of the country.”The resurgence of Indian hockey in this context assures me that another deeper and positive nationalism still lives inside us. It may have been overshadowed, but it is not erased from our national consciousness. Or am I dreaming?Views are personal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/hockey-turnaround-heralds-a-new-dawn-293105
05-08-2021||---||Xi Jinping’s Tibet visit militarily significant||Chinese President Xi Jinping’s July 21-23 visit to Tibet — his third to the region — was important. It was the first visit to Tibet in 30 years by a leader of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) holding all three top posts.Its importance was underscored by the high-powered delegation, comprising three Politburo members and General Zhang Youxia, Vice-Chairman of the CMC, accompanying Xi Jinping. Of particular importance is Xi Jinping’s address to the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) officers in Lhasa and his first publicised reference to the military tension on the Line of Actual Control (LAC).The visit to Nyingchi, his first stop during the tour, is of significance for India. Official Chinese maps include most of India’s state of Arunachal Pradesh — referred to as southern Tibet by the Chinese —within the administrative boundaries of the Nyingchi Prefecture.Relevant, therefore, is Xi Jinping’s insistence on the “rejuvenation” of the Chinese nation and recovering territories claimed to have been lost by the imposition of unequal treaties by hostile foreign powers.Nyingchi has, additionally, emerged as a strategically important military transit station for highways and railways connecting Tibet with the Chinese Mainland. Once completed, the high-speed Chengdu-Lhasa railway will reduce travelling time from the present 30 hours to only 10.The massive dam to be built at the Great Bend on the Brahmaputra (Yarlung Tsangpo) is also located in Nyingchi. More PLA missile units are being moved to Nyingchi to protect these assets.Xi Jinping’s remarks to an estimated 400 PLA officers at a separate meeting in Lhasa on July 23 are particularly important because he had till now not referred publicly at all to the situation on the LAC. Neither has it figured as an item on the agenda of any of the Politburo or Politburo Standing Committee meetings held since May 2020.However, its listing on July 6, 2020, after the incident at the Galwan Valley, on the agenda of the first meeting of the Political Security Task Force of the high-level Ping An (Safe) China Construction Coordinating Small Group is evidence that the situation is being monitored at the highest levels of the Chinese hierarchy. The Ping An (Safe) China Construction Coordinating Small Group was established in April 2020 and reports directly and only to Xi Jinping.Other than Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi, no other senior Chinese leader has commented on the situation on the border since May 2020.Indicative of China’s unrelenting stance are Wang Yi’s remarks to India’s External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on the sidelines of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) meeting at Dushanbe on July 14 and the absence of forward movement in the 12 border meetings of the Army commanders held thus far.At Dushanbe, Wang Yi observed: “The rights and wrongs of what happened in the China-India border area last year are very clear and the responsibility does not lie with the Chinese side. China is ready to find a solution acceptable to both sides on the issue that needs emergency response through negotiation and consultation.”He reiterated the Chinese position: “The two sides must place the border issue in an appropriate position in bilateral relations” while developing bilateral cooperation.He advised, too, that both sides must “strictly abide by the agreement and common understanding of the two sides, and refrain from taking unilateral actions…to avoid any recurrence of tensions due to misunderstanding and miscalculation”.Meanwhile, China continues to build its narrative on the situation along the LAC.Among the officers addressed by Xi Jinping were at least 281 officers of the PLA Army (Ground Force), and 29 PLA Air Force officers. In addition to three lieutenant-generals and 27 major-generals, the rest were colonels and above. No representatives from the PLA Rocket Force and PLA Strategic Support Force were noticed.Seated with Xi Jinping and CMC Vice-Chairman General Zhang Youxia in the front row were the new Commander of the PLA Western Theatre Command (WTC) General Xu Qiling, WTC Political Commissar General Li Fengbiao, Political Commissar of the Tibet Military Region Lt-General Zhang Xuejie, and the Commander of the Tibet Military Region Lt-General Wang Kai. The new Commander of the WTC PLA Army (Ground Forces) and the commanders of the military sub-districts bordering India were probably present.Greeting the officers, Xi Jinping thanked them for their “large contribution to the nation in terms of security and unification along with ensuring peace and stability in Tibet,” and said, “For all this, the Party and the people of China are thankful.” He urged “the army to be committed to the Party and its ideology” and “become a formidable force.”He exhorted the officers to follow the ‘old Tibet spirit’ which means they need to “follow their ancestors and what they have done in Tibet in the past 70 years. They need to follow in their footsteps and take their work forward.” He declared that “they have already passed the difficult challenge of Tibet’s harsh climate and environment and protected the country and have done a good job. However, they need to continue training hard and prepare for future wars.”India needs to be very wary as the excerpts of Xi Jinping’s speech telecast by China Central Television indicate no plans to lessen tension along the LAC. The current impasse in Ladakh would undoubtedly have been discussed, along with future operations and possible activation of the border opposite Nyingchi and Shigatse. The Xinjiang Military Region, too, is receiving greater attention with an airport under construction at Tashkurgan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/xi-jinpings-tibet-visit-militarily-significant-293099
05-08-2021||---||Keep distance from Taliban||There is an erroneous perception in India that Afghanistan is a monolithic country, where the Taliban represents the majority of the country. The Taliban is made up almost exclusively of Pashtuns, who constitute around 45% of Afghanistan’s population. The Taliban’s leaders and its cadres returned to Afghanistan from their hideouts in Pakistan, just as the occupying Soviet Forces began withdrawing from Afghanistan in February 1989. Having been trained and ideologically indoctrinated in some of the most fundamentalist madrasas, the Taliban sought to fill the political and security vacuum after the Soviets withdrew from Afghanistan. The Taliban let loose a reign of terror and oppression in Afghanistan, which was quite unique.The Taliban faced armed opposition from virtually every other Afghan ethnic grouping. This resistance was spearheaded by the Tajiks, who constitute around 35% of Afghanistan’s population. The Taliban ruled Afghanistan and soon became a safe haven for radical Islamist terrorist groups from across the world. American intervention in Afghanistan commenced in 2003, after the 9/11 terrorist strikes. Driven out of Afghanistan, the Taliban operated from Pakistan. Strangely, the Americans accepted Pakistani claims of innocence, despite the ISI’s obvious support for Taliban’s terrorism. Washington provided Pakistan all economic and military aid it could absorb. The Taliban, however, retained close links with terrorist groups, like the JeM and LeT, while colluding with the ISI.The US presence in Afghanistan did not deter, or prevent the Taliban from strengthening its ties with radical Islamic groups across the world, while hosting these radicals in Afghanistan. These groups included the Al Qaeda, the IS, the Tehriq-e-Taliban (Pakistan), and the East Turkistan Independence Movement, which operated in China’s Xinjiang province. China received assurances from the Taliban that they would cease support for insurrection, and seek peace with the Afghan government. That has not happened. Pakistan had led the US up the garden path by providing safe haven to Osama bin Laden, who was the mastermind of the 9/11 attacks.The Taliban leadership has made it clear how it will rule Afghanistan. Its spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid recently announced that they would rule according to the Sharia, which will be enforced ‘rigorously’. He asserted that elections did not yield positive results in Islamic countries. Women would not be permitted to sing, and can work only in some areas. They would have to be accompanied by a male ‘for their protection’ whenever they leave the house. Men, in turn, are barred from wearing western clothes, and would have to grow a beard. They believe that war as an option is not ruled out, and that jihad will continue.The Taliban are giving high attention to capturing Kandahar, located close to the borders with Pakistan. Kandahar is equivalent of another Mecca for the people of Afghanistan. The then ruler of Afghanistan, Ahmed Shah Abdali, received a cloak, said to have been worn by the Prophet, during his visit to Bokhara (now in Uzbekistan), from the kingdom’s ruler, Amir Murad Beg. The cloak is now placed in a mosque near Abdali’s tomb. The normally reclusive Taliban leader Mullah Omar shot to fame when he emerged from the mosque, with the cloak, in 1996.There are fears that the Taliban will overrun the Afghan forces. The impression also prevails that the Afghan army lacks the sagacity to overcome the Taliban challenge, as there are areas in southern and western Afghanistan, near the country’s borders with Iran and Tajikistan, which are presently under Taliban control. Pakistani involvement is evident, as large numbers of Pakistani terrorists are now fighting alongside the Taliban. Russia has concerns about the conflict crossing into the territory of its erstwhile Central Asian republics like Tajikistan. Iran has similar concerns about Taliban attacks on its allies, the Shia Hazaras, living just across its borders in Afghanistan. Future Russian and Iranian involvement on the western borders of Afghanistan cannot, therefore, be ruled out.External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar has held wide-ranging talks with the US, Russia, and virtually all of Afghanistan’s Central Asian neighbours, both bilaterally and in the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation. His unprecedented meeting with Iran’s President-elect Ebrahim Raisi in Tehran was of particular significance. Iran has already warned of serious consequences if the Taliban should cause any harm to its Shia Hazara brethren. Iran was New Delhi’s close regional ally, when India, Iran and Russia backed groups in the Northern Alliance, drawn from the non-Pashtun majority in Afghanistan, even before the US intervention.While Taliban successes in an estimated 200 of the 424 districts across Afghanistan have received substantial attention, the Taliban are finding it hard to take over a provincial capital in even one of Afghanistan’s 34 provinces. The US left the Afghan army ill equipped, with hardly any tanks and artillery. The Afghan air force has an estimated 200 aircraft, which include 69 light attack helicopters. Washington would have to substantially strengthen Afghanistan’s armed forces. It remains to be seen if Pakistan provides the Taliban with Stinger surface-to-air missiles.There are calls for ‘talks’ with the Taliban, which the Modi government has rightly ignored. The Taliban are, and will remain, tools of the ISI. While contacts can be maintained with Taliban leaders like Mullah Baradar in Qatar, there is no need to follow the Chinese example, with moves like formally inviting Taliban leaders to New Delhi. The Taliban colluded with the hijackers of IC 814 and maintained close ties with ISI-backed terrorist groups. Pakistan, in turn, needs a weak and internationally discredited Afghanistan to constitute its ‘strategic depth’ against India.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/keep-distance-from-taliban-293096
