06-08-2021||---||Allies close ranks as Opposition tries to regroup||Main akela hi chala tha janib-e-manzil; magar log saath aate gaye aur karvan banta gaya (I had set off alone towards my goal, but people came along and it began to turn into a caravan)This famous verse by Majrooh Sultanpuri partially explains Rahul Gandhi’s standing in the context of the recent show of unity by 14 leaders of the Opposition.The question that needs an answer is why the Opposition, barring the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), have started evincing interest in the young Congress leader who is yet to formally take over as the party chief.The renewed interest in him is a result of many factors that have come into play, post the second wave of Covid-19, Rafale investigations in France, Mamata Banerjee’s spectacular victory in West Bengal, abrupt change of BJP chief ministers in Uttarakhand and Karnataka, Pegasus revelations and the Congress’ deft handling of the Navjot Singh Sidhu versus Captain Amarinder Singh battle for one-upmanship in poll-bound Punjab.Many regional players ranging from Mamata Banerjee to Sharad Pawar and MK Stalin are fancying the Opposition’s prospects for 2024. In their collective assessment, due to political reasons, anti-incumbency and age factors, Modi will not be able to repeat his 2014 or 2019 parliamentary performance. There has been a pattern of sorts. Each time a towering, charismatic personality faces downfall, regional players and coalition politics have come to the fore. It happened in 1977, 1989, 1996 and in 2004 against the established and tall leadership of Indira, Rajiv Gandhi, PV Narasimha Rao and Atal Bihari Vajpayee.Rahul’s stand on pinpointing the mistakes made by the Narendra Modi regime in tackling the Covid-19 pandemic has gone down well with a large section of the Congress leaders and outside. Ditto for his vocal and consistent stand on the Rafale deal. During the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, he had questioned the sale of 36 fighter jets and coined a rather offensive ‘Chowkidar chor hai’ campaign. Privately, many senior Congress leaders had questioned Rahul’s bid to treat Rafale deal a bit like Bofors by the Opposition in 1987-89. In July this year, however, when a French judge was asked to investigate the 2016 Rafale fighter jet sale deal with India on suspicions of corruption, Rahul earned respect. It is a different thing that he has not won vocal appreciation.Just like on Covid-19 and Rafale, Rahul directly took on the Modi regime on the Pegasus snooping row, overruling some in-house reservations that the masses would not understand its impact. Rahul kept asking, “Did the Government of India buy Pegasus? Yes or no! Did the government use Pegasus as a weapon against its own people?” It must be remembered that there is a qualitative difference between phone-tapping and hacking, that too by an external agency. It is far more grave and perplexing why the Indian State is reluctant to initiate criminal proceedings against those who violated privacy.For many, Rahul’s body language seems to have become strong and assertive. In and outside Parliament, he is seen as far more attentive, engaging with party leaders and almost all among the Opposition ranks. Once again, his language or political grammar has remained uncompromising. It is just that he is getting more attention and cooperation from those who had excelled in floor and political management during the UPA years.There is another significant feature that is binding the Opposition ranks. Rahul is not hankering for the office of the prime minister. He is not a contender unless the Congress does unexpectedly well in 2024. In Rahul’s scheme of things, unless the Congress crosses the “half of half” figure in Lok Sabha, i.e. half of the 272-mark, the grand old party would not be staking a claim for the coveted post. As things stand, the Congress would consider itself lucky crossing the 100-mark in the Lok Sabha. Thus, at an informal level, the word is out among the Opposition ranks that the office of the prime minister is up for grabs for any regional leader having the ability to net 30-plus parliamentary seats and find acceptability among the non-Congress groupings.In any case, past precedence tells a fascinating story about how non-contenders invariably made the cut in 1977, 1989, 1996 and in 2014. While Jayaprakash Narayan was not inclined to take the high office, both Jagjivan Ram and Charan Singh were aspirants when the mantle fell on 77-year-old Morarji Desai. In 1989, VP Singh had positioned himself but in the National Front, the choice had fallen on Chaudhury Devi Lal. It was Devi Lal’s grace and an act of benevolence that saw the former Raja of Manda realising his dream. The 1996 United Front experiment had a problem of plenty — from Lalu to Mulayam Singh Yadav, they eliminated each other’s prospects till HD Deve Gowda emerged as a compromise and acceptable nominee. In 2004, when Sonia Gandhi declined to become the prime minister, at least two senior Congress leaders — Arjun Singh and Pranab Mukherjee — had considered themselves more deserving than Dr Manmohan Singh.In short, coalition politics is layered, having wheels within wheels. Some regional players may be away from Lucknow, but they would play ‘pehle aap, pehle aap’ (you first) games to scuttle the prospects of one another. In fact, the outcome of the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls in early 2022 itself will have a tremendous bearing on national politics. The Opposition story may appear chaotic yet propitious.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/allies-close-ranks-as-opposition-tries-to-regroup-293619
06-08-2021||---||A hard-won bronze that glitters like gold||INDIA’S first medal in 41 years in Olympics hockey, a bronze in Tokyo after a stirring and unexpected fightback from 1-3 down, has caused grown-up men to cry and old men to dance like teenagers. A bronze is a bronze is a bronze, but a hockey bronze is diamond. Numerically, a bronze in hockey is equal to a bronze in, say, badminton; but in terms of emotion, history and symbolism, a bronze in hockey is much more desirable than a badminton bronze.For one thing, a hockey medal seemed to be ours by right — from 1928 to 1972, India won a medal in each of the 10 consecutive Olympic Games, including six gold in a row from 1928. Indians were masters of hockey — we won nothing else at the Olympics except medals at hockey. Then, in the 1970s, the medals were snatched away and the fans and players and the sporting brotherhood in the country have mourned the loss for over four decades.Further, to understand what hockey meant for India’s soul, you need to know a bit about the role hockey played in forging the Indian identity in 20 years preceding Independence and the 20 years after it. In 1928, India won its first gold in Olympic Games hockey. Previously, the two times hockey was part of the Olympic Games, the British had won the gold, and the other medals had gone to European teams.In 1928, Great Britain, the defending champions (there was no hockey at the 1924 Olympic Games), absented themselves from the Olympics, held in Amsterdam. Before the 1928 Olympics, on tour in England, the Indian team had beaten a Hockey Association XI 4-0 in a match at Folkestone. As Dhyan Chand noted in his biography, the home team was almost a full British team — the “Hockey Association XI included 9 international players and 2 trial men”. Clearly, the British did not want to dignify the contest against a colony by fielding their national team against it. The Indians played 11 matches in England, winning nine and losing one. The consequences of India’s win at Folkestone, and the other wins, were immediate — Great Britain did not field their team at the 1928 Olympics at Amsterdam.India won all their matches easily, defeating Austria 6-0, Belgium 9-0, Denmark 5-0 and Switzerland 6-0. Dhyan Chand scored 14 goals, and Feroze Khan and George Marthins contributed five each. It was a team that had a fair sprinkle of Anglo-Indians, apart from representatives of all major Indian religions. Such a team thrashing Europeans in their own sport carried much symbolism — even if there were conflicts and fractures within the team — at a time when the freedom movement was getting increasingly intense, less than a decade after the Jallianwala Bagh massacre.India repeated the feat in 1932 and 1936, winning all their matches, while Great Britain continued to give Olympics hockey a miss. After the hiatus caused by World War II, the Olympics were held in 1948, in London. India was independent, and the team from the United Kingdom had nowhere to hide — at their home Olympics, it had to participate. India were weakened by several players opting for Pakistan after the division of Punjab. India, UK and Pakistan were in separate groups, and each of them topped their group. Fittingly, in London on August 12, India beat its former masters 4-0 in the final. The country had seen a bloody Partition less than a year ago, but the win was a triumph of the idea of India — the team comprised several Anglo-Indians and players from all communities. Dhyan Chand’s mantle was taken on by a young man from Punjab, Balbir Singh, who scored twice in the final. This was free India’s first sporting success — we were still the masters of hockey, even after the bloody 1947.Hockey was the balm to a fractured India’s wounds — hockey gave the country a place at the greatest festival of sport. India had little to be proud of — a huge population and deep poverty, hungry millions and droughts and floods. Every people, every nation must have something to be proud of — we had the hockey gold, and even our former colonial masters were fearful of facing our team.The emergence of Pakistan as a strong power invested hockey with additional competitive edge and passion. Other teams were catching up, and India were not winning by huge margins any more — in 1956, the wins against Great Britain and Pakistan in the semifinals and final were by a 1-0 scoreline. Then, in 1960, disaster struck — their first-ever loss in the Olympics, that too in the final, that too to Pakistan! India won back the gold in 1964, but this time they were — unthinkable! — held to draws in the group stage. In the final, it was India vs Pakistan — and Mohinder Lal won them the gold with his 40th-minute strike, the team defending stoutly for 30 minutes.The descent after 1964 was breathtaking — bronze in 1968 and 1972, nothing in 1976, when the team didn’t reach the semifinals for the first time. India did win the gold at Moscow 1980, but only six teams were in the fray, and the strongest teams were absent due to the US-led boycott. This took some sheen off the medal.In 1976, the Olympics hockey tournament was played on astroturf for the first time — the game became faster, new rules seemed to be working against our style of hockey, and our fans and experts smelled a conspiracy to dethrone India. Ours was a hard-luck story at the Olympics thereafter — just edged out of the semifinals race in 1984, heartbreak in the final moments in the match against Poland in 2000, not even qualifying in 2008.What was ours — a place at the head of the table at Olympics hockey — was wrested away. The fathers and grandfathers of boys who are now middle-aged men brought them up on tales of glory of Indian hockey. Since 1976, and especially since 1984, the pain of failure has gnawed at the soul of hockey’s lovers — a four-year cycle of hope and despair. This is the reason the bronze at Tokyo seems as precious as the gold India won at Tokyo in 1964 by beating Pakistan 1-0 in the final.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/a-hard-won-bronze-that-glitters-like-gold-293618
06-08-2021||We are living in interesting times||All eyes on the police||I remember no earlier instance of policemen of border states training their guns on each other. And suddenly the Mizoram Police snuffed out the lives of six cops of Assam with their machine guns, as per the claim of the Assam Chief Minister.Never before has the police of any state faced off with their brothers of a neighbouring state. As a Sub Divisional Police Officer of Gadhinglaj in Kolhapur district of Maharashtra, I had to travel by road to visit areas in my jurisdiction through Nipani in Belgaum district, now a part of Karnataka. The current SDPO of Gadhinglaj, I presume, is doing what I needed to do in 1955, in which case he may now need an armed escort if an Assam-Mizoram state of combat is permitted to develop on the Maharashtra-Karnataka border.During my stint with the CRPF, I visited Mizoram twice. The road to Aizawl from the small airport of Silchar wound through Vairengte, a town now in the news. It was an arduous journey, but at no stage did we have to prepare for an attack by the Mizo police! The firefight that took place recently has the trappings of a festering sore, but when the sore began to fester I do not know.What has been told to us is that the Union Home Minister had called a meeting of the Chief Ministers of the ‘Seven Sisters’ of the Northeast, and warned them to settle all their differences amicably. Three days later, the Assam Police in the border district of Cachar, and the Mizoram Police from the border district of Vairengte faced off with guns blazing over a long-standing dispute over a piece of land that each state claimed as its own.I would imagine that Amit Shah would have been shocked and even furious at the gall of a BJP-ruled state and another ruled by a BJP ally shooting bullets at each other, like Indian and Pakistani troops or the BSF and Pak Rangers sometimes do across the LoC on our western borders. If the country’s Home Minister thought that a stern warning from him was sufficient to settle such disputes, he miscalculated. Possibly, if the government in place in Mizoram was not a political ally of his own party he might have found it easier to bully it into subservience.Armed skirmishes at international borders are a common occurrence, but not within a country’s own borders. In the US, the Democrats wield power in some of the 50-odd states and the Republicans in the rest. I have not heard of armed conflicts between two neighbouring states, even if ruled by two opposing dispensations.Hindutva’s goal of a uniform culture in the entire country seems to be facing insurmountable hurdles, with the Assamese and the Mizos involved in a mini-warlike situation. Such a situation had not cropped up even when the Congress or other regimes ruled in Delhi.This border dispute between two states cannot be foisted on the shoulders of the Modi-Shah administration, but the controversy about the appointment of Rakesh Asthana as Delhi Police Commissioner could have been avoided. The government should have picked an officer from the AGMUT cadre, according to well-established rules of governance. Bringing in an outsider from Gujarat, in what can be considered normal times, is very demoralising to the Delhi Police. Many serving and retired officers I know continue to debate the reasons for this self-inflicted wound.There is agreement only on one point. Modi and Shah felt obliged to pamper Asthana. They have to show him that they are grateful lest others fail to oblige in future. When I initially turned down the offer of ambassadorship at the end of my journey in Punjab in 1989, the PM’s Principal Secretary, BG Deshmukh, invited me to his home, primarily to convince me to accept. My wife was also invited. Deshmukh’s wife and mine had been classmates in Pune, and so she, too, assisted in the task of persuasion. In fact, my wife required much more persuasion than me. She was not interested in a foreign assignment, away from her daughters.The argument Deshmukh advanced was that it would become difficult for the PM to get suitable officers to tackle difficult assignments if my colleagues felt that politicians just used officers and later dumped them when they are no longer required.The important issue is the use the leadership intends to make of this officer of the Gujarat cadre, which no other officer of the AGMUT cadre could have tackled. And here the speculations differ. There is nothing he can do now about the investigations in the NE Delhi riots. The cases are in court and will be decided by those tasked to dispense justice.The farmers’ agitation lumbers on. But what exactly does the government have in mind? The time to convince the farmers has long since passed. They have dug in their heels. It would be suicidal to use the big stick. The farmers in any country are a special breed. They cannot be treated like critics or activists are often treated. How then can a police chief help?If he resorts to some form of state terror it will be self-destructive. And he has been recognised for his skills in investigation of crime and not for controlling peaceful protesters who turn violent.An interesting possibility advanced was that he would be asked to neutralise AAP and its leaders. That is not a job for the police, but if that is going to be his secret mandate we are in for even more exciting times. It will require Machiavellian twists to all the laws on the statute books. But such twisting may end in the tails of the twisters being twisted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/all-eyes-on-the-police-293617
