07-08-2021||---||When America favoured Chinese communists||Successive US presidents had sincerely tried to stabilise China after the 1941 Pacific War till the end of 1946 by stationing special envoys. Perhaps, China wants to forget that era when even communist leaders had exhibited a deferential attitude towards the US. That was when Presidents Franklin D Roosevelt and Harry Truman had indicated that the US was prepared to assist China to rise from the position of ‘a helpless, hopeless and inert mass’, as derisively referred to by British Foreign Secretary Lord Curzon in 1919.On July 20, The New York Times said that deterioration of US-China “relations… has surpassed even the four tumultuous years of dealing with President Donald J. Trump.” However, Qin Gang, the newly appointed Chinese ambassador to America, sounded positive on July 29, recalling how this relationship had started 50 years ago after Henry Kissinger’s secret visit to Beijing. He added that both countries were now “entering a new round of mutual exploration, understanding and adaptation.”Had Ambassador Qin Gang been more retrospective, he would have found that successive US presidents had sincerely tried to stabilise China after the 1941 Pacific War till the end of 1946 by stationing special envoys. Perhaps, China wants to forget that era when even communist leaders had exhibited a deferential attitude towards the US.That was when Presidents Franklin D Roosevelt and Harry Truman had indicated that the US was prepared to assist China to rise from the position of “a helpless, hopeless and inert mass”, as derisively referred to by British Foreign Secretary Lord Curzon during the 1919 post-World War I Conference in Paris.In fact, during this period, the US deliberately, or unwittingly, gave the impression that the relationship with the communists (Chinese Communist Party or CCP) was more important than with the Nationalists (Kuomintang or KMT).This policy was not merely to check imperial Japan’s expansionist activities. It continued even after Japanese surrender on September 2, 1945.The story starts on December 7, 1941, when the Allied powers, at their Arcadia Conference, chose Chiang Kai-shek as the Supreme Commander of the Allied forces in the China Theatre. Roosevelt felt that Chiang would not be effective unless China’s internal situation was stabilised with the CCP’s help. For that, he stationed Gen Joe Stilwell as his personal envoy and Chiang’s Chief of Staff in 1942.Barbara W Tuchman’s biography of Stilwell memorably describes that period. It started off well, but ran into difficulties after Stilwell's failures in Burma. More so, when Stilwell proposed using the CCP’s militia to reconquer Burma, a suggestion approved by Roosevelt, but vetoed by Chiang as both the KMT and CCP were vying with each other to occupy guerrilla bases in the Chinese mainland during 1937-40. Stilwell ended his mission in 1945.On a parallel track, Roosevelt stationed Gen Patrick J Hurley as ambassador from 1944 to press Chiang to forge a coalition with the CCP. Hurley managed to draw up a ‘Five-Point’ plan between the CCP and KMT to have one army to fight the Japanese. After getting Chiang’s approval in principle, he flew to Yenan to meet Mao Tse-tung on November 7, 1944. His ‘Five Point’ underwent changes at Yenan, which was rejected by Chiang’s Central Government at Chunking. Instead, a three-point plan was suggested by Chiang, which was rejected by the communists.Hurley would not give up. He made another visit to Yenan in August 1945 and convinced Mao to accompany him to Chunking to have personal discussions with Chiang.Taiwanese scholar Wei Liang Tsai, who had recorded these events, says that Mao stayed in Chunking for a month and a half. A 12-Point agreement between them was arrived at on October 11 and Mao returned to Yenan. This was hailed as a landmark agreement, which subsequently failed while they were establishing local governments in the ‘Liberated Areas’.In April 1945, President Harry S Truman became the US President. He continued Roosevelt’s policy of stabilising China even after the Japanese surrender on September 2, 1945.Hurley, who went home in September 1945 for consultations, felt that he was betrayed by the State Department and by Gen Douglas MacArthur’s advisers in Japan who did not want his mission to succeed.Military conflicts started between the CCP and KMT. American press described his mission as a failure. Hurley resigned in November after openly criticising the State Department bureaucracy. Truman wanted Chiang to incorporate the CCP and ‘Democratic League’ in his Nationalist Government. He then sent Gen George C Marshall, the symbol of US victory in the Second World War, as his envoy. Truman said in his policy statement that the US wanted the Chinese National Government to “rehabilitate the country, improve the agrarian and industrial economy and establish a military organisation capable of discharging China’s national and international responsibilities.”Marshall arrived in Shanghai on December 20, 1945. His first appointment, on reaching Chunking, the temporary capital of the National government, was with CCP leader Chou En-lai (Zhou Enlai). He met Zhou and his team before he met Chiang, then Chairman of the National Government of the Republic of China. Zhou was unrestrained in his public praise of America — China should learn three things from America: spirit of independence, democratic form, and agricultural and industrial reforms. A three-member committee was constituted for unification under Marshall’s Chairmanship, along with Zhou and Chang Chun (Zhang Qun), Chiang’s confidante.Chiang’s ‘cessation of hostilities’ announcement on January 10, 1946, also granting fundamental rights, multi-party system and elections, was hailed as the first step towards a democratic China. An MoU on the merger of the Communist Army with the National Army was signed on February 25 by a committee consisting of Zhou and General Chang Chih-chung (Zhang Zhizong) of the National Army, with Marshall as adviser.Three days after the signing, Marshall, accompanied by Zhou and General Zhang, toured Northern China, especially the communist strongholds. They met Mao and Chu Teh (Zhu De). Marshall was hailed as the ‘Saviour of China’ wherever he went.On that ebullient note, Marshall left for America for five weeks on March 12. That was the undoing of all the hard work he did. Wei Liang Tsai says that even Mao advised him not to leave China at that juncture. The Soviet Union vacated Manchuria in April and encouraged the communists to fill the vacuum. Malinovsky, under Stalin’s orders, gave all weapons captured from the Japanese to the CCP army. Clashes broke out between the communists and Nationalist Army in Manchuria, which spread all over China for the next three years till October 1, 1949, when Mao ousted Chiang to Taiwan.Would the history have been different had Marshall not left China for five weeks between March 12 and April 17, 1946?Views are personal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/when-america-favoured-chinese-communists-294098
07-08-2021||---||Why US posturing is yet to convince India||After the Galwan Valley clash in June last year, epitaphs were written for India-China diplomatic ties. The government has weathered criticism about its increasing trade with China, but it nonetheless pursues the goal of decoupling its economic dependence on China, with vocal encouragement from the US, American allies Australia and Japan and, to a lesser degree, South Korea.All through the pandemic, we were told that foreign secretaries of the countries ranged against China also involved South Block in their weekly conversations to lower dependence of their nations’ supply chains on Beijing. The message was that the anti-China front was for keeps and not meant to extract some temporary concessions to free the West into concentrating on Russia, its other strategic enemy of a longer vintage.The hyperbole of the Trump-Pompeo era has given way to a refined dissembling of Chinese positions on the neighbourhood, trade and the repression in Tibet and Xinjiang. But if there is a shifting of supply chains away from China, it is of western companies moving from one authoritarian regime, where it was easy so far to do business, to another in Vietnam. Even that means shifting business jurisdiction by a few thousand kilometres and nothing else.In November last year, China and Vietnam, as also US allies Korea, Japan, New Zealand and Australia, tied up for a more intimate economic enmeshing by signing the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP). India was the only country that was excluded despite its fervent pleas to tighten the rules of origin.In its present shape, the rules encourage Chinese companies to set up shop in these countries, make minimal value addition to pass them off as manufactures of, say, Vietnam or Korea. Despite the anti-China rhetoric of at least 10 countries in the RCEP mix, India was left high and dry.During his Delhi visit last month, US Secretary of State Antony Blinken made scant reference to China. It was understandable. Top US diplomat Wendy Sherman was that day meeting the Chinese in Tianjin as a follow-up to a rare, simultaneous meeting of the top four foreign policy czars — Blinken and NSA Sullivan from the US and Yang Jiechi and Wang Yi from China.The public image of the two meetings was presented as acrimonious, but the US media quoted State Department officials as saying that there was concrete talk behind closed doors. The US wants to ensure that guard rails are in place to prevent competition between the countries from turning into a conflict, they explained.And there are plenty of guard rails as far as the Biden administration is concerned. His son’s moral ambivalence about earning money from Chinese businesses is in the past, but White House’s top man on China has been echoing what many in the Biden administration, with past links to Chinese business, would want: continuation of commercial interaction. At least half a dozen of Biden’s appointees are from the Albright Stonebridge Group, which is chaired by former US Secretary of State Madeline Albright, who gave considerable discomfort to India on human rights and Kashmir during her days at the Foggy Bottom.The present US envoy to the UN, Linda Thomas-Greenfield, NSC director for South Asia Sumona Guha, Deputy Secretary of State Sherman and Under Secretary Victoria Nuland are all from the same stable. Another ‘consultancy’, WestExec Advisors, has contributed Press Secretary Jen Psaki and Director of National Intelligence Avril Haines to the Biden administration.What both have in common is that they recently wiped their websites clean of all China-related work. Yet, the Albright Stonebridge Group keeps on its rolls two former Chinese diplomats whom Beijing had trusted enough to award them two US postings each in the past.Now, when the Chinese have clearly signalled at the recent border talks that some areas of their ingress into the Indian territory, particularly in the Depsang Bulge, are not up for negotiations, it may be time to take a hard look at whether the US will actually maintain the degree of anti-China posturing that it expects from India.During his New Delhi interactions, Blinken grated on South Block’s sensitivities with his accent on human rights, even if the messaging from the gathering at his civil rights roundtable was crude and obvious to include a Tibetan and a Bahai, both anathema to China and Pakistan.There was no mention of the restoration of India’s GSP (Generalised System of Preferences) status, which has impacted India’s small-scale exporters, nor of the backing for India’s WTO proposal to jack up vaccine production at multiple locations around the world.Instead, the grapevine and peregrinations of senior security officials in the wake of the visit suggest the accent was to get India more involved in maritime security, of course, in tandem with the US and with equipment bought from the Pentagon’s contractors. They even sought to discourage India’s military ties with Russia.Blinken and the previous Cabinet-level visitor from the US, Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin, sought to rekindle Indian interest in the American SM-6 missile defence system, knowing full well that having inked the contract, New Delhi can hardly back out from its deal with Russia for the S-400 systems.India has had low fungibility so far by hitching its anti-China wagon to the US. The Trump administration’s forthright opposition appeared promising, but the Biden team needs to spell out its China policy in bigger fine print. It also needs to be seen as acting on it, before New Delhi is convinced that its appeal for security partnership is for posterity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/why-us-posturing-is-yet-to-convince-india-294097
07-08-2021||---||BJP’s Uttar Pradesh mantra||The BJP’s massive win in Uttar Pradesh in 2017 came as a surprise to many, especially as it came close on the heels of demonetisation, which had a disastrous impact on India’s economy. If that was a surprise, 2019 was bewildering. Analysts and commentators had predicted that the coming together of the two big caste-parties — SP and BSP — would act as a ‘big tent’ for OBC and Dalit caste groups. Add to that the state’s sizeable Muslim population, and you have an unbeatable combo. This proved to be an entirely incorrect assessment. The BJP expanded its vote-base and retained almost all seats it had won five years earlier.While the poor have been hit by the government’s economic policies, even before Covid made things worse, the bottom 30% have got a subsistence lifeline. In hindsight, if only we analysts had listened to what scholars and academics have been telling us for decades, we could have predicted this outcome. They have told us, repeatedly, that our common-sense idea of caste is inaccurate, and OBCs and Dalits are not single homogenous blocks. Our understanding of the varna system, makes us imagine caste as a concrete building, where Dalits live in the basement, the OBCs on the lower floors and the savarna upper castes on the top floors, with Brahmins in the penthouse. Anthropologists have shown, through detailed ethnography, that this picture does not correspond to how caste functions on the ground.In reality, village communities can often be dominated by castes that appear to be lower on the varna scale. These are castes that occupy key economic positions in the life of the village and derive power from such fundamental economic roles. Moreover, the ‘dominant’ castes in such situations have their own origin myths and purity-pollution rituals, which are different from the mainstream view of varna hierarchy.In fact, several historians have argued that varna, as we know it today, is a modern institution that was produced by the colonial state. British Raj tried to ‘enumerate’ India’s people, establish a universal legal system and also deal with the region's heterogeneity in a systematic manner. It is here that the ‘knowledge’ castes — especially Brahmins and Kayasthas — managed to shape how the colonial state would approach its subjects. This is what made varna a universally accepted ‘truth’, which was either to be upheld as the Indian way of life, or uprooted because it stood against the very grain of democracy.It should surprise no one that the earliest organised caste associations emerged more or less at the same time that the Raj was trying to count and classify its subjects, the Census of India being its greatest taxonomical project. Dominant castes, with broad kinship ties and similar economic roles, formed clusters to petition the state for concessions. Some of them —Kayasthas, Rajputs, Jats — asked for the state to officially accord them higher status in the varna hierarchy and open job opportunities for them. Reservations of various kinds already emerged before Independence, and their nationwide formalisation in Independent India was a hard-fought concession that dominant ‘lower’ castes had won from the ruling elite.Reservations for SCs and STs, and later for OBCs, not only created a list of ‘depressed’ castes and also produced the idea that they somehow had common cause. To a certain extent, it is the policies of affirmative action of the post-Independence welfare state, which did create a common ground between various heterogeneous caste groups. Much of it had to do with jobs and education and access to the state’s machinery. Those who managed to get a foothold in the state’s institutions, organised further to put more pressure on the state. The BSP, for instance, emerged out a section of the BAMCEF, an organisation of educated Dalit government and non-government employees.The political success of the BSP and other caste-based parties such as the SP and RJD gave hope to OBC and Dalit groups across the spectrum. However, these parties ended up being dominated by single caste groups. This became especially clear to the non-dominant OBC and Dalit castes when these parties came to power and placed people from backward sections in positions of authority. The fruits of power went only to the dominant castes amongst them.This is where the BJP has made the most significant inroads. The Modi government’s schemes often target the poorest of the poor. On the face of it, it is efficient use of the fisc to ensure subsidies do not leak to the undeserving. Its net effect, however, is to automatically reach the non-dominant OBCs and Dalits. This distinction has already entered our political lexicon as MBC (Most Backward Castes) and Maha-Dalits. By giving various kinds of subsidies – free ration, free gas connections, financial aid for housing, etc – Modinomics has quietly built a vote-bank amongst those who have no voice in public discourse.While the poor and the lower middle class have been badly affected by the Modi government’s economic policies, even before Covid made things worse, the bottom 30%, who make up the poorest of the poor, have got a subsistence lifeline which did not exist earlier. This has made them see the BJP as a saviour and helped them make common cause with the dominant upper-caste elite within the party. It is a new political-economic alliance that has helped the BJP win UP.The dominance of single castes in the BSP and SP has also weakened the anti-upper caste rhetoric of Dalit and backward caste politics. If dominant castes are to get all the power, then there is no reason for other lower castes to unite with them, politically, culturally or ideologically. Instead, they are reviving their own community heroes, traditions and festivals. Along with that, there is a trend towards ‘Sanskritisation’ amongst these MBC and Maha-Dalit caste groups, where they are accepting upper caste iconography to create a wider community. This is the economic basis of the spread of political Hindutva amongst the poorest of the poor in the Hindi heartland. The question is whether the Modi and Yogi governments have managed to sustain it through Covid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/bjps-uttar-pradesh-mantra-294082
