08-08-2021||In pre-pandemic days||The lockdown walk and getting to know the Colaba dogs||Anyway, technology eventually won over. About three decades ago, hard courts became the norm. They usually had a concrete base, with a rubberised surface. They lasted for a long time and could be easily maintained. What’s more, when it rained, the water drained off quickly and they were ready for playing soon after the rain stopped. However, they were hard on knees, as you could not slide on them. Yet, playing regularly on those hard courts was my main form of exercise. Then came the March 2020 lockdown and all clubs and gyms were shut down. I hate walking (except in the hills), but that now became my only exercise. Which is when I saw the neighbourhood I had lived in for so many years, with new eyes.Except for a few years in Chandigarh, south Bombay has been my home all my working life. I was first staying as a paying guest in an area called Churchgate, named after the local station. Then I moved to Colaba, named after the causeway which linked north and south Bombay. Colaba has some of the city’s most iconic structures. There is the imposing Gateway of India, built in 1911 to commemorate the first visit of British royalty to India, King George V and Queen Mary. Facing the Gateway are the Royal Yacht Club and one of the most renowned hotels in the world, the Taj Mahal Hotel, built by the Tatas. Boats for the Elephanta Caves go from the Gateway. About a kilometre from my flat was the Sassoon Dock, named after a well-known Jewish family with a close connection to the city. Internationally-famed hair dresser Vidal Sassoon also comes from that family. A little further south was the start of the military area, where the armed forces are housed. It is full of greenery and gives an idea of how Bombay looked like before it became a concrete jungle. The area includes an 18-hole golf course.Colaba became my post-pandemic ‘walking’ section of town. While walking, I also realised that I was actually tracing the footsteps of the terrorists who attacked the city on November 26, 2008. Ten of them had landed on a small fishing village on Cuffe Parade, a 20-minute walk from my place. They had split up and made their way to specific targets. One was the nearby five-star Oberoi hotel, in a business centre, Nariman Point. The other was the Jewish Centre, a stone’s throw from my residence. And the third lot of terrorists headed for the Taj hotel, via a restaurant popular with foreign visitors, Leopold Cafe. It, too, was a target, despite being opposite a police station.My greatest joy during my Colaba walks was to greet the many dogs that their owners, or their domestic help, would take for an outing. I got to know almost all of them by their names. There was Symphony and Lenny, the first an adorable brown cocker spaniel, who would jump on you in excitement, the other a beagle, constantly sniffing everywhere and with a will of its own in deciding exactly where it wanted to go. The names of the dogs and their breeds are too long to list here. But the most popular were beagles, golden retrievers, labradors and pugs (craze for whom began with the Vodafone ads). There was even a French bulldog and a fearsome rottweiler.Easily the most loveable were Cocaine, a handsome dalmatian, and Monty, a basset hound whose ears almost touched the ground and whose affectionate wet slurp would soak your trousers. Cocaine’s owner revealed that he had found the pup abandoned on a busy highway, petrified, and in imminent danger of being run over. He had taken it home and adopted it. That was when he realised that Cocaine was stone deaf. I then learnt that people buy pedigreed pups for large sums of money mainly as a status symbol. But when they later discover a defect in them, they sometimes simply abandon them on the streets. As a people, we are heartless, not kind or gentle, at least as far as animals are concerned, except perhaps towards cows. Cocaine had found an exceptionally compassionate owner who loved the dog all the more for its so-called defect.Then, there are ‘rescue’ dogs, adopted strays from the street, of indefinite breed. Their ‘rescuers’ are the people I admire most. Many of these dogs are traumatised due to cruelties they must have suffered, such as stoning and kicking, before being fortunate enough to be adopted. Even after adoption and loving care, they usually back away from strangers, and are only comfortable with their owners. I also noticed that these ‘rescue’ dog owners are mostly Parsis. It is no coincidence that this tiny and admirable community is probably the most charitable and philanthropic one in all of India.The Bombay Gym is now open and I can play my tennis again. But I do miss my Colaba dogs.— The writer is a veteran journalist||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-lockdown-walk-and-getting-to-know-the-colaba-dogs-294549
08-08-2021||Mercury is used to measure the behaviour of temperature and Bhoop Singh that of your average soldier. What would Bhoop Singh do when faced with such and such a situation? Is this new equipment Bhoop Singh proof? How many calories’ diet will Bhoop Singh require in this terrain? How will Bhoop Singh relay the message of appearance of Halley’s comet to his battalion?||The importance of being Bhoop Singh||Bhoop Singh is the ideal, or not-so-ideal, average soldier of our Army. Kipling created soldiers like privates Learoyd, Mulvaney and Ortheris. George MacDonald Fraser gave us private McAuslan. It is debatable as to who introduced Bhoop Singh into the lexicon, but certainly the phenomenon needed introducing.Once I gave a lift to some jawans in my old Maruti 800. When they disembarked, all of them banged shut the doors with such might that the little car nearly overturned. That is your average Bhoop Singh way of doing things. You need everything to be four times multiplied by the ordinary.In the vein of Kipling’s ‘The Three Musketeers’, Bhoop Singh is the representation of admiration one feels for our average soldier. He is not perfect, not overly educated or overly faux cultured. He is a farming man, a tiller of our ancient earth distinguished by dialect characteristics. Till a few years ago, he would wear his uniform threadbare and get his boot soles patched up by the unit cobbler with pieces cut from airplane tyres. He would self-dye his faded uniform darkest green to make it last and last. He respects and supports the traditions of his regiment. He is thrifty to the depths of parsimony and saves most of his pay which he money orders home. He has a wife, a father and mother and a buffalo to support. His family makes homemade ghee for him to take along after leave. They melt it and fill it in 2-litre Coca-Cola bottles for ease of carriage. He pays bounced-up fees to send his children to ersatz English medium schools that are cropping up fast.He is part of his company and battalion teams in sports. It’s expected of him and he does not shun the team’s honour. More often than not, he ends up with an injury during his Army career that plagues the rest of his days upon earth but he laughs it off and treats it as a scar of honour.He is the unwearying boot that carries his country’s arms and stands guard to its Constitution, civilisation and national values, bends his back to the demands of an exacting profession.Slow talking, infinitely patient and delayed to anger, he spends his life in unknown and remote arenas of conflict, never seen or visited by his countrymen. He is not admitted to the outer doormats of any powerful offices. His profession keeps him away from smalltime fads of preening and self-shining. His duty is to keep his legs strong, aim unwavering, heart staunch and mind sagacious. He has to guard against the insidious call of getting drunk after a hard day’s hill bashing more than required, thereby spoiling his chances of an additional stripe.This is our Bhoop Singh, your average soldier. He has lived in swamps, roasted in deserts, eaten dust and sand, frozen his marrow in Siachen. He is scarred, resourceful and old shod in soldiering. As George Orwell said, “People sleep peaceably in their beds at night only because rough men stand ready to do violence on their behalf.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-importance-of-being-bhoop-singh-294550
08-08-2021||How strangely ironic and satisfying — depending on how you view it — is the fact that our girls have brought us more glory than the men in the Tokyo Olympics. Haryana is a particularly interesting case study because if female infanticide was the bane of socially backward states such as Rajasthan||Here’s to women||The attitude of many men in these northern states towards their girls and women was an insult to the dignity of any self-respecting woman living in this century. Married women here were forced to wear long veils, never speak to men directly and regularly thrashed and sexually abused. In the eyes of their men, the only purpose of the women was to cook and slave in the kitchen, rear the children they were often forced to produce, look after the cattle and huddle in the darkest corners of the lives of their men. There are novels about how the widow of a young man was forced to marry her devar so that the family lands were not divided. I can recall Rajinder Singh Bedi’s ‘Ek Chadar Maili Si’ among many equally disturbing real-life stories that one came across. There were regular reports of little girls being choked to death or buried alive by the mother-in-law and the village midwife, or dai. Girls were seldom allowed to study beyond the first few years and if, God forbid, they fell in love with a boy from the same gotra or from an ‘inferior’ caste, she was killed off in what became infamously known as honour killing. Shockingly, these khap panchayats had the sanction of their MPs!Such truths were never hidden because study after study drew attention to the skewed male/female ratios; social workers and activists tried to change the mental attitudes of our medieval caste-ridden societies, but to little avail. Even the setting up of a Women and Child Welfare Ministry (bad grammar there) was able to hardly make a dent. Personally, I think it was our good old Bombay film world that focused attention on the talent that was shrouded in ghunghats in films such as ‘Chak De India’, ‘Saandh ki Aankh’, ‘Dangal’, ‘Mary Kom’ (to name some I’ve seen or heard of) that gave the girls a break. Most of these were based on real-life stories and showed to an uncaring world what young girls in the remote and male-dominated rural areas had to go through in order to just stand up and be counted.On the other hand were the metro snowflakes, whose parents have bought them expensive designer sportwear and shoes that cost as much as most of us earn in a month. I am sure they will be embarrassed when they read of the travails that many of these Olympic medal winners have gone through. The captain of our women’s Olympic team did not even have a hockey stick, leave alone suitable shoes and sportwear. She was undernourished and her parents did not have the money to buy her the packet of milk her coach wanted her to drink every day, so she used to dilute half a packet with water in order to stay in the coaching class. We have all read these stories yet they move me immeasurably each time I do. These are stories that make you proud of your gender and give you a glimpse of the immense pool of talent that lies undetected and under-represented. It is the same in the entertainment industry: tune into any talent show (‘Indian Idol’ or ‘Sa Re Ga Ma’) and get blown away by the fantastic voices and dancers these shows throw up.If all this has still not convinced our spoilt rich brats and their pushy parents that ultimately they will be swept aside by the huge surge of ambitious and focused young men and women (the aspirational youth that we all talk about so glibly and do nothing to promote), then a big surprise is coming their way. The days of the cosy crony club of sports bodies headed by politicians and dodgy deal-makers are over: the sons of old players and powerful politicians will be nudged out by those who have hunger in their bellies. Our entitled dynasts cannot match. India is changing faster than we imagined, and even those whose voices and presence was cruelly and unfairly suppressed have decided that they have to burst out of their stifling villages and male-dominated societies. Old grannies are encouraging their talented young girls to take aim and shoot. So watch out Indian male, the great Indian puttar, like the Great Indian Bustard, is on the endangered species list now.One day, before I leave this world, I hope I will see a Parliament with more women in colourful saris and dupattas than the ubiquitous white kurtas of our male politicians. They will represent this country’s true doers and workers. One day, there will be women driving trains and taxis, flying our planes and space ships, more women judges who will be more compassionate about issues that men consider petty and not worth their time. One day…||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/heres-to-women-294555
08-08-2021||Forgotten words of our founding members — time to remember them. Time to give ourselves a democratic government as envisaged in our Constitution in the sense it was supposed to be||We the People…||I have never fully read the manifestos of various political parties issued before any important election for the simple reason that they are so lengthy, boring, repetitive and experience has shown us that the assurances are seldom carried out. One has also noticed that a vast majority of voters does not really focus on the important issues, but votes on the basis of caste, religion, region and other allurements that are offered on the eve of election. The voter does not also fully understand what he himself expects from the government. This is the result of a failure of the various pillars of democracy, namely the media, the judiciary and in the case of elections, the political parties and the Election Commission. Candidates with criminal backgrounds who should have been barred not only contest, but win; they are highly sought after for their money and muscle power — the two key elements assuring winnability. It is the nexus of criminals, political elements, smugglers, police and the entire criminal justice system which allows for these individuals to intimidate, coerce and bribe a vast majority of the electorate. These individuals also are masters at spreading deceit and falsehoods to sway people on the basis of caste and religion. You will invariably find incidents of communal and casteist nature happening in the shadow of elections. The common people invariably fall for these narratives, because the counter-narrative which should be led by the media and political and social groups is weak and in most cases non-existent. The cynicism in society at large towards politicians and politics has reached a level of total disillusionment. Even subsequent to the elections, Parliament — that edifice of democracy — is gradually being converted into a farce where Bills are passed summarily without debate through ‘voice vote’. Parliament is the institution through which new laws are debated and enacted, new policies are initiated and budgets are passed. All other issues of national importance are brought up and discussed. The deliberate and encouraged reduction of this democratic institution into one representative of bedlam and chaos in the shadow of which brute power is exercised and laws with vested interests in mind are passed is deplorable. Is this situation in Parliament the prologue of what is to come or is it the epilogue of what has happened? Time will tell.Every party, national or regional, promises “good governance” or “less government and more governance”. When was the last time we saw a period of ‘good governance at the ground level’? At the level where people interact with the face of the government — Police, Revenue, Development, Health, Education, etc. The foundation of good governance begins in the ability of various levels of government starting with the Chief Ministers, Ministers, officers and downwards keeping directly in touch and involved at the ground level with the people, their constituency and the progress of works. One of the methods this can be done is through extensive touring. Seeing things gives you a deeper perspective and fast forwards your work. These days, officers do not go on tours, and ministers only go for inaugurations, marriages and ‘bhogs’.Another essential ingredient in good governance is postings and transfers of officers. The system is totally manipulated, a fair and judicious system just does not exist with the result that corrupt, useless officers get key appointments. For senior postings in the states, e.g., DCs and SPs, if the right officers are chosen, things improve immediately. Similarly, at the Centre, coveted posts like the heads of CBI, NIA, CAG, secretaries to important ministries, ED, Customs and Excise, Income Tax, etc, are increasingly becoming politicised. There are well laid out procedures for their postings and that of their junior officers. However, the systems are constantly bypassed, and the judiciary is a spectator in most cases. These agencies are thereby reduced to becoming tools to harass opponents and make them fall in line.Accountability of the elected representatives based on the promises they made and the delivery thereof should be the fundamental criteria on which to judge the performance of an incumbent. Transparency is another huge factor in government work. It is of utmost importance. Why should the people be not informed of national events, ranging from the Ladakh situation to the pandemic and before that demonetisation and migration? Why should we not be informed of the state of the economy and correct unemployment figures? We see pictures of bodies floating on the Ganges and buried on its banks, but the state denies it. The Centre gives a figure for the total number of deaths, but reputed international agencies say the correct figure is 10 times the official figure. The Pegasus scandal breaks out and some targeted names are revealed but not a word from the government on the subject. Thousands of farmers on the roads in winter and summer, hundreds of them dead — nobody even visits them! The list is endless, both at the Centre and the states. Is RTI still there?What we want is transparency on important issues, no matter which party comes into power. Governments should not be in ‘purdah’ and every question should not be labelled as seditious.An improvement in the quality of life is what every citizen seeks. The American Constitution enshrines the right of every citizen to seek the ‘pursuit of happiness’. Our forefathers enshrined it similarly in our Constitution when they spoke of ‘equality of status and opportunity’. The right to gainful employment is very much part of this promise. People are not interested in statistics. What they do not want to see is thousands of youngsters loitering about, hungry babies and famished mothers. We do not want our youth to take to drugs and crime. Hundreds and thousands of them are migrating to the West and the Emirates where they are not given treatment equal to their own citizens. Why cannot political parties draw up a massive plan which gives us both development and employment? There are various successful models which have been implemented throughout the world in recent history from which we can learn. We have some of the best minds in economics and allied fields, we have leading captains of industry and tremendous depth in our agricultural knowhow. Why cannot our leaders harness these resources to conceive and deliver a concrete five-year programme which is not a fairy tale but a step-by-step methodological plan for growth and development? Let us build a network of schools and hospitals — remember that the road to development passes through good education and health of our children and youth. Infrastructure to catapult India into a modern economy in sync with the developed world, and catering to growing environmental concerns and the challenging nature of adapting to climate change. We are in the digital age and in a time of tremendous disruption where the world has to live with the transition from the fossil fuel economy to a sustainable future, let us not miss it.— The writer is ex-chairman of UPSC, former Manipur Governor and served as J&K DGP||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/we-the-people%E2%80%A6-294568
