09-08-2021||---||Chance for India to make its mark on UN stage||India has assumed the monthly presidency of the United Nations Security Council (UNSC). On August 1, India took the seat at the head of the proverbial horseshoe table after a decade. India would be a “voice of moderation, an advocate of dialogue and a proponent of international law”, S Jaishankar, the Indian External Affairs Minister (EAM) said.Though India took up the non-permanent seat of the UNSC for the seventh time on January 1, 2021, the assumption of the rotational presidency has come to India for the month of August. On August 9, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is slated to chair the meeting of the heads of government of the UNSC members.The UNSC monthly presidency is high on symbolism. Still, it provides a unique opportunity to showcase India as a ‘different’ power as well as to make a difference to the functioning of the UNSC and to international peace and security. In global peace and security concerns, India will be required to express its position, and if possible, even propose a solution. There are at least four crucial areas wherein the Indian leadership will matter. The August presidentship can enable India to sow the seeds that could yield dividends by the end of December 2022 when the membership would end.First, the Indian statement (June 2) by First Secretary Vidisha Maitra called for “meaningful participation of women in decision-making, substantially strengthen prevention efforts, deepen the effectiveness of peace-building and develop stability in society.” This issue pertains to the long-standing UNSC resolution 1325 (2000) that was a landmark step for linking gender equality with the maintenance of international peace and security. It has recognised women’s participation as key in resolving conflict and securing peace. As a corollary, India could lead the Council to effectively integrate ‘women, peace and security’ (WPS) considerations, especially by including the list of “terrorist entities involved in violence against women in armed conflicts.” In fact, this needs to be duly supplemented by the growing concerns on climate change exacerbating sexual and gender-based violence (SGBV) against women. India needs to add greater value, urgency and shape to the UNSC agenda on WPS.Secondly, the statement (June 8) of the Deputy Permanent Representative, R Ravindra in the UNSC debate on International Residual Mechanism for Criminal Tribunals (IRMCT) indicated another front wherein India reiterated its “support for the mechanism and commends its contribution to the fight against impunity and to the preservation of the legacy of the international tribunal for former Yugoslavia and the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda” and called for adherence to “the principles of justice, impartiality and fairness.” It is noteworthy that the Indian statement took note of the work of the mechanism for scheduling judgment in June 2021 in three pending proceedings (Mladic case, Simatovic case and Nzabonimpa case). Though India is not a party to the 1998 Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, yet this support to the residual mechanism for the ICTY and ICTR became crucial in underscoring as well as drawing of the ‘red lines’ for the perpetrators of SGBV in the conflict zones. India speaking up in the matter with concrete ideas, content and the future roadmap is essential.Thirdly, the PM’s reference to trusteeship of the planet at the G20 (Riyadh) virtual meeting on November 21, 2020 was significant. In order to provide flesh-and-bones to the said idea, India needs to promote and push for the idea of revival of the UN Trusteeship Council with a new mandate for the environment and the global commons. The UNSC is the right forum and the PM making out a case in his August 9 address to the virtual UNSC heads of government meeting would be an ideal occasion for this idea that the post-Covid world desperately needs.Lastly, it is now known to all that India does aspire for a permanent seat at the horseshoe table. It appears that in the earlier six Indian stints as the non-permanent member, overt and covert efforts were made to get the agenda item dropped on ‘India-Pakistan Question’. Still, it now makes great sense to deftly set in motion a process to have this item de-listed from the UNSC agenda. Notwithstanding the fact that the UNSC has not addressed the issue of J&K after the last UNSC resolution 307 (1971), Pakistan still harped on it through an urgent communication from the Pakistani Foreign Minister on August 13, 2019, in the aftermath of the decisive Indian internal measures on August 5 of that year.At the time, closed-door parleys were held among the UNSC members on August 16. The move sought to push the UNSC to “take stock of an issue” that the Council did not address “in several decades” and it was also known beforehand that “several members will emphasise the importance of de-escalation, diplomacy and restraint while referring to previous Security Council resolutions as a guide to addressing the crisis”.Therefore, it is high time India sets in motion an emphatic process by assuring its resolution in the bilateral mode and create a consensus among the UNSC members to have the agenda de-listed after more than seven decades. Maybe the Indian EAM needs to give this issue his top priority by both invoking his career long experience as well as to vindicate the trust reposed by the PM. It would be worth trying for the EAM to park himself at the Permanent Mission of India to the UN (PMI) in New York at least during the August presidency to personally lead the consultations in the matter. Possibly, it would be a good idea even to reach out, seek ideas and strategise with some of the finest Indian scholars and MEA veterans, including his cabinet colleague Hardeep Singh Puri, who last chaired the UNSC presidency a decade ago.We need to ensure that most of the issues on the agenda of the UNSC are laced with critical issues of international law, and hence, the statements periodically read out by the Indian representatives at the UNSC meetings need to contain concrete international law elements and position both to indicate India’s seriousness in addressing some of the UNSC agenda items as well as to provide a concrete basis for their resolution.Jaisahankar’s statement on assumption of the August presidency on being a ‘proponent of international law’ as well as international law being a crucial part of the tripod of the Indian vision on maintenance of international peace and security, needs to be reflected in all the substantive issues. The PM also needs to ‘speak the language of international law’ in confabulation with heads of state and government. The August 9 meeting would be the right occasion to walk the talk and showcase the Indian “commitment to international law” so as to be taken seriously as a global solution provider. As it is said, res ipsa loquitur — things speak for themselves. Hence, the right content in the PM’s presidential address would do so.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/chance-for-india-to-make-its-mark-on-un-stage-294978
09-08-2021||---||Regional security brings India, Iran closer||The presence of External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar at the swearing-in ceremony of Iran’s new President Ebrahim Raisi in Tehran last Thursday constitutes a major foreign policy recalibration attuned to the historic changes under- way in the regional and international situation. As recently as on July 7, the EAM had called on President-elect Raisi in Tehran and handed over to him a message of greetings from Prime Minister Modi. He was in fact the first foreign dignitary to be received by Raisi after his election victory in June.Yet, in an extraordinary gesture, Raisi received Jaishankar for a second time on Friday. These are anything but happenstances. Delhi and Tehran are conveying their abiding regard and respect for each other. All in all, Jaishankar has visited Tehran four times in the past 18 months, more than to any other country as foreign minister.This diplomatic signalling coincides with a radical shift in the situation around Iran as well as in India’s political economy. Washington and Tehran are inching toward an agreement and a lifting of US sanctions against Iran. This assumes of course that stalemate suits neither side and risks conflict. Suffice to say, Iran is on the threshold of a transformative period that will be hugely consequential. In anticipation, as many as 73 countries from different continents, including the European Union, sent high-level delegations to attend the ceremony in Tehran. Iran’s integration into the world community has become unstoppable.The hands-on role that the PM and EAM have assumed to navigate the relationship with Iran also shows a deep understanding of the realignments in the world order. India’s eagerness to charter a mutually beneficial relationship anchored on economic cooperation is self-evident. The lifting of sanctions will unlock Iran’s vast resources. Raisi, in his inaugural speech, stressed that his mandate in the June election is to improve people’s livelihoods, “making the economy resilient to shocks, curbing inflation, strengthening the national currency and restoring stability to the country’s economy, supporting national production and striving for self-sufficiency in meeting basic needs, technological progress” and the “optimal management of the country’s mines, water, gas and oil resources.”A window of opportunity is opening for India, given the complementarity between the two economies. Iran is poised to enter an epochal era of reconstruction, rehabilitation and regeneration. India’s energetic participation in it holds promise of a ‘win-win’ outcome for their respective post-pandemic economic recovery. The government should think up big ideas in industrial collaboration, engineering projects, etc. apart from revving up trade and investment. Tehran is an irreplaceable partner for Delhi in regional connectivity, which makes India a stakeholder in Iran’s massive infrastructure development. Raisi welcomes the private sector. Again, India can turn its rapidly growing needs of energy into innovative paradigms that go beyond the buyer-seller relationship in oil trade. Iran is deeply interested in the Indian market.Historically speaking, India’s broad empathy for the 1979 Iranian Revolution was almost instinctive. Atal Bihari Vajpayee, India’s Foreign Minister at that time, and Indira Gandhi as well as the Foreign Minister during her tenure, PV Narasimha Rao, could sense the nationalist moorings of the revolution, its strident rhetoric of political Islam notwithstanding. The Indian leaders were at once struck by the similarity in the national aspirations of the two resurgent ‘civilisation states’.Interestingly, Raisi began his inaugural speech on Thursday with a poignant invocation of Iran’s pre-Islamic past. He said, “The new government today stands on the heights that a world civilisation with several thousand years of history has built, a culture that has been at the forefront of human history for centuries, and, by combining monotheism and progress, has provided a model of spiritual life. The culture and civilisation of Greater Iran, when it embraced Islam, recreated this pattern of progress and became the forerunner of world knowledge and literature.”India and Iran are natural allies as regards the centrality they attach to strategic autonomy in their foreign policies. Iran has been attracted to India’s robust sense of independence — and Tehran felt despondent whenever Delhi’s diplomatic peregrinations and foreign policies took revisionist hues during the past decade or so. Jaishankar would agree with the concluding words in Raisi’s speech: “The world is changing, and the pursuit of the interests of nations depends on understanding of the new world and strategic interaction with emerging powers and a successful foreign policy is a balanced foreign policy.”Indian analysts have rightly highlighted the two countries’ convergence of interests over the situation in Afghanistan. Yet, it must be clearly understood that the halcyon days of their close cooperation or the momentary quasi-alliance in buttressing the anti-Taliban resistance at the end of the 1990s are no longer replicable. Simply put, circumstances have changed. Nonetheless, both India and Iran do enjoy strong convergence as regards regional security. Raisi told Jaishankar on Friday, “Iran and India can play a constructive and useful role in ensuring security in the region, especially Afghanistan, and Tehran welcomes New Delhi’s role in establishment of security in Afghanistan.”Both support the Afghan government, whom they consider to be legitimate, and insist that there has to be a political settlement. Both are stakeholders in Afghanistan’s security and stability and both are staunchly opposed to foreign interference while pursuing their specific interests. Unlike India, Iran is vociferously critical of the US occupation of Afghanistan but that is a minor detail today. The commonality here underscores that the Indian leadership was prescient in its judgment forty years ago that Iran, emerging out of the tumultuous revolution, would be a factor of regional stability and a steady partner for India in its difficult neighbourhood.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/regional-security-brings-india-iran-closer-294977
09-08-2021||---||50 years of Indo-Soviet treaty||The ‘Treaty of Peace, Friendship and Cooperation Between the Government of India and the Government of Union of Soviet Socialist Republics’ was signed fifty years ago on August 9, 1971. It is now history as is the Soviet Union, which imploded in 1991. The treaty is also almost completely out of Indian public memory; but it was diplomatically and strategically among the most significant documents signed by India after Independence. This is because it immensely contributed to this country’s ability to successfully meet one of the greatest security challenges it has faced in the past seven decades. And within this challenge lay a very great strategic opportunity which India positively realised through the break-up of Pakistan.It is difficult now to appreciate the critical situation that confronted the country on several fronts in 1971. The domestic political situation had been shaken by the Congress split in 1969. In order to consolidate her position, PM Indira Gandhi was beginning to take the country further down on the road of socialism. She had also brought forward the General Election by a year, to March 1971. She achieved a decisive victory, but within weeks of her taking oath of office for a third time, the immediate external environment became grave because of internal developments in Pakistan.Elections were held in Pakistan, then under the military dictator Gen Yahya Khan, in December 1970. The Awami party led by Sheikh Mujibur Rehman won 167 out of 169 seats allotted to East Pakistan. The number was sufficient to enable him to form the national government. However, the army and the politicians of west Pakistan refused to hand over power to the Awami party. They were convinced that once in power Mujib would create conditions for East Pakistan’s secession. This was incorrect, for Mujib desired autonomy not secession. A facade of working out a compromise to break the political impasse was enacted by the army and Bhutto. But that was a cover for a brutal and bloody crackdown on East Pakistan launched on March 25.The Pakistani army’s genocide in East Pakistan led to a grave security situation for India as refugees began to cross the border; their number eventually grew to a crore. The overall implications of hosting them were unbearable. They had to be sent back but Pakistan was unwilling to create the conditions that would make that possible. The atrocities against the population—and Hindus were specially targeted—also led to general popular pressure on Indira Gandhi for military intervention. The armed forces needed time to prepare. As the months passed, it became evident that the Western powers led by the US had no real sympathy for India’s predicament and their major objective was the maintenance of Pakistan’s territorial integrity. As India prepared for military action, it helped the East Pakistani resistance.In 1971, Pakistan also played a vital role as a go-between to help the US and China establish contacts. This process culminated in Henry Kissinger’s dramatic and secret visit to China from Pakistan in July 1971. It earned Yahya Khan the great gratitude of President Richard Nixon who wanted to go down in history as the American leader responsible for the breakthrough with China. Nixon was also antipathetic towards India and had an irrational personal dislike for Indira Gandhi. This and larger geopolitical fears led him to overlook the Pakistani army’s genocide against its own people. Apart from warning India against taking military action, the US also encouraged China to take military action, should India militarily intervene in Pakistan. And, Sino-Indian relations were cold and hostile while Sino-Pak ties had become firm, based on a shared hostility with India.In this situation, India simply had to possess the cover of a security assurance from the Soviet Union, even if that superficially impaired the tenets of non-alignment. This was provided by Article IX of the treaty which stated inter alia, ‘In the event of either Party being subjected to an attack or a threat thereof, the High Contracting Parties shall immediately enter into mutual consultations to remove such threat and to take appropriate effective measures to ensure peace and security of their countries’. This gave India the confidence that the US and China would not consider directly and militarily intervening in the conflict. The Soviet Union stood by India but the record is believed to show that it too cautioned India against seeking the disintegration of West Pakistan. Despite that, the treaty had served the Indian purpose.The treaty was a product of a global situation and the evolution of Indo-Soviet relations. It also created a positive sentiment for the Soviet Union in Indian decision makers and added to the relationship, especially in the security sphere. Did the nature of Indo-Soviet ties in the 1970s and the next decade circumscribe Indian options as India’s geopolitical environment changed adversely with the Soviet ingress into Afghanistan in December 1979? India did privately convey its unhappiness at Moscow’s Afghan policy but the nature of bilateral ties prevented it from taking an adverse public position. During the 1980s, India sought to open up with the US but its strong Soviet connection and its public position on Afghanistan was a barrier in this process. It was also in this decade that Pakistan became nuclear, with the US looking the other way. India could effectively do nothing about it.After the end of the Soviet Union, India signed a treaty of friendship and cooperation with Russia in 1993, but with the omission of an Article like IX of the 1971 treaty, it was very different, and gradually the nature of the India-Russia ties has become radically different. The halcyon years of the 1970s and 1980s are now a remote memory, but both countries remain committed to each other’s territorial integrity as enshrined in their constitutions. Meanwhile, Sino-Russian relations have become fundamentally transformed in this century. Article 9 of Sino-Russian treaty of friendship of 2001 is almost identical to Article IX of the Indo-Soviet treaty of 1971. The two countries recently decided to extend the treaty by five years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/50-years-of-indo-soviet-treaty-294975
