10-08-2021||Sociologist||Absence of real education||Amid inflated marks in board exams and the flourishing business of coaching centres, does anybody bother about true learning and meaningful education? Or is that as a collective — parents and teachers — we have taken it for granted that there is nothing in education except the ritualisation of examinations, the neurotic obsession with the quantification of learning experience, and the mythologisation of a notion of success defined by the instrumental reasoning of techno-economic power? Look around, see the pictures of the ‘toppers’ as brand ambassadors of all sorts of coaching centres, and the gorgeous ads of the ever-expanding education shops offering courses in hotel management, fashion designing, or information technology, and tempting the potential customers through the narratives of placement and salary packages. And move around any town or city, look at the book shops, and see how guide books with all sorts of success mantras have succeeded in replacing the sort of literature that opens the windows of consciousness, enriches one’s understanding of the world, or activates human sensitivity and critical faculty.Imagine the fate of a student who has been told by his anxiety-ridden parents that nothing matters more in life than the urge to be a topper (the fetish of 99% in the board exam), the strategic power to crack the IIT-JEE entrance test, and the internalisation of the competitive spirit to run faster, defeat others and go ahead. Imagine the state of consciousness of a young student who has been directed by coaching centre ‘gurus’ that there is nothing in physics, chemistry, mathematics and biology except what is needed to succeed in the entrance tests. Or imagine what it means to grow up when one seldom gets an opportunity to hear the inner voice, understand one’s unique aptitudes, and is almost compelled to follow the standardised path to success—techno-science, commerce and management. This is like killing human possibilities; this is alienation; and this is to promote a non-reflexive crowd behaviour.In an overpopulated country like ours, we live amid terrible structural constraints. While the scarcity of resources and opportunities, and resultant fear of unemployment haunt us, the heightened socio-economic inequality makes many of us think that job-oriented technical education or skill learning is the only capital one can acquire for upward social mobility. It is, therefore, not surprising that English-medium schools with fancy names are everywhere, contractors/politicians invest heavily in the mushrooming growth of engineering/management/BEd colleges, and Kota — the town in Rajasthan known for all ‘branded’ coaching centres — begins to symbolise the dream of the rural as well as the urban aspiring class. And middle class parents see it as a status symbol if their children with BTech/MBA degrees manage to migrate to the Euro-American world. In a way, this is the sociology of the dominant ‘common sense’ that characterises the prevalent educational practice in India.However, amid this market-driven utility, there is something deep and enduring we are missing. And if we do not take care of it, we will eventually cause severe intellectual, spiritual and politico-ethical damage to our society. This requires a realisation that meaningful education is not just confined to training or skill learning or technical efficiency; nor can the worth of true education be measured through the utilitarian scale of success. It is equally important to realise that our children are not simply ‘resources’ to be trained by coaching centres and colleges of engineering/management, and utilised by the techno-corporate empire. Our children are endowed with possibilities; they are not born only to memorise the facts of history and geography, solve physics numericals and differential equations, and ‘prove’ before a highly oppressive/judgmental society that they are ‘intelligent’ and ‘meritorious’.Let us begin to accept it. Our children, far from being exam warriors, are potentially wanderers, seekers, explorers; they are born with the eyes to see, the brain to cognise and conceptualise, the heart to feel and experience, and the hands and legs to do things. And meaningful education is fundamentally the process of inner flowering; it is a quest for the integral development of the faculties of reason and love, and creative labour and intellectual cognition. Education is the celebration of awareness. Education is sensitivity to life and the world. Education is not rote learning; nor is it confined to the official curriculum. It is immeasurable. It is the curiosity of science, the wonder of philosophy, the creativity of poetry, the skill of an artisan, or the reasoning of a mathematician. And merit or intelligence is not a measurable product; instead, it is a quality of being; it is the ability to live meaningfully, distinguish creative fulfillment from the external markers of ‘success’, and transform the ordinary — say, repairing a bicycle, nursing one’s old grandmother, or watching a melancholic sunset — into the extraordinary.However, for this sort of aesthetically enriched and life-transformative education, we need great teachers, profound educationists, insightful pedagogues and sensitive parents. Sometimes, I feel that possibly many of our youngsters have never found a great teacher — say, the kind of teacher that the likes of Rabindranath Tagore, Jiddu Krishnamurti or Paulo Freire would have imagined, or the teacher who touches the soul of the seeker. They have found school principals who use the technologies of discipline and surveillance to restore ‘order’ in the classroom; they have found ‘experts’ and ‘specialists’; and they have found all sorts of coaching gurus for whom education is nothing beyond the act of bargaining in the marketplace: ‘you pay, and I deliver the package of success mantras’! And the irony is that as parents, we too seem to be quite comfortable with the normalisation of this pathology.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/absence-of-real-education-295349
10-08-2021|| Military Commentator||Afghan peace process a challenge for India||THE UN Security Council had been haplessly watching Afghanistan’s descent into chaos following the Taliban offensive of over three months. Only last week, with India holding the rotating presidency in August, the UNSC acted — after allowing the country to be ravaged by the Taliban — urging a halt to violence and return to talks. Oral repudiation of the Taliban has scant heft. Only after a major provincial capital like Lashkargah, Kandahar or Jalalabad falls and is held, may the Taliban offer to negotiate, armed with battlefield leverage. They have captured five provincial capitals in the north, including Kunduz, in as many days. Also hot is the news that China, the new kid on the block, will play a key role in Afghanistan after US exit. Beijing was able to invite a full delegation of the Taliban led by Mullah Baradar to China last month, showering legitimacy by calling it a pivotal military and political force. The Taliban responded as required by the hosts, pledging not to allow the use of Afghan soil for terrorist activity against China by the East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM), an Islamic group fuelling unrest in Xinjiang province from Afghanistan. The Taliban have requested China for shoulder-fired missiles and electronic warfare suites to counter Afghan and US bombing. Worried about the 76-km border it shares with Badakshan province, it has funded Afghanistan in raising a mountain division to plug the access of ETIM to Xinjiang province and done joint border patrolling. In 1996, non-Pashtun Badakshan was the only area that the Taliban could not capture. This time, districts and provincial capitals in the Tajik north are the first to be taken by the Taliban.China’s earlier Afghanistan policy was benign, marked by five noes: no objection to the Taliban attaining power through legal means; no use of Northern Distribution Network by the US; no interference in Afghan internal affairs; no boots on the ground; no criticism of the US. It has violated these norms, especially blaming the US for hasty withdrawal. China has had a free ride in Afghanistan with sparse economic assistance and investment; still, the Taliban consider it a superpower on a par with the US. China, along with Russia and Pakistan, has not only the power of leading the Taliban to the square table at Doha, but also in persuading it to behave moderately though in its quest for power and legitimacy, it has shown no inclination of abandoning its medieval ideology and Chengiz Khan-like brutality.Having completed 95 per cent of withdrawal, the US is leaving without any political settlement. As many as 650 soldiers will stay back after August 31, the deadline for withdrawal. The Doha peace process was a US agreement with the Taliban for the safe passage of US troops. Since May 1, when the Taliban started the ongoing offensive, they initially controlled 81 districts. Today, they control half of Afghanistan’s 419 districts, mostly in rural areas. The bulk of the Afghans are still in government-controlled areas. The Taliban have surrounded 17 of 34 provincial capitals, they control crossings on all its borders and say it is not their ‘policy to fight in cities’. The seizure of provincial capitals is ostensibly in retaliation for the US bombing. An estimated 100,000-strong Taliban supported by 10,000 jihadis from Pakistan are fighting in 21 provinces. The Taliban enjoy far greater legitimacy in 2021 than they did in 1996 when only three countries — the UAE, Saudi Arabia and Pakistan — had recognised them. The Doha peace accord was interestingly titled, ‘Agreement for bringing peace to Afghanistan between the Islamic emirate of Afghanistan which is not recognised by the US as a State and is known as the Taliban and US’.Attrition in combat, though very high, is classified. Civilian casualties in the first six months of this year, according to the UN, are 1,659 killed and 3,254 wounded.American commanders have sent out mixed signals about the resilience of the Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF) to take on the Taliban, from a possible collapse in six months to two years to their imminent fall and now in a turnaround, they say their fall is not inevitable or a foregone conclusion. The sudden and quick exit has put at risk the gains of the last 20 years and is being called irresponsible. Former US president George Bush and General David Petraeus have criticised the Biden administration for its choice and decision. Petraeus said last month that between the choices of ‘leave or not leave, there was a third option: leave but with sustainable presence’. Nearly 3,500 US and 8,000 NATO troops which was the force level before the drawdown is deemed as ‘sustainable presence’.Air power has proved to be a decisive factor in pushing back the Taliban. One reason attributed to the loss of districts is insufficiency of air maintenance as many outlying districts were sustained by air. Faheem Dashty, chairman of the National Journalists Union, Kabul and a protégé of the late Lion of Panjshir, Ahmad Shah Massoud, blames NSA Hamdullah Mohib for mismanagement of operations while Herat strongman, Gen Ismail Khan says the Taliban sweep is a conspiracy. The Afghan air force has 162 aircraft, including two dozen US Black Hawk and several Mi-17 and Mi-24 helicopters, including five given by India. Pakistan has spread the canard that Indian pilots are bombing the Taliban. Drones, B-52 and F18-A aircraft have been supporting ANSF in recent days in Kandahar and Helmand. There is no clarity whether CENTCOM commander Gen McKenzie will be authorised to call for air support — Over-the-horizon (OTH) radar system which is proving less effective than the previous system — after August 31. Meanwhile, Mohib told BBC’s Hard Talk of three possible outcomes: military stalemate, civil war and a political settlement.Interestingly, External Affairs Ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi has begun referring to India as being contiguous with Afghanistan. Pakistan says it’s not the case and this disqualifies New Delhi from any role as a non-neighbouring country.The US-Russia-China-Pakistan extended troika which is seeking a regional solution will hold its third meeting on August 11 which does not include India, because according to Russia, India cannot influence the Taliban. India has failed to engage higher echelons of the Taliban openly and visibly. India’s capacity-building and development assistance programmes (534 projects in 34 provinces) have not converted into any political dividend. New Delhi remains on the fringes in shaping the future of Afghanistan as the US (and NATO) cut-and-run to avoid another Vietnam.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/afghan-peace-process-a-challenge-for-india-295351
10-08-2021||Senior Journalist||Riddle of the global minimum corporate tax rate||THE silence of India’s economic experts on the global minimum corporate tax of 15 per cent, which was agreed upon by G-7, the club of rich, industrialised countries, in the first week of June, followed by the approval of G-20 countries, which includes India, and further support for the measure from 130 other nations, is intriguing yet understandable. Even as India observed 30 years of the revolutionary economic reforms of 1991, which ended the supposedly closed socialist era since independence and opened the economy to market forces, the news from the global leaders of free market economy must have come as a dampener. One of the key arguments for reforms in India was that low taxation is a necessary incentive to attract foreign investment as well as encourage greater economic productivity.India’s free market pundits have argued about reducing corporate tax, but corporate tax rate never fell below 21 per cent from about 40 per cent at its peak since 1991. India will not have much problem with the new global minimum corporate tax rate. But it will not be able to adopt radical — and radical in the context of taxes always means low rates — tax measures to encourage domestic industry as well as attract foreign investments. The picture would have been radically different if the argument had been for a maximum global corporate tax rate of 15 per cent. The issue is not just about tax havens with their zero tax rates. Ireland has been attracting the tech multinational giants like Apple and Microsoft with its 12.5 per cent corporate tax rate, which falls below the new minimum rate of 15 per cent. It is also about competitive tax rates as there are competitive tariffs and competitive wage rates.The question is about multinational companies like Apple, Amazon, Alphabet (Google) moving their operations to countries with low tax rates, to avoid tax payments either in the country where they started their businesses from and where they base their corporate headquarters in the US. These corporates are also avoiding payment of taxes in countries where their goods and services are sold because they operate from a country with a lower tax rate. This has been the case with Apple doing business in European Union (EU) countries and refusing to pay taxes in these countries because it is doing so from its base in Ireland, its operational headquarters.The US feels cheated because all the tech giants are American, and their corporate headquarters are in America. It feels that it is being cheated of its rightful share of the taxes. So, it seems to feel that if there is a uniform tax obligation, it might discourage these multinational companies from moving their operations to other countries. But tax rate alone might not be the reason for a company to look to other countries. There are other issues involved in the matter. The educational levels of the work-force as well as wage rates. The United States Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen argues that the global minimum corporate tax would help the middle class and that the companies would invest in the education of the workforce and in research and development.The multinational corporations are likely to argue that if the tax rates are lower, they will spend more on the wage bill, which is unlikely, and more on research and development, which is likely. It is the technological edge over the competitors that will keep the giants ahead in the race. And many of the technological breakthroughs, especially in the information technology field, have happened in America because American tech giants have been spending considerable amounts on research and development. And there is the enviable scientific and technological research in the American university system which feeds into the companies.The minimum global corporate tax rate may force tax havens like Cayman Islands to shut shop, but it may not create the level playing field in terms of low tax rates. Yellen had said after the decision that this will end the tendency to beat down the tax rates. There was a time, perhaps a quarter century ago or more, when beating down the tax rate seemed to be the way forward in building free market economies. What then has changed? If the market forces were allowed free play, then the tax rates and many other things will have their own natural levels. Why are the rich countries of G-7, led by the US, imposing this rule of minimum corporate tax? And why is it that other countries have fallen in line so quickly, and without any reservations? The only reason this has been so seems to be that governments do not want to lose taxes, their assured income, and the companies look as greedily at their profits. In the taxes versus profits tussle, governments look to ways of increasing their tax revenue, and the companies their profit margins. There is this basic difference between governments and companies. Governments have all the companies to tax. A company’s tax prospects are limited to its own enterprise.The question that arises is: what is the minimum tax that governments can impose going by the fairness principle? Is the proposed 15 per cent minimum global corporate tax rate a fair one? Many companies may say that it is not a fair deal because it is easier for bigger companies with larger profits to part with the 15 per cent tax, and it is a burden for individual companies with smaller turnovers. Similarly, for smaller economies, the 15 per cent minimum corporate tax rate might look attractive, but it will be a great burden on the smaller companies operating inside the smaller economies.The important question is how this consensus about the global minimum corporate tax rate was forged. How much did the G-7 rich countries arm-twist G-20 emerging economies and the rest of the lower income countries? Why is the G-7 dictating tax rates to the rest of the world?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/riddle-of-the-global-minimum-corporate-tax-rate-295353
