11-08-2021||---||A new low for parliamentary democracy||A new Parliament building is being constructed, but what is going on in the historic old structure should worry anyone concerned with upholding democratic norms. The current monsoon session of Parliament took place after the Budget session was shortened (Covid-19 was given as an excuse, but many politicians headed off for campaigning in the Assembly elections in March-April). That session had taken place after the winter session of 2020 was cancelled and the two sessions preceding that cut short due to Covid.This session should, therefore, have been an opportunity for the elected representatives to speak on issues that concern those who voted for them. Instead, we got a washout of a session where the government managed to pass 30 Bills with an average discussion time of 10 minutes on each law that will impact our lives. Simultaneously, only 11 per cent of legislation was sent to parliamentary committees for scrutiny (compared to around 70 per cent during the second term of Manmohan Singh) which means that the new laws were neither debated nor examined by the experts.That basically shows that Parliament is not doing its job. Sadly, this also suggests that the government managed to take advantage of the Opposition’s determination to boycott the House till there was a structured debate on the issue concerning the use of Pegasus spyware and the laws that led to the ongoing farmers’ protests.So why has Parliament turned into such a disaster? First, the ruling party has a simple majority in the Lok Sabha and its inclinations are to have their way or the highway. Parliamentary rules are such that it is in the hands of the government to set the agenda and list Bills. The BJP-led NDA has been able to get away with this attitude because we are in that phase of public life where the cult of one leader is propagated and the democratic instincts that parliamentary tradition demands are being snuffed out in the nation’s pre-eminent ruling party. Simultaneously, with some notable exceptions, the traditional media has also chosen to abandon the task of speaking truth to power,making it possible for the regime to get away with this approach. The belief is that they control the dominant narrative, and therefore, Opposition voices can be ignored.The pathetic state of the national Opposition does not help. The Congress is supposed to be the leading party in the pack but they do not have parliamentary leaders who inspire too much confidence while uncertainty over leadership and factions also drags down the morale of the old guard, some of whom are still excellent individual MPs. Compare that with the era of UPA-II where two very talented BJP parliamentarians, who passed away in 2019, were the Leaders of the Opposition. Arun Jaitley and Sushma Swaraj were skilled in both parliamentary boycotts and in making their point inside the House, besides spinning the media. Asked about a policy of disrupting Parliament over the various scams that devastated the image of the Manmohan Singh government in its second tenure, Jaitley would say that although ideally, Parliament is a forum for debate and legislation, disruption is also a valid way to bring public attention to an issue and exercise a democratic right.Yet, he was not out to destroy Parliament just as the old guard of the BJP when it first came to power, Atal Bihari Vajpayee and LK Advani, who also functioned within accepted parliamentary traditions. But today’s BJP is a crowd around a leader. They are fundamentally yes-men and women who have no locus standi to say very much unless tasked to ram through legislation, remain loyal and/or make hysterical accusations against those who dare question their high command. That high command embodied in the prime minister, meanwhile, has not answered a single question in Parliament for over six years, just as he has not had a single press conference during his entire tenure in Delhi.With the Congress still mired in existential questions, there is also a lack of clarity whether the so-called G-23 leaders (those who wrote a letter seeking a rehaul of the party) is the grouping the larger Opposition would rather work with. A well-attended dinner for Opposition leaders, hosted by veteran Congressman Kapil Sibal, only added to the speculation. Meanwhile, it has been the regional parties that have looked more robust in leading the Opposition charge. Indeed, if there is one purpose that this session may have served, it is to establish the need for Opposition unity, as flagged by West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. Her party MPs have been the most energetic in framing the debates at hand, be it in the positioning inside Parliament or the outreach to the national media. Still, the idea of Opposition unity is fluid and in the early stages of a work in progress. But just as the Left parties had influence on parliamentary discourse during UPA-I, the TMC is managing to do so in the age of NDA-II, arguably the worst time for parliamentary democracy after the Emergency.But as this session draws to a close, it’s worth asking if the Opposition could have been more dexterous in its handling of an obdurate government that made it clear that it would not be discussing Pegasus. Could there have been a more layered strategy of protesting and giving press statements on the issue of snooping and privacy while pushing for debates on other issues? As it is, it’s clear the regime will not order an investigation into the purchase of the Pegasus spyware unless ordered by the Supreme Court to do so; new information is more likely to come from investigations in other impacted countries such as France. Besides, Pegasus is an important issue but not one that has traction on the ground in election bound states such as Uttar Pradesh or Punjab.There are innumerable issues to debate in Parliament after the worst two years in recent memory besides the Bills that were passed relating to vital sectors that impact all Indians. Issues that concern people are price rise, job losses, shrinking economy, deaths in the second phase of Covid, misreporting the figures, vaccination policy, firing on the Assam-Mizoram border — hate speech calling for genocide against Indian Muslims made a short distance from Parliament — the rape of a Dalit girl and of course, the farm sector and ongoing protests.The Opposition says it had to stand firm on Pegasus and make a point as the system is now rigged against it even in the manner in which Lok Sabha TV now no longer broadcasts its actions within the House. The PM, meanwhile, has said that he has never seen such a ‘negative mindset’ in Parliament. Either way, we the people, are the losers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/a-new-low-for-parliamentary-democracy-295789
11-08-2021||---||Tap renewable energy to cut oil import bill||THE Indian government does not seem to have thought out the full implications of its recent decision to advance by five years, to 2025, the target date for 20 per cent blending of ethanol, which is mostly derived from sugar, in petrol.The move will have the potential to dampen the demand for conventional fuel, which is mostly imported, and thereby reduce the outgo of foreign exchange. It will also reduce the large buffer stock of sugar that the government has built up as a result of excess output. But once the buffer goes, either domestic consumption or export has to be curbed. If the latter happens, then export earnings will go down and negate the gains made from reducing fuel imports.The attempt to increase the use of ethanol is undoubtedly a move in the right direction, but there is a need to clarify how this is best done. The government seeks to achieve this goal by proceeding on two fronts — use more of extract from sugarcane (which is the source for sugar) and also agricultural waste. The simple point is, the agricultural waste route should be followed and the sugarcane route abandoned.This is because sugarcane is a water guzzler and India is water-deficient. Currently, farmers across the country are using canal irrigation water as also groundwater to grow sugarcane. What makes the current practices absolutely harmful is the groundwater being extracted through electrically powered pump sets, with the electricity consumed often not properly metered and paid for. And what is even worse is that a lot of that power is generated by plants which run on coal, emitting harmful exhausts which add to global warming and accelerate adverse climate change.A properly balanced policy, taking in all aspects, should adopt the following route. Foremost, cut down on the cultivation of sugarcane and encourage farmers to grow foods like pulses and oilseeds and commodities like cotton which consume far less water. This is easier said than done as over the decades, an elaborate government support system has been constructed which makes it rewarding for farmers to grow sugarcane and most of public discussion is centred around farmers not getting their sugarcane dues in time from mills which crush sugarcane. The policy route that needs to be followed is to slowly whittle down the incentives available to farmers for growing sugarcane and in its place construct a set of incentives and mechanisms to encourage the cultivation of pulses, oilseeds and cotton.With the supply of cane juice or sugar slowly going down, it will not be possible to produce ethanol from those sources. Hence, a policy decision needs to be taken to produce ethanol only to the extent that it can be done from agricultural waste. Right now, a huge amount of agricultural waste is not put to proper use and in fact, in some instances, misused.A lot of Delhi's air pollution is caused by the burning of stubble left behind after the harvesting of crops. It is widely agreed that this practice should be discouraged but there is very little progress in that direction.If as a result of the policy imperatives outlined above, there isn’t enough input for raising the supply of ethanol, then what is to be done to reduce the oil import bill as also the air pollution caused by burning fossil fuels?The answer to this already exists and is in fact a part of government policy: make massive efforts to increase the supply of renewable energy like solar and wind power. While progress is being made on that front, the problem is that there are limited hours of sunshine and that too not during periods like the monsoon when there is a cloud cover. Wind energy can be produced round-the-clock, but only when the wind direction and velocity are right. Thus, a power grid which requires a minimum base load cannot rely on them alone. The answer which is currently available is to have a set of power plants run on natural gas which can be quickly switched on and off depending on fluctuating grid requirement. It would be ideal if excess power generated through the wind and solar routes could be stored, but that would require storage capacity (batteries) which technology has been evolving.The best news is that the country at last appears to be arriving there. ReNew Power, the country’s leading renewable energy company, has just signed a power purchase agreement with Solar Energy Corporation of India, a Central government undertaking, for round-the-clock electricity supply — the first of its kind in the country. ReNew will supply power at an extremely moderate Rs 2.90 per unit or kWh (compared to an average Rs 3.85 paid by states during the financial year 2021) by operating at 80 per cent average annual plant load factor and having a minimum monthly capacity utilisation of 70 per cent. This is far higher than what typical wind or solar power plants are able to deliver. The project, valued at $1.2 billion, will consist of 900 MW of wind power and 400 MW of solar power capacity, and what is perhaps the greatest technological achievement, enough battery capacity.Since the entire technology for wind and solar power and mass storage is now available at an affordable cost, making such power commercially viable, this is the route that needs to be followed to reduce the cultivation of sugarcane as also the consumption of fossil fuels so as to reduce the emission of greenhouse gases and enable the country to do its bit to halt the alarming rise in global warming.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/tap-renewable-energy-to-cut-oil-import-bill-295786
11-08-2021||---||Xi Jinping’s visit to Tibet||TO understand the significance of Chinese President Xi Jinping’s recent visit to Tibet, one needs to go back to the decisions taken at the Seventh National Forum on Work in Tibet on August 28-29, 2020. There was an important eight-character edict from Xi, which spelt out the key elements of the latest policy line on Tibet — ‘stability, development, ecology and border area consolidation’. The aspect of consolidation assumed significance in view of the clashes between Indian and Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh in May-June 2020. These clashes were preceded by a tense standoff between the troops at Doklam located at the India-Bhutan-China trijunction in 2017. Therefore, the security aspect of managing Tibet has acquired heightened importance for China. At the forum, he placed top priority to the security objective when he said, “We must adhere to the strategic thinking that to govern the nation, we must govern our borders; to govern our borders, we must first stabilise Tibet.”Now we are witnessing China taking up this settlement project seriously while we have allowed the border on our side to become depopulated with implications for India.Note the singular importance given to Tibet in ensuring border security. No other border nor borders in general have been mentioned. This is why one must realise the enhanced threat to India’s security in Arunachal Pradesh.There is a visible acceleration in the pace of infrastructure development in Tibet, particularly near the India-China border in the Arunachal Pradesh sector. Nyingchi, which Xi visited, is currently a major link in the proposed high-speed railway from Lhasa to Chengdu in Sichuan province. It lies only 15 km from the India-China border. The strategic importance of the rail link in moving troops and materials swiftly to the border in the case of an armed conflict should not be underestimated.Nyingchi is important for another reason. It lies close to the bend in the Brahmaputra at which a gigantic hydropower project is planned. The impact on the flow of water south to India and to Bangladesh is likely to be adverse and there would be severe ecological consequences. Finally, the completion of a new bridge over the Brahmaputra at Nyingchi was also announced during the visit, further improving the highway network criss-crossing the plateau. The upgrade of the transport infrastructure will also support the large-scale construction on account of the massive hydro project.Another more recent policy involves the setting up of mixed Tibetan and Han settlements in the border areas, through the grant of various incentives and subsidies. Local Tibetan militia are being raised to assist in border defence and special attention is being paid to their ‘patriotic education’. These settlements have not only come up in increasing numbers on the India-China border, but also on the China-Nepal and China-Bhutan borders. While the Indian Government has not acknowledged any Chinese encroachment on the Indian side of the border in Arunachal, there are confirmed reports of the building of new villages across the border with Nepal and Bhutan.After the 1962 war with China, India had moved quickly to encourage new settlements in the sparsely populated border areas of Arunachal. These were settled by reservists from the Indian Army and local people. The government subsidised the provision of rations, established basic medical and educational facilities and extended other facilities. However, during the first border infrastructure survey that I carried out in the area in 2004, most of these border villages had been abandoned and their inhabitants had moved into the lower hills and plains. Over the years, as the memories of 1962 receded and the border appeared to be largely peaceful, the subsidies were gradually withdrawn. In fact, in some of these villages, more recent migrants from across the border in Tibet had set up their homes. Now we are witnessing China taking up this settlement project seriously while we have allowed the border on our side to become depopulated. This will have serious security implications for India.China’s Tibet policy is now dominated by the security dimension and this inevitably reflects in its internal policy towards Tibet. Both the forum on Tibet last year and the recent visit by Xi Jinping reflect a renewed determination to obliterate, as much as possible, Tibetan culture and identity, in particular the distinctive and deeply rooted Buddhist faith among its people. Xi has launched a particularly aggressive phase of assimilation. He has directed that ‘Tibetan Buddhism should be guided in adapting to the socialist society and should be developed in the Chinese context.’This has been interpreted by Chinese cadres as a policy of ‘sinicising’ Tibetan Buddhism by regulating the syllabus for religious education and controlling the recognition of ‘tulkus’ or reincarnations of high lamas. This is clearly a prelude to the naming of the 15th Dalai Lama when the current incumbent has passed away.There is a more insidious aspect of China’s assimilative policies in Tibet, and this is the open encouragement of marriages between Han Chinese and Tibetans.One should not ignore the fact that over the years, China has been able to co-opt a number of Tibetans in its assimilation project. These Tibetans have developed personal and professional stakes in upholding and consolidating Chinese rule over Tibet. This co-option has a long history and was already in evidence during the so-called ‘peaceful liberation’ of Tibet in 1951. Those who have benefited from their association with Chinese rule over Tibet are not at all enthusiastic about any reconciliation between the Dalai Lama and the Chinese regime or the possibility of the return of the religious leader to Tibet. The current policy direction on Tibet would suggest that even a feeble prospect of reconciliation, which would suit India best, no longer exists. Therefore, the salience of the Tibet issue in India-China relations has become more direct and explicit. It will further complicate the quest for a new equilibrium in India-China relations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/xi-jinpings-visit-to-tibet-295785
