12-08-2021||---||Sports policy should encourage excellence||EVERYONE agrees that the Tokyo Olympics have shown a way forward for Indian sports. But no one bothers to ask: Which way forward? There are two roads that leave Tokyo. One already has a name: TOPS. Let us call the other one BASE. We must choose which one to take. We cannot leave this choice to experts or administrators. This is a larger civilisational choice. It involves values and vision, policy and politics.TOPS stands for Target Olympic Podium Scheme, an initiative of the Indian government that can claim some credit for our medals tally in the Tokyo Olympics. The name captures it all: It’s a sarkari scheme with a clear target of winning medals for India at the Olympics. They may not announce it as such, but this is the fulcrum of our current sports policy. It reflects how the business of modern sports has systematically reduced the space of games in human life. One, myriad and the open-ended world of infinite variety of games has now been reduced to a few sports with clear-cut rules, institutional regulations and a definite format. Two, sports is not just for the joy of the participants, but mainly for the pleasure of the spectators, mostly TV viewers. Three, each sport now is competitive, with clear winners and losers. Four, victory in sports is directly tied to monetary rewards and national honour. Just as nation-states compete to become military and economic power, they also vie to be a sporting power. No wonder, the Indian government wants to launch a scheme to improve the nation’s medal tally at the Olympics, the most visible theatre of professional, competitive and spectator sports that we naively continue to call games.BASE is a name I have coined for an alternative, a Broad-based Approach to Sports for Everyone. Forgive me for this clumsy nomenclature (TOPS is no less clumsy, by the way), but I hope it captures the main difference from the modern business of sports as a battleground of national honour. It seeks to keep sports close to the original spirit of playing games. Games are meant, first of all, to be a source of joy to the participants. Everyone plays, not just a few gifted players. Excellence is nurtured but not by excluding those who may never join the medals race. Spectators are not detached and distanced; they are involved and invested. Games are not played mainly for external rewards; playing is its own reward. Encouraging a broad-based and inclusive sports culture may yield more medals too, but that cannot be the principal objective.We need a sports policy that chooses between these two paths or offers a third one. What we have in the name of National Sports Policy is a 20-year old document that packs a lot of angrezi, nods in all directions and says very little.The first option is obvious. The history of modern sports shows that once you have a decent talent pool, excellence is a function of State support, corporate backing and media visibility. So, this path from Tokyo would involve, first of all, creating spectators or audience for some of these sports, following the Indian Premier League (IPL) route. Given the size of India’s media-consuming class, the demand for sport should be able to sustain the business. The supply would be produced by private sector-driven sports academies that work for profit or are funded by corporates. The government’s role would be to clean up the mess in most of the sports bodies, fairly implement the existing regulations and offer occasional support to some sports via the public sector companies. If the government can get its act together to do this properly, we can look forward to a steady improvement in our medals tally.Remember, TOPS involves a top-down approach. Its goal can be achieved efficiently with the help of selective targeting. We may choose sports and events that offer more bang for the buck, prefer individual sport over team sport, select those games that offer a better opening for our players. Given the size of our population and now our economy, all we need are a few islands of sports excellence. Just as a handful of IITs sustain an illusion of excellence in technical education and a tiny slice of our economy, the “middle class” keeps up the story of India shining, a handful of sports academies in all the metros can produce enough medal prospects. Islands of sports excellence can exist within the ocean of utter neglect; a bunch of world class professionals can be found within a generation that is turning away from physical games. That would be in line with the character of Indian modernity that tends to split our society into a tiny show-window and a large backyard. This path can and must be challenged.Focusing on BASE involves a bottom-up approach, priority to broad-basing the talent pool of sport and recognising the diversity of games that Indians play.The first step in that direction would be better sports facilities in our schools. While over 80 per cent of our schools have playground (about 77 per cent in rural schools, just 61 per cent in rural unrecognised schools), these are mostly just physical spaces with no games being played. The ASER report found in 2018 that only one-sixth of rural schools had a dedicated ‘physical education’ teacher. Naturally, on a given day, only 26 per cent rural schools had any supervised games or physical education. Ensuring a modicum of sports facilities in the remaining three-fourth schools must be the top priority. The recent emphasis on Early Childhood Care and Education for children aged 3-5 provides a historic opportunity for introducing games as the principal mode of education.Creating better sports facilities in the 40,000-odd colleges and 1,000-plus universities should be the next stop in this journey. In addition, the Central government must invest in the creation of a well-equipped stadium, including an indoor facility, in each district. State governments can take a cue from the Odisha government that has recently announced setting up of 89 multi-purpose indoor stadia that can double up as disaster shelters.Finally, we need to focus on different games that are popular in different states and regions of the country, irrespective of their Olympic status or medal prospect. We may be decades away from the podium in world football, but it happens to be one of the most popular sports in Bengal, Goa, Kerala and the Northeast. Kabaddi may not be an Olympic sport, but it is more popular than wrestling. Different regions can develop special facilities for one sport each. If Kenya can produce great long-distance runners, there is no reason why Chhattisgarh cannot. Northeast India has contributed two out of our seven medals; it can be promoted as the hub of women’s sport.Will this secure more medals in Paris 2024? Perhaps yes! Maybe no! But this will surely add joy to the lives of crores of participants, young and not-so-young. This may also secure better health, physical and mental, inculcate team spirit and build character of our youth. Isn’t that why we play games?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/sports-policy-should-encourage-excellence-296404
12-08-2021||---||Competition non-negotiable in privatisation||THE Government of India’s current-year plan of privatisation to realise Rs 1.75 lakh crore comes laced with some real dangers and many imponderables. On the anvil are the privatisation of Air India, the BEML, BPCL and Shipping Corporation of India. In addition, two banks and the stake sale of LIC are in the pipeline.Theoretically, restructuring the portfolio of public assets is absolutely in order if it is for efficiency gain, revenue realisation and income distribution. But the problem is how it is done and where the proceeds flow to. When planned and done well, it ensures the transfer of a public asset to private hands, a process intrinsically sensitive to potential corruption, crony capitalism and abuse.Rapid privatisation has not been on top of the agenda of the government for long. After 1991, India has not suffered a severe macro economic crisis, nor experienced very high inflation or any prolonged period of economic stagnation. During the last five years, we have seen the privatisation of IDBI Bank and HPCL, which was basically selling one PSU to another, resulting in equity swap or cross-holding which is against the goal of privatisation. While the requisite preconditions of regulatory infrastructure and capacity, and implementation of complementary policies have come in and sequential reforms have been brought in to bring in competition in most sectors, such big-ticket privatisation has never been attempted. In the end, more than the ownership change, what matters is the degree of competition in the process, regulatory environment and efficiency gains attained.Several authors have said ad nauseam that privatisation is not the all-purpose panacea and a monopoly in the public sector becoming a monopoly in the private sector is no solution.Another cause for concern is the skill of some of our industrialists in manipulating the State apparatus to reduce competition. According to Arvind Panagariya, an economist and former Vice-Chairman, NITI Aayog, the experience of privatisation of some infrastructure projects shows “sub-optimal forms of competitive bidding; sometimes even the terms of agreement were drafted and negotiated after the concessionaire was zeroed down on. Even the terms of prequalification were so designed that credible bidders often stayed away.”Central to privatisation are how the ownership and assets are being valued and how they are being transferred. Undervaluation of the State assets leads to net redistribution to private hands on the one hand and wealthy people close to the political class gaining through the extractive political institution on the other.Divestment faces two conflicting preferences. The price represents the discounted sum of profits to be earned by the State; an income stream is replaced by a discounted capital value. The private bidder’s preference, on the other hand, is to buy an undervalued asset which will generate a value much in excess of the value paid.The non-negotiable here is competition and not limiting it to a trade sale. Only when it is thrown open to foreign firms will there be a likelihood of getting the right price. Limiting it to swadeshi and Indian capital will mean it will be gamed and it will be a trade or negotiated sale. Needless to say that transferring the asset below its value does a poor job in income distribution and revenue realisation.The second aspect is how the funds realised are used. Initially, it was meant to go into the social sector only but later on, the expansion of the menu meant a subterfuge for meeting the budget deficit. Money is essentially fungible and the so-called deposit into the National Investment Funds can go into the social sector, other infrastructure projects and helping other PSUs.A recompense for net income distribution in favour of the rich can be counteracted to a large extent by putting the entire proceeds for education and health where the majority of the country will gain.Private ownership does not automatically generate economic gains. Though the Agency Theory will suggest that the government owning banks, insurance, airlines is a big no-no because the incentives of the players are not aligned to that of the owners (people), the argument that why the government should run airlines is credible enough, but selling an airline for a song is equally abominable.There is a requirement of competition, cost-effectiveness and better price discovery and not just meeting the fiscal target. The track record has been sketchy in terms of adherence to these principles so far. Hiving off IPCL to Reliance had gone through earlier despite monopoly concerns and it created a singular dominance of the latter in many segments of the petrochemical market.Will the time-honoured stand with regard to service sector companies not going to bidders which will help them in consolidating their position be adhered to this time?If a scam takes place, it retards future privatisation. We need not suffer from the East India Company syndrome any longer. Atmanirbharata and swadeshi could be value-diminishing in this privatisation exercise.It is also futile to go against the trend. When much of the set-up is increasingly getting privatised, be it public goods or merit goods, privatisation will happen regardless. But it will have to happen with competitiveness in bidding, including permitting participation by foreign firms and arrival at the proper pricing of the asset. This is not only important for price realisation but also for the distributional impact of income and wealth, as economist Thomas Piketty said. The spectacularly rapid enrichment of certain individuals, like in Russia and Eastern Europe, is not an inevitability. It should also be done with transparency so as to avert situations like the cornering of the telecom sector in Mexico by business magnate Carlos Slim.Finally, the proceeds of privatisation should go entirely to the social sector, particularly health and education. After all, people are the owners of these enterprises and the proceeds helping 80 per cent of the population is better than helping just the top 10 per cent. Then we will have efficiency-enhancing privatisation which promotes equity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/competition-non-negotiable-in-privatisation-296403
12-08-2021||---||Reversing climate change||EVERY new report of the UN’s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) paints a picture grimmer than the previous one. The timeline for reaching the temperature thresholds keeps getting shorter and shorter. From half a century or more, we are now talking of a decade or two for catastrophic impacts of climate change to unfold. The window of opportunity available for policymakers and governments to act gets narrower with every new report. Climate science gets more definitive and scientists are surer of the temperature changes based on datasets from all over the world. Being products of the UN process, every word in these reports is vetted by all member states, leaving no room for quibbling over data or analysis. The report is a synthesis of over 14,000 peer-reviewed scientific studies.While scientists are unanimous about warming and its present and future impacts, policymakers and governments are not on one platform for remedial action.The new IPCC report released this week is unequivocal in pointing out that the planet is warming faster than earlier thought, and that human influence is responsible for warming the climate system consisting of the atmosphere, oceans and land. The scale of warming and changes in the climate system in recent decades is far greater than the changes that occurred over thousands of years. The global surface temperature is projected upwards under all emission scenarios, at least till the mid-century. The warming is being experienced in all regions of the globe, but with variations. One of the biggest impacts of climate change is the intensification of the water cycle and its manifestations such as intense rainfall, flooding, and also intense droughts in several countries. More changes to monsoon precipitation are expected in future. Warming oceans mean more marine heatwaves, ocean acidification and reduced oxygen levels in ocean ecosystems. Sea level rise in coastal areas and storm surges during tropical cyclones — whose frequency, duration and intensity are going up — would lead to inundation in coastal areas and erosion of the coasts. The report has warned that extreme sea level events could occur every year instead of just being once in a century occurrence like in the past.If this is the present and emerging scenario and scientists have issued a grave warning, all the countries must be worried and start taking action. Unfortunately, this does not happen. Like all previous reports, the latest one will form a key input for climate negotiations. The next round of climate talks is scheduled at Glasgow in November. While scientists are unanimous about warming and its present and future impacts, policymakers and governments are not on one platform for remedial action. The single-most key climate action needed to arrest unbridled warming is deep and immediate cuts in the emission of greenhouse gases. This needs a transition from polluting sources of energy such as coal to low- or zero-carbon options like wind and solar. The energy transition is the key but also the most contentious because it is closely linked with the traditional models of development and economic growth. It also raises questions of equity and climate justice. Developing countries contend that industrialised countries responsible for past emissions should take the deepest cuts now and help others in transition to low-carbon pathways.The long-term goal set under the Paris Agreement talked about achieving a balance between ‘human-induced emissions by sources and removals by sinks of greenhouse gases in the second half of this century, based on equity, and in the context of sustainable development and efforts to eradicate poverty.’ Instead of emphasising deep cuts in emissions, it talked about a balance between emission reduction and measures such as forestation that help carbon removal. This ambiguity, combined with the approach of letting countries set their targets, has led to a new idea of achieving ‘net-zero emissions.’ Many emitters, including China and the US, have announced their own ‘net-zero emission’ targets that include reduction in emissions and measures for carbon removal. It could also lead to the offset system in which the rich countries paid for emission reduction countries or invested in forestation elsewhere. This brings us back to the failed idea of ‘clean development mechanism’ and carbon credits, etc., that were designed to help rich countries avoid emission reduction. ‘Net zero’ does not mean real zero emissions. It is a clever carbon accounting system that most likely will put more pressure on land for forestation and other carbon sink schemes. For any meaningful and real emission cuts, energy transition is necessary. It has started but is going to be a long tough road ahead.Hopefully, climate diplomats will take a call on the scientific findings and possible mitigation measures needed to halt and reverse warming trends, adaptation is also necessary. The impacts of warming are already amplified by extreme weather events in India and elsewhere. The changing patterns of the summer monsoon have begun to impact the farming and livelihoods of millions of farmers. Sea level rise and storm surges are affecting communities in coastal areas. In the hills, a change in the number of cold days and precipitation is hitting cropping systems. All these impacts are real and already unfolding. We can’t wait for global climate negotiations to reach a point of agreement on emission reduction. Action on the adaptation front is needed urgently. This is where Indian policymakers should wake up. The ‘action’ in national and state action plans is missing. The change in nomenclature of the Ministry of Environment and Forests by adding ‘climate change’ had only been cosmetic.Climate change is a global phenomenon but its impacts are local and it needs action at the local level. The temperature rise is not just a matter of little discomfort that the rich can overcome by adjusting the thermostat of air-conditioners. The planet has no magic switch that can provide us relief quickly. The world needs sustained, committed and honest action. There are no shortcuts to undo climate change.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/reversing-climate-change-296402
