13-08-2021||---||Vacancies of HC judges must be filled on priority||Speaking in Parliament recently, Union Law Minister Kiren Rijiju said 453 posts of judge were lying vacant currently in all high courts in the country. In addition, Rijiju informed the House that the Supreme Court collegiums recommended 80 names for appointing judges to the high courts during the last one year. Of them, 45 persons had been appointed and the remaining recommendations were under various stages of processing with the Central Government and the Supreme Court collegium.The total sanctioned strength of judges in the 25 high courts of the country is 1,098, but currently, only 645 judges are working in these courts. Given the volume of pendency of cases in the courts of law in India, it is indeed a matter of grave concern. All essential stakeholders involved in judicial appointments must take a serious note of this grim situation.After 1993, the Supreme Court collegium led by the Chief Justice of India (CJI) has the conclusive power in making appointments of judges to the Supreme Court and high courts. In the existing system of judicial appointments, the Central Government plays a limited role in the process of judicial appointments.The high court collegium, headed by the Chief Justice and comprising two of his seniormost colleagues, initiates the proposal to appoint a judge of the high court. The collegium sends its recommendation to the Union Ministry of Law and Justice and the state government for seeking their inputs/comments/objections, etc.If these functionaries approve the high court collegium’s proposal, the matter comes to the Supreme Court collegium, where the Chief Justice of India and two of his seniormost colleagues consider the proposal in detail.If they recommend it unanimously to the Central Government, the latter has no option but to advise the President of India to appoint the recommended person as a judge of the high court as per Article 217 of the Constitution. However, the Central Government has the power to return the recommendation to the SC collegium for its reconsideration by recording the reasons for disagreement, etc.But if the SC collegium reiterates its recommendation, the Central Government is bound to accept the same. In other words, the SC collegium has primacy in making judicial appointments.Notably, despite the SC collegium’s primacy, there was no clarity regarding the timeline during which the President had to appoint the judges of the high court on the recommendation of the collegium. As no specific timeline was prescribed in any judge’s case, this lacuna was misused by the Centre and several recommendations of the SC collegium were put on hold for a long time.The SC has taken a serious note of this issue and expressed its displeasure on several occasions. Recently, in the Lok Prahri case, the SC asked the chief justices of high courts to appoint ad hoc judges in the high courts to clear the backlog of cases. The court also observed that the pipeline of recommendation of judges should be kept flowing to cover the vacancies in the high courts.Finally, in M/s PLR Projects Pvt. Ltd. v. Mahanadi Coalfields Ltd. &Ors. the apex court set a timeline for the Central Government to appoint the judges of the high courts within a prescribed time. It was indeed a courageous step that was much required to solve the problem of motivated delays in judicial appointments.The court asked the Central Government to follow these guidelines to expedite the appointments of high court judges in the country:(1) The Intelligence Bureau (IB) should submit its report/inputs within four to six weeks from the date of recommendation of the high court collegium to the Central Government;(2) It would be desirable that the Central Government forwarded the files/recommendations to the Supreme Court collegium within 8 to 12 weeks from the date of receipt of views from the state government and the report/input from the IB;(3) It would be for the government to thereafter proceed to make the appointment immediately on the aforesaid consideration and undoubtedly if the government has any reservations on the suitability or in the public interest, within the same time it may be sent back to the Supreme Court collegium with the specific reasons for reservation recorded. If the Supreme Court collegium, after consideration of the aforesaid inputs, still reiterates the recommendation(s) unanimously, such appointment should be processed and it should be made within three to four weeks.Surprisingly, the Central Government forgot these guidelines within a few months. Recently, the Union Law Minister, while replying to a written question in Parliament, said: “Hence, the time needed for filling of vacancies of judges in the higher judiciary cannot be indicated. While every effort is made to fill the existing vacancies expeditiously, vacancies of judges in high courts do keep arising on account of retirement, resignation or elevation of judges and also due to increase in the strength of judges.”It is disheartening to hear these words by the minister. He is expected to be fully aware of the recent judgment of the apex court regarding judicial appointments. It seems the Law Ministry is not taking the Supreme Court’s ruling seriously. The timeline fixed by the court is the law of the land as per Article 141 of the Constitution and the Central Government is bound to implement the ruling under Article 144 of the Constitution.People need speedy justice. Around 60 lakh cases are pending in the high courts across the country. Willful ignorance of the judicial rulings is not an option at all to avoid the responsibility. The high court collegium, Supreme Court collegium and the Central Government should work together to fill the vacancies of judges in the high courts on priority.The high courts are the backbone of our judicial system and all efforts should be made to ensure that they function with the full strength of judges.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/vacancies-of-hc-judges-must-be-filled-on-priority-296778
13-08-2021||---||Reforms must reduce economic disparities||At a time when there has been enough of eulogising and back-patting to celebrate the 30th anniversary of the 1991 economic reforms, former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, the main architect of these reforms, has in a statement said: “It is not a time to rejoice and exult but to introspect and ponder. The road ahead is even more daunting than during the 1991 crisis.”The statement comes at a time when a global study — the first instalment of the Sixth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) — has sounded a ‘code red’ warning for humanity, with UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres categorically stating: “The evidence is irrefutable; greenhouse gas emissions are chocking our planet and placing billions of people in danger.” What the crucial report fails to acknowledge is how neoliberal economics, treating GDP as a measure of growth, has literally heated up the planet. Or else, how can one explain that the world’s top 1 per cent add twice the amount of emissions that half the world generates.The warning is to ensure that the world doesn’t breach a temperature rise of 1.5°C in another 20 years. But considering that 1.1°C increase has already been recorded, I don’t know how many more years it will take to raise the heat by another 0.4°C. Nevertheless, the way the world has heated up resulting in the climate going topsy-turvy in the years of industrial growth shows there is something fundamentally flawed with the way the economic growth design was laid out.Another global study is the successive rounds of inequality reports presented by the international charity Oxfam at the World Economic Forum, clearly bringing out how the rich have become richer, and the poor getting poorer — a strong pointer to the immediate need to rethink reforms. If the top 1 per cent in India holds a wealth that is equivalent to more than four times the wealth held by 73 per cent of the population, the role economic liberalisation played in exacerbating inequality cannot be glossed over. If Jeff Bezos, who recently took a space flight, can earn $8 billion a day and still pay tax less than what a US stenographer does, it tells us how the global model of economic reforms has helped the super-rich amass wealth. In India, like elsewhere, easy money and economic stimulus have gone into the stock market. No wonder, the stock markets are booming at a time when the global economy is struggling.Inequality is bad economics, and accumulation of vast wealth by a tiny group of people is clearly an outcome of some inherent flaws in the growth prescription. As the advocacy group Public Citizen tells us, the collective wealth of CEOs of US Big Tech companies, which had reached $651 billion in 2021, was enough to wipe out global hunger, get rid of malaria, vaccinate the world with Covid shots, and end homelessness in America. And these billionaires would still be left with enough to splurge.In India, a tiny fraction of the huge wealth that the top 1 per cent has accumulated should have been enough to wipe out poverty and make hunger history. Economist Surjit Bhalla had some time back stated that Rs 48,000 crore can eradicate poverty for one year from India. If that is true, and considering that hunger is a dimension of extreme poverty, I don’t see any reason why India be ranked at a dismal 94 on the list of 107 countries of the Global Hunger Index 2020. And that too at a time when food stocks have been overflowing for several years in a row. Add to it the growing unemployment; and the continuing agrarian distress, amplified by the farmers’ protest around New Delhi; the time is ripe not for deep reforms but to bring in a humane set of reforms that measure up to the growing needs of public health, education, agriculture, environment protection and reducing economic disparities.A healthy and dignified life depends on various factors, including a healthy environment. According to the 2020 Environmental Performance Index (EPI), India ranks at a lowly 168 among 180 countries for which the index is prepared. The report says that the countries that ranked higher “generally exhibited long-standing commitments and carefully constructed programmes to protect public health, conserve natural resources and reduce greenhouse gas emissions.” Not that the rich countries have achieved these social and environmental protection goals as would have been required, considering that just 90 companies as per a study have collectively spewed 63 per cent of the emissions since the beginning of the industrial age. This only shows the need for Indian economists and policy-makers to work out a more sustainable and inclusive pathway.This is something that the chest-thumping original proponents of economic reforms should have focused on, but their sloppy understanding of the phrase ‘reform’ — seen only as a euphemism for privatisation — has pushed us into the same flawed IMF-led global trajectory. Instead, the policy imperative should have been to ensure that the majority population at the middle and bottom of the pyramid too earns more, thereby creating a huge rural demand, and in the process revitalising the rural economy.Indian policy-makers missed a historic opportunity to look beyond the well-orchestrated ‘Washington Consensus’ design and lay out a desi model of economic reforms that was built treating agriculture as the second engine of growth. Instead of pushing people out of agriculture, the emphasis should be on converting this sector, which continues to be the largest employer, into a powerhouse of economic growth.It is possible even now. Learning from the devastation that industrial agriculture has brought to the farming landscape in the rich countries, and the huge agrarian distress that globally free markets have resulted in, the key lesson is to redraw reforms bringing in tenets of an economically viable, profitable and ecologically sustainable food farming system where farmers receive an assured income by way of an assured price, and consumers get safe and healthy food.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/reforms-must-reduce-economic-disparities-296772
13-08-2021||Modiji must be in seventh heaven! A track and field Olympic gold medal has at long last been won by an Indian athlete on his (PM’s) watch. The previous gold medals that were recorded in India’s name were mainly in hockey and one in shooting||United colours of sports||Before our contingent left for Tokyo, our PM talked to them and their families online to wish them success. This was a great morale-boosting gesture, such as good leaders of men are known to convey. Modiji did not stop there. He was kept informed daily of the performance of our players. He personally phoned those who secured medals. These calls from the country’s top leader must have electrified the rest of our contingent as much as it must have warmed the cockles of their hearts. And, mind you, it is not only the medallists who would have been thrilled. Their parents, their relatives and their friends back in their villages must have been duly impressed. Such is the power of a gesture. And in this case, I tend to believe that the thought had come naturally to our PM.Our former champion boxer, Mary Kom, a mother of four, has come to the end of her career at 38. Her previous performances had propelled her to the Rajya Sabha. Aditi Ashok, the young golfer from Bengaluru, nearly pulled off a medal. She stood fourth in a game much loved by senior officers in Punjab, who had the company of Milkha Singh. Milkha had taken to golf after hanging up his running shoes.Major Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore, who won a medal in trap shooting in the 2004 games, became a junior minister in Modiji’s Cabinet. But, unfortunately none in this batch of shooters clicked! But, never say die!Our reliable warhorse, PV Sindhu, did not disappoint. I expected her to bring in a gold but a bronze is not to be scoffed at. The competition at this level is so intense that a second consecutive medal in successive Olympics is certainly a feat to be proud of. Modiji phoned Sindhu, just as he did Mary to console her, and that was very gracious of him. I felt really sorry for Lovlina Borgohain from a sleepy Assamese village who lost her semi-final bout to the World No.1 from Turkey. I saw that fight on television. Our girl was definitely out-boxed. This was her first foray into the Olympics. The experience will stand her in good stead and propel her to the heights reached by Mary Kom. TOPS (Target Olympics Podium Scheme) should invest in this girl like it did in wrestler Vinesh Phogat. Vinesh, unfortunately, did not advance into the quarter-final round as she met the two-time world champion from Belarus and was defeated in a very early round. It was the luck of the draw.TOPS spent Rs 1.13 crore on readying Vinesh for the Olympics, sending her abroad for training. No one should grudge this expenditure. Often the investment can end up in smoke but that is no reason not to go ahead with a promising prospect. So, also, with Lovlina. We should invest in her as she has shown that she has all the trappings of a champion.In my youth I played hockey and cricket, but hockey is of particular interest to me because I continued to play the game with my policemen after I joined the IPS. In every district I served, I played hockey at the Armed Police Headquarters till my bones began to complain. Sholapur and Pune were busy assignments for an SP. It was not often that I got a chance to indulge in my whim but in Nanded where I was SP, I ensured that the district hockey team won the inter-district trophy.Viren Rasquinha, a former Indian hockey captain and presently CEO of Olympic Gold Quest, wrote an article in an English daily which I recommend to all sports-lovers, especially hockey buffs. I watched both our men and women playing and I was impressed with the rapid strides made under foreign coaches.In my amateur playing days, the playing styles had been established by our old gold medal winners of the early and mid-20th century, Major Dhyan Chand, Leslie Claudius and Vece Paes of Bengal. Stick work, speed and individual wizardry counted. The Europeans have changed all that. To begin with, they have introduced the synthetic playing field which has replaced grass on which we Indians revelled.The synthetic ground is much faster, more expensive to lay and has to be constantly watered. Not many in the country can afford such luxury. The playing conditions became tougher requiring harder human bodies, perpetually fit for this contact sport. I have never played on a synthetic ground. Hence, I am not qualified to pontificate! So, I listen attentively and eagerly to the running commentary of Viren Rasquinha.Both our boys and our girls have been struggling for years to be counted among the top teams in the world of hockey. On the basis of their performance in the Tokyo Olympics, our men have entered the top bracket. Our women have also improved their ranking. The bronze the men won and the fourth position in the women’s competition are achievements to be lauded. We will improve on that.Modiji has invited the entire Olympic contingent of 100-plus athletes for lunch at his residence on August 15. It is an apt recognition of their grit, hard work and commitment to their chosen sport and to the nation. Only a leader of Modiji’s talent to analyse collective psyches and exploit or seize the moment, could have hit upon this occasion to win hearts and minds.Odisha CM Naveen Patnaik, who played hockey in school, has been unique in his patronage of the sport. Much of the credit for our improved performance must be given to him. The PM should appeal to Chief Ministers of states like Manipur, Punjab, Haryana and Kerala to promote specific games, like Odisha has done.Sports unites. Indians of varied castes and creeds fought for their country. They will break bread together at Modiji’s house on Independence Day!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/united-colours-of-sports-296769
