14-08-2021||For nearly a hundred years Marxists have been plotting and prophesying the Indian Revolution and the Maoists have been ritualistically offering adivasi blood to recycle the Chinese Revolution. But all this while||The Indian Revolution||This is the Indian uprising, whose vanguard is the lower middle class, semi-literate, sometimes desperately poor, deeply rooted in traditions and WhatsApp universities, tied to the village, believers and amazingly aspirational. They are the engines of the nation’s imagination; totally antithetical to the value systems of the elite. They too might become the elite in a couple of generations, but till then they create the dreams for a new India. What else explains the strange desi phenomenon of the elite schools producing kurta-clad rulers while the government ones in remote tribal hamlets churn out Deep Grace Ekkas?There are tribals, Dalits, minorities, OBCs and upper castes amongst the Indian sporting heroes, and just about every part of the country is represented. But the common feature for these athletes is that not a single person has a privileged upbringing (apart from those participating in patently rich man’s events like shooting). Unseeingly, unknowingly, the society has been throwing up fired-up youngsters from down below, beating all odds and conquering the world for themselves and the nation. It is time for us to map the pattern emerging in the villages from Panipat in Haryana to Sundargarh in Odisha. Is this how radical change happens in India without Maoist butchery or Talibanesque beheading, despite deadly caste oppression and the Ranvir Senas?Nisha Warsi, the daughter of a poor Muslim tailor from Sonepat, not only avenged the humiliation of her family for having daughters but also changed the dress code of the mohalla by being the winner in shorts. No sermons, no political theories, no pamphlets and no guns fired; but an ordinary girl’s extraordinary commitment brings about societal validation for change. The Dalit part of Uttarakhand’s Roshnabad village has been suffering immense discrimination after the dominant castes had come into money, selling off their land and thus alienating themselves from Dalit labourers. But the casteist slurs against hat-trick scorer Vandana Katariya have landed her neighbours in police custody. No mean achievement in a terribly caste-ridden locality, where the police refuse to book the perpetrators of caste atrocities.Of course, our oppressive society does not change overnight, but the very fact that it has to acknowledge and even worship heroes from the dusty villages, Dalit shanties and tribal colonies is proof of opportunity and possibility for change. Socially, these simple, deeply religious people may come across as illiberal to the city-slickers. After all, these very same villages and communities can also cast murderers in the shape of cow vigilantes and bigots. It is this class’s aspiration that marks them out as different. If they are offered land and water, they will produce bumper crops; if they are assured of jobs, they will run and wrestle. Incidentally, the recruitment into the armed forces is a similar saga of grit to progress and prosper. Much of the social elite of north India owes its status to the recruitment to the British forces during the World Wars.Every recent effort in political mobilisation is aimed at this class, be it the Mandal drive to seek OBC votes, the temple agitation promoting non-dominant OBC leadership, the giant rural employment guarantee scheme of Sonia Gandhi’s Congress and, of course, the anti-elite attack of the Kejri-Hazare team, which was hijacked by the BJP. The Aam Aadmi, derisively termed the mango man, is this lower middle class rural aspirant, eternally hopeful of change. It is his optimism that is getting tapped and turned into political energy. He can get excited and incited to commit violence if he is convinced of the ‘other’ robbing him of his opportunity. Unfortunately, the ‘other’ keeps shifting: while the Mandalites shape the upper castes as the ‘other’, the Hindutvavadis caricature Muslims as the ‘other’, denying the aspirational class their destiny.The latest faultlines are getting drawn over the caste census. Those who refused to publish the caste census when it was first conducted and while they were in power now want to do that to prove that the upper castes are in a terrible minority and yet they are occupying positions of importance vastly disproportional to their numerical strength. The Mandalites believe that this attack on Brahmins, Baniyas and Thakurs — Hindutva’s core constituency — will trigger a social divide that can bring in political dividends. That is a possibility, but it can get neutralised by the Sangh Parivar creating a stronger OBC leadership than that of Modi’s.Ideally, the fight over the political spoils of the caste census should end up with another instance of national upheaval. While there is a possibility of a large section of upper castes like the Marathas and Jats getting co-opted as OBCs, the remaining ones should be confined to the Economically Weaker Section quota, thereby dividing government jobs only in terms of quotas. Right now, the Dalits and upper castes have a privilege: the rich compete and take a disproportionate advantage against the poor among them. Once the caste census is published and the quota division of the job cookie is done, all government jobs should be reserved for those below the creamy layer, for those who studied in government schools.Reconciliation, assimilation and renunciation are the beautiful aspects of the Gandhian Revolution that won us our freedom. In the seventy-fifth year of our Independence, the empowered lot should willingly give way to the lesser privileged. After having been a beneficiary for god knows how many generations, I have no qualms in declaring my children ineligible for government jobs.If with nobody’s help a Dalit dhaba cleaner can be part of the world’s third-best hockey team, a bureaucracy of the aspirational class might turn us into world leaders. Long live the Indian Revolution! Happy Independence Day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-indian-revolution-297230
14-08-2021||Commentator and Author||Sea lanes, BRI central to China’s strategy||As many as 76 years after US air power compelled Japanese sea power to unconditionally surrender by dropping atom bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki in August 1945, another August — in the 21st century — is seeing a mega escalation of tension and deployment of a fleet of combat vessels of the Australasian-American combination in the Indo-Pacific region. Purportedly, the July 2021 declaration of British Defence Secretary Ben Wallace suggests that the aim of deployment is: “We are committed to working with partners (in Indo-Pacific region) to defend democratic values, tackle shared threats and keep our nations safe.”That sounds lofty, subject, however, to clarification pertaining to lack of definition or explanation. What are ‘democratic values’? How does one assess ‘shared threats’? Do ‘democratic values’ imply non-existence of ‘non-democratic values’? How many countries follow one and eschew the other? Aside, what are ‘shared threats’? Are these threats to economy, military, territory, sovereignty, trade, commerce, polity, air, water or cyberspace?Whereas the deployment of the navies of the US, Japan, Australia and India till now lacks solidity (despite verbal solidarity), except for some ‘exercise’ here and there, the fresh entry of the UK, Germany, France and New Zealand has one fundamental commonality. All of them are deploying their forces far from their home base, several thousand kilometres away. Secondly, all heavily depend on bilateral trade/commerce with China. And thirdly, China has already entered deep into their economy, commerce, trade and industry through mass-scale indigenous production, thereby making herself a virtual monopoly producer-cum-supplier of essential, non-essential as well as critical finished and consumer goods.How do then things play out? Owing to Chinese opaqueness? Reportedly, the real reason for all these dramatic deployment owes essentially to “Beijing’s militarisation”. That’s understandable. But can a rival’s militarisation, all by itself, be the sole cause of a potentially imminent and inevitable kinetic action on the waterfront? Is the militarisation of the ocean by the Communist Party of China (CPC) something new? Has it happened overnight? If not, then what were those deploying their battleships to ‘curb’ the Beijing flotilla today, doing thus far? Let’s do a rudimentary exploration of the scenario of naval expansion and expedition in the Indo-Pacific.Without doubt, today’s naval game is between the US and the CPC-controlled PLA Navy in the western Pacific Ocean which indisputably was the ‘Lake of America’ post Second World War, deployment of Soviet submarines during the Cold War (1950-1991) notwithstanding. It was the age of Yankee Gulliver’s blue-water navy, surrounded by mud-water tiny deployable boats of the CPC coast guard.The US could then boast of being the sole super sea power state, under President Ronald Reagan (1980s) when the Soviets were busy fighting a Vietnam-type war in the deathtrap, landlocked terrain of Afghanistan wherein Moscow had no use for its formidable fleet. By now, the USA had replaced Great Britain’s position of pre-Second World War “sea command and control” naval power.After 30 years, however, one of the principal architects of the US navy doesn’t feel much about his country’s state of preparedness facing the Beijing fleet in its back bay. John F. Lehman, US Navy Secretary (1981-87), promoter of the idea of 600-ship navy, is dismayed. His words sound melancholic. “After a succession of Presidents ignorant of and uninterested in naval affairs, there’s an emerging realisation around the world that the US no longer possesses naval superiority and could lose a war at sea... It’s a result of... decades of catastrophic mismanagement.”In fact, several prominent public figures of the US too hold a dim view of their once mighty fleet arm. They have identified severe defects in the US system which not only stymied the strategic role, but severely diminished the strength of its navy. It is owing to several generations of “lacklustre naval leaders” that the naval supremacy has dwindled dramatically. The American apprehension is so acute that Lt General David Nahom of the air force told the Congress: “China offensive threat is growing faster than projected. The threat is accelerating much more than we thought back in 2018.”Is the US General right? No, he isn’t fully right. The decay began more than three decades ago. Thanks to complacent “democratic” world, led by the US’s monumental misjudgment to detect, confront and curb the secret and steady rise of an ‘autocratic’ CPC. It was all cash, commerce, capital and profit for the ‘democratic world’, convinced by one ‘autocratic’ state.Warnings came from Jane’s Fighting Ships 1987-88: “The importance of the Pacific area as a strategic centre is slowly percolating into European minds... Any passage between Vladivostok and the South China Sea passes the doorsteps of Chinese navy... The Chinese naval air force and marine corps outnumber the total British naval personnel... The modernisation of Chinese navy is gathering momentum.”Jane’s Fighting Ships 1988-89 gave another advance info: “Of all the world’s navies, the most difficult to assess is the Chinese. Decades of isolationism combined with preoccupation with coastal defence have restricted things. Yet, if a navy employs three hundred thousand people...it is a shame that it’s so difficult to acquire reliable information.”Nevertheless, as “China now is willing to embrace more western technology, it is to be hoped that she will assist in giving a more accurate account of an expanding navy of which she can be justifiably proud, but which has a lot of catching up to do to achieve the Western standards of operational effectiveness”.How misguided were the world’s ‘democratic’ nations which now regret their collective myopia and misjudgment, having woken up when water flows not under the hull of the fleet, but the waves pass overhead!Now, let New Delhi also hear the wailing Tony Abbott, the former Australian PM who hosted CPC supremo Xi Jinping in 2014 and concluded the Canberra-Beijing bilateral free trade deal in 2015.He wrote in The Australian: “China exploited West’s goodwill and wishful thinking to steal our technology and undercut industries...The basic problem is that China’s daunting power is a consequence of the free world’s decision to invite a communist dictatorship into global trading networks... In the process, China became much more powerful than the old Soviet Union ever was, because it is now rapidly developing a military, and spoiling for a fight over Taiwan.”Is it better late than never? Is it ‘late’ or is it ‘never’? Hope, looking only at the sea doesn’t result in a debacle in the Asian heartland? As was thought of by US Naval Secretary John F. Lehman in the 1980s? To counter or attack the Soviet Union through the Siberian land-front, to penetrate the main Leningrad-Moscow-Stalingrad axis! So, ‘democracy’ needs be careful. Just as Taiwan, the South China Sea axis is the CPC fulcrum, the heartland Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) too cannot be ignored by the free world.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/sea-lanes-bri-central-to-chinas-strategy-297284
14-08-2021||Professor||House disruptions undermine democracy||I have told you everything I know, and now it is for you to decide how to act on my advice, but I shall expect you to ruminate on it before you contemplate your next move.” This advice given by Lord Krishna to Arjuna in the Bhagavad Gita may have inspired the makers of our Constitution who had wished that the elected representatives of India’s Parliament would debate and allow others to practise what the preamble to the Constitution calls, “Liberty of thought… equality (of expression and)… fraternity, assuring the dignity of the individual.”The advice by Krishna is also a most enduring reminder of democratic values India has cherished for ages; our cultural heritage and our philosophical values amply testify to that. Our Constitution envisaged that its words, its mantras will be meditated upon and observed most fruitfully in Parliament. It is no surprise that we call our Parliament the abode of legislative activities of the sovereign republic of India, the most sacred temple of democracy.But the behaviour of some MPs in the just-concluded monsoon session of Parliament has gravely undermined the noble thoughts in our Constitution, let alone the teachings of the Bhagavad Gita. The Lok Sabha functioned for only 21 hours over the 19 days it was in session, and the entire productivity of the House was a paltry 22 per cent, a figure which will shock those who elect our parliamentarians in the hope that they will work for the people of the country, will prepare, debate and pass legislations so that the development and progress of India may be accelerated.The preamble to our Constitution opens with the words, “We the people,” and then goes on to enunciate the practices and values of a democratic and lawful functioning of the sovereign republic that India is. Independence was achieved through unimaginable sacrifices by millions of Indians, and the leaders of this achievement led that movement and brought so much hope, which was then beautifully captured, celebrated and enshrined in the Constitution. The Independence Day of 2021 also marks the beginning of the year-long celebrations to commemorate the 75th anniversary of India’s freedom, with the theme Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav, or the grand festival of the ambrosia that our Independence was.It was extremely disheartening, therefore, to watch on our television screens and read the news about the shameful spectacle our elected representatives made of themselves over the past three weeks: almost every day, Question Hour was disrupted; no meaningful debate or discussion was allowed. The MPs could neither bring before the government and the nation the problems of their respective constituencies nor could the government respond to them. It is a great loss for the Indian citizen, for the state exchequer which invests millions of rupees in running the Houses of our Parliament during its sittings.Although many Bills were passed, albeit without any discussion or debate, rarely in the history of our democracy have we witnessed such a condemnable behaviour by the elected members. An important Bill like the Constitution Amendment Bill allowing the states to make their own list of the Other Backward Castes (OBCs) was passed so that the states are free from the fetters of the Centre’s list and initiate reservation and welfare programmes for the less privileged citizens of the country. Many other Bills could have been discussed in detail by Parliament, had the Opposition asked the treasury benches tough questions on these legislations.As the Chairman of the Rajya Sabha and the Vice-President of India, Venkaiah Naidu, stood up from his seat to make his concluding speech of the current session, he expressed anguish at the “acts of sacrilege”, as he called it, and the unbecoming behaviour of some members of the House of Elders, who did not allow Parliament to function for most days of this session. The Chairman added that the behaviour of some members went down as “low” as never before, as if disrupting the parliamentary proceedings was inspired by a “sense of competition”, which resulted in “violating, hurting, destroying” the beautiful traditions of democracy in India.The Members of Parliament are our leaders. They are naturally expected to show the path for the citizens of India to follow, and they can do that by their behaviour wherever they are, more so in Parliament. They remind us of the words of the Bhagavad Gita: “Whatever the leaders do, the rest of the people emulate them.” One wonders whether they have not damaged that spirit of democratic human values by their recent acts, and one hopes, too, that they will eventually trace the noble path for us to feel proud of our democracy.The scars inflicted by the second wave of Covid-19 were yet to heal when the citizens of India were further bruised as they watched helplessly how abominably some of their elected representatives behaved during the monsoon session. One can almost hear their forlorn voices in that chaotic kerfuffle in Parliament.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/house-disruptions-undermine-democracy-297286
