15-08-2021||The last year-and-a-half has been crazy for all of us||The show must go on||With each designated person doing his or her job to the T, I felt a change in me as an actor too. I had dived deeper into my roles because I had seen how it felt to not be there at the place I am crazily passionate about One of the biggest lessons we learnt was to co-exist amicably, with the environment, with the flora and fauna and with our very own people. Issues that remained unresolved as we didn’t want to face them and went about our daily chores, came staring at us in our faces as we all had to be together with nowhere to go. I think people understood each other very well during this time. For good, or for worse. But there was no midway. Things became clearer. Issues were faced and resolved. Relationships got stronger. Mostly.The biggest takeaway for me was that I made friends with myself. Much that I missed my friends —- meeting them in person, going for meetings, movies, the ‘gol gappa’ breaks, casual walks on the beach — I did learn to give myself some ‘me time’. I had to face just being with myself too. I am lucky I live with my family but my life is so much of an outdoor life. I was missing shoots, and then work started gradually from home. But this was different. I had to be a one-man army!On normal shoots, there is a designated person for every job, and it is so much fun calling out the door boy, “Dada, ek cup garma garam coffee lana please.” And to my super efficient staff, “Chalo makeup karein!” To the direction team, “Arey koi mera scene padh do.” There would be so much buzz on the sets. And here I was doing a cooking oil advertisement, setting up the sofas as the direction team told me on a Zoom call, did my own makeup and hair, switched on the camera myself, even cooked the food required as shoot props! I loved shooting finally, but I was missing my crew and the hustle bustle and how everyone on the set just came running to help.Thankfully, when things opened up after the lockdown, I shot two amazing projects outdoors. Initially I was sceptical. The vaccine hadn’t arrived by that time and so everyone on the set was tested for coronavirus. And then they all secluded themselves from the outside world. That’s something called a bio-bubble. As we actors in front of the camera would be without masks, everyone was extra careful. Finally, when I reached the airport, I was delighted to see my lively staff members. I couldn’t hug them but yes, we literally jumped, we were so happy to meet, to get back to some normalcy… to work!I have never been happier seeing my crew, I had tears in my eyes. That day I realised how much I loved my work and the people who make the experience worthwhile. Everyone was sporting masks taking care of us actors, washing their hands before they gave us anything. And when we all did the first shot, there was a loud cheer! Of course for the shot but also that we were together again doing what we loved most: making movies.With each designated person doing his or her job to the T, I felt a change in me as an actor too. I had dived deeper into my roles because I had seen how it felt to not be there at the place I am crazily passionate about. So all that passion came trickling out… all the love that I felt for the people around was well expressed. I went out of my way to say something or compliment someone. It was nice to see those smiles on their faces.There was a lot more laughter and sharing because we all had been deprived of it. We had all felt the same, and it was just like a booster shot in the arm to be back. After the first day of shoot, I stood at the terrace of the hotel I was staying in, looking at the open sky, breathing the fresh air and thanking the almighty for bringing us all back to work.After all, it was just an unparalleled high to be on the set and call out to my team, “Chalo makeup karein, aur spot dada, ek garma garam coffee please!”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-show-must-go-on-297670
15-08-2021||Caste or religious chauvinism is a team sport||A Punjabi or Maratha gold?||With greater and completely verifiable evidence, the farmers claimed him too; the Army had an equally demonstrable claim on the winner. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Twitter: “He performed like a true soldier at the Olympics.”An aside — an equally verifiable farmer-soldier from Haryana, boxer Amit Panghal, lost in his first bout; did he or did he not perform like a ‘true soldier’ at the Olympics? War imagery in sport is tempting but not ideal.The most heart-warming story about Chopra’s lionisation and ownership comes from a village in Germany, where a biomechanical expert, Dr Klaus Bartonietz, lives. Dr Bartonietz has worked with Chopra for the last few years after being brought to India by Uwe Hohn, India’s head coach for javelin throw. Dr Bartonietz told a newspaper that in his small village of 130 residents, Oberschlettenbach, ordinary people, coaches and athletes are calling him and asking him about Chopra. That’s provincialism, too — they are proud that one of their own has coached an Olympics gold medallist. Dr Bartonietz has put Oberschlettenbach on the map, just as Chopra put Khandra, Panipat, India, on the map of Olympics athletics.The debate over the ownership of Chopra — and the casteist abuse of hockey player Vandana Katariya, allegedly by upper caste but economically depressed neighbours in Roshnabad in Haridwar — tells us much. Separatism is deeply etched in individual and social consciousness. Mythical origin stories are still believed, even by the educated. Absence of scientific knowledge — which tells us there’s only one human race, the Homo Sapiens, of whom different groups have different characteristics — is absolute.Are losers Indian, too?A Pakistani, Arshad Nadeem, finished fifth in javelin throw in Tokyo. Pakistan’s chef-de-mission at Tokyo put the blame for this ‘failure’ on the athlete. “Nonstop social media usage by Arshad and his coach in between the qualifying and final rounds turned out to be the main reason behind this failure,” said Brig Zaheer Akhtar. Pakistani sport is blighted by retired armymen, for whom heading sports associations is a great pastime — just as Indian sport is blighted by politicians at the top.Do they really understand sport? Just whose bright idea was it to assign a shooting physiotherapist to wrestler Vinesh Phogat?Vinesh, who was expected to win a medal in Tokyo, returned empty-handed, having lost in the quarterfinals. The story she’s narrated — of her failure and abandonment — is weird but not shocking. For Tokyo, she had been requesting for a dedicated physiotherapist but her request was denied. Only one physio was provided for the seven male and female wrestlers. She was then assigned a physio from the shooting team. Unsurprisingly, says Vinesh, this physio was of no use to her during the most critical time before competition, the last day, when she was losing weight, as is the norm for wrestlers. On her return to India, Vinesh was handed a temporary ban by the wrestling association on three charges of indiscipline. Vinesh has won medals at every stage except the Olympics. She suffered a horrifying injury in Rio 2016; struck twice by Covid-19, she was enervated and anxious in Tokyo. After the Tokyo heartbreak, she should have expected support from the wrestling association — but she didn’t expect it and she didn’t get it.Name-droppingThe removal of ‘Rajiv Gandhi’ from the name ‘Khel Ratna’, the highest award for a sportsperson in India, is welcome because the late politician’s name has been replaced with that of Dhyan Chand, the world’s greatest hockey player. Awards and stadiums must be named after great sportspersons, not officials or politicians. Maybe it’s time to rename all the Nehru and Indira Gandhi stadiums across India, as also such venues as Delhi’s Arun Jaitley Stadium and Ahmedabad’s Narendra Modi Stadium.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/a-punjabi-or-maratha-gold-297671
15-08-2021||What a life! Marked as it was with perseverance||To Sir, with love and respect||Determined to be an Army officer, he joined the ranks in the technical cadre, soon to be commissioned as a Specialist List Officer. His short stint with 2 Sikh fructified into a life-long love for the Sikh Regiment. I once told him, ‘Sir, to me you are half-Mohyal and half-Sikh.” No, he replied, “I must correct you, more Sikh, less Mohyal!”On joining 9 Sikh in Jammu and Kashmir, Captain Bali was the first officer I met, his welcoming smile putting me at ease. Little did I know that this association would continue for five decades. He was our unit Quarter Master; I dare say, I haven’t come across someone more diligent than him in this department. Administration was his forte, and we experienced his appreciable traits during the 1971 war.Subhash Bali served in different units of the Army but given an option, he returned to the Sikh Regiment. For his last posting, as a Colonel, he was back at the Sikh Regimental Centre (SRC) at Ramgarh in Jharkhand and decided to spend his twilight years at Meerut. The reason was not difficult to guess. Soon after superannuation, he volunteered to take care of the Sikh Regiment Heritage Gurdwara at Meerut, the erstwhile location of the SRC.I was privileged to accept his offer and reached Meerut to discuss the matter, and there he was with his trademark smile, “Welcome Sir!” I requested him not to ‘Sir’ me, I was years junior in seniority and age, but the soldier and gentleman replied, “Sir, Army protocol cannot be forgotten, you are a General and the seniormost serving officer of our regiment, I would be embarrassed to call you by your name, Sir!” My pleadings failed and we spent over a decade ‘Siring’ each other.His ‘seva’ and devotion to the regimental gurdwara had a missionary zeal attached; after the initial financial help, it was just his conscientiousness that made the difference. As General Khorana remarked, “He earned the iconic respect of all.” The gurdwara regained its glory, the marble façade glittered, fans, ACs were installed, there was a carpeted floor, two new structures for ‘langar’ and other needs were added. Religious functions became regular, the sangat came in large numbers. The gurdwara became a part of him, a daily pilgrimage. The day started and ended by paying obeisance there.During our last conversation, he energetically spoke of how he was organising the Baisakhi Day function amid the pandemic. That was to be our last conversation. His normal feedback never came, and soon thereafter, Col Bali’s innings ended after 87 wonderful years. This time, the Colonel would not stick to his protocol.Rest in peace, Sir!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/to-sir-with-love-and-respect-297672
15-08-2021||These days I amuse my daughters by encouraging them to do things badly. Our youngest daughter and the middle one have found their rhythm in homeschooling and are required to study for and submit assignments in various subjects regularly.||Notes from a self-proclaimed guru of mediocrity||“Mamma, I am starting to do my Maths assignment,” our 12-year-old will say to me.“Remember to make a few mistakes,” I will say to her.“Mamma!” She will roll her eyes at me.“I’m serious,” I will answer.“Mamma, I have an eight-page Economics assignment,” the 16-year-old will share. “I know what I want to say but I have difficulty explaining it in sentences.”“Please, Aliza,” I will say to her. “Submit something that gets you a 60 per cent. That’s just fine.”Of course, the children don’t take me entirely seriously. But I repeat myself consistently. “Please don’t bother with perfection. Just do what comes to you with ease. Nothing is worth the stress and the self-flagellation. It is more important to finish what you need to do.”I want my children to imbibe this like a mantra. I want to teach myself to relax too. Give myself the permission to be happy with getting by. To be less than perfect and still congratulate myself for doing whatever I manage to do.In other words, I have become the self-proclaimed guru of mediocrity. At work, I let at least two mistakes pass in every short documentary we make and release online. “One spelling mistake and one bad transition is the kala teeka every video needs,” I say to the editor when we see a mistake in a final version but decide to let it pass.Over a decade ago, when our first-born child was in grade 1 and began to get homework, I discovered a quirk about myself. Well, quirk is too mild a word perhaps. Like many others, I had started out on my journey as a parent determined to be a gentle, nurturing person. One who would be polite and respectful in her manner and supportive of her child’s needs. This approach came naturally to me at first. As you can imagine, the novelty began to wear off with time and my inner Punjabi looked for excuses to truly express her feelings.School assignments provided the perfect front. As I would attempt to help our child do her homework, I would find myself quickly getting far more invested in it than the child herself. I would forget that the eight-year-old needed to maintain her agency as she tackled school assignments. It was more important for her to own the process and learn her way through it than to get all the answers correct.Disturbed by my over-enthusiasm to make my child perform at her peak, I fired myself from the role of the parent who oversees school work. I removed myself from the scene and handed over this part of parenting work to my husband, till our children freed themselves from both of us most of the time.This year, I am back in their lives, helping them manage adolescent turbulence by trying to convince them to perform less than perfectly and still sleep soundly. The pressure to perform, as if everything is okay, must be resisted at this time when we are collectively reeling from the disruptive onslaught of the worldwide pandemic as well as the breakdown of all systems that had been designed to maintain order in modern lives. Our lives and world have changed radically and this demands that we acquire new ways to cope.“The less productivity I expect from my video team, the more they seem to deliver,” I said to my husband as we were walking with our dog after dinner this week. I had been speaking to him about how much more care work young people are doing as they assume responsibility for the elderly in their family, handle their own post-Covid anxieties and lingering symptoms and also try to support their friends.“Everyone has experienced death from up close in the last one year,” I said.“I have been lucky,” he said. “No one close to me has been affected.” I was surprised at his response. Gently I named friends and family members we have lost to Covid-19.“Yes, of course,” he said. “I guess I am trying too hard not to think about it.”We need to save our energy to restore our own selves. We need rest and silence to recover from the chaos we have witnessed. We need time off to grieve. There is so much to process in terms of the loss and bereavement we have endured. We must shift priorities — so that our emotional landscape gets the time and space it needs to heal. Accept our inabilities and slow down.Allowing ourselves to acknowledge pain will bring us back stronger. We don’t need to hide our vulnerabilities. Sometimes we need to break before we can put ourselves back together. It seems to go against traditional wisdom and our training, but allowing ourselves to make mistakes that don’t hurt anyone is the antidote we need in the age of anxiety that we are all stuck in.— The writer is a filmmaker & author.natasha.badhwar@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/notes-from-a-self-proclaimed-guru-of-mediocrity-297673
