17-08-2021||Historian||Indians need to hone ability to create wealth||The pursuit of wealth is seldom about money. Rather, it is more about doing something valuable. Making money, though, remains one of the more common ways of measuring whether something valuable has been done. It is in this context that we suggest that India made a civilisational error in the early days of Independence when it dissed the creation of wealth in the hope of creating a society that was less unequal. Inequalities did not lessen; but, holding wealth in contempt did lead to putting the brakes on those who could create value for society.To be sure, inequalities in pre-Independence India were extreme. It was in this context that Gandhiji adopted the ‘pancha’ and the ‘topi’as his attire when he dislodged the existing leaders of the Congress and became the supremo of the national movement in 1920. He preferred to insist that he was ‘the dictator’ of whichever movement he led. Gandhi’s point in advocating a simple life that mirrored that of the poor was merely this: that the more prosperous Indians, the ones who were in the liberal professions, the ones who were leading the movement for independence, needed to show some sensitivity and concern for the poorer Indians.The Gandhi ‘topi’ used to be the headgear of the poorer peasants who could not afford the slightly more regal ‘pagri’ or the truly regal ‘saafa’, both of which took more than 10 times the cloth to make. The ‘pancha’ was a very short ‘dhoti’ worn by the peasants, not the proper 9-15-yard ‘dhoti’ which was worn by the more prosperous. In case you thought that the wearer of the ‘pancha’ was poor, please remember that the truly poor in pre-Independence India were those who did menial labour or scrounged their living from the forests and hunted small animals. They could afford to wear just a ‘langot’, a loin cloth.This was also, by and large, the condition of the Indians before the British came. Abraham Eraly, in his extremely readable books on Islamic rule in India, has calculated that almost 90 per cent of the wealth of India was owned by a mere 400 families. Little wonder that the common Indian mostly did not deem it fit to oppose the destruction of these families and the transfer of power in India from them to the British.Gandhi’s dramatised concern for the poor, however, had a most unfortunate consequence for Indians who combined Gandhian thought about empathy for the poor with the completely unGandhian Indian tradition of asceticism in which the truly rich ditched their prosperity to voluntarily follow a life of poverty in order to serve the people. They ignored the fact that there is a vast difference between the prince who abandons home and hearth voluntarily to serve the public and the poor who have no option but to live without a proper hearth or home.This resulted in, we would suggest, a civilisational error being committed by Indians as soon as they became masters of their own destiny on gaining Independence.The civilisational error, we think, was that Indians — those who were at the helm of the country in the first decades of Independence — began to follow policies that were detrimental to wealth creation. Sometimes, this hostility to wealth creation was justified in the name of socialism, sometimes in the name of being Gandhian. Whichever way it was, its impact was singularly unsocialistic and unGandhian.It resulted in the transformation of India into a society which lost the instinct to create value. Soon enough, India became a society that was poor not just in money terms but also in everything else. The greatest poverty was in thought, in being unable to figure out ways of adding value to whatever a person was doing.Money may not be able to buy happiness for an individual but when equitably distributed, it certainly makes for a society that is happier, less violent, more cooperative and more amiable.Poverty, in contrast, results in the opposite. There is nothing noble about poverty. The poor die young, lead meaner lives, have more health problems and are more irascible; have poorer ability to cooperate, weak social networks and support systems.India’s civilisational error lay in not realising that admiring poverty, or insisting that poverty is the result of victimisation ends up hobbling the natural instincts of a people to take pride in earning their livelihood. It also generates idea-sets that hinder us, as a society, from creating a fair environment for the growth of everyone. Regressive idea-sets, a belief that nothing can be done, or can be done only through criminal, underhand, corrupt means creates helplessness among all those who wish to lead an ethical life. A structured helplessness based on victimhood, however, creates obstacles for any desire to add value to one’s métier.One of the most interesting examples that came our way was the famous Integrated Rural Development Programme of the Government of India. Launched in 1978, implemented in 1980, it was supposed to help the poor to cross the poverty line by giving them focused loans.After spending Rs 32,171.97 crore, given to 143.69 lakh families, when a review of the scheme was done, it was discovered that in all of two decades, a mere 16 per cent of the beneficiaries had made any effort to cross the poverty line. In absolute numbers, this comes to, over a span of two decades, just about 23 lakh families that were able to cross the poverty line. The rest had simply frittered away the money given to them. They simply did not aspire to do anything to come out of poverty with the loan given to them under the IRDP. The poor remained poor and refused to develop the capacity to come out of poverty.The ability to create wealth has to be developed; there is nothing natural about it. It is much easier to talk about the distribution of wealth than its creation. However, if you don’t create wealth in the first place, then there is nothing left to distribute.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/indians-need-to-hone-ability-to-create-wealth-298166
17-08-2021||Strategic Analyst||Maritime security vital to India’s interests||The first “open debate” in the United Nations Security Council under India’s presidency last week once again brought out a home truth which powerful lobbies in New Delhi are constantly trying to suppress. When push comes to shove, India’s best friend in the 15-member Security Council is Russia.Russia has been an unchanging friend in the Council for the last seven decades because its presence at the horse-shoe table of the UN’s most powerful organ is permanent. The Council’s ten members come and go. Of the other permanent members, France is a reliable friend too, but it is often hamstrung in its attitudes by the Common Foreign and Security Policy (CFSP) of the European Union that it has to adhere to.Prime Minister Narendra Modi wrote to all the heads of state and government of the permanent members inviting them to personally take part in the open debate convened by India. Russian President Vladimir Putin was the only one who accepted. “Your initiative,” Putin told Modi, “is in line with the constructive role that India has traditionally played in the international arena, thus contributing to the promotion of multifaceted, mutually beneficial and equitable cooperation.”When the fanfare and celebration over India’s current presidency of the Security Council after a nine-year gap is over, there will be a dispassionate, objective assessment of what New Delhi sought to gain with the first of its three thematic debates across the horse-shoe table this month. Eighty per cent of global trade today is via the sea and the Indian Ocean is among the most important shipping routes in the world.Notwithstanding the primacy of sea lanes in the global movement of energy resources, the role of the oceans in other vital trade, the importance of living and inanimate marine resources and threats of maritime terrorism often highlighted by dramatic incidents at sea, there is no global consensus yet on what constitutes maritime security. If Security Council president TS Tirumurti’s initiation of last week’s debate moves the UN’s 193 member nations even a little bit beyond this starting point towards defining maritime security, the exercise would have achieved its objective.The most substantive contributions at the open debate were made not by heads of state or government who hogged all the limelight because they have the bully pulpit and the wherewithal to widely disseminate their sermons from the pulpit under strobe lights.If the India-sponsored debate had not taken place, would there have been a public acknowledgement that even though Covid-19 took a heavy toll on shipping activities last year, maritime security rose in its seriousness as a global threat? The answer is “No”. Armed robberies aboard ships and outright piracy rose by as much as 20 per cent when the pandemic swept the world in the first half of 2020. This vital bit of information came from Maria Luiza Ribeiro Viotti, Chef de Cabinet to the UN Secretary-General, who presented a grim picture of maritime insecurity in her speech at the thematic debate.More worrying, she said, incidents at sea in Asia have doubled. In the Gulf and the Arabian Sea, the lifeline for India’s energy supplies, insecurity levels are unprecedented. She then went to the heart of the matter. Everyone who took part in the debate spoke of the instrument which currently serves as the fountainhead of global maritime matters: the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS.)“But this framework is only as strong as countries’ commitment to full and effective implementation,” Viotti pointed out to Security Council members. “We need to translate commitment into action.” Without that, no amount of summitry is going to work.Another participant, who was not a head of state or government, was equally instructive. Ghada Waly, Executive Director at the UN Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC), pointed to a fact which has become vital to human existence in the new millennium, but is often overlooked. She told the Security Council that “the network of submarine cables represents a critical vulnerability. Some smaller island states rely on a single cable connection.”The UN Secretary-General, António Guterres, set the stage for debating this important aspect of maritime security in a report entitled “Oceans and the Law of the Sea,” which said the oceans serve as transit areas for 99 per cent of the world’s Internet traffic. “During the Covid-19 crisis, usage increased by up to 50 per cent.”Waly referred to an aspect of maritime insecurity which makes Indians highly vulnerable: the risks to seafarers. A vast majority of the oceangoing vessels have Indian staff on board. Many of them have died from pirate attacks and kidnapping for ransom from ship owners. “India has demonstrated its steadfast commitment to enhancing maritime security, including through the Indian Ocean Rim Association and the Bay of Bengal Initiative,” she said in acknowledgment of New Delhi’s continuing roleSo where do we go from here, now that the cameras are off and the stage is bare, all the world leaders having exited after delivering their debate speeches. There is no doubt that like counter-terrorism, maritime security should be a top priority for India in guarding its place in the sun. It is too important a matter to be left to generalists in the Indian Foreign Service (IFS) to be tasked to learn on the job.India has globally acknowledged experts on maritime security. They need to be brought in and involved in the next steps to mitigate insecurity at sea. Rahul Roy-Chaudhury is a pioneer on this subject. When the Army was the focus in India and naval expansion was not being considered with any seriousness, Roy-Chaudhury provided the first holistic assessment of India’s maritime security needs in his seminal book 21 years ago by the same name: India’s Maritime Security.Another influential voice on this subject in global diplomacy during India’s previous Security Council term a decade ago was Hardeep Singh Puri, who chaired the UN’s Sanctions Committee for Somalia and Eritrea at a time when piracy was emerging as a potentially big menace. Putting experienced Indians with such expertise like Puri and Roy-Chaudhury in charge of following up on last week’s debate instead of novice IFS officers is the best way forward.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/maritime-security-vital-to-indias-interests-298190
17-08-2021||Distinguished Fellow||The fall of Afghanistan||The American retreat from Afghanistan will have consequences quite different from those faced by Russia in 1988, which in turn, were different to what Britain had to deal with in 1842. Likewise, the worldly-wise Taliban of today will not be similar to the earlier generation led by the messianic Mullah Omar. That said, it is more difficult to forecast how the future will unfold in the region.India’s effort to develop alternative means of access to the country through the Chabahar port means little now. The prudent course would be to cut our losses and wait.Managing a retreat is considered one of the most complex operations of war. What we have had to witness, in the case of the Americans and the Afghan government, is more rout than a retreat, for which President Biden, his predecessor Trump and their Afghan counterpart Abdul Ghani are responsible.Things could have been better managed since it’s been clear since 2014 that the US was done with the war. In February 2020, they made an agreement with the Taliban to withdraw from the country in 14 months in exchange for their nebulous commitment to a peace process. As the US got into departure mode reducing its forces and dismantling its bases, the Taliban stepped up operations against the Afghan army. Despite that, the Biden administration stuck to the deal and made an abrupt departure from the principal American base at Bagram in the middle of the night on July 5.As Frederick W Kagan has observed, the fighting in Afghanistan is seasonal, with the Taliban retreating to their bases in winter. By withdrawing suddenly at the peak of summer, when the Taliban were out in full force, the US action enabled them to rapidly capture the cities one by one.The core of the success of the new Taliban has been the ability to combine diplomacy with their military prowess. Even as their forces were positioning themselves to capture the cities, Taliban delegations were fanning out to reassure neighbours and prevent the emergence of any new counter-force.Within days of the US departure from Bagram, a delegation was in Moscow to offer assurances that their gains on the ground would not translate into threats against the Russians or their Central Asian allies. A few days later, another delegation was in Ashgabat to reassure Turkmenistan. In early July, the Taliban participated in an Iranian-led exercise to hold talks with the Afghan government delegations to promote a peaceful settlement.Tehran had long been supporting the anti-American Taliban with money and weapons. In 2015, a high-ranking Taliban delegation had visited Iran to discuss ‘regional issues’, and in January this year, a delegation had again visited Tehran.China, too, has maintained ties with the Taliban for some time now. It has been concerned about the threats that could emerge from a US-dominated Afghanistan, or from a resurgent Taliban. Last month, its foreign minister Wang Yi held a widely publicised meeting with a Taliban delegation in Tianjin.And then there is Pakistan. Islamabad believes that it has the Taliban by their ‘tooti’ (scruff of the neck), a term once used by Pakistan’s Chief of General Staff, Lt Gen Mohammed Aziz, during the time of the Kargil operations. Pakistan provided the Taliban financial resources, training, weapons, logistical support and, most important, a safe haven to fight the government and the US forces in Afghanistan. It has also been part of the ‘Great Game’ against India. A Taliban-controlled Afghanistan will eliminate Indian threat through Afghanistan.But history doesn’t repeat itself. The Taliban of today are not the naïve Talibs that the Pakistanis created under the leadership of Mullah Omar. This generation are seasoned militants who have sometimes experienced jail and ill-treatment at the hands of the Pakistanis. Islamabad hopes that its control over the Taliban logistics will continue to provide it leverage, as will the presence of its powerful proxy—the Haqqani Network which has been absorbed into the Taliban over the past two decades. But the rapid consolidation of authority over Afghanistan by the Taliban and their outreach to Iran is likely to have upset those calculations.Without doubt, India is a loser in these developments. It was kept out of the peace process by both the US and the Russians. We had, in any case, functioned there under the American military umbrella. Our effort to develop alternative means of access to the country through the Chabahar port means little now. The prudent course would be to cut our losses and wait.The biggest loser in all this, besides the poor Afghan people, is the US, which must reflect on its inability to successfully see through wars, despite its enormous military capability. This has implications for its west European and East Asian allies, as well as the Arabs, who depend on the US military to protect themselves.The Kabul fiasco will undoubtedly affect the US ability to mobilise coalitions against a common cause. With a hostile Iran and Afghanistan, the newly proposed US quadrilateral in Central Asia is a non-starter.As the ‘Great Game II’ ends, the ‘Great Game III’ will begin. The new Taliban has a much wider regional perspective than its predecessor. They are jihadists and will continue to support Islamist causes. The Iranians and Russians have their own sense of history. The Americans are unlikely to forgo the ability to intervene in such a key region at some future date. But for that you need an America that can learn the right lessons, overcome domestic divisions and avoid the perils of groupthink that afflict large parts of Washington.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-fall-of-afghanistan-298191
