18-08-2021||---||Trial in absentia can help the cause of justice||Trial in absentia (TIA) evokes sharp reactions in a constitutional system devoted to the principles of natural justice as the accused has an indispensable right to counter the evidence and defend himself in an open court. However, in the recent past, many countries have amended their laws to introduce this provision in the interest of justice. Fresh discussions are on in India too to determine whether we are ready for TIA or not. We need to understand the context: In Delhi alone, there are more than 26,000 proclaimed offenders, and the figures for the country could run into millions. These are persons who remain at large either from the investigation stage or after grant of bail. The measures to compel their appearance — like warrant, arrest or attachment of property — largely remain a failure. Two consequences emerge from this situation: one, justice is denied to the victims and two, potential offenders remain at large to undermine the security in society. The cases are stalled as the law requires the presence of the offender to complete the tsrial.The crucial question is whether a trial in the absence of the accused can be conducted in a situation where the accused has wilfully chosen to be absent and surrendered his right to be present at the trial. Arguably, if brought in with robust safeguards, TIA can be a powerful solution in the interest of justice and have several commensurate benefits. First, TIA provisions can help provide a general sense of justice to victims of crime who are often left without any recourse, upon the absconsion of the accused. Secondly, such provisions can catalyse the realisation of the right to a speedy trial for the victims as well as the co-accused. Thirdly, TIA provisions can help give teeth to the processes compelling the appearance of an accused. Currently, the absconding accused are aware that there are very few consequences of non-appearance, if any at all. The possibility of TIA can very well make the option of absconsion less attractive to such accused. Fourthly, a delay in the trial can considerably fog the memory of the witnesses and consequently, their reliability becomes increasingly questionable with the passing of time. TIA processes can help prevent the loss of important details.In the recent case of Sunil Tyagi v Govt of NCT (2021), the Delhi High Court noted the lacunae in the implementation of sections 82 and 83 of the CrPC and gave comprehensive directions to tackle the issues of violation of due process as well as the frustration of justice by proclaimed persons/offenders. Nevertheless, the Delhi High Court (DHC) found itself constrained by the letter of the law on the aspect of TIA. The issue of absconsion and importance of TIA had earlier been noted in Hussain v UOI (2017) by the Supreme Court (SC) which observed that absconders were frequently delaying trials and recommended the amendment of CrPC to introduce provisions providing for TIA proceedings on the lines of Section 339B as introduced in Bangladesh.The Gujarat High Court, in 2016, allowed the lower courts to continue with the trial and decide the cases of absconding undertrial prisoners. Interestingly, some elements of TIA are already present in our criminal laws, albeit to a very limited extent. Currently, Section 299 of the CrPC provides that the court ‘may’ record evidence in the absence of the accused if it is proved that the accused has absconded and there is no prospect of arresting him. Not only does this section rarely find any application in practice, the same islimited only to the recording of evidence. Section 317 of the CrPC is another provision that allows the requirement of presence of the accused to be dispensed with, if the magistrate is of the opinion that such presence is not required in the interests of justice.TIA provisions are applicable in several countries including the UK, Canada, Bangladesh and New Zealand. In the case of Regina v Jones (2002), the House of Lords in the UK recognised the discretion of the court to commence with the trial in the absence of the accused. Section 475 of the Canadian Criminal Code provides for the process where the accused absconds during trial and Section 544 provides for the same during an inquiry. The code provides that upon such absconsion, the accused is deemed to have waived his right to be present at the trial and that an adverse inference may be drawn from the fact that he has absconded. Furthermore, the accused is disentitled from re-opening any part of the proceedings which were conducted in his absence. The counsel for the accused, however, may continue to act in spite of their client’s absence.In Bangladesh, Section 339B was inserted as far back as in 1982 in its procedural law which provides that where after compliance with the processes to compel appearance, the court has reason to believe that the accused is absconding, the court shall publish a direction to such person to appear in two national dailies and if such person fails to appear, he may be tried in his absence.One cannot deny a possibility of the misuse of such provisions by the State. Indeed, one of the purposes for which the Delhi High Court gave such detailed directions in the Sunil Tyagi case was to address the cavalier fashion in which sections 82 and 83 were being applied in practice.Safeguards should also be built into the law pertaining to TIA in order to directly protect the due process and all other rights of the accused which are not deemed to have been waived in his absence. These potential safeguards could include ensuring the right to legal representation, right to information, right to rejoin proceedings and right against adverse inferences etc. The potential of misuse of an argument should not deter the enactment of a law which has immense potential to prove beneficial in the interests of justice. The need instead is to strengthen safeguards in the law which can help prevent its misuse.Views are personal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/trial-in-absentia-can-help-the-cause-of-justice-298606
18-08-2021||---||Lack of debate is weakening Parliament||The stormy monsoon session of Parliament, adjourned sine die last week, was a virtual washout because of the deadlock between the government and the Opposition over issues ranging from the Pegasus phone-hacking row to the government’s handling of the pandemic and the farmers’ protest. The government attacked the Opposition, accusing it of not allowing the Parliament’s monsoon session to function.To put all the blame on the Opposition for the impasse in Parliament obscures the government’s share of responsibility for this denouement. A closer look at parliamentary proceedings reveals that the session was disrupted by the ruling party’s deliberate deflection and stubborn refusal to discuss issues of national importance.The faceoff between the government and Opposition escalated over the Pegasus issue, resulting in the non-stop disruption of Parliament. This government, having a huge majority, has nothing to fear, and yet it refused to be flexible and accommodating towards the Opposition or even acknowledge the public issues raised by the latter.With both sides unwilling to give in, acrimonious events marked the session with legislators on both sides engaging in competitive disruption. The embarrassing turn of events led the government to field seven ministers at a press conference to take on the Opposition on the adjournment issue and to determinedly dismiss the snooping scandal as an issue of no consequence.Besides the Pegasus issue, government-Opposition relations hit rock bottom on the controversial Bill to enhance the private sector’s role in public sector insurance companies. Opposition MPs asked for the Bill to be sent to a select committee but the government didn’t agree. The Insurance Business Amendment Bill was passed amidst high drama which rocked the Rajya Sabha, culminating in allegations of physical violence from both sides. Only an impartial inquiry can establish the veracity of the charges and counter-charges. But the issue is why we have come to this pass.The basic problem starts with the government’s refusal to acknowledge the legitimacy of the Opposition and give space to it to express its position on any issue. Instead, the effort has been to paint the entire Opposition as sore losers and frustrated disruptors who aren’t reconciled to the PM’s popularity and the BJP’s electoral victories. With the Opposition not falling in line, the government has used its majority to push through important Bills without discussion.The extent to which parliamentary proceedings have degenerated can be seen from the astonishing speed in passing Bills. The Lok Sabha, on an average, took less than 10 minutes to pass a law, and the Rajya Sabha passed laws in less than half an hour. There were 13 Bills in this LS session in which no Member of Parliament spoke, other than the minister in charge of the Bill.In addition to this, the PRS Legislative Research data has shown a significant decrease in the involvement of standing committees in legislative matters. So far, only 17 of the 82 Bills since the NDA government was re-elected in 2019 have been referred to standing committees for review. No Bills had been sent to the Select Committee in the monsoon session. All this raises legitimate concerns of bypassing important checks and balances in the parliamentary system. What is more, Bills were passed in the midst of din and noise with no consideration to the Opposition protests.Not surprisingly, the government accomplished its entire legislative agenda without a debate on the Pegasus affair, Covid-19 mismanagement, farm laws, and the deepening economic crisis. However, passing Bills without debate in the House or scrutiny by a committee reduces Parliament to a clearance window for legislations. This effectively means Parliament was neither fulfilling its function of deliberative lawmaking nor of holding the executive accountable.Democratic accountability demands that the executive decisions be subjected to legislative scrutiny. While this session might represent a new low in this regard, the lack of scrutiny is not new.Take the case of the national lockdown which was never debated in Parliament as sessions were either cut short or adjourned. Unlike parliaments elsewhere, the Indian Parliament did not devise modalities to be functional during the pandemic. No proposal to allow digital meetings of standing committees was taken up at the top level even though the Opposition repeatedly demanded it. Parliament’s functioning was even more severely restricted in the second wave of the pandemic. Standing committees of the Parliament didn’t meet after the second wave. Virtual meetings weren’t permitted even though plenty of public meetings and election rallies were held during the second wave.Even when Parliament assembled, laws were passed without adequate deliberation. Both the farm laws and labour codes were passed without discussion. The labour codes were passed in the absence of Opposition MPs who had boycotted the session. The government pushed the farm Bills, ignoring the demand to send them to select committees, provoking fierce protests from the Opposition benches.The manner in which the Bills have been passed in this and in some previous sessions shows utter disregard for the democratic system, disdain for the parliamentary processes and contempt for the Opposition. This has weakened the significance of Parliament to the point of inconsequence. The proposal to turn Parliament House into a museum is emblematic of this new reality.Finally, Parliament and parliamentary norms have been undermined by the rise of adversarial politics (perceiving the Opposition as an adversary rather than a partner in the lawmaking process) and a domineering executive that has sidelined all other institutions. Parliament was always intended to function as a body that keeps the executive in check but it seems to be working the other way round now.The MPs exercise accountability on behalf of the people they represent. Questions and debates are used for this purpose, but neither of these tools is functioning effectively these days, which greatly damages our democracy.The government has weaponised the electoral mandate to dispense with the need for consultation and debate both inside and outside Parliament. This compounds the problem of accountability and representation as the meaning of democracy shifts from a representative to a majoritarian one, giving the executive the upper hand in most matters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/lack-of-debate-is-weakening-parliament-298605
18-08-2021||---||Taliban and Pak delusions||Pakistan’s euphoria over the predominantly Pashtun Taliban’s takeover in Afghanistan could well be short-lived as, once again after a two-decade interval, it raises for Islamabad the daunting spectre of the dormant, but enduring demand for ‘Pashtunistan’ or a Pashtun homeland. This concern centres round the long-standing Pashtun claim over a wide swathe of Pathan-dominated areas south of Kabul that comprise large portions of Pakistani territory. This includes its seven federally administered tribal areas and six supplementary smaller pockets, known as Frontier Regions abutting Afghanistan, Pakhtunkhwa (formerly the North West Frontier Province or NWFP) — up to Islamabad’s city limits — and some contiguous portions of Balochistan.Security analysts anticipate collaboration between the Afghan Taliban, once it has firmed up its control over Afghanistan, and the 13-odd groups that comprise the Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), based mostly along the Afghanistan-Pakistan border to eventually make a play for Pashtunistan. They maintain that the present symbiotic operational, logistic and materiel links between Pakistan’s ISI Directorate and the Taliban are, at best, centred on mutual convenience; but, given the region’s complex history of treachery, betrayal and deal-making, these are likely to be eclipsed by the larger ambitions of ethnic Pashtun nationalism.The objective of the TTP that draws its Pashtun cadres from this frontier tribal belt has always been to overthrow the Pakistan government through armed insurrection. It would be more than willing to join their Afghan brethren, with whom it has close links via various Taliban ‘shuras’ across Pakistan, to try and secure Pashtunistan. Pakistan is home to some 25 million Pashtuns, many of whom largely control that country’s narcotics, arms trade, money laundering businesses and transportation, rendering them formidable Fifth Columnists even for the military.The lingering Pashtunistan movement disregards the 2,670-km-long Durand Line, drawn arbitrarily in 1893 by a colonial civil servant and named after him as the border between British India and Afghanistan to fix the limits of their territories. This ‘line in the sand’, casually agreed to by Afghanistan’s Amir Abdur Rehman, satisfied colonial aims of defining its boundaries as insurance in the evolving ‘Great Game’ to prevent the Russian Bear from intruding into their domain via Kabul. Consequently, the British made the autonomous and largely Pashtun tribal areas and frontier regions their ‘buffer’ between Afghanistan and its ‘settled territories’ in the NWFP and Punjab.Afghanistan, however, never accepted the Durand Line. Instead, successive rulers and governments supported a nationalistic reunification of the Pashtuns in southern Afghanistan and in Pakistan along with their territories. During the freedom movement, the Pathan leader, Khan Abdul Ghaffar Khan, also known as ‘Frontier Gandhi’, sought an independent Pashtunistan, but was denied it by the British, resulting in the Babrra massacre by the Pakistani security forces in 1948.Thereafter, firefights erupted between Afghan-backed NWFP tribesmen and Pakistan’s military, further embittering relations between Kabul and Islamabad. These, in turn, threatened the outbreak of hostilities between the neighbours in 1955, the year Kabul announced its formal backing for Pashtunistan, a position it has not since rescinded. Kabul has further argued that the Durand Line had a 100-year deadline that had expired in 1993.At the time, Afghanistan, then experimenting with an explosive mixture of Marxism and Islam, supported Pashtunistan. Diplomatic tension between Afghanistan and Pakistan, then a US ally, following Kabul’s burgeoning relations with Moscow, led it to reiterate that the Durand Line was merely a ‘delineated zone of responsibility’ to help the colonial administration maintain law and order and not a definitive border.But in the 1980s, Pakistan’s dictator, Gen Zia-ul-Haq, marginally defused the issue by inducting Pathans into the political mainstream, the military and the civil service and giving them a stake in his country’s power structure. The Pashtun nationalist spirit, however, survived but lost its centre-Left orientation that underpinned Ghaffar Khan's ‘Red Shirts’ movement. Instead, it mutated into an Islamist ideology through assorted Taliban-like groups like the Jamiat Ulema i-Islam that holds sway over NWFP/Pakhtunkhwa and Balochistan. The first batch of the Taliban, for instance, was trained in JUI madrasas.Pakistan’s insecurity over its Afghan border remained palpable. In early 2017, an indigent Pakistan prioritised a $500-million project to politically cement the Durand Line by erecting two sets of chain link fences fitted with surveillance cameras and infra-red detectors. Work on the fencing has continued uninterrupted over the past four years — even during the coronavirus pandemic — obviously in anticipation of the Taliban’s advent in Kabul and its putative bid for Pashtunistan. Islamabad obviously reasoned that the fencing and a string of 1,000 forts or armed garrisons alongside would physically reinforce — and demarcate — the Durand Line, thereby obviating any eventual Taliban actions to secure a Pashtun homeland.Internally, too, Pakistan is apprehensive over any intended Pashtunistan crusade impinging on neighbouring restive Balochistan province, where Baluchis are fast becoming a minority following the uninterrupted influx of Afghans that began after the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in 1979. And sequentially, this could also apocalyptically impact the quiescent separatist movement in Sindh led by the Mohajir Quami Movement (MQM), the Urdu-speaking migrants from eastern India, leaving Pakistan just with a stable Punjab in a region where geographical boundaries have been redrawn over centuries with disastrous consequences.Hence, Pakistan has little cause to celebrate the Taliban’s victory that presents an overt danger from its Pashtun cadres who have long memories and harbour feuds for generations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/taliban-and-pak-delusions-298604
