19-08-2021||---||Deobandi extremism that funds the Taliban||NOW that the Taliban control Afghanistan, the most important question being asked is how could nearly 75,000-odd Taliban fighters defeat 300,000-strong Afghan security forces, which were well equipped with modern American weaponry.President Biden, while referring to the Afghan security forces, said on Monday, “We gave them every chance to determine their own future. We could not provide them the will to fight for that future.” In a separate analysis, Michael Mullen, former United States Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said that courage is something that can never be imparted to another army. Apart from inextricable support from state institutions across the Durand Line, one needs to closely examine the other enabling factors, with greater nuance and objectivity, as they proved to be far more powerful. This will also shed light on exploring possible ways and instruments, which at the moment are quite limited, that the international community could possibly employ to influence the Taliban’s governance model and worldview.In a conflict-ridden situation like that of Afghanistan, there is often a tendency by the unpopular controlling power to bring in suave technocrats who speak the same language and have similar points of reference like them. They no doubt demonstrate efficiency in managing technical projects, however, when it comes to political dexterity required to navigate political complexities, they learn on the job. There is often disdain for local political realities, and consequently, more damage. President Ghani epitomised this trend as there were continuous past accounts that he lacked the political skill and temperament to cohere and glue the mosaic of Afghanistan, including varied Pashtun tribes. In the end, he couldn’t inspire his well-equipped army which was no match to the Taliban, whose ideological inspiration comes from a potent mix of Pashtun nationalism and extremist version of Deobandi Islam.In this connection, the question of Deobandi Islam and its relationship with Pashtuns has to be examined in more detail. In the last 20 years, Afghanistan was viewed by the Western policy-makers as largely outside the South Asian matrix. The religious idiom and lexicon of the Taliban, which in this case is the most important source of understanding their governance model, comes from the Deoband school of Islam which started during 1866, as part of the revivalist movement that was sweeping British India. At the time, the town of Deoband was already a centre of Muslim culture, and many families from the area, served in various capacities within the Mughal empire — proximate as Deoband was to the Mughal capital of Delhi, about 100 miles distant. In 1866, Darul Uloom at Deoband, was founded as one of the first seminaries to train in Deobandi Islam, and has remained its most important institution.The Deobandi movement became the most popular school of Islamic thought among Pashtuns living on both sides of the Durand Line. Many prominent Pashtun community leaders established Deobandi seminaries in these areas. In other parts of British India, however, they faced competition from other Islamic schools, primarily Barelvi Islam. Barelvi Islam, for example, remains the most popular Islamic school in what is now Pakistan’s Punjab province. It was not surprising that during the Afghan jihad in the 1980s, Deobandi seminaries on both sides of the Durand Line, as many scholars have pointed out, were the prime target of Saudi funding and influence. Along with Pakistan and the United Arab Emirates (UAE), Saudi Arabia was one of the few countries that recognised the Taliban after they assumed power in 1996.As this author learnt during his field work on Deobandi Islam at Darul Uloom a few years ago, Deobandi clerics have mixed views on the issue of allowing Afghan Pashtuns for studies. Some clerics strongly oppose any move to allow students from Afghanistan and Pakistan as they could radicalise Indian Muslim students. On the other hand, there is also a view that educating students from Afghanistan and Pakistan at Deoband would have a sobering influence on the Muslim populations in these countries. This is because at Deoband now, there is an emphasis on research, contextual interpretation of various religious edicts, debate, engagement and co-existence with non-Muslims.In the present context, Deobandi Islamic scholarship in India is a rare religious instrument available to the international community to creatively and imaginatively broaden the worldview of Taliban clerics, including on issues related to women and minority rights.Lastly, the issue of Pashtun nationalism which was employed by Taliban propaganda repeatedly during the 20-year stay of US troops in Afghanistan requires a fresh look. The English translation of over 200 Afghan Taliban poems by Alex Strick van Linschoten and Felix Kuehn is one such example to understand a dimension of this argument. Pashtun nationalism also underscores the need to shun non-binary understanding of their regional connections, including with Pakistan. No doubt, there is an intricate relationship between Taliban and Pakistani state with the former having their bases and families in various parts of Pakistan. However, it is a fact that the Taliban don’t recognise the Durand Line, which is one of the existential issues for Pakistan’s Punjabi elite, both in the military as well as political spectrum.The old headache of relationship between the Tehreek-e-Taliban (TTP), Pakistani Taliban and Afghan Taliban is already bothering the Pakistani governing elite. This is reflected in the recent release of TTP terrorists such as Maulana Faqir Mohammad, who is from Pakistan’s Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province. He is the former deputy chief of the TTP with reported ties to the al-Qaeda leadership. In this context, Pashtun nationalism and its quest for autonomy is an instrument available to the international community to leverage, but it has its limits too. Giving too much heft to Pashtun nationalism may further worsen the insecurity of ethnic minorities, who are nearly 60 per cent of Afghanistan’s population.The instruments in the tool-box for the international community to positively influence the Taliban are limited. In this space, a more contextual, creative and calibrated approach may provide some initial and potent openings of engagement with Afghanistan’s new political governing elite with an aim to protect and instill a greater sense of security for millions of vulnerable Afghans.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/deobandi-extremism-that-funds-the-taliban-299150
19-08-2021||---||Caste census can change social equations||MANDAL politics has not yet come to fruition but it has entered a decisive stage in its evolution after political parties across the board demanded a caste census to obtain an accurate estimation of the socially and educationally backward classes (SEBCs), also classified as the Other Backward Classes or OBCs, instead of the ballpark projections used by BP Mandal, the second Backward Classes Commission chairperson.Mandal, who sought a caste count of the SEBCs, was reportedly vetoed by a lobby of entrenched upper caste interests which anticipated a major demographic upset if an honest and diligent enumeration was carried out; the upper castes feared that they would be vastly outnumbered by the OBCs and that reality might jeopardise the sway they held for centuries over institutional domains and the control over the power levers.Therefore, the Mandal Commission used the figures of the 1931 census — the last census to enumerate the castes — backed by other data and extrapolations and concluded that the OBCs constituted about 52 per cent of the population. It proposed a 27 per cent reservation for the OBCs in educational institutions and jobs — disproportionate to their population, noted the commission — to circumvent the legal decree that the quantum of reservations must not exceed 50 per cent.In the monsoon session of Parliament, as the caste census clamour reached a crescendo, the Centre ruled out a caste-wise count other than that of the Scheduled Castes/Tribes. This, despite pressure from allies of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Opposition. Ostensibly to blunt the edge of the campaign, the ruling party introduced the Constitutional (127th) Amendment Bill 2021 which was intended to restore the power of the states to draw up their own OBC lists after the Supreme Court in May set aside a Maharashtra law granting quota to the Marathas, an intermediate caste which like the Haryana Jats, wanted reservations for a long time.The paralysed session was brought to life when the Bill was discussed and unanimously passed. But the ghost of a caste census shadows the government. Sharad Pawar, the Nationalist Congress Party chief and a veteran Maratha leader, later denounced the Bill as a “cheat” and alleged it will not benefit the OBCs unless the Union government sanctioned a caste-based census and cancelled the 50 per cent cap on quotas. The Centre’s reluctance to enumerate all the castes stems from precisely the apprehension that it will lead to an insistence on another Bill in order to bypass the legal ceiling and grant quotas proportional to the OBC population that might forever marginalise the influence of the savarnas, the core support base of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and the BJP. Of course, the BJP, that successfully re-thought its political outlook and re-engineered its strategies in the post-Mandal phase to co-opt the OBCs, will have less of a problem handling the demographic time-bomb than its ideological parent which cannot conceive of a socio-political order that will depreciate the power of the upper castes.That the Mandal reality is inescapable was demonstrated with the alacrity with which Naveen Patnaik, the Odisha Chief Minister, recently announced a 27 per cent reservation for the OBCs in state elections, kicking off with the panchayat polls in 2022. Patnaik, who belongs to the forward caste of Karana (Kayastha), is a rare leader who supposedly never made practical use of the caste calculus in electioneering. But here he was acknowledging that Mandal was implanted in his state’s political consciousness.Academic Satish Deshpande believed that the full political potential of the OBCs was still to be tapped. He wrote in an article, “The ‘OBC’ Primer on Indian Politics” (Forward Press magazine, January 2016), “...while the OBCs are widely recognised as a formidable force in Indian politics, their presence is seen only as a brute fact. This is a mistake because ‘OBC’ is not just a political label or a constitutional entity, it is also a uniquely fertile category to think about.” Why? Deshpande explained that as long as only the SCs and STs were counted, “the upper castes were able to travel incognito with the OBCs as part of a ‘general category’ accounting for three quarters of the population.” However, the Mandal “revolution”, he said, laid bare the best kept secret of Indian politics, “namely, that the Hindu upper castes, numbering no more than 15-20 per cent of the population, were undoubtedly our most powerful and pampered minority”. Deshpande restated what was a public admission by the BJP leaders: Hindutva was crafted as a political countervail against Mandal. It worked, but in a limited way as the verdict of the 1989 and 1991 elections proved.The BJP, which is quick at accurately grasping the political pulse, realised that it would have to fashion its own formula of combining Hindutva and Mandal to reach the pole position in politics. Hence, the decision to wholeheartedly endorse reservations and identify and project OBC leaders in its strongholds, culminating in the emergence and rise of Narendra Modi as a leader who fused Hindutva with his core identity as an OBC.Recently, when KN Govindacharya, a former BJP general secretary who was the architect of its social engineering programme, was asked for his views on caste census, he replied, “I don’t think Hinduism is so weak that it would crumble with the release of caste details.” In the same breath, Govindacharya added that an “ideal balance” should be struck between “social justice (for the OBCs) and social harmony (to keep the upper castes happy).”It’s an irreconcilable proposition that the Mandal votaries refuse to accept. However, the parties advocating a caste census are aware of the pitfalls. The “creamy layer” made up by the elite OBC groupings that have skimmed off the statutory benefits so far, will have to contend with a sea of the have-nots who were mostly looped out of the quota regime. A second revolution, then?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/caste-census-can-change-social-equations-299148
19-08-2021||---||India at the UNSC||ON August 9, PM Modi led the Indian delegation to the UN Security Council for presiding over a discussion on global maritime security. World leaders participating in the discussion included Russia’s President Vladimir Putin, Kenya’s President Uhuru Kenyatta, Vietnam’s Prime Minister Pham Minh Chinh and Congolese President Felix Tshisekedi, Chairperson of the 55-member African Union. The US and France were represented at the level of Foreign Minister by Antony Blinken and Jean-Yves Le Drian. Sensing a diplomatic setback, China chose to be represented at a relatively junior level by its deputy permanent representative to the UN, ambassador Geng Shuang. Pakistan’s proposal that its peripatetic foreign minister should speak in the session was rejected.The participation of the foreign ministers of the US and France indicated the global interest in China’s border disputes and the maritime issues raised by India. Thanking the delegates for their participation, PM Modi emphasised the importance of international sea routes as the ‘joint heritage’ of humanity and the lifeline for international trade. He also referred to challenges posed by maritime disputes between countries. He said the oceans were crucial to global challenges like climate change, international trade, piracy and maritime boundary disputes. He stressed the need for mutual understanding in dealing with global maritime security issues by the removal of barriers to legitimate maritime trade. He urged that ‘the settlement of maritime disputes must be peaceful, and on the basis of international law only’. The adoption of his speech and thereby of its proposals by the UN Security Council sets some well-defined parameters to deal with differences on maritime boundaries. China has imposed a new paradigm by regularly resorting to the use of force on maritime boundary disputes with its neighbours across the Indian and Pacific Oceans.India has settled its maritime disputes with virtually all its neighbours, with only its maritime boundary with Pakistan yet to be demarcated. China has maritime disputes with Japan, South Korea, North Korea, Vietnam, the Philippines, Singapore, Malaysia, Indonesia, Brunei and Taiwan. The presence of the foreign ministers of the US and France was indicative of the global interest in China’s border disputes. It particularly indicated the interest of western powers in the global maritime issues raised by India’s Prime Minister.China has not hesitated to use force to seize territories across the land and maritime boundaries of all its neighbours. Its extraordinary claims on its land borders with India have led to a full-fledged conflict, followed by continuing tensions, like the world witnessed in Ladakh last year. China is yet to withdraw from positions in Depsang and Gogra-Hot Springs. Its conflict with Vietnam escalated in 1979, when Chinese troops invaded Vietnam. The attack ended in a fiasco. It was accompanied by claims on Vietnam’s maritime frontiers. China has, however, effectively used its maritime power to intrude into Vietnam’s waters, and continues to do so. Strangely, however, New Delhi backed off from a proposal to supply Vietnam with BrahMos missiles manufactured in India. India is sometimes described as a country that professes to be a reliable friend, but sometimes fails to deliver. Vietnam is, however, a country which enjoys goodwill and support in India, Russia, and even the US.In his address to the UN Security Council, Modi alluded to the fact that India had actually handed over an island in the Bay of Bengal to Bangladesh after the ruling of an international tribunal. China, however, made a mockery of international law by rejecting a ruling against it by the tribunal in 2016, rejecting Beijing’s claims on several islands that it had occupied on its maritime boundaries with the Philippines. China has also forcibly denied the Philippines any access to islands it had seized.In a detailed study carried out by two Vietnamese scholars, Nguyen Hong Thao and Nguyen Thi La Huong, about the tribunal verdict, the scholars noted: ‘After a period of opting for caution and downplaying the victory that his country won in the South China Sea arbitration, Philippines President Rodrigo Duterte asserted in the UN General Assembly in 2020, that: “The (tribunal) award is now part of international law, beyond compromise, and beyond the reach of passing governments to dilute, diminish or abandon.” If President Duterte took four years to take up the issue of Chinese occupation of his country’s territory internationally, it is also surprising that other ASEAN countries like Malaysia and Brunei seem reluctant to use the tribunal ruling to challenge China internationally. Moreover, ASEAN countries, as a group, have not united to challenge China’s territorial claims. Indonesia did, however, act firmly to challenge Chinese expansionism by militarily asserting its rights on its maritime boundaries.What use is ASEAN as a regional organisation if it cannot support its own members facing territorial claims by an irredentist and expansionist China? It would be useful, if Quad, whose members have formal dialogue partnerships with ASEAN, raises these issues at high-level ASEAN meetings, both bilaterally and jointly. India enjoys cordial relations with ASEAN, which will have to decide, as a regional grouping, if a surrender of territorial integrity by any one of its members to China is a desirable development. Such surrender does whet China’s appetite for undertaking similar actions elsewhere. While India need not publicly allude to such exchanges with ASEAN, it should, as a member of Quad, be prepared to have these issues taken up by Quad members at meetings with their ASEAN dialogue partners.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/india-at-the-unsc-299147
