20-08-2021||Why does Modiji fall back on divisiveness after flirting with the unifying? Sports unites! Modiji’s breakfast at his home with our sportspersons who constituted our Olympic contingent was a welcome step in uniting castes and creeds. Those of us who strive and dream of unity in our country were overjoyed when he displayed leadership of an extraordinary kind when interacting with our athletes||Horror of horrors||And then on August 15, a day of national rejoicing, he spoils our good humour by announcing that August 14 every year will be observed as ‘Horrors Day’ because the subcontinent was partitioned, Pakistan declared its independence day and terrible atrocities were recorded on both sides of the demarcated borders.Every Indian knows of those awful days when men turned into savages. Why spoil the nation’s mood by an unneeded announcement? Who wants to be perpetually reminded of the blood spilt while crossing borders in search of genial neighbours where co-religionists would be there to welcome you?Whenever mention is made of the Gujarat killings of 2002, my circle of friends recommend a memory loss and a more positive frame of mind moving on to the future! Modiji himself always harps on positivity as opposed to negative feelings about men and matters! Then why is a positive leader seeking to perpetuate ‘horrors’, an intrinsically negative concept? A museum depicting those horrors already exists in Amritsar, something on the lines of the Holocaust museums in Poland and Germany. (My wife and I have visited the museum at Treblinka outside Warsaw.)The horrors of Partition will never be forgotten. The Armenians never forget the horrors they were subjected to by the Turks in 1915 and thereafter. Women and children were marched through the desert adjoining Aleppo in Syria. They died of hunger and thirst. Their men had been shot earlier in their own villages. The Armenians never forget that genocide. How can they? Now, Turkish ambassadors the world over are equipped with bullet-proof cars to protect them from young Armenians seeking revenge.So, also, the purge of Bengalis in East Pakistan by the Pakistan army in the time of Gen Yahya Khan, then the military ruler of Pakistan. Hindu Bengalis were specifically targeted. Can Bangladeshis ever forget those atrocities? I doubt it. These are facts of history.But we expect Modiji to move ahead without stirring up emotions further by declaring a ‘Horrors Day’ to be observed every year a day before our national day of rejoicing. He should realise that citizens of India will forever remember what happened during the Partition, when people on both sides of the border lost their power of reasoning.What could have moved Modiji to ruffle feathers by that unexpected announcement? The Hindu right has always bemoaned the Partition of the subcontinent, which they consider sacred land that should be rechristened Hindu rashtra. Could Partition have been avoided? Can Gandhiji and Nehru be held responsible for agreeing to the Partition of the country? The political commentator, Swaminathan Anklesaria Aiyar, writing last Sunday on the occasion of Independence Day, gave valid historical reasons why he felt the Partition was inevitable.From the perspective of law and order alone this old policeman feels that a population almost evenly divided between Hindus and Muslims would be perpetually at ‘war’ on the streets of our cities. The Islamic concept of religion being so diametrically different from the Hindu way of life and with religion playing such an outsized role in the life of a Muslim, the probability of clashes would be extremely high, almost certain, unless power was shared in near equal proportion, something that would not be palatable to the proponents of a Hindu rashtra.Another area that Modiji should not tinker with is the defence services. Our Army, Navy and Air Force have always been our pride and our joy. The citizens of every caste and creed repose immense faith in the institution. A thought has been recently floated that the Army, Navy and Air Force Chiefs should be chosen purely on merit, disregarding seniority. This move has disturbed the dovecotes. At present, the choice is almost certain. Since the promotions at every step of the ladder have been on the basis of merit and performance the process of sifting the chaff from the grain has been in play from the very start of their military careers. Everyone knows who is going to be the next Chief, like all Supreme Court judges know who is to be the next CJI. Why change a practice that has worked well for as long as memory holds?Merit is a nebulous entity. In any case a certain amount of subjectivity has already entered the process of selection at every stage. If at the last stage the factor of merit is going to be left to the discretion of politicians, allowing ideology and sycophancy to assume prime importance, then the whole ethos of discipline, camaraderie, loyalty to the men under your command, justice, fairplay, etc will have to be discarded. And that would be disastrous!The armed forces will be reduced to a civilian unit, like the police, where lobbying for high office has become so commonplace that often the wrong people are put in charge of delivering not what the law commands but its very opposite!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/horror-of-horrors-299562
20-08-2021||Former close aide to ex-PM AB Vajpayee & Founder||India, Pak should together engage Taliban||In the end, it came down to this. On the day we Indians celebrated the 74th anniversary of the end of foreign rule, the proud and patriotic people of another country in our South Asian region finally ended the “forever war” waged by a mighty foreign power, and also ended the corrupt and inept rule of a puppet government propped up by that superpower. Jai Ho, Afghanistan!For the United States, it was another ‘Saigon’ moment, reminiscent of its ignominious exit in 1975 from Vietnam, where too, it had waged a long, destructive and self-destructive war of aggression. Just about a month ago, on July 8, American President Joe Biden was asked at a press conference: “Is the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan now inevitable?” The commander-in-chief of the world’s most powerful army replied: “No, it is not. Because you have 300,000 Afghan troops, who are well-equipped and as good as any army in the world.” Another reporter asked him: “Your own intelligence community has assessed that the Afghan government is likely to collapse.” Biden replied, “That’s not true.” The world saw an altogether different truth on August 15. The so-called ‘Afghan Army’, to which the US gave fancy weapons, simply surrendered to the Taliban’s guerrilla warriors without a semblance of a fight. Afghanistan’s former President Ashraf Ghani fled the country.Biden’s words are going to haunt him for the rest of his presidency. But America’s defeat in Afghanistan has highlighted two other truths. One, it is a superpower in rapid decline. Its global reputation is in tatters after being forced to leave without achieving any of the objectives for which it spent over a trillion dollars, sacrificed the lives of several thousand of its own and its allies’ soldiers, and caused the deaths of thousands of Afghan civilians. The second truth is this: neither the lethal power of weapons, nor the economic power of their supplier, guarantees victory in a war. The Taliban had no air force and no regular army. Yet, they emerged victorious against both America and its stooge in Kabul. Why? Because their fighters had the power of love for their country.Unless we recognise the Taliban as Islam-inspired Afghan patriots, notwithstanding their many crimes in the past which cannot be condoned or overlooked, we simply cannot understand the dramatic developments in Afghanistan in their true light. The first test of patriotism is that when a country is invaded, it is the duty of its patriots to fight the aggressor to the last drop of their blood and drive him back. The Taliban and other non-Taliban Afghan patriots like Ahmad Shah Massoud did so when the Soviet Union invaded Afghanistan in 1979. After 10 years of a futile and suicidal war, the mighty Soviet army went back, defeated and humiliated. I witnessed the departure of the last contingent of Soviet soldiers from Kabul on February 15, 1989, when I covered that event as a correspondent for the now extinct Sunday Observer newspaper. When the United States, learning no lesson from the Soviet debacle, invaded Afghanistan in 2001 and waged the longest war in its history, the Taliban defended their country’s sovereignty yet again and forced the invader to leave.Whether anyone likes it or not, a Taliban-led government in Kabul is now a reality. New Delhi will have no option but to recognise it in due course, simply because many capitals around the world are going to do so. However, just because the Taliban have gained power does not mean they have already gained complete legitimacy in the eyes of the Afghan people or the international community. The world has not forgotten their many atrocities, committed under the influence of a fanatical and extremist interpretation of Islam. Women were robbed of their rights and freedoms. Non-Muslims were reduced to the status of second-class citizens, made to feel unsafe and were even forced to leave their own homeland. The destruction of the Bamyan Buddha, which belonged to the common heritage of humanity, will forever remain a black spot in the history of the Taliban. Therefore, the world expects the Taliban leadership to express genuine remorse for all their offences in the past and move along the path of self-reform.Specifically, the Taliban must address three genuine concerns of India and the rest of the international community. First, the Taliban must not allow any terrorist group to have a sanctuary in Afghanistan. Second, they must ensure the safety, dignity and rights of Hindus, Sikhs, Hazaras and other minorities, and respect the rights of Afghan women. Third, after having seized power, they must move towards an inclusive new government wedded to national reconciliation and national reconstruction.Neither the present realities of Afghanistan (where the Taliban is by no means the only socio-political force), nor the regional and global environment will allow it to go back to its old ways. For example, China and Russia, its two principal backers, will surely not like it to export terrorism and Islamist extremism. Even Pakistan, which tried to coerce, manipulate and use the Taliban for its own myopic objectives in the past will be wary. After all, Pakistan itself has been a huge victim of terrorism and Islamic radicalism since 1980s. On its part, Iran will not want a fanatic Sunni government in Kabul.Most importantly, the mainstream Talibani leadership itself appears to have become moderate and pragmatic, wanting to concentrate on the task of governance and rebuilding its war-torn economy. Suhail Shaheen, its articulate spokesperson, has said, “The Taliban won’t allow anyone to use Afghanistan’s soil against any other country.” Mullah Khirullah Wali Khairkhwa, a senior Taliban leader (he was one of the prisoners the US kept in its dreaded Guantanamo jail), has made a startling affirmation: “We don’t want Wahabbism in Afghanistan.” All these are sufficient reasons for India to establish a constructive dialogue with the Taliban. Mature and self-confident nations do not remain prisoners of the past. Rather, they look to the future with hope, and act boldly to create a better future for themselves and the world.If there is no external interference, Afghanistan will become a miracle nation in the decades ahead, just as Vietnam did after it regained its sovereignty and unity. India and Pakistan, in the spirit of South Asian solidarity, have a moral responsibility to collaboratively assist our great civilisational neighbour in achieving this transition.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/india-pak-should-together-engage-taliban-299563
20-08-2021||Former Haryana Chief Minister||As PM, Rajiv Gandhi was a man with a mission||He would have been 77 years today (August 20). The accidental, reluctant and young Prime Minister of India, Rajiv Gandhi, piloted the destiny of this country during the tumultuous years of the 1980s and shaped a new world order. His beginning was traumatic and his end tragic. He showed equanimity and dignity and infused a new confidence in this nation.I was fortunate to have watched and worked with him closely. It may not be construed as extravagance to describe his disarming personality as a ‘knight sans peur et sans reproche’ (the knight without fear and beyond reproach) who had glamour, youth, energy, power, charm, courage, easy confidence, style, wit, fortitude, dignity and decency. In essence, he was charismatic as Kennedy and an idealist like Nehru. He was keen to be perceived as a break from the past. He symbolised a change in the arena of politics, economy and morality in public life, through consent and conciliation, participation and persuasion. He was a determined peacemaker and worked hard to put an end to agitations in Punjab, Assam, Mizoram, Nagaland and Kashmir. Ironically, he fell victim to the violence, which he fought throughout his life like the Mahatma.He spelt out his vision with the fervour that “India is an old country but a young nation; and like the young everywhere, we are impatient. I am impatient, and I too have a dream. I dream of an India —strong, independent, self-reliant and in the front rank of the nations of the world in the service of mankind.” He exhorted the nation that “our task today is to bring India to the threshold of the 21st century, free of the burden of poverty which is the legacy of our colonial past and capable of meeting the rising inspirations of our people. This will require sustained efforts on our part.” He pursued his dream incessantly, undeterred and vigorously, He was the child of history and also a maker of history.He firmly believed that “India would not hold together without democracy”. He did everything to save, strengthen and spread democratic systems, symbols and values in national life as a patriot and democrat. I vividly recollect the early nineties, when during the Meham byelection (infamously known as Mayhem of Meham), democracy was being trampled through brazen rigging, violence, blatant terror and intimidation by the then Chief Minister Om Prakash Chautala who was seeking election to the Vidhan Sabha to retain his chief ministership. Rajiv Gandhi, along with young Rahul, visited the house of Anand Singh Dangi, an independent candidate, where three people were killed in police firing. I was with him throughout his visit. He stood solidly with the struggling people and dared the might of an arrogant tyrant. Consequent to his visit, Chautala had to resign on May 22, 1990. It is an irony of history that Rajiv Gandhi visited Meham on May 20, 1990, to fight violence exactly a year before his assassination on May 21, 1991.I feel particularly privileged and grateful that Rajiv Gandhi chose me as a candidate in the Tenth Lok Sabha elections from Rohtak parliamentary constituency (Meham is one of its nine segments ) to oppose Devi Lal, the then Deputy Prime Minister, who was trounced not once but thrice in three consecutive elections. But alas! He was no more to see the results of the elections after which the Congress party formed the government in Haryana and at the Centre.Rajiv Gandhi was convinced that peace and political stability are a sine qua non for progress and prosperity. Therefore, to check the malaise of political horse-trading (popularly known as Aaya Ram Gaya Ram) and to curb corruption and political opportunism, he got the 52nd Constitution Amendment Act, 1985 (commonly known as Anti-Defection Act) passed soon after taking over as prime minister. It provided for disqualification of an elected member of legislature on the grounds of defection to another political party. It was amended subsequently through the 91st Constitution Amendment Act, 2003. Though attempts are being made to circumvent the provisions of this law, yet the measure has succeeded to a large extent.Rajiv Gandhi, through the 61st Constitution Amendment Act, reduced the voting age from 21 to 18 years to encourage the participation of youth in the election process. Moved by the abject poverty in the rural areas of Kalahandi, Rajiv Gandhi famously said that of every rupee spent by the government, only 15 paise reaches the intended beneficiary. He realised that the decentralisation of democracy and decided to revitalise the framework of the village-level Panchayati Raj Institutions by giving them constitutional status. He introduced the 64th Constitutional Amendment Bill in Lok Sabha in 1989 providing for local self-governance. It was passed by the Lok Sabha but negated by the Rajya Sabha. He did not leave it at that. He included the setting up of Panchayati Raj Institutions in the Congress manifesto in the 1991 Lok Sabha elections. The Congress government fulfilled its dream by enacting the 73rd and 74th Constitutional Amendment Acts which enjoins on the states to establish three-tier panchayats and municipalities in the rural and urban areas.To achieve his declared aim of approaching the 21st century with a fair, just, peaceful and educated society, Rajiv Gandhi emphasised the education of the youth. He established the Ministry of Human Resource Development in 1985 to modernise and expand higher education programmes across the country. He conceived the concept of Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas (JNV), the free residential schools for providing excellent quality education, coupled with social justice, to the talented boys and girls in the rural areas. In the beginning, it was decided to open one JNV in each district. I proudly remember that the first Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya in the country was opened in a village of Jhajjar district, a part of my parliamentary constituency. Unfortunately, no serious efforts were made to expand this scheme which has the potential to revolutionise rural Indian society.Rajiv Gandhi left the imprint of modernity on this ancient country. He is widely and rightly acclaimed as the architect of digital India. The seeds of revolution in information technology and telecommunication sectors were planted by him. Several institutions, such as MTNL, BSNL and C-DOT, were established to spread the communication network through PCOs in far-flung rural areas of the country.He launched several other institutions to liberate the mind, economy and culture of this country by shedding the sloth of centuries and infusing dynamism and energy into the youth. He changed India forever. His heart throbbed for India and he exhorted every Indian to proudly say ‘Mera Bharat Mahan’. Rajiv Gandhi’s memory is eternally etched in the minds and hearts of the people of India.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/as-pm-rajiv-gandhi-was-a-man-with-a-mission-299564
