21-08-2021||---||Ensure energy security instead of self-sufficiency||ENERGY independence is an ambitious goal. Few countries in the world have achieved it, barring those who have unlimited supplies of fossil fuels beneath their land. In any case, this form of self-sufficiency or atmanirbharta is not ideal for the globalised world of the 21st century. The exchange of commodities and manufactured goods through global logistic chains has become a norm. Every country need not produce each raw material or product within its borders. Self-sufficiency in the Nehruvian sense is an obsolete concept. At the same time, energy independence can also be viewed as a situation in which adequate energy resources can be accessed easily at reasonable rates. It is also imperative for strategic reasons to ensure the country has enough fuel reserves to meet any emergency that could disrupt supplies.The call for energy independence made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his Independence Day speech is probably a reflection of the insecurity on this score. For this country, energy dependence has always been a harsh reality as domestic hydrocarbon resources have never been sufficient to meet the demand. This is barring a short period in the 1980s after the Bombay High oilfields were discovered in the mid-seventies. At that time, domestic oil availability rose to about 70 per cent of the demand. Declining output from these fields later meant the country reverted again to meeting most of its needs through imports. Lately the cost of these imports has been rising as world oil markets are responding to increasing demand and reduced inventory levels as the Covid pandemic is receding in many regions.Even so, India is comfortably placed in terms of foreign exchange reserves which have recently touched record levels crossing $600 billion. There is no immediate crisis. In fact, some economists have in the past even urged this country to drop ideas of exploring for oil in prospective geological areas. Instead, they suggested it should utilise the clout as a major oil importer to influence the international market. Currently, India is the world’s third largest oil importer after China and the US. But such plans are often not workable in the real world. This is evident as efforts made so far by this country to get price concessions have not met with much success, especially as far as the key oil cartel, OPEC is concerned. It is another matter that India has managed to tie up long-term purchase contracts with several major oil producers in West Asia at preferential terms, ensuring sustainability and continuity of supplies.The country’s energy mix currently revolves around carbon-based fuels, whether it is coal, crude oil or liquefied natural gas. Coal is the most easily available yet highly polluting for the environment and thus needs to be gradually phased out. But given its abundant presence, moving away from it will probably be the hardest job in years to come. As for crude oil and natural gas, the heavy reliance on imports is bound to be worrying from a strategic perspective. As much as 85 per cent of the country’s demand for oil is met from abroad while imports comprise 50 per cent of total natural gas consumption. A drive toward renewable energy has managed to raise its share in the overall energy mix but it still plays only a marginal role. For instance, solar power has a mere seven per cent share in electricity generation as against 70 per cent for coal. In case the push now being given to solar continues, however, its share is expected to rise to 30 per cent by 2040, with coal equally reducing to the same level.In this context, the Prime Minister’s proposal for moving towards green hydrogen as a way of achieving energy independence over the next 25 years is in the right direction. Green hydrogen, as the name denotes, is created from renewable energy sources rather than the traditional natural hydrogen gas emerging from fossil fuels. This is indeed one of the fuels of the future, being environment-friendly. But it will take a long time and sustained efforts to improve availability so that industry shifts to renewable fuels such as this one. Currently all hydrogen used in the country, whether from domestic sources or imported comes from fossil fuels.The plan to expand natural gas usage is also a long overdue objective. Schemes for a countrywide natural gas pipeline grid have been under way for quite some time but the progress in implementation has been tardy. Pipelines have been created in parts of the country but the nationwide grid is still a far cry. With the lack of an efficient distribution network, the share of natural gas in overall energy usage remains a paltry 7 per cent right now.The one element of the energy independence project that is likely to fructify earliest is the promotion of electric vehicles (EVs). The government’s enthusiasm in pushing for EVs has alarmed domestic car manufacturers, even leading to complaints that this has affected sales in recent times. Fossil fuels are not likely to bow out so quickly in the case of passenger or commercial vehicles, but the process is being accelerated in many other countries. This gives hope that automobile manufacturers here too will see the writing on the wall and move towards large-scale development of EVs sooner than later. The biggest growth area for EVs is two-wheelers and three-wheelers. One can only hope this will pave the way for larger vehicles to take a bigger share of the market.Energy security is needed more than energy independence even by the goal of 25 years from now. It will be virtually impossible to ensure that the country is entirely self-sufficient in various types of energy sources. What would be more viable is to create a scenario in which the energy economy is kept afloat even during a crisis. This can be done by creating fossil fuel reserves in the short run and investing heavily in renewable energy sources in the long run. The ultimate result should be the greening of the energy economy and the strengthening of energy security.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/ensure-energy-security-instead-of-self-sufficiency-299948
21-08-2021||---||Lest we forget the horrors of Partition||AS each day passes, the memories of the sacrifices and sufferings of millions of innocent men, women and children during the times of Partition are getting blurred. The recent announcement of Prime Minister Narendra Modi declaring August 14 as the Partition Horrors Remembrance Day is a welcome step which was long overdue.In my book, The Holocaust of Indian Partition — An Inquest (2006), I had analysed the monumental tragedy associated with the transfer of power in which over a million people died (estimates vary from as low as 200,000 to two million) and nearly 18 million were uprooted from their homes and hearths and became refugees. As well-known writer Krishna Sobti, who herself became a refugee, put it so aptly, Partition is difficult to forget but is dangerous to remember. After a thorough inquest, I had concluded that, with foresight and planning, the extent and severity of this holocaust could have been reduced.I had written in the section with the heading, ‘No Inquiry, Not Even a Monument’:“There is a raging controversy to this day whether Partition was avoidable and who was responsible for it. But, there is no debate on whether the horrendous human cost was avoidable and who was responsible for the loss of life and misery, suffering and uprooting of the millions on both sides of the border. The motion of relief and rehabilitation of refugees came up for discussion in the Constituent Assembly of India (Legislative) in the last week of November 1947. Intervening in the debate on November 29, Nehru admitted that ‘the catastrophe was a man-made catastrophe — not a natural phenomenon like an earthquake, or fire, or some other calamity like that.’ But he was neither prepared to take any blame nor even to talk about the reasons which led to this man-made catastrophe. Nehru said, ‘We may blame this or that individual — and no doubt many persons or groups have been terribly blameworthy — but the something that has happened has been on such a cataclysmic scale that it passes human blame. It is in the nature, if I may say so, of some mighty tragedy of which the Greek dramatists have written, which comes and envelops and overwhelms a nation and where human virtues and human failings somehow count for little. This is a big thing that has happened, so that mere blame does not help nor saying that it is the result of so-and-so’s ill-will and action.’ Amazing logic indeed! Nehru was at his poetic best in diverting the attention of the country from the basic question of whether the horrendous human cost of Partition was avoidable. Unfortunately, millions who died or were uprooted and had to suffer unimaginable atrocities, were not just actors in a Greek tragedy but were going through it in real life! It must be underlined that Mountbatten and the leaders of the two Dominions, who took the momentous decisions on the strategy for transfer of power, were not just the spectators of this Greek tragedy, but were its authors! It is shocking to see that there was no demand, leave aside a clamour, either in India or Pakistan for fixing responsibility for this Himalayan tragedy. As if this was a chapter in history which was best forgotten. In India, where every town and city is dotted with innumerable monuments, there is no monument — leave aside a national one — to the millions who died or through their sufferings went through Hell in the holocaust of Partition. The sounds of silence are deafening. No one thinks it necessary, even as a ritual, to observe a moment’s respectful silence in their memory on Independence Day.’It is against this background that I welcome the announcement of the prime minister. In India’s highly polarised polity and the vitiated, even poisonous, atmosphere in the country, this too has become a divisive issue. It is being considered by some as reopening of the old wounds, creating communal tensions, reigniting ugly passions, attempt to polarise and divide the country, an effort to cast India-Pakistan relations in stone and so on. These seem to be totally misplaced and far-fetched apprehensions.The world over, such monumental human tragedies are commemorated to recall the sacrifices of those who were the victims of the tragedies and to reiterate the ever-lasting gratitude of the country. Thus, Hiroshima Day is observed on August 6 every year to mark the anniversary of the atomic bombing of two cities of Japan (Hiroshima and Nagasaki), the United Nations General Assembly designated January 27 — the anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz-Birkenau — as International Holocaust Remembrance Day; Memorial Day (originally known as Decoration Day) is observed in the United States to honour and mourn the US military personnel who had died in the course of carrying out their duties; and after the end of apartheid, the Day of Reconciliation is observed in South Africa annually on December 16.If the Modi government had announced a commission of inquiry on the holocaust of Partition to fix responsibility for the horrendous tragedy, it could have been questioned for its timing. But the least India ought to do is to observe, unitedly and with humility and gratitude, a Remembrance Day for the unimaginable sacrifices of the millions at the time of Partition. Otherwise, India will be deservedly called an ungrateful nation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/lest-we-forget-the-horrors-of-partition-299947
21-08-2021||---||A piece of the ‘great game’||IT was an open secret when the US invaded Afghanistan 20 years ago that there was more to it than just the ‘war on terror’. After all, 15 out of the 19 hijackers of 9/11 were Saudi Arabian citizens. Osama had denied any connection to the attack, and the US never formally indicted him. Even at that time, the Taliban had offered to hand Bin Laden over to a third country to avoid being bombed by the US. The war, therefore, had two objectives. The first was to pander to the average American’s thirst for revenge. The second had to do with the geopolitical economy.Big American oil, construction, armaments and security companies have made billions of dollars in the past 20 years.Afghanistan has never been a destination for great powers; it has been a road. Even historians and scholars have treated it like a board on which a ‘great game’ was being played out for two centuries. Afghanistan’s geographical position makes it a bridge between Central Asia, the Gulf and South Asia. It is a land-locked country sharing a long border with Pakistan to its south, Iran to its West, Turkmenistan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan to its North and a 76 km border with China in the north-east.This has made Afghanistan extremely valuable as a trade and transport route, and also as a buffer zone. The British wanted control over it to keep the Indian colony out of the hands of other competing empires, including Tsarist Russia. Through several ‘Anglo-Afghan’ wars, the British systematically destroyed Afghan cities and towns, broke the backbone of its economy and impoverished its elite. Over 40 years, from 1879 till the ‘Afghan War of Independence’ in 1919, the British carved up the Pashto-speaking regions of Afghanistan, taking over key Afghan cities. Even though Afghanistan was to remain independent for another 60 years, the Durand Line of 1893 split the majority Pashtun people into two empires.Despite violent political upheavals, most of Afghanistan’s rulers – Amanullah Khan, Zahir Shah, Daud Khan, Muhammad Taraki, Hafizullah Amin — were all ‘modernisers’. Yet, much of their attempts to build a modern nation and economy were hampered by the absence of a ‘middle class’. Years of war by the British, their role in promoting the conservative elements in various tribes, ensured that Afghanistan could not develop an indigenous modernising movement from below.And then, the world woke up to oil and controlling the Middle East became even more important for the big powers. From the 1960s, the US and USSR took different routes to influence Afghanistan. The USSR, which had historically found support amongst the newly independent colonies, backed the modernising forces, while the US began financing Islamic fundamentalists and tribal warlords. When Soviet soldiers invaded Afghanistan in 1979, the CIA was already operating behind the lines. The net result of the 10-year war was that tyrannical warlords, many with an anti-modern agenda, took control of the country.The western press and Hollywood portrayed the Mujahideen as fierce, but friendly heroes, who were fighting a battle of independence against the evil Soviet empire. But for the people of Afghanistan, they were nothing, but oppressors. Even the powerful trucking mafia of Pakistan, which smuggled goods and drugs into Central Asia and back, were not spared. Illegal tolls were collected all along the trading routes by local warlords, who often kidnapped, and even killed truckers.As Ahmed Rashid has demonstrated in his classic work Taliban: Militant Islam, Oil and Fundamentalism in Central Asia, the Taliban was created and funded by this trucking mafia, along with the Pakistani government — initially Benazir Bhutto and then ISI — to ensure a secure trading route through Afghanistan. Later, the Taliban was seen as the best bet to lay a trans-Afghanistan pipeline by oil major Unocal (along with its rival Bridas of Argentina). Circumstantial evidence suggests that the US government was backing Unocal and began clandestine funding of the Taliban. One US diplomat told Ahmed Rashid, ‘the Taliban will probably develop like the Saudis did. There will be Aramco (Saudi oil company originally developed as a consortium of US oil majors), pipelines, an emir, no parliament and lots of Sharia law. We can live with that.’It was only when the US realised that the Taliban was not likely to get full control over the northern regions that it began new pipeline plans, bypassing Afghanistan altogether. Needless to say, that also meant that it temporarily lost interest in the country it had controlled for so many years. Its attitude became hostile as the Taliban began sheltering Laden, who had carried out terror strikes on US properties across the globe. The Afghan economy now depended on handouts by Pakistan, Saudi Arabia and the UAE, the three countries that recognised the Taliban as a legitimate government.By the time the US invaded Afghanistan in late 2001, the latter had become one of the world’s poorest countries. The US promised reconstruction, but an overwhelming majority of the international aid that went to Afghanistan after 2001, was spent on the military, private security contractors, high salaries to American administrators and western NGOs. An estimate made in the early years showed that only 3 per cent of the total aid to Afghanistan was going towards rebuilding it. In the meantime, big American oil, construction, armaments and security companies have made billions of dollars in the past 20 years.Today, Afghanistan has been turned into a narco-state, which provides 90 per cent of the world’s opium. It has a great wealth of minerals, including lithium, but very little is excavated and sold. If the Americans have withdrawn, it is partly because of the rise of China as a new imperialist force. Twenty years ago, George W Bush bullied Pakistan into submission. Today, Pakistan is sitting firmly in China’s lap. The US probably needs to woo Pakistan back by allowing its candidate in Afghanistan, the Taliban, to seize power. It is probably a small concession to prepare for the cold war with China.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/a-piece-of-the-great-game-299946
