22-08-2021||Sitting on the shoulders of my uncle||Village & sports during childhood||Such were the sports and entertainment in which everybody would join in. Come summer and the village teenagers and their seniors would come out to play kabaddi in the evenings as it cooled down. They would choose a field near the village and plough it thoroughly so it became soft. Then the boys would come out in all their finery i.e., only their undershorts or ‘kaccheras’, their bodies well-oiled and legs shaven. They would divide themselves into two teams and strut about. The matches were well contested — again, no betting. After some days, a village team was selected to participate in tournaments in the area. They feasted on milk, butter and ghee in preparation for the tournament, which normally lasted a day or two because matches were played continuously.On returning home, vigorous post-mortems were held, all good-natured ones. Kabaddi was an everyday affair during the summers and with time volleyball was added. This was a cheap sport as you required only a ball and a net — these were usually donated by servicemen on leave. Our village had an excellent team, especially during the summer vacations when the collegiate came home. One of our players PT Chanan Singh was selected for the Indian team, but could not go. Volleyball was the only game where we had betting — the losing team had to provide what was known as ‘dudh soda’, a mixture of milk, ‘Banta Wala’ soda and ice. I was a schoolboy on leave and so I also got a glass of what we would call milkshake — ‘only stirred, not shaken’.Wrestling was a part of the village sports calendar and wrestling lore was heard in all gatherings, especially stories of ‘Gama Pehlwan’, who was sponsored by the Maharaja of Patiala (a patron of cricket and also a good player). Wrestling featured at another venue also — melas. These fairs were held periodically in different villages — there was a kind of circuit which everyone knew. The fairs drew sweetmeat vendors, (prepared at the venue) hurly-burly and other games for children, bangles for women and other knickknacks, beautifully crafted long ‘khuntas’ (wooden sticks with handles), etc. Here also, there were kabbadi matches and wrestling bouts which were of a higher level because of larger participation and longer duration. In between, men, women and children gorged themselves on barfi, jalebis, etc, and got a lot more packed for taking home. Since the dates of these melas were well known, so there were plenty of relatives and friends who came over and stayed for a couple of days. The whole area wore a festive look and there were no law and order problems, although a police officer (mela officer) and some men were present.Then there were ‘nakuls’ and their performance called ‘nakalan’— a breed that has vanished from the Punjab scene but I believe they are still surviving in Pakistan Punjab. There were some well-known troupes in the state and they travelled from place to place and held shows. They were mostly purveyors of crass comedy and satire in which they hit out at well-known persons and low-level government functionaries. This was all taken in good spirit and there were no cases of sedition registered. The performances were usually in the form of a conversation between two persons, speaking very loudly (no microphones) and the punchlines were delivered with great panache. I didn’t get to see many as I was young but even now, when I hear something on YouTube, it is one long uninterrupted burst of laughter. I wish the culture department would indulge in some cultural exchange programmes so we could refresh our common cultural roots.Another festive occasion comes to mind which was popular in Hoshiarpur district mainly: the mango season. Hoshiarpur had thousands and thousands of mango trees — desi mangoes. The more exotic brands had not come to the Punjab markets, nor had we heard of them. Farmers had earmarked trees for their personal consumption and the excess was given to contractors. These contractors came in early and stayed in these groves in shacks. People bought from them or they took them to the market. Since the season was well known, hordes of relatives and friends would come for at least a week or so. Sucking mangoes was a messy affair and people attired themselves suitably. Buckets full of mangoes, dipped in water, were brought in and the proceedings started. While they were being consumed in large numbers, a running commentary went on regarding the quality of the mangoes — juicy, sweet, sour, etc — but irrespective of the commentary, the consumption went on. When satiated, ‘kachhi lassi’ was brought in and again consumed by the litres. This was milk and water mixed together — it was said that it led to proper digestion of mangoes. There was no lunch after this. When one lot of guests left, another came and so it went on — reunions galore and mangoes aplenty. This also has now gradually faded out and only memories exist.I would like to end on a cheerful note on the subject of rural sports. Qila Raipur, I think, still has bullock cart races. These are not heavy carts used for carrying goods, fodder, etc; these are very lightweight ones on which only the driver sits. There are two bullocks and raising them and maintaining them is a costly affair. They are not used for any other purpose. They are fed on ghee and butter and almonds and what not. They are periodically taken out for practice runs and gradually, the driver and bullocks become a team and the bullocks understand the very touch and voice of the master. The speed which they attain is unbelievably fast — one of my village seniors once tricked me into a ride on one of them. He was out in front driving and I was on the tiny seat without any hand-hold. The adrenalin rush, the raw excitement of the moment will never leave me, even if you took me to a Grand Prix. However, for a long time, I became the butt of many jokes, especially when I visited the village during holidays as evidently I had been yelling on the top of my voice.There are many stories waiting to be told, many memories waiting to be nudged — memories both happy and painful; it is a world gone by, as it is in the nature of things to go by. However, stories remain and for me the best part was when the game was over and we all sat around in a circle and exchanged gossip. I was usually the youngest and heard open-mouthed whatever was being narrated. Many a time my leg was pulled but I became aware of it only later. The winter sports started in early afternoon and ended around bonfires where young and old intermingled. Bedtime was early and we broke up and went to our respective homes. Summer was very exciting as all of us slept outside and tried to be next to our favourite cousins. Whispers continued far into the night until the proper dose was delivered by a senior. It is a world gone by. No visits to villages, no kabaddi or volleyball matches or gathering of the clan for mangoes and melas — only memories.— The writer is ex-chairman of UPSC, former Manipur Governor and served as J&K DGP||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/village-sports-during-childhood-300366
22-08-2021||For the last week or so||Measuring the loss||It was still pouring and the mountainous area had no WiFi, so no one could be called to say that we would be late. Yet even then, the impatient would try and squeeze past the orderly single file of waiting vehicles leading to yet more bedlam. What is it about us Indians that we cannot wait for our turn? Standing in queues, allowing elderly people to board a bus or train first, or simply helping someone in distress is so alien to our people. God knows when the smart cities that we are building will also be populated by civilised and smart people.I have been coming to Dehradun since the early Sixties and cannot tell you how radically it has changed from the serene, green and quiet town it was then. The Forest Research Institute and the IMA are perhaps the only green islands left now. Those grand bungalows on Old Survey Road, or Rajpur and the quaint Tibetan settlement in Sahasradhara are now but a memory. I cannot say that making this peaceful old cantonment town and retired persons’ retreat into today’s smart city has done it any good. The volume of traffic would put even Bhogal to shame. Every conceivable type of moving body, from old carts to limousines, vies with the mosquito-like presence of the two-wheelers and tempos that roar through peaceful colonies from early morning till late at night. Time was when I looked forward to going to Rajpur Road, Ghantaghar Chowk and Astley Hall to browse through bookshops or have chaat and buy the heavenly éclairs and pastries of Ellora. I had trouble even spotting these old landmarks, leave alone attempt to find a place to park and cross the street.Sahasradhara, once the way to the famous sulphur springs up in the mountains, is now a vast slum of apartment buildings with names like Pacific Heights that far from looking onto any ocean straddles a filthy nullah with a shanty town. The names of colonies here are all taken from Delhi’s map: so there is a Defence Colony, a Vasant Vihar and even a South Extension. Apart from the humorous side of this is the fact that all our lovely old towns, instead of preserving their own identities, are wannabe metro spaces with malls and eateries that offer a bewildering variety of food. One day, soon, all of India will start to look like a vast slum and the builders of these pathetic urban spaces will import all the muck that our metros have spawned. My heart bleeds for what we are bequeathing to the coming generations, who will never be able to see the twinkling lights of Mussoorie or the star-spangled sky of the Doon valley, or the Milky Way that we could often spot when we were small.As I write, I am overcome with another kind of sadness: the heart-rending accounts shown on our TV screens of a proud people and country destroyed forever. The sight of the women shrouded in black, the little children fretful and confused at the rapid decline of their familiar neighbourhoods and homes, the sinister presence of the gun-toting Taliban, the crowds thronging the airport desperate to leave — will nothing ever move all those evil empire builders who have armed a deadly army of rabid and heartless bigots? The western world has much to answer, for using this once beautiful country as an arena to play their Great Games. A curse on all of them, for anyone who can abandon women and children will one day pay a price for this lack of humanity. Decades will pass before peace returns to this beautiful mountainous country and the scars of a senseless war will damage this proud race of Pathans in ways we cannot even imagine.As a woman and a mother, I urge all of you to read the Shanti Parva of the Mahabharata and hear the lament of Gandhari as she curses Krishna and the Yaduvanshis (the warriors) who launch wars and never stop to count the dead they leave behind. Of all the sins that man commits, the most heinous is the price that women have to pay for upholding male ‘honour’ and pride. Victory on the battlefield is backed by the loss of husbands, sons, fathers and brothers. For all those who still talk of revenge and honour here in India, beware the curse of your women.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/measuring-the-loss-300367
22-08-2021||Today||Afghan warlord in battle, 141 years ago||The combat elements of Burrow’s brigade, namely the 66th Regiment of Foot, the 1st Bombay Native Infantry (Grenadiers), the 30th Bombay Native Infantry (Jacob’s Rifles), the 3rd (Queen’s Own) Bombay Light Cavalry, 3rd Sind Horse and two Batteries of Royal Horse Artillery, all boasted of distinguished battlefield heritage. Taken together, they “made up a fighting strength of 1,800 bayonets, 550 sabres and 12 pieces of Artillery”. Here again, Ayub Khan had the upper hand with highly fired up “6,000 regular Infantry, cavalry element equivalent of six regular regiments and 36 Artillery guns”.The mission expressly given to Burrow was: “... you have full liberty to attack Ayub, if you consider you are strong enough to do so... is of greatest political importance that his force should be dispersed and prevented by all possible means from passing on to Ghazni”; the latter part necessitated because Lt Gen Sir Fredrick Roberts, VC (later Commander in Chief, Indian Army), who had surrounded Kabul, was yet to bring its regime to surrender.However, as in the game of chess, Ayub Khan had the advantage of the first mover and deftly manoeuvred his force for the kill, yet mindful of Burrow’s Artillery reach while creating a horseshoe formation around his beleaguered foe. Burrow was desperate for time for the Infantry to dig minimal trenches under the scorching heat, reconnoitre for a source of drinking water and attempt for Artillery ammunition replenishments.As Ayub squeezed the horseshoe into a circle, Burrow was left with no option but to commence the battle by Artillery concentrations at 1130 hours and as may be imagined, Ayub countered with multiple intrusions from flanks and frontally and kept raising the tempo such that by 1330 hours, Burrow had exhausted all Artillery ammunition and on-person, drinking water. Despite every tactical stratagem of Burrow, by 1500 hours, the battle “was a physical impossibility. What with the fatigue of three hours’ march, added to over four hours’ march in the morning... exposure to heavy fire under a blazing sun... the men had stood fighting without food or water, it was utterly beyond human energy to run, mobbed as they were by hundreds of the enemy...”And for the first and only time in the history of the British Army in India, a message was sent to GHQ, Simla, by Lt Gen Sir Donald Stewart from Kandahar: “Total defeat and dispersion of Brigadier Burrow’s force. Heavy loss in both officers and men.”The figures were staggering; to Burrow’s 962 dead and 177 wounded, Ayub’s dead were 2,750 and 1,500 wounded. In addition, the camp followers (horse holders, grass cutters, bishtis, etc) by some counts were at least 1,500 dead and as many wounded. The logistical animal-train (camels, donkeys and ponies) fared no better.Yet there were moments of great valour and extraordinary camaraderie as revealed by the severely wounded Surgeon-Major Preston of the 66th Regiment “...I had been lying on the ground for sometime... Captain Slade, Royal Artillery, at once determined to save my life... he abandoned the gun, and had me put on the limber... there was heavy firing from the village... it was at this stage that Gunner Collis won the Victoria Cross by running out towards the snipers to draw their fire on himself”. Incidentally, in time, Surgeon Preston would be none other than Sherlock Holmes’ Dr Watson!And there is a tender episode from Maiwand connected with a young Afghan who on noticing “Afghan soldiers falter, used her veil as a standard and encouraged the men by shouting:‘Young love if you do not fall in battle of Maiwand,By God! Someone is saving you as a token of shame.’”And the echo of that exhortation in the region of the lofty Hindu Kush mountains is not lost on the warlords to this day!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/afghan-warlord-in-battle-141-years-ago-300368
22-08-2021||Just the other day I got a call from my childhood friend Mani Shankar Aiyar. “I’m writing my memoirs||Mani’s memoirs, the legendary Peter Sellers & Cambridge||My most challenging task at the India Society, apart from getting interesting speakers to address us at our monthly meetings, was to pull the Society out of the red, a state it had been in for a great many years. Our meetings usually got an attendance of just 30 or 40 students. Even the presence of Kingsley Martin, the highly respected and influential editor of the ‘New Statesman and Nation’, whose writings influenced Jawaharlal Nehru, could not attract a larger audience. Camellia Panjabi, another contemporary who was then the secretary-designate of the India Society, and went on to join the Tata Administrative Service (TAS) and became a key figure in the expansion of the Taj group of hotels, said one day, “Why don’t you try and get Peter Sellers?”Sellers was then one of Britain’s leading comedians, famous for a popular radio programme called ‘The Goon Show’. He had starred in some critically acclaimed British films, including the classic black comedy, ‘The Ladykillers’, in which Alec Guinness also acted. But Sellers hit the big time internationally, opposite Sophia Loren, in ‘The Millionairess’, which was based on a story by George Bernard Shaw and was released in 1960. He played the role of an Indian doctor, and spoke in what was considered as the typical sing-song Indian accent. As a result of Peter Sellers’ “Indian accent”, many of my English university friends would try to get a laugh by conversing with Indian students in the same accent.Inviting Peter Sellers was a long shot, but I decided to give it a go. To my surprise, I did not get an immediate “no”, but a cautious response from his secretary. So, I pursued the matter and then, to my huge delight, she told me that he had agreed to drive down from London to Cambridge to address us. I hired the largest hall available, the Cambridge Union building, where it held its debates and which could hold several hundred people. We charged a small entrance fee of 2 shillings, I seem to recall (the equivalent of today’s Rs10), but such was the rush that we had to turn quite a few students away. It was probably the biggest number of people to attend an India Society meeting in the Society’s entire history! More importantly, it got the Society out of the red, even leaving behind a healthy balance.For over an hour-and-a-half, Sellers had the overflowing hall in splits. Being the wonderful mimic he was, he spoke in a variety of English accents. Of course, they included the Indian one, but the French as well, which he would later use in the wildly successful ‘Pink Panther’ series of films, where he played the bumbling French detective, Inspector Clouseau.As it so happened, when Mani asked if I could remember the date of the memorable Sellers’ function, I was rummaging through old files and newspaper clippings, trying to put them in some kind of order, now that I had plenty of time on my hand. And there, to my astonishment, I found my university diary of 1961-62, and a yellowed clipping from a local paper, the ‘Cambridge Daily News’, reporting the event! It was dated June 12, so Sellers had addressed the India Society the previous evening on June 11, 1962, over 59 years ago, a virtual lifetime. I was then 21 years old. I even found the brief handwritten speech I had delivered to introduce Sellers.After the meeting, Camellia, Brian (since he was president of the Cambridge Union) and I took Sellers out for dinner to a small Indian restaurant nearby. He brought along Mario Fabrizi, an actor friend. At the dinner, he revealed that the director of ‘The Millionairess’ had originally wanted him to play the role of an Egyptian doctor, but he persuaded the director to change it to an Indian doctor because, as Sellers told us, “I had got to know many Indian doctors and liked them a lot.” He also made a startling confession.“Did you know,” he asked us rhetorically, “that this has been the first time I have ever spoken in public? I was so nervous at the prospect that I brought Mario along, in case I broke down and could not continue.”He needn’t have worried. He had held all of us completely spellbound with his masterly mimicry. Sadly, Peter Sellers died relatively young, at the age of 54, while still at the peak of his career.Mani, thank you for the memories. And happy memoir-writing!— The writer is a veteran journalist||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/manis-memoirs-the-legendary-peter-sellers-cambridge-300369
