23-08-2021||Military commentator||How Taliban’s return can fuel Indo-Pak hostility||The reconquest of Afghanistan is sweet comfort for the Taliban following their military defeat in 2001. For the Taliban, who had famously said: ‘While Americans have the watches, we have the time’, things have come full circle.Pakistan’s contribution to its return to power is of no small amount. This is bound to fuel hostile relations between India and Pakistan, already at a low due to India’s reading down of Article 370. Pakistan has tried to keep Afghanistan out of bounds for India.In 2007, Foreign Secretary Nirupama Rao negotiated with her Pakistani counterpart Riaz Khan the inclusion of Afghanistan as the ninth item in the composite dialogue, but the Pakistan Army never let it be implemented, saying that “it would legitimise India’s role in Afghanistan.”Islamabad has done everything in its power to keep New Delhi on the fringes in Afghanistan, persuading Americans to keep India out. President Ghani initially placed India at the outermost circle of his policy of concentric circles as per the power they wielded. Similarly, Russia, at Pakistan’s behest, ensured India was excluded from the Moscow-led extended troika of China, the US and Pakistan by saying that New Delhi could not influence the Taliban.Lately, though, the External Affairs Ministry spokesperson has begun describing India as Afghanistan’s ‘neighbour’, but now it is an outlier.Crisis-prone India-Pakistan relations have witnessed several interventions by the US, the USSR and the UK. To avoid third-party mediation and following the Simla Agreement, India and Pakistan opened up a backchannel initially between diplomats and later institutionalised between the NSAs. It was the Satinder Lambah-Tariq Aziz backchannel from 2004-07 that produced the four-point formula on Kashmir which was the closest the two countries have reached in resolving the dispute. Pakistan has not always had an NSA after Maj Gen Mohamad Durrani was sacked for identifying one of the terrorists in the Mumbai attack. Sartaj Aziz was appointed NSA in 2013-15, followed by two retired generals — Janjua and Lodhi — with diplomat Haroon briefly in between.The backchannel has also witnessed variations: direct talks between the ISI and R&AW; between the ISI and the NSA. It is believed that NSA Ajit Doval met Pakistan Army Chief General Bajwa in London last year following his presentation at the Islamabad security dialogue where he mentioned the shift from geo-politics to geo-economics and urged India to bury the past. The UAE Ambassador to the US, Yousef al Otarba, admitted that it was mediating — what he meant was facilitating — between India and Pakistan for a healthy and functional relationship. Doval and ISI’s Lt Gen Faiz Hameed negotiated the February 25 ceasefire agreement in Dubai.Whenever there is any blip of optimism in bilateral relations, it is usually due to the backchannel. Pakistan’s youthful and loquacious NSA Moeed Yusuf confirmed publicly that India had sought the backchannel which sired the ceasefire. This is highly plausible, given India’s intent to defuse the two-front situation after PLA intrusions along the LAC. Adrian Levy and Cathy Scott Clark, co-authors of the Spy Stories-Inside Secret World of RAW and ISI, confirm that the backchannel was operational before 2018-19.India did not believe the ISI when it told New Delhi that it was not responsible for the Pulwama attack and went on to bomb Balakot. It was the Jaish-e-Mohammad which carried out Pulwama, Pathankot and Uri strikes earlier as the Lashkar-e-Taiba was lying low after Hafeez Saeed was put under house arrest. For some time, the authors acted as a conduit of operational intelligence exchange between the two sides. They claim they had unprecedented access to top intelligence actors of both countries.Success via the backchannel has encouraged bonhomie. Prime Minister Modi wished Imran Khan on his country’s national day, followed by ‘get well’ wishes after he contracted Covid-19. Khan told Modi that he looked forward to a result-oriented dialogue.The high point resulting from the backchannel was Pakistan agreeing to buy from India cotton and sugar in April 2021. Not surprisingly, the plan got scuttled on the pretext that it had not been cleared by the Cabinet. This mirrors Pakistan’s power purchase agreement in 2013-14 cancelled for similar reasons — read the military. Apparently, the generals do not buy Bajwa’s bury-the-past idea and wish to keep relations on the simmer.The sticking point for normalising relations is Article 370 over which Pakistan has tied itself in knots. Both countries have assimilated, through legislation and map-making, the parts of J&K they hold. Pakistan occupies 15 per cent of J&K, of which 85 per cent is Gilgit-Baltistan, formerly the Northern Areas. It has made the strategic Gilgit-Baltistan almost the fifth province of Pakistan (provisional provincial status) and integrated it with the Centre.India stirred the hornet's nest over the inclusion of Aksai Chin in the new map, inviting PLA encroachment across the LAC in East Ladakh. In addition, Pakistan is accusing R&AW of terrorist attacks in Lahore (near Hafiz Saeed’s residence) and in Baluchistan against a bus-load of Chinese. Further, the ISI has substituted drones for human infiltration across the LoC. Still, the Indus Waters Treaty Commission met after three years and India has given sports visas for Pakistani cricketers.On Kashmir, China has said: ‘It is a dispute left over by history which has to be resolved peacefully through the UN Charter, Security Council resolutions and bilateral agreements.’ UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres in 2019 recalled the 1972 agreement on the bilateral agreement between India and Pakistan — the Simla Agreement — which states that the final agreement on Jammu and Kashmir’s status has to be settled by peaceful means in accordance with the charter of the United Nations.Obviously, Kashmir is not India’s internal matter. The blow hot, blow cold India-Pakistan relations await normalisation: restoration of full diplomatic relations, including the return of ambassadors and full staff, resumption of trade across Wagah and the LoC and the revival of the comprehensive bilateral dialogue started in 2015.Pakistan’s insistence that India reverse its constitutional alterations in J&K before any dialogue on normalisation only adds to the complexity of India's conditionality that talks and terror do not go together. The intrepid backchannel must create conditions for an unconditional dialogue, without prejudice to each other’s positions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/how-talibans-return-can-fuel-indo-pak-hostility-300772
23-08-2021||President||China on tenterhooks after US withdrawal||While there was an inevitability of the Taliban’s return to power, especially since the then US President Donald Trump’s deal with the Taliban, the messy US withdrawal and near-simultaneous melting away of the Afghan forces and government caught virtually all countries by surprise. It is early to anticipate the turn of events, and the tape-recorded message released on August 18 by former Afghan Vice-President Saleh promising that the ‘war has not yet ended’ adds to the fluidity.This propaganda conceals the worries of China’s leadership. The US withdrawal is not something that China wanted. It is very reluctant to assume the mantle of security provider in Afghanistan. A clear sign of China’s concerns was Xi Jinping’s call to Afghan President in mid-July, offering support for peace ‘and an early, peaceful reconstruction of the country.’There is uncertainty, too, regarding the Taliban’s domestic and international policies. These will affect the attitude of foreign countries.NATO has warned that it will strike hard if the Taliban harbour terrorists. Canada and the EU have said they will not recognise the Taliban rule. Major regional players like Russia and China, except Pakistan whose Prime Minister Imran Khan promptly expressed full-throated praise for the Taliban, are treading cautiously.Motivated by considerations of domestic security, both Russia and China established links with the Taliban decades ago and have continued contacts. Taliban leaders visited Moscow on May 18, while Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi met the Taliban leadership in Tianjin a few weeks ago.China is particularly concerned about the impact of the Taliban takeover on its Muslim-dominated restive Xinjiang-Uyghur Autonomous Region. Instances of Islamic extremist-linked violence have also occurred in other Muslim-dominated pockets in China, like the Ningxia-Hui Autonomous Region and Yunnan.Chinese intelligence is aware that Uyghurs have been trained at Al Qaeda training camps in northern Pakistan and Afghanistan and of their presence among the Taliban. It has been monitoring the Uyghur groups abroad — including in Turkey and Pakistan — and especially the East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM), which Beijing has designated a terrorist organisation.Prompted by apprehensions that the extremist brand of fundamentalist Islam could spill over its borders and spread inside China, Beijing opted for a cold-eyed realistic policy. The People’s Liberation Army (PLA) trained some soldiers of the Xinjiang Military Region in Pushto, Urdu and, probably, Dari. Taking advantage of the converging interests, China set up a military base in Tajikistan in 2017 and established security cooperation and held anti-terrorism military exercises with the Central Asian Republics, which have been admitted to the Beijing-led Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO).By late 2016, reports indicated that units of the PLA Xinjiang Military Region were conducting joint patrols with Afghanistan's military in the rugged 220-km Wakhan Corridor. Joint anti-terrorism exercises were also conducted. The Chinese are additionally building a road through the sparsely populated Wakhan Corridor. The Xinjiang Military Region under the PLA’s Western Theatre Command will now be on alert because of the developments unfolding in Afghanistan.The US withdrawal from Afghanistan is being advertised by China’s propaganda apparatus as exemplifying a country in decline and not worth emulating. This reinforces the warnings of the Chinese authorities to its people over the past year of efforts by the US and the West to instigate a 'colour revolution' in China and topple the Chinese Communist Party (CCP). Propaganda targets include Chinese academics and students espousing liberal ideas not in conformity with the CCP ideology. It is also targeted at countries in South Asia — like India — and South East Asia perceived as close to the US. At least three recent articles in China's Global Times portrayed the withdrawal as confirming the decline of US power and advised countries, and Taiwan, to distance themselves from the US. They project China as the new rising power.Though serving a purpose, this propaganda conceals the worries of China’s leadership. The US withdrawal is not something that China wanted. It is very reluctant to assume the mantle of security provider in Afghanistan. A clear sign of China’s concerns of a possible Taliban victory was Chinese President Xi Jinping’s telephone call to Afghan President Ashraf Ghani on July 16 offering support for Afghan peace and reconciliation “and an early, peaceful reconstruction of the country.”More indicative was the statement by China’s Defence Ministry spokesman Colonel Wu Qian that “[The US] bears an inescapable responsibility for the current situation in Afghanistan. It cannot leave it alone and shed its ‘burden’ on regional countries.”Meanwhile, suggesting a willingness to cooperate, Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi hosted a nine-member Taliban delegation, led by the head of the Afghan Taliban Political Commission, Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, on July 28 in Tianjin. Praising them as “an important military and political force”, Wang Yi urged them to “make a clean break with all terrorist organisations, including the ETIM” and attack them resolutely and effectively. Replying, Baradar hoped for Chinese assistance in reconstruction efforts and assured the Taliban will “never allow any force to use the Afghan territory to engage in acts detrimental to China.” He apparently sidestepped specific mention of the ETIM.Chinese strategists are advising China’s leadership against accepting the argument that the US is in decline and, referring to Taiwan, that China can begin to flex its muscles. Unanimous that China must not send troops because of the ‘bitter lessons’ learnt by other nations, they are advising Beijing to keep in touch with all parties, but prepare for a civil war. China, they recommend, should be seen by the world as a ‘builder’, but invest only for tangible returns.The Taliban’s Chechen, Uzbek, Tajik, Uyghur and other fighters are, however, motivated by jihad, adventure, power and cash. Their victory will attract many others from around the world. They are unlikely to agree to halt the bid to expand their Emirate. Chinese analysts are also apprehensive that China’s problems will increase as the US will now focus its attention on containing China and its rise.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/china-on-tenterhooks-after-us-withdrawal-300775
23-08-2021||Former Ambassador||India’s Taliban stumper||There was a time when the Indian Parliament demanded from then External Affairs Minister IK Gujral that so long as a single Indian remained stranded on Kuwaiti soil in the downstream of the cataclysmic Gulf War of 1990, the embassy must remain open to arrange their repatriation. I was deputed that same evening to rush to Kuwait to reopen the embassy. Which I did, reaching Riyadh, borrowing an SUV, forthwith crossing the no-man's land into Kuwait and driving through the burning oil fields, literally in darkness at noon — just a week after war ended — wading through columns of US military convoys to locate any Indian who might be trapped in refugee camps, to arrange their repatriation.Indian diplomats have an easy time nowadays. The embassy personnel in Kabul scrambled to lead the exodus within 48 hours of the Taliban entering the city!Indian diplomats have an easy time nowadays. The embassy personnel in Kabul scrambled to lead the exodus out of Afghanistan within 48 hours of the Taliban entering the city! No other regional state behaved in such strange fashion. And reports keep coming in still of hapless Indians stranded in Afghanistan, including women.India behaved like a western nation. But then, the US and Australia committed war crimes and are fearful of God’s wrath, while India has been a benign presence. The real paradox is, the Taliban, whom we demonise, even held out assurances that no harm would come to foreign diplomats in Kabul. They have kept their word. These are days the Taliban are sensitive about their reputation and legitimacy.The reason why the government panicked appears to be political in nature. Delhi feared a blowback due to its partnership with the Ashraf Ghani government. The first thing after entering Kabul, the Taliban took over the Afghan intelligence agency system. This becomes an unspoken 'X' factor today for a lot of countries.Indian policymakers probably realise that our Afghan policies have entered a wasteland. A new compass is needed to skilfully navigate the way forward. The rushed consultations of Pankaj Saran, Deputy National Security Adviser, with Nikolai Patrushev, the powerful Kremlin politburo member in Moscow, are a step in the right direction. Saran, a former envoy to Russia, is from a vanishing breed of diplomats with his low-key, but highly effective diplomacy, and that is just what is needed at present to have strategic communication with our friends in the Kremlin. For, Americans are of no help here, however much EAM might try, when they are themselves having 'constructive engagement' with the Haqqani Network to rescue their nationals out of Kabul.India's diplomatic challenge is how to commence a serious conversation with the Taliban. A special envoy must visit Kabul once the contours of the new government emerge. India must unceremoniously abandon its narrative on the Taliban. EAM's strident polemics at the UN Security Council last week wouldn't help. India should not ape US exceptionalism. Women's security is in jeopardy in India, too. Learn from China that Afghanistan has its own traditions and cultural values, and a western-style democratic transformation is a distant prospect. The Taliban are nationalist in outlook and adhere to traditional Islam and Sharia and Afghanistan is a country of observant Muslims. They show no interest to project power abroad, export their nativist ideology or partake of jihadi campaigns in faraway lands. They have strong similarities with our own national ethos — our excessive habits may be grotesque but they are strictly our ‘internal matter’.The Taliban will never accept a subaltern role again. Even Pakistan and Saudi Arabia have experienced Taliban's ‘Afghan-ness’ and the Pashtun's fierce sense of independence and honour. Besides, the Taliban today keep diverse relationships. They have shed their tunnel vision, having seen the metropolis — Moscow, Beijing, Tehran, Jakarta, Doha, Istanbul. The western media and intelligence accost them, fawn upon them.India could, in fact, help promote the Taliban's international legitimacy as the surest guarantee for Afghanistan to remain a sovereign, robustly independent and scrupulously neutral SAARC country with links to the SCO potentially.Isolating the Taliban will only lead to the aberrations of their regime in the 1990s when they were exploited as a geopolitical tool against Iran by the Saudi and Emirati intelligence with US blessing. Indeed, the gust of Wahhabism began blowing into the Hindu Kush. However, during the decade since being driven out of power in 2001, the Taliban introspected and understood where they went so horribly wrong, and began distancing themselves from the Saudis and Emiratis. For a longtime now, they have not even visited Saudi Arabia. But the US is currently persuading Saudis to become proactive again. This is an extremely worrisome development. India should oppose such cynical duplicity where the US speaks of Afghan women's rights to blackmail the Taliban, while on a parallel track encourages the Saudis to reclaim Afghanistan for the Wahhabi faith.Finally, India should give wide berth to the adventurist venture by the erstwhile deputy to Ghani, Amrullah Saleh who has proclaimed armed resistance to the Taliban on the pattern of the Northern Alliance in the late 1990s. Saleh's venture cannot and will not have a happy ending. He is in the crosshairs of the Taliban. By now, the Taliban and Pakistan would know from the 'X' files of the Afghan intelligence agency the full extent of Saleh's activities to undermine Pakistan's security and stability. He has become a ‘burnt-out’ case.At any rate, isolate pockets of disaffection apart, conditions for ‘resistance’ simply do not exist. External powers dare not fuel another conflict that could only help boost the Islamic State. As for Afghan people, they're exhausted, bled white through four decades of horrific violence. Above all, Panjshir has erudite, experienced politicians who would abhor the idea of teaming up with fly-by-night operators. The regional states are working in concert to foster inter-ethnic concord in Kabul. India, too, should lend a hand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/indias-taliban-stumper-300776
