24-08-2021||---||Taliban takeover may embolden terror groups||Chinese officials have described the US Secretary of State Anthony Blinken’s telephone call with Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi on August 16 as a desperate effort to “ask for China’s help” in cleaning up the mess after the humiliating ‘Saigon moment’ of the US in Afghanistan. They warned that the US is in “terminal decline” and in no position to help its allies, including Taiwan. Most extremists and terrorists in the world are still targeting the West, particularly the US as their top enemy, not China and Russia.The Chinese were quick to set the terms for their assistance to the US. Wang Yi said that when the US was maliciously carrying out “strategic coercion and containment” against China, there was no need for her to render any help; the US should abandon these policies and first designate the East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM), an Uighur group seeking independence from China, as a terrorist group.China views the Taliban victory primarily in security terms — it wants the Taliban to make a clean break with all terror groups, particularly those directed against China, such as the ETIM, and ensure that they do not harm the Chinese interests and projects in Afghanistan, Central Asian countries and Pakistan. If the Taliban is able to establish an inclusive government, peace and stability, the Chinese companies would invest in oil, minerals and other projects.China took the lead in inviting a Taliban delegation led by its senior leader, Mullah Baradar to Beijing a few days before the Taliban’s takeover of Kabul. Baradar promised that the Taliban would not allow the ETIM militants to enter the country and the Chinese investors could return to Afghanistan. But unsure of the Taliban’s actual conduct and its failure to follow on past promises, Wang Yi ordered repatriation of most Chinese nationals from Afghanistan.China has teamed up with Russia to tell the Taliban that they could help in building peace with various domestic parties, getting international recognition and rebuilding Afghanistan’s economy.China has also pushed Pakistan to augment trilateral cooperation between them and Afghanistan to contain security risks arising from the expansion of regional and international terrorism in Afghanistan. On the ground, the Chinese army has reinforced its defences along the narrow Wakhan corridor, which comprises a 70-km border between China’s sensitive Xinjiang province and Afghanistan.Certain Afghanistan watchers believe that there are at least 22 known terrorist networks and groups, which operate in Afghanistan. Taliban has deep rooted and complex ties with these groups having fought together historically against foreign forces and sharing the same objective of establishing an Islamic state; most members are recruited from the same areas that border Afghanistan and Pakistan and have ties of kinship.Despite its past promise to the Americans under the Doha peace deal, the Taliban has not cut off ties with the al-Qaeda, which continues to operate in many provinces of Afghanistan. Pakistan has been unable to persuade the Afghan Taliban to pressurise the Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) to discontinue its armed attacks against the Pakistan army and Chinese interests. In the past, the Afghan Taliban has been able to play off Pakistan and other countries by making promises, which were never kept in practice.TTP’s strength has, in fact, increased after five splinter groups and disaffected Pashtun and Baluch ethnic groups were brought together by its new chief, Mufti Noor Wali Mehsud in July-August, 2020. Mufti has also been successful in receiving the support of groups associated with the al-Qaeda and Punjabi Taliban. The TTP chief has declared his intent to set up an independent Islamic state in certain areas bordering Pakistan.Similarly, a large number of ETIM supporters have reportedly shifted from Syria and Turkey into Badakshan and other provinces of Afghanistan and have been quietly carrying out their activities. Many analysts believe that the Taliban’s victory will have the disastrous effect of emboldening these terror groups breeding in Pakistan-Afghanistan region.It is too early to say if the Taliban 2.0 will be different from the Taliban 1.0. Some Taliban leaders have made statements that they would not indulge in prosecuting those who supported the Afghan government and women would be free to work as per the Islamic laws. But there are also reports of the Taliban cadres not allowing girls to go to school, suppressing popular protests with firearms, searching those who worked with the US and NATO forces and blowing up the statues of their adversaries.Some Taliban watchers believe that any change in the Taliban’s behaviour would result only from the pressure of the international community rather than any change in its ideology. While other conservative Islamic states such as Saudi Arabia are liberalising their polity, the Taliban wants to take Afghanistan backward to its conception of a theocratic state.There is a broad consensus among the international community that a representative and inclusive government should be set up in Afghanistan. The US, its allies and partners such as India also want that the human rights of the Afghan people and progress of the past 20 years must be preserved. The Taliban has so far not agreed to implement these provisions. The IMF, under US pressure, has blocked the availability of funds to Afghanistan to put pressure on the Taliban.The Taliban’s victory is a win for Pakistan’s covert support, duplicitous policies, mistakes made by the US in handling of the Afghanistan operation, including its failure to impose timely sanctions on Pakistan. But it is clear that the US and its allies who have been funding the Afghanistan operation will continue to exercise considerable influence there.The Taliban takeover will result in a prolonged period of tension, internal strife and instability threatening the peace and security of the entire region and beyond. Its impact will be deeply felt by China, Pakistan and other countries also as various terror groups would pursue their own agenda without any effective opposition from the Taliban government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/taliban-takeover-may-embolden-terror-groups-301107
24-08-2021||---||Green energy the key to climate resilience||The Cabinet nod to the ratification of the Kigali Amendment to the Montreal Protocol of reducing substances that deplete the ozone layer to phase down the hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) on August 18 has surprisingly sent a positive ripple among the climate change experts. They have seen an opportunity to innovate in the manufacturing of refrigerants that are part of air-conditioners which are climate-friendly and energy-efficient. For decades now, the issue of climate change and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, especially the carbon footprint, has only triggered an expression of grim determination to tighten the belt and sacrifice economic growth because the danger of the climate change tipping towards a catastrophe was much greater. But now, many in India seem to have seen an opportunity in the phase down of HFCs, starting with 10 per cent reduction in 2032, 20 per cent in 2037 and 85 per cent by 2047. Reduction of HFCs looks a doable task. Perhaps this is the kind of positive turnaround in the attitude towards climate change goals that is required to meet the challenge of reining in the carbon footprint.India in general has taken an accommodative stance towards the issue of climate change and what is needed to be done to change course, while at the same time arguing that the developed nations have the responsibility to fund as well as transfer technology to the developing countries. The argument over compensatory financial assistance and transfer of technology has not made much headway with the industrialised countries in the European Union and the US. The EU countries were insistent on carbon emission reduction goals without offering the necessary financial and technological assistance to the developing countries to make the transition to climate change a friendly economic activity. The US has always taken a mulish stance over climate change goals, refusing to join in the efforts ever since it refused to ratify the Kyoto Protocol in 1997. The American argument lacked sense and sophistication. It was the simplistic one of ‘we cannot allow job losses and fall in growth rates,” a line articulated by George W Bush, while another Republican President Donald Trump tried to pooh-pooh the climate change crisis altogether. Democrat Barack Obama was not keen either, trying to push around other countries, including China and India, to take up responsibilities which was the lot of the United States at the Copenhagen climate summit in 2010. The Indian stance at Copenhagen as articulated by the then Environment Minister Jairam Ramesh was ambivalent, wanting to ride with America as well as the developing countries.The Indian stance became proactive at the Paris climate summit when Prime Minister Narendra Modi and French President Francois Hollande launched the International Solar Alliance (ISA) with the task of increasing the renewable energy component in power generation. India has set itself the task of creating 175 GW (gigawatt) of renewable energy by 2022; it has so far achieved 100 GW capacity, according to an announcement of the Union Ministry of New and Renewable Energy on August 12. But it has to be remembered that renewable energy accounts for only 17.3 per cent of the total 383.37 GW installed capacity, and fossil energy still contributes 79.8 per cent to the energy basket. The ray of hope lies in the fact that investment in renewable energy, through green bonds, has been on the rise, reaching $6.4 billion between April and July this year, and there is the expectation that it will surpass the previous record investment of $8.4 billion of 2019-20.It is this enthusiasm for renewable energy and the technologies made available through artificial intelligence (AI) and digitisation that raises the hope that climate challenges can be met through feasible economic and technological strategies. After many years, new technologies like AI and robotics are making energy generation and consumption more efficient.Many challenges remain, at least in solar energy. It has been found that in western Indian states, solar energy has reached 40 per cent of the installed capacity. But it brings with it its own problems. It has been found that the power grid becomes destabilised because of the intermittent nature of the flow of electricity from solar energy compared to gas-fired power generation. It should be possible to find solutions to glitches like these through better solar energy storage facilities.It can be said with confidence that it is now possible to meet the climate change challenges because it seems doable. It did not seem this way until recently. The imperatives of turning to green technologies and environment-friendly ways of sustaining cities and habitats was recognised, but the solutions were nowhere in sight. Right now, it looks like solutions can be found even if they are not always at hand.The energy factor in facing the climate change crisis is overwhelming because the modern, technological civilisation that we have got used to all over the world is energy-intensive, right from agricultural practices to urban living. If an environment-friendly energy solution is to be worked out, much of the climate change would seem manageable.More than the eco-warriors and environment-sensitive political leaders, it is the change in the attitude of industrialists towards the climate change crisis that is proving to be a game-changer. If the investors and industrialists are convinced that there are profits to be made by adopting green ways of running the economy, change is sure to face the least resistance. It was felt by some cynics that the clamour over climate change was really the desire for profits through changes in technology because the profits made from the old technologies have reached the stage of diminishing returns. Even if this were true, and it could possibly be, it is not such a bad thing. If some good were to come out of the evil of the industrial civilisation of the last two centuries, and profit is the ulterior motive behind it all, we should not complain much. The need is to avert the ecological disaster awaiting us all as the climate threatens to reach the tipping point beyond which there is no redemption!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/green-energy-the-key-to-climate-resilience-301106
24-08-2021||---||The ‘deshbhakti’ curriculum||Who will deny that there is something more in education than academic specialisation and purely self-centric career interests? Education, all great pedagogues would assert, ought to sensitise our children, expand their horizons, cultivate the ethics of love and care, and make them responsible for the quest for an ethically enriched, ecologically sensitive and egalitarian society. And hence, when the Delhi Government decides to introduce the ‘deshbhakti’ curriculum, it arouses our interest. The intention or the stated objective appears to be noble and life-affirming because the curriculum wants our children to celebrate the ‘spirit of independence’, understand the ‘constitutional values’, become sensitive to ‘pluralism and diversity’, and realise the significance of ‘equality and fraternity’ in concrete life-practices.Even though this experiment has a possibility, it is important to be alert. Let it be stated clearly that it is only the nuanced art of reflexive and critical pedagogy that can distinguish enabling patriotism from toxic nationalism. We should not forget that we are living at a time when the all-pervading discourse of hyper-nationalism seems to have poisoned the collective psyche, and reduced patriotism to a stimulant feeling of hatred for the constructed ‘enemy’. This sort of patriotism manifests itself in all sorts of war metaphors—defeating Pakistan in the cricket match, celebrating the militarisation of consciousness, cherishing the cacophony of noisy slogans through some sort of hyper-masculine aggression, and reminding the minorities of their secondary status.However, a truly meaningful and enabling patriotism does not manifest itself through loud symbols and gestures. It is always subtle, silent and soft. It is the patriotism of a noble doctor, a caring teacher, a committed social activist working in silence. It doesn’t have a uniform. Likewise, the spirit of enabling patriotism reconciles the power of love and the creativity of resistance. The fact that you love your country is the reason why you should raise your voice against those who are corrupt, greedy and exploitative. True patriotism is not to mechanically recite ‘Saare jahan se achha’; instead, far from being a feel good sentiment, this is the critical awareness that the country can be good only when we free ourselves from the chain of corporate loot, politician-criminal nexus, demoralised bureaucracy and corruption in every sphere of life. It is only the art of critical pedagogy that can sensitise a young learner, and enable her to see that true patriotism manifests itself in the deeds of a rights activist, a committed environmentalist, and, for that matter, young students who served voluntarily to arrange oxygen cylinders, medicines and hospital beds for the Covid patients. Will our school principals acquire the courage to encourage this sort of critical pedagogy?Second, it is equally important to make our children aware of the fact that there is something higher and nobler than bounded nationalism and associated patriotism. This is the quest for the spiritual unity of humankind; this is the quest for a sustainable relationship between development and ecology; and this is the quest for a global effort to rescue the world from the climate crisis, devastating wars, terrorist violence, and heightened disparity and inequality. This is to inspire our children to undertake a journey of constant evolution—from ‘near’ to ‘far’, from local concerns to our collective destiny, or from the nation with borders to the imagination of the world as a whole. Only then would it be possible for a young student in Delhi to feel a close affinity with her counterpart from Lahore or Nairobi. Only then would it be possible to expand the power of empathy. Let our children evolve with a deeper understanding of trans-nationalism. It is not about buying and consuming branded international products. Instead, it is the ability to see oneself beyond limited identities, and feel the union of Jesus and Buddha, Rumi and Kabir, Gandhi and Nelson Mandela, Tagore and Whitman, or for that matter, the National Anthem and John Lennon’s ‘Imagine’. Critical pedagogy can prepare the ground for rooted cosmopolitanism. But then, are we really ready?And finally, it has to be realised that no noble values—ethical social behaviour, civic responsibility or environmental sustainability—can be taught through sermonising. Nor can it be limited to a slot in the official time table—45 minutes daily! As teachers, we need to engage in a rigorous process of introspection. Children are alert observers; they can see and understand whether we practise what we teach. Imagine a teacher who is a casteist and male chauvinist. What does it mean if he asks his students to practise the values of fraternity and equality? And imagine a power-hungry and arrogant principal who speaks rudely with not so ‘refined’ and ‘educated’ parents. What does it mean if she asks her students to follow the ideals of Gandhi and Bhagat Singh? Who will educate the educators? Accept it. We live in a society where most of the teacher training centres are of terribly poor quality; and acquiring a BEd degree is just a technical requirement. Moreover, the vocation of schoolteachers is seldom understood and respected. From the arrangement of the midday meal to election duty: teachers are expected to do everything. Where is then the time to reflect on critical pedagogy, read great books, think of Paulo Freire and Rabindranath Tagore, and strive for higher principles?This is not cynicism; nor does it devalue the possibility of ‘deshbhakti’ curriculum. This is to be aware of the possible obstacles that need to be confronted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-deshbhakti-curriculum-301105
