25-08-2021||---||Turn in politics to reclaim nation’s moral centre||The recent meeting of 19 Opposition parties represented at the highest level could herald a 0politics to reclaim the nation’s moral centre. The resolution adopted at the end of the virtual meeting announced the Opposition parties’ “concerted resolve to defend the secular, democratic, republican order with all their might.” This convergence of views is inspired by the arithmetic of electoral politics and the mood of the nation that demands a larger unity of purpose in aid of democracy and its concomitant values reminiscent of our constitutional moment.Divisive agendas of the ruling dispensation, incompatible with the preambular promise of fraternity have shrunk the social space for bonding amongst fellow citizens as equal stakeholders in a shared destiny. The erosion of a nurtured culture of tolerant coexistence questions our democratic resilience. Majoritarian interpretation of constitutional guarantees, premised on electoral majorities, negate the first principles of constitutionalism.Unremitting persecution and silencing of the Opposition, systematic intimidation of civil society organisations, and the undermining of democratic institutions interrogate the libertarian promise of our national charter. Arrogant indifference to constitutional morality, understood in terms of scrutiny of the exercise of public power and expansion of fundamental freedoms, have suborned the promise of a responsive democracy, offering us instead, “a democratic language without the grammar of democratic punctuation.”The ‘right to offend’, a key attribute of a functional democracy, has been bludgeoned and buried, courtesy the violence of the vigilantes and armed constabulary of the Indian State. Foisting of sedition charges against farmers questioning the unjust farm laws and against other innocent citizens, detention without bail of political opponents and dissenters under the stringent national security laws enacted to deal with terrorists have robbed several laws of their legitimacy. The dysfunctionality of Parliament as a check against administrative excesses has denuded the administration of its moral claim to executive authority. The march of democracy rooted in social justice and conducive to human dignity has been reversed.A free nation, which had aspired to become the ‘Vishwa Guru’ on the basis of its soft power, stands internationally condemned post 2014 as an ‘elected autocracy’(according to the annual report of the Sweden-based V-Dem institute). India ranked 111 out of 162 nations on the Human Freedom Index of 2020 and was at 142 out of 180 nations on the World Press Freedom Index. Those who want to hide behind a false nationalist narrative to debunk the findings of independent international organisations of repute need only to look at the reality around them. The invasion of citizens’ privacy in different ways, including the Pegasus snooping and routine surveillance of the ‘inconvenient’, signals the government’s singular disdain for constitutional niceties.A vast majority of our people are oppressed and diminished under the weight of rising unemployment and poverty. A Pew Research Center study has estimated a 75 million rise in the number of poor in the country, with the middle class shrinking by 32 million in 2020. The poor, with their souls scarred and freedoms fettered, are therefore entitled more than ever before to ask:Atka kahan Swaraj?Bol Dilli! Tu ab kya kehti hai; Tu raani ban gayi, vedna janta kyun sehti hai?The poet’s lament about obstructions to freedom and insensitivity of the power centres to the people’s pain retains a deafening echo in these troubled times. A pervasive feeling of suppressed freedom and its consequences is captured by Javed Akhtar in his compelling verse:Kisi ka hukm hai dariya ki lehren; zara yeh sarkashi kam kar lein, apni hadd mein thehrein; ubharna phir bikharna aur bikhar kar phir ubharna; galat hai yeh unka hungama karna.…….Kisi ko yeh koi kaise bataye; hawayein aur lehren kab kisi ka hukm sunti hain; hawayein hakimo ki mutthiyo mein hathkadi mein; qaid-khano mein nahi ruktin; yeh lehren roki jaati hain; toh dariya kitna bhi ho pursukoon, betaab hota hai; aur iss betabi ka agla qadam sailaab hota hai.(Someone has decreed that the waves in the river; Must curb their rebellion; They must stay within their limits; Their dashing and rising anddashing yet again; Only to rise; It is wrong of them to be so wilful.…....How is one to tell them; When have the winds and the waves ever heeded anyone’s decree; The winds do not stay in the clenched fists of the rulers; In prisons and in handcuffs; When these waves are stopped; The river, no matter how placid; Becomes restless; And this restlessness is a step away from a flood).In the disquieting context of sustained assaults on freedom and democracy, the coming together of the Opposition is a welcome declaration of an awakened collective responsibility to push back the autocratic impulses of unrestrained power. The long and arduous battle ahead for freedom, equality and justice as integral to our cherished democracy will be a test of leadership.It is evident that the initiative of the Congress president will need to be backed by processes and practices of politics that inspire hope and faith in the exertions of the Opposition. It is also clear that those on the side of freedom will find themselves standing on the right side of history. And those who remain smug, in the belief that the Opposition is incapacitated to lead on account of internal compulsions, must learn from history that when the moment arises, “the crown always finds its way to the right head.” Whether this moment is close or distant will depend on the selflessness of leaders and their unfaltering pursuit of an ennobling project of national renewal. We know that it is in the defence of freedom that the nation’s suppressed soul will find utterance. For the vacillators, one may return to the poet’s interrogatory: Takaaza hai maujon ka, toofan se khelo; 0Kab tak chaloge, kinare kinare?(The waves beckon you to accept the challenge; For how long will you walk the easy path?)Views are personal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/turn-in-politics-to-reclaim-nations-moral-centre-301615
25-08-2021||---||Horrendously chaotic airmanship in Kabul||The scenes of scary air evacuation of the hapless people from Kabul after the Taliban takeover should put any professional airman to shame. The reported clinging on to the aircraft fixtures and scores of aspiring evacuees running behind a C-5A Galaxy transporter was unbelievable indeed.American President Joe Biden has gone on record to say that a chaotic exodus from Afghanistan was inevitable. But surely, any professional military would ensure flight safety and ethics of airmanship, however unplanned the airlift turned out to be?Other clips showing a couple of people falling to their deaths from an airborne transport plane, and reportage of a 19-year-old Afghan national footballer apparently being one of them, was heartrending indeed.These happenings only go to show the utter indifference and ensuing panic at the Kabul runway whilst the evacuation from Kabul was underway. Around 20 lives have been lost in the stampede and melee that took place.Talking of holding an inquiry by the US authorities now is infructuous as the damage has already been done.The buck, of course, stops with the captain of the plane or the planes involved. No pilot in his senses would leap off into the air with an uncontrolled mob of locals running alongside on the tarmac.The manner in which the fiasco played out, it would not be unthinkable that some of the intruders could have got ingested into the huge engine intakes of the aeroplanes, besides other plausible injuries from being trampled upon by its huge undercarriage and fuselage.Besides, where even a hovering bird on the takeoff path could cause catastrophic damage, how can the desire to evacuate from a trouble-torn locality make the operators throw caution to the wind, literally?Quite clearly, the people controlling the evacuation military flights out of Kabul had no idea of the mob frenzy that would ensue. But then, the rustic Afghans, with little education or other worldly awareness, could not be expected to look out for danger to their lives from such inane actions of clambering on to accelerating aeroplanes on a runway. Some of them are reported to have tied themselves onto the undercarriage with the hope of staying airborne somehow. These, apparently, were the poor souls who got dislodged and fell to their deaths as the plane got airborne.It is to be believed that the Kabul airfield would surely have had some qualified military personnel to alert the pilot about trespassers in the wheel bay or on the runway. Then how could such an unsafe takeoff be allowed by the authorities?It is providential that the surge of humans in the vicinity of a large plane on its takeoff did not cause an even more catastrophic incident on the Kabul runway, leading to some horrendous damage to the aircraft and its occupants.The IAF has since been able to evacuate around 390 Indians and some Afghans from Kabul to Hindon via its C-17 airlifters, an exercise bound to generate considerable goodwill all around.More than the poor airmanship displayed by the Americans, there are larger issues about how they have caused unspeakable harm and inhuman treatment to scores of innocents, from Vietnam to Cambodia to Iraq and now Afghanistan.From the travails of the Cold War to the blind anger to avenge the 9/11 attacks, there have been no dearth of excuses for the world’s only superpower to wreak havoc on innocents all over the weak world. Biden's popularity rating is stated to have declined by 7.5 per cent post the Afghan fiasco.The terrible reportage about young children being flung across barbed wire fencings by helpless Afghan mothers to the British and other soldiers on the safe side of Kabul’s airport and likewise treatment of women and minorities by the rampaging Taliban are other sights and happenings that will not be forgotten in a hurry.Another aspect is the grossly inadequate training imparted by the Americans and NATO to the Afghan National Army, leading to their total capitulation to the opportunistic Taliban. Biden is on record as having said that they went into Afghanistan to neutralise the al-Qaeda, and not to impart democratic values to the Afghans.Surely, India will have some soul-searching to do too in this regard as some of our arms and military training have gone to the Afghan establishment, albeit with good intent under the overhang of a Pakistan-sponsored Taliban.In this context, whatever be the compulsions for our country to provide succour to our Afghan brethren in their days of anguish, military involvement will have to be thought through very carefully, not for the fear of getting embroiled in an avoidable war alone, but also to not have blood on our hands in the unpredictable ill-treatment that is bound to be meted out by the extremist jihadi Talibs to the war-torn populace of a well-meaning friendly nation in our neighbourhood, something we ought to cherish, considering the other ill-intentioned jackals awaiting their prey.And, as for the Americans, their government and intelligence agencies will need to recalibrate their worldview, especially in light of their poor record with the handling of the Covid pandemic and the beating that it has caused to the world economy and US coffers overall.Clearly, the US cannot afford to fight other peoples’ wars any more, concentrating instead, on their own nation-building and strengthening of their social fabric, torn asunder by irritants such as racism and gun lobbyists.Taliban 2.0 is bound to take its toll in more ways than one and the Ahmad Massoud-led resistance movement in the Panjshir Valley would not cut much ice.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/horrendously-chaotic-airmanship-in-kabul-301614
25-08-2021||---||Spotlight on Pakistan||The withdrawal of US and NATO forces from Afghanistan exposes India to enhanced security threat both from China and Pakistan. The point of vulnerability has always been J&K, which has spaces contested both by China and Pakistan and whose collusion has been an anticipated contingency. Let us sketch out a possible scenario in the wake of recent developments in Afghanistan.If Afghanistan achieves relative, if sullen, stability under the Taliban, China will acquire greater strategic depth rather than Pakistan. It will help consolidate its primacy in Central Asia, succeeding to the mantle of Soviet Central Asia. This may provide, or so the Chinese hope, a protective shield for the vast territories of Xinjiang and Tibet, where ethnic and religious identities have not been extinguished and perceived dangers remain salient. There is likely to be a Chinese version of an Af-Pak strategy because the two theatres are now interlinked. The Pakistanis have ensured this. The prism through which China or other regional actors look at Afghanistan will now have an inseparable Pakistan dimension. By projecting that it is the most influential actor in Kabul and its new rulers are its proteges, Pakistan may now have to own up to its responsibility for Afghan political stability and its cleansing of the country’s terror making machines under different labels. Distancing itself from the ills of Taliban Afghanistan may no longer be possible. China is already impatient with the failure of Pakistan to protect its personnel working on CPEC projects. This impatience may extend to the security of its personnel in Afghanistan, where its economic profile is bound to expand. The Russians and Iranians as well as other Central Asian republics bordering Afghanistan will have similar expectations since Pakistan is basking in its role as the guarantor of Afghanistan under the new dispensation. It is in India’s interest to highlight rather than contest this self-assumed Pakistani role because eventually, instead of enhancing Pakistan’s influence, it may well become a significant pressure point. One doubts that Pakistan will be able to manage the complex and fractious polity and society in Afghanistan any more than it has been able to do within itself. If China has to then expand its role both within Pakistan and Afghanistan to compensate for the inability of Pakistan to safeguard Chinese interests, the ‘graveyard of empires’ may well haunt China. The wages of extended empires are not confined to the Americans. The logic of extending an empire, equally, is not an American or western monopoly. So the Chinese will have to extend their empire into Afghanistan because it is in the logic of their expansive interests. If they are inhibited in this respect, the unravelling of ambitions may set in at some stage. There is no steady state possible in empire building or in its unravelling.A marker of the change in the geopolitical environment thrown up by the turn of events in Afghanistan is how the old Sino-US unwritten consensus on sustaining Pakistan as a key regional, and even global actor, has severely weakened, if not ended altogether. The importance of this change should be appreciated. Since the 1960s, whatever differences divided China and the US, support to Pakistan was a shared objective. China never objected to US military support to Pakistan. In 1971, during the Bangladesh war, it forged a virtual alliance with the US to safeguard undivided Pakistan. This commitment to Pakistan’s security and economic viability continued thereafter, though it may have started diminishing during the past decade. The US President has yet to take a call from Pakistan’s PM. China may now have sole ownership over Pakistan and that may prove to be a mixed blessing. Instead of having to face an enduring Sino-US compact on Pakistan, the US component may have been detached and this is to India’s advantage. This takes the decoupling of India from Pakistan to the US-Pakistan decoupling and the last thing we should do is revive the India-Pakistan ‘coupling’ because of domestic political calculations.Looked at this in a longer-term perspective, the outlook for India may not be as bleak as it may seem at this time. Rather than contesting Pakistani entanglement with Afghanistan, it may well be worthwhile to emphasise its symbiotic relationship with the Taliban, leverage its own claim to be the most influential actor in Kabul, hold it responsible for the good conduct of its proteges, preventing the country from becoming a haven for a variety of Islamic jihadi groups and their threats to its neighbours. And, in turn, hold the Chinese responsible for the good behaviour of their ‘iron brothers’.India is currently in a vulnerable situation. There is likely to be an uptick in cross-border terrorism as various jihadi groups receive a psychological boost from the Taliban triumph. We must expand resources devoted to our defence and counter-terrorism capabilities. Acknowledging that J&K is likely to become the frontline in this altered security environment, there is an urgent need to restore the democratic political process in the union territory, address alienation and revive its battered economy.There is no hurry to decide on our posture towards the new dispensation in Kabul. Let us sit back and wait for the very fluid situation in that country to evolve towards some degree of clarity and stability. We should let the regional heavyweights like Iran, Russia and China acknowledge Pakistan’s central role in bringing the Taliban to power. Our diplomacy should be geared towards bringing the spotlight squarely on to Pakistan’s responsibility in keeping Afghanistan free from terrorist camps and sanctuaries, and by extension, the responsibility of the Chinese for the conduct of the Pakistani elite. Rather than accept, as some have, that the Taliban have nationalist credentials, we should do the opposite. And wait for the turn of the tortoise.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/spotlight-on-pakistan-301613
