26-08-2021||---||Caste census should be affirmative in intent||There is something weird about the current debate on ‘caste census’. You can predict who stands where if you know their stand on reservations. Those who support caste-based reservations support caste enumeration in the census. Those who oppose caste quotas are opposed to caste census.Come to think of it, isn’t it odd? Honest critics of caste-based reservations should support, indeed demand, gathering of robust caste-wise data on educational opportunities and economic conditions. If they genuinely believe that educational and job opportunities are spread evenly, or are based on economic class and not caste, they must welcome caste-wise enumeration in the census. For the census is not merely a counting exercise, it also generates data on the educational level, occupation, household assets and life expectancy for each group that it enumerates at each level that it recognises.The obverse is equally true. The most vocal beneficiaries of caste-based reservations should have much to fear from caste enumeration. Census may provide solid evidence, missing so far, that some castes are rather privileged and do not deserve to be on the OBC (officially, the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes or SEBCs) list anymore. Indeed, the famous Indra Sawhney judgment of the Supreme Court had demanded that such evidence be collected every 10 years in order to screen out the privileged castes from the benefits of reservations.Those who are neither for nor against reservations have a good reason to support caste enumeration. Such a data-set would put to rest street agitations about inclusion within OBC lists. So, if Jats or Marathas want to be included in the OBC list, they would just dip into census data and prove their ‘backwardness’. Or else, they would have to keep quiet. Over the years, this is precisely what the courts have demanded: Any reservation must be based on verifiable empirical evidence. What better evidence than the census?Not to put too fine a point: It’s plain ridiculous that a country that runs such a large affirmative action programme based on caste has failed to collect data on educational and economic profile of castes. The arguments advanced against caste census are either ill-informed, illogical or ill-intentioned.First, we are told that this would be a major reversal of our national policy, because India has never collected data on caste since 1931. This is simply not true. Since Independence, every census has collected and published jati or tribe-wise information for all communities that fall under Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. So, if you wish, you can find out for any district or block of the country, the total number of Balmikis, of those who are agricultural labourers, who own a two-wheeler, or have completed graduation. What we have not done since 1931 is a complete enumeration of all jatis.The second objection is operational — that a caste census is impossible at this stage. It all depends on what you understand by caste census. If you mean OBC enumeration, on the same lines as the current practice of SC and ST enumeration, it should cause no operational difficulties. All it would take is an additional column in the census pro forma. The list of OBC jatis does exist at the national and the state level. For this purpose, the government could pick the Central list and carry out enumeration. A full caste census, including a jati-wise break-up of all ‘upper castes’, would pose some difficulties, since we don’t have an official list of all castes in the country. This would mean extensive post-census classificatory work and may cause some delay in the release of General Caste tables. But it is a common practice that some census tables are released five or seven years after the census is completed.The third objection is that the caste census would lead to a clamour for higher quotas, and removal of the 50 per cent cap on reservations. It is possible that some enthusiasm for caste census also draws upon this false reasoning. It is fallacious since you don’t need a caste census to know that the number of OBCs is much higher than their 27 per cent quota in jobs and educational institutions. Just go back to the Mandal Commission report that estimated (erroneously over-estimated, in my view) the OBC share in the country’s population to be 52 per cent. The quota of 27 per cent was fixed as that was the maximum possible while respecting the 50 per cent cap; it has nothing to do with the population share. If the census count shows that the OBCs are around 45 per cent of the country’s population, it has no implications on their job quota. Even if it did, how can that be an argument against counting them?Finally, we are told that this latest demand by the all-party delegation is politically motivated. That is, of course, true. But that does not invalidate the demand, just as the politically motivated demand for free Covid vaccination for all does not make it wrong. The demand for OBC enumeration has been endorsed by the National Commission on Backward Classes, the parliamentary committee on the welfare of OBCs, and in the past, by the Registrar General of Census. Besides, if the support for caste census is political, so is the opposition to it. If the BJP wants to go back on its support for caste census in 2010 and its Home Minister’s announcement of OBC census in 2018, the reasons are obviously political.For someone like me, who has tracked and participated in debates about caste reservations for three decades now, there is a sense of deja vu about the current debate. It is the third decennial census where this question has come up. Every time, this legitimate demand gets presented as vote bank politics. And those who actually indulge in the insidious politics of protecting caste privileges manage to hide behind bureaucratic rationality and high-sounding rhetoric of nationalism.The last two times, 2001 and 2011, the sabotage succeeded. Will it be different this time around? Will we, at least, have OBC enumeration? Or go for a full-fledged caste census? Or, will the demand for caste census be used again to deny even OBC enumeration?Views are personal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/caste-census-should-be-affirmative-in-intent-302140
26-08-2021||---||Gail Omvedt: She gave us insight into anti-caste ideology||Gail Omvedt (August 2, 1941 – August 25, 2021)Gail Omvedt was a rare phenomenon in Indian academia and activism. Gail, who passed away on Wednesday, was an observer of the Indian social movements, participant-academic and an activist who has left us with invaluable research, documentation and academic work that no Indian academic can match.Gail was born in Minneapolis, US. She became an Indian citizen after marrying Bharat Patankar, and started living in 1978 at Kasegaon village in southern Maharashtra. She had an MA and PhD in Sociology from the University of California, Berkeley.She started her work as an activist-academic with rural women in Stri Mukti Sangharsh Calval and with the women’s front of the Shetkari Sanghatana in Maharashtra. She researched on the issues of caste, class and gender and gave an insight into the Ambedkarite and non-Brahmin movements.Her initial works were on women’s movements in the 1970s: We shall smash this prison: Indian women in struggle; Violence against women: New movements and New theories in India and Reinventing revolution; New social movements and the socialist tradition in India.After her initial work on the women’s movement, she produced her first classic in 1976: Cultural revolt in a colonial society: The non-Brahmin movement in Western India. This is one of the earliest analysis of the anti-caste movement in India by an academic with an insight into the contributions of Jyotirao Phule, Shahu Maharaj and Satyashodhak Samaj. It was rare to see a researcher going through the primary records to give us a blow-by-blow account from 1818 to 1930.Gail also told us that the non-Brahmin movement in western India faded away by the 1930s because the majority of the activists were part of the anti-caste, non-Brahmin movement and joined Congress. But she argued that this non-Brahmin assertion left a strong heritage, but failed to link with nationalism and often admitted the dominance of caste in Indian society. The anti-caste sentiment now has a revival after many years in the form of the caste census demand.Gail’s second classic contribution to our knowledge of how India evolved in a democratic process is Dalits and the Democratic Revolution: Dr Ambedkar and the Dalit movement in Colonial India (1994) which is about the emergence of Dalit movement from 1900 to 1930, which is a pre-Ambedkarite phase in Nagpur, Hyderabad, Andhra, Mysore and in the Bombay presidency. Then she researched the Dalit assertion and the democratisation of the polity, examining Gandhi, Ambedkar and the Marxists, and delved into the democratic revolution that was going on as a parallel movement from the 1930s to 1942. Her greatest contribution is an in-depth study of the areas of Mysore, Andhra Pradesh and Hyderabad. Here, she gives us a clear insight into the anti-caste ideology as a movement in India.Gail’s 100-page booklet, Dalit Visions, published by Orient Longman in 1995, gives a snapshot of the entire anti-caste and anti-untouchability movements that have evolved after the non-Brahmin movement. She conceptualised Jyotiba Phule’s ideas and how Ramabai, Tarabai and others looked at patriarchy within Hinduism. How the Dalit radical movement in the 1920s talked about the Aryan conquest, while BR Ambedkar talked about the counter-revolution. She also gives Periyar’s point of view where the national question and aspects of Delhi rule as politics were initiated by Periyar. Then she brings in the problems of feudal backwardness by analysing the Dalit Panther movement.Gail finished a 150-page biography of BR Ambedkar in 2004, but eventually moved into understanding caste, bringing across a wide range of anti-caste intellectual movements in the country, starting with Bhakti saints Namdev, Kabir, Ravidas, Tukaram and Kartabhaja. Then she focused on Phule, Ayothee Das, Ramabai, Periyar and Ambedkar for understanding the anti-caste sentiment in the country.In our process to make India a casteless society, we also need to understand the anti-caste movements that have taken place and the resistance they faced. As India moves towards fighting caste and the privileges of those who dominate the social sphere, Gail’s contribution is immense. She told us how the movements took place, starting from the women’s struggle of the 1970s, how the social struggles evolved by conceptualising them into philosophical ideas in her book Seeking Begum Pura (2008). She also visited the anti-caste assertion through Buddhism in her work Buddhism in India: Challenging Brahmanism and Caste (2003).Gail and Eleanor Zelliot (1926-2016) were the two US-born researchers who had a deep insight into India’s social and anti-caste movements. Both made Maharashtra their core academic platform and produced further research on Bhakti saints and were a part of the Marathi literary renaissance through Dalit literature. Their understanding of the Ambedkarite school spun off several researches and their ideas dominate today’s academia. Both Gail and Eleanor also influenced western academia to look into Ambedkar, Phule and the anti-caste struggle in India, resulting in immense research, including Christophe Jaffrelot’s 2004 work Dr Ambedkar and Untouchability: Analysing and Fighting Caste.Gail’s life itself spans the evolution of post-Independence social struggles in India and how they progressed or failed. Her life also tells us how the future generations can learn to fight and seek equal rights or learn from the successes and failures of anti-caste intellectuals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/gail-omvedt-she-gave-us-insight-into-anti-caste-ideology-302139
26-08-2021||---||Back to school with caution||With many states deciding to reopen educational institutions after a gap of nearly 18 months, mixed feelings of anxiety, excitement and apprehension are in the air. Students who were locked up for a long time and remained away from schools and colleges are eager to return to classrooms, while parents, especially of younger children, are anxious. Teachers, on the other hand, have a challenging task ahead trying to balance teaching with the maintenance of Covid-appropriate behaviour. Amidst all this have emerged some reports about the likelihood of a third wave in the months ahead. Given the fact that most business, economic and other activities have resumed in recent months, public health experts have supported the resumption of schools and colleges with certain suggested measures in place.The prolonged closure of schools has taken a toll on the learning capability of younger children. Though online teaching was introduced, it has its limitations. Studies have reported that young children have forgotten how to write simple words, do calculations or recognise colours and so on. Due to lack of access to digital devices or the Internet, many have dropped out. Those who could attend online classes on mobiles and laptops are also fatigued by digital education. Many schools were forced to close down as parents were not in a position to pay fees and schools had no support to keep teachers on their rolls. Scores of children have returned to farms or factories to help out their economically distressed parents. Millions are losing out on access to nutritious midday meals that used to be served in schools and anganwadis. Schools are not only places of learning and teaching but also are important for the overall personality development of children, providing them opportunities for socialisation and outdoor physical activity. Among older children, school and college closure has led to mental health problems as well.While the resumption of face-to-face educational activity is justified on so many counts, it has to be balanced with public health concerns. School closure is considered a key non-pharmaceutical intervention to prevent infections during a pandemic, along with restrictions on mass gatherings of a religious, political and social nature. The early and long-term impact of such measures on the transmission of infection, mortality etc., has to be studied. If the benefits are not substantial, prolonging such interventions is unjustified. Here, lessons from the past pandemics could come in handy, which show that the timing of school closure and reopening is critical. Premature closure does not yield any significant health benefits while classes should be resumed at an appropriate point during the pandemic.The intervention of school closure has to be considered in combination with other interventions such as vaccination as well as other non-pharmaceutical interventions. Unicef has pointed to evidence showing that primary and secondary schools are not among the main drivers of Covid-19 transmission. The UN agency has also stated that the question of opening schools should be guided by careful risk analysis and epidemiological factors in the communities where the schools are located. These decisions have to be calibrated using local and age-specific data, and not enforced based on centralised decision making. So, schools don’t need to be opened all over a state or even a district in one go.The coming weeks pose a challenge for all stakeholders — school authorities, teachers, parents and students. Their active participation and cooperation is critical in the reopening process, particularly of parents. A survey last week found that 53% parents support the opening of schools. Though this number has gone up compared to previous surveys, it means still a lot of parents are hesitant. School authorities could form committees of parents and teachers to oversee reopening as well as in decision making. While state education and health departments are issuing Standard Operating Procedure, participation of parents is necessary for enforcing these guidelines. Involving parents would allay their fears and contain the spread of false information and rumours. Holding parent-teacher meetings and engaging ASHA workers to counsel parents and elders may also help. It is also vital to ensure that teachers and non-teaching staff are fully vaccinated, and parents are also motivated to get themselves vaccinated.Schools will also have to devise new and flexible timetables to avoid crowding. Since it is not possible to effect changes in built infrastructure to provide greater ventilation, options like holding classes open wherever possible should be explored. In rural areas, school authorities should collaborate with other wings of the government health department, panchayati raj institutions to use their open areas.The pandemic has provided an opportunity to work on the long-term preparedness of educational institutions for future pandemics. Governments must invest in school health programmes. Over the years, routine health checkups have either disappeared or have been reduced to an annual ritual. The time has come to revive health infrastructure in schools, including the appointment of the full-time school nurse and psychological counsellors. For now, parents have also suggested equipping schools with basic facilities like monitoring of Covid-19 symptoms and rapid antigen test kits. Steps have to be taken to avoid overcrowding in schools. Profit-driven private schools have expanded far beyond their physical infrastructure, resulting in crowding and poor quality of education. If more children are admitted, they have to study in poor quality classrooms without basic facilities. Built infrastructure has to be redesigned keeping in mind the need for greater ventilation, light and open spaces. Appropriate lessons in health education should be included in the curriculum at all levels. For online education, basic digital infrastructure needs to be developed to take care of the special needs of those on the other side of the digital divide. It will also require reskilling of teachers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/back-to-school-with-caution-302138
