27-08-2021||---||Oil bonds as bad as recapitalisation bonds||When Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman was asked why the excise duty on fuels like petrol and diesel remained high, with the price paid by the consumer rising inordinately, she refused to lower the duties. Instead, she passed the blame on to the previous governments, pointing a finger at the earlier UPA regime.It was the oil bonds issued earlier which were the villain of the piece, she averred. If those bonds did not have to be serviced (their principal and interest accrued repaid), then she could have reduced the excise duty. “I am paying through my nose for the oil bonds,” she asserted somewhat dramatically.She is right but not quite fair. Oil bonds are only half the story. In 2017, the NDA government, when Arun Jaitley was the Finance Minister, committed the same sin, of issuing the PSB (public sector banks) recapitalisation bonds. Subsequent governments will have to pay for them through their nose as the present government is doing on account of the oil bonds. Sitharaman has lost the moral high ground that she was seeking on account of the oil bonds because of the recapitalisation bonds.Now details of the two-part story. The oil bonds were issued between 2004 and 2011 during the time when fuel prices were controlled in order to prevent the burden of the then prevailing sky high global fuel prices (crossing $100 per barrel) falling on the shoulders of the consumers. The oil marketing companies had to be compensated for the losses they were suffering on account of their government-dictated low selling prices. The government had, till then, been doing this by simply paying them out of the exchequer, which raised the budget and the fiscal deficit.Then the government devised a way of eating the cake and having it too. It would reimburse the oil companies and not raise its deficits by issuing them bonds, essentially IOUs. The companies would monetise these and recoup their cash losses. But the government, at a later date, would have to foot the bill — pay the interest that accrued on the bonds, and eventually, retire them on maturity by repaying the principal sum it had borrowed. On the Rs 1.3 lakh crore oil bonds that were issued, the interest payments would stretch from 2007 till 2026 and the principal would mainly be repaid during 2024-26.Now let us turn to 2017. The then Finance Minister Arun Jaitley had to pump fresh equity into the public sector banks as their equity had fallen below the minimum prescribed by the Reserve Bank of India to go on functioning. The banks had to write off their books, rising levels of bad debt by adjusting them against the capital held.But instead of subscribing to fresh capital of the banks by paying out of its own revenue, the NDA government issued over Rs 2.5 lakh crore of bank recapitalisation bonds. For this, right now, the present government is paying annually an interest of Rs 19,000 crore (twice what it is paying for the oil bonds) and the principal repayment will stretch till 2034.Now let us come back to the issue of current high fuel prices made so because, as the government has said, it has to service the oil bonds issued by the earlier government. But here comes a big catch. The Rs 10,000 crore being paid by the government on oil bonds is much smaller than what the government makes cumulatively through fuel excise duties. So, the whole truth of the matter is that the government is levying high fuel prices in order to not just be able to service the oil bonds but also to raise additional revenue.So, raising enough revenue in order to keep the budget and fiscal deficits low is sacrosanct, isn’t it? Well, not quite! Despite the need for revenue, the government had cut excise duties on fuel during 2017 and 2018, before the Assembly elections.Well, the villain of the piece then is the need for the Central Government to raise enough revenue, isn’t it? Yes and no. There is one other villain. The state governments also make good money out of fuel taxes, both as their share of divisible revenue and state VAT, but the Centre makes much more. How? Partly through the device of declaring some imports as cess, whose proceeds do not have to be shared with the states.Before the fuel prices were decontrolled, they would be kept low for consumers by government fiat and the deficits (under-recoveries) booked by the oil marketing companies were compensated by the government through payments from general revenues. The government would get a respite when the global oil prices went low and oil marketing companies did not book a deficit.Under the present system, when consumers pay high fuel prices because of high global prices, they should get a respite when prices run low. But that has not happened. Last year, the excise duty was hiked by over 50 per cent to mop up the space opened up when international oil prices fell sharply as demand dropped, owing to the pandemic-induced lockdowns across the world. This gave the government a revenue bonanza.Now let us look at the actual mechanism the government uses to handle the recapitalisation bonds so that its fiscal deficit is not affected. Banks set to receive the bonds are asked to buy them on issue. As soon as the government receives the proceeds, it uses them to inject fresh capital into the banks. So, at that moment, there is no movement of revenue on the government’s books. Then, as and when interest and principal payment on the bonds become due, they are paid out of the government’s coffers.By issuing bonds, the governments are postponing a revenue outgo by using an accounting device. When the payment date finally comes, it will have to be made. But when the bond issue decision is taken, that date is far away and politicians who cannot look beyond the next elections pass the burden on to the government of the future, whoever it may be.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/oil-bonds-as-bad-as-recapitalisation-bonds-302493
27-08-2021||---||US exit spells fear, uncertainty for Afghans||US President Joe Biden has asserted that the August 31 deadline for the American withdrawal from Afghanistan will not be extended despite the urging of his major NATO allies who wanted more time to evacuate their troops and citizens working in the war-ravaged country. This Biden decision was resolute, notwithstanding the fact that the proposed evacuation of thousands of US-NATO personnel, foreign nationals and Afghan citizens is unlikely to be completed by August 31.The images that have been beamed from Kabul with thousands of desperate Afghan nationals trying to enter the airport with or without travel documents is testimony to an unfolding human tragedy whose scale is yet to be fathomed for this is only the first phase. The August 31 exit from Kabul will be recalled as a temporal punctuation of profound significance and tainted connotation for the US-led alliance that embarked on the global war on terror (GWOT) in October 2001.Two decades later, the same Taliban who were ousted from Kabul and ‘bombed into the Stone Age’ have wrested power in the most unexpected manner and are now engaged in political negotiations with the global community. They have the tacit backing of two of the five permanent members of the UN Security Council and this was reflected in the mild and watered-down statements adopted by the UN Human Rights Council on August 24.The hasty US withdrawal is confounding and projects the image of an inept and bruised America that fumbled and stumbled its way out of Afghanistan after 20 years, in the most unseemly and unplanned manner after expending considerable treasure and human lives.The irony is that after ousting Taliban 1.0 in 2002, US-led external aid, including that by India, enabled Afghanistan to improve many of its human security indicators — particularly for women and girls and an improvement in per capita GDP and infant mortality. However, the attempt at nurturing a credible and participatory democratic ethos floundered on the deeply embedded tribal rivalries and ethnic discord, distinctive to Afghanistan, and the final collapse was symbolised by the manner in which the Afghan President Ashraf Ghani fled his country and the security forces melted away even as the Taliban moved into Kabul with not a shot being fired.Thus the abiding perception of the hasty US exit is that it has left the country with little or no substantive gains. Thousands of Afghan citizens were also killed and injured in the long drawn out GWOT which also witnessed numerous acts of state-sponsored terrorism involving different Taliban factions that ruthlessly targeted minorities across the country and also attacked the Indian embassy in Kabul. For many Afghan citizens, the Taliban remains a dreaded entity and their desperation to flee their country has been sadly captured in a recent image of young Afghans falling to their death from the under-carriage of a US military aircraft as it was taking off from Kabul in the most chaotic and dangerous circumstances. The other image is that of a traumatised Afghan mother handing over her baby to a US soldier across an airport barrier in the fond hope that the child would be evacuated to safety.Could this exit from Kabul have been conducted differently and in a more competent manner? The answer is an unambiguous yes and many perplexing questions arise. The fact that the USA would leave Afghanistan was formally announced in 2020 by the Trump administration. To that extent, President Biden inherited a major policy decision that he chose not to review or reverse — as he did with the Paris climate accord. Be that as it may — having concluded that the Taliban would take over Kabul soon, why did the US and NATO not draw up detailed exit plans for their personnel (uniformed and civilian) and ensure the disposal of sizable military inventory?Many rounds of talks were held with the Taliban in the course of the year — and it was evident that the USA and the NATO allies would exit Afghanistan before September 11 — the 20th anniversary of 9/11. Under the circumstances, it appears that the lead time of many months was not utilised appropriately to prepare for a planned evacuation of Afghan nationals who had worked with the US and NATO forces and whose personal security would be in jeopardy under a Taliban dispensation.This number is estimated to be about 60,000 and with family members included, this is in the range of 300,000 individuals who would need contingency plans for an exit from Afghanistan. This did not happen, as the last minute issue of travel documents turned into a tragedy in the human cascade that swarmed towards the US military aircraft. Furthermore, the quiet and almost furtive US exit from its main air base in Bagram — north of Kabul on July 2 is incomprehensible — given the scale of theevacuation that had to be undertaken a few weeks later.Hypothetically, had Bagram been retained and kept operational till the last of the US and NATO troops had left Afghanistan — the current chaos and desperation could have been reduced considerably. Evacuation of a large number of individuals who are vulnerable or stranded for different reasons by airlift is an arduous challenge and war zones are that much more hazardous.Under the circumstances, the sheer volume of numbers evacuated by the US military in a single day (Wednesday) — upwards of 80,000 — is a commendable achievement. But the vast numbers of those Afghans evacuated and the compressed timelines have made the long journey from Kabul to Doha and onwards to Texas a logistic nightmare. Even as the August 31 deadline comes closer, the Taliban has declared that Afghan citizens will not be allowed to get to the Kabul airport and the US in turn seems to have prioritised its own nationals and green card holders, while President Biden has stated that the ISIS could mount a terror attack.Fear and uncertainty swirls in the air. The Kabul airport is not the entirety of Afghanistan and the Taliban is also pawing in the air. The 20th anniversary of 9/11 could not have been more bleak and chaotic than what is now unspooling in Kabul.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/us-exit-spells-fear-uncertainty-for-afghans-302492
27-08-2021||I dislike any form of religious extremism and extremists of all persuasions. Blind faith spells danger for people who think and argue||The return of Taliban||The Taliban is anathema to me. It is also anathema to many Afghans who had grown up in the last 20 years of US presence and domination in their not-easily governed country. Students, women and sportsmen come first to mind. They flowered in these two decades. They tasted the freedom that liberal democracies offered and they liked what they saw and what they experienced. The girls, in particular, shed their outsized tents that passed off as burqas, restricting their movements. They took to schooling in a big way, became doctors and lawyers, got elected to what we in India call Legislative Assemblies, sought and succeeded in obtaining jobs as TV news anchors and even formed an Afghan women's football team!All that has vanished with the departure of the Americans and the simultaneous entry of the Taliban. The very mention of the word ‘Taliban’ induces fear. Even though the Taliban has proclaimed that Taliban 2.0 will be different, not many Afghans believe them. The memory of their earlier rule still lingers ominously in their mind’s eye.In their approach to the Taliban, western democracies have chosen caution, so has India. We have decided to wait and watch, a decision that was readily taken in the absence of other options. The great majority of our countrymen, employed or doing business in Afghanistan, are anxious to exit that country and return home. A great many have done so already. They are the lucky ones, evacuated by the IAF or Indian airlines. They went through a trying time, full of adventure and anxiety. Their tales will reverberate with their children and grandchildren before they go off the storytelling grid.Some Afghan nationals have managed to leave their country to escape from the clutches of the Taliban. They are those whose services were used by the US and other embassies for logistical needs. They had become a part of the ethos of the embassies they served and got accustomed to the goodies those countries provided. In short, they had a taste of the good life, certainly a better life than they were accustomed to.The US will probably accommodate those who worked for them in their immigration quotas. The UK has also promised British citizenship to a few. Other democracies will follow suit. So, what about India? Our Afghan connection harkens back to the time of Tagore’s Kabuliwala, or even earlier. In fact, a small Afghan settlement has taken root in Kolkata over the past few decades. In Delhi, we have many more Afghan nationals staying for many years.Union minister Hardeep Puri has cited the present crisis in Afghanistan as justification for the CAA legislated by Parliament in 2019. Since the Act was enacted two years before Taliban 2.0, it cannot be counted as justification for the CAA. Puri may boast of a brilliant ‘forecast’ of probabilities, but the Act is applicable to only those who entered India before 2014!Hindu and Sikh traders whose forebears had settled in Afghanistan decades ago were also evacuated by our Air Force. Some Afghans who follow the Islamic faith were also among the rescued. They were locals who had helped our embassy or other agencies in supplies and logistics. They would be sitting ducks in the emirate once the Taliban settle down! How are they going to be treated by our present government? Here, too, we can only play the watching game!These Afghans and the Afghan students now studying in our universities, the Afghan military cadets at present undergoing training at the IMA, Dehradun; the OTA, Chennai; and the NDA, Khadakwasla; as well as the police officers training at the NPA, Hyderabad, need sympathetic consideration devoid of religious bias. We have to rise to the occasion, adopting the secular approach of the US, Canada and Europe. The CAA may need course correction! A great Hindu country like ours cannot let Hinduism down.To a comparatively uninformed citizen whose knowledge of happenings in Afghanistan is founded entirely on newspapers and the television, the biggest problem the Taliban will face is money to run their administration. The Afghans employed in the US-sponsored government were paid with American assistance. That will not be available now. Smuggling of narcotics and arms has always been a source of income in the countryside. If smuggling routes are effectively sealed, the Taliban will be in big trouble.The Taliban’s immediate endeavour will be to get other nations to recognise its government. That will not be easy. China and Russia, besides Pakistan, of course, will be ready. Pakistan is almost bankrupt. Only China is economically capable of propping up a nascent emirate which lacks domain experts to run a state.I presume China with its Belt and Road Initiative will be interested in wielding influence in its own backyard. It has the support of Pakistan, whose sole interest is to use the Taliban and its religious zealots to inflict the ‘thousand cuts’ on us. China will certainly not mind that!The Taliban have made some conciliatory statements about Indian infrastructure initiatives in their country (we have invested $3 billion), but our leaders will ‘wait and watch’. The dice is certainly loaded against us after the Americans left. The Chinese will probably pick up the slack left by us. We now have the Chinese to watch besides our neighbour to the west. The going will be tough.The goalposts keep changing every few days and will continue to do so till the Taliban consolidate their hold on the country. The various factions and the numerous warlords will keep the situation fluid. Rumours, not confirmed, suggest that the Taliban have declared August 31 as the last day for ‘foreigners’ (including Indians) to leave the country. If true, such orders will complicate evacuation plans.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-return-of-taliban-302491
