28-08-2021||---||Ethnic divisions may queer the pitch for Taliban||A week since the Taliban coup against the NATO-supported Ghani government, there was no formal announcement of an Emir, a supreme leader, president, prime minister, supreme council or ministers. Only on the ninth day, some non-formal announcements were made for three important ministries. The Arg Presidential Palace’s Twitter account remains offline and there are no pictures of the Taliban hoisting their flag atop the palace or parliament. Contrary to expectations, the much anticipated killings and incidents of vile behaviour with women, music and sports are few and far between. However, the fear of the Taliban and its reputation of the ’90s have kept the momentum going in its favour.Despite its current reign over popular imagination, that of a unified whole, united under an Islamic goal, Taliban is not a unitary organisation. It is a collation of a large number of local militia, banded together on ethnic/tribal lines.The Helmandis were reported to have taken over the Ministry of Finance on August 17, reflecting their desire to control that ministry, possibly in order to facilitate their control of opium and heroin production in Helmand — the largest producer of opium in Afghanistan. Surprisingly, a week later, Helmandis were appointed, not just as Finance, but also as Ministers of Interior and Defence. This tilts the balance between the rustic, rural, opium-rich Helmandis and the militarily superior Haqqanis. There are also contradictory reports of Helmandis/Kandaharis and Haqqanis taking over control of the security of Kabul, both sets of factions not very keen to cooperate on sharing the spoils of war. This regionalisation, added to ethnic factionalism, makes this coalition very difficult to build.There is another set of divisions, that of history and ‘experience’. The Haqqanis are the oldest fighters, with real ties to the al-Qaeda and with military experience since the 1980s, while some from the south are youngsters who were children during 2001. A large element contributing to hierarchy and respect is also due to the glory of being UN-designated and having survived for several years despite a large bounty on each designated head. This factor has clearly provided a thick edge to the military wing, over the Doha political wing.There are reports of women being told to stay at home in Kabul, Helmand and Herat and not go to work or to school/college, contrary to the original announcement of Zabiullah Mujahid (spokesperson) on August 16, while he overturned that statement (August 24) saying women were asked to temporarily stay away. This was exacerbated by the presence of Ghani’s woman Minister of Education at a meeting on August 24. The Haqqanis, Wardakis and Logari factions are vocal in asking women to work and study as they were doing pre-August 15. The Pashtun factions seem to be at cross-purpose on the subject at a time when jubilation over winning the war should have set aside differences.Just as governments all over the world look to provide representation to all races, ethnicities and regions, it is a moot question as to how the spoils will be distributed between the Pashtun tribes, the major ones being Durrani and Ghiljai, while the other groups from Jalalabad and Nuristan have also raised their demands. These wouldn’t include those manning the check-points on highways and in small towns, already collecting ‘taxes’ and implementing unknown and undeclared rules.The key differences that appear to be emerging are on policy with regard to women, education, narcotics, source of riches and China, despite its vicious violations of the rights of Uyghur Muslims, an anathema to an Islamic Emirate.Then there is the question of whether the Taliban can be believed. One comment stands out in an overview of the mass of videos available on the social media, that of Crystal Bayat, an Afghan women’s rights activist, who was outspoken in leading a demonstration on August 19, to retain the Afghan flag. She recounted an incident during the protest, “every Talib was saying, for only 20 days, you guys are free”.This would imply September 7 as the end-date for freedom, closer to when the Americans are expected to have exfiltrated all citizens and special immigrant visa (SIV) holders. This date would also be close to the iconic date — 9/11. Declaring victory over a superpower on that date would offer similar Islamist movements, in Africa and Asia, symbolism and motivation, something that the Indian security regime needs to watch out for. This symbolism, if amplified in social media, could be similar to Baghdadi’s speech of Mosul in 2014.Multiple other schisms are emerging, including the absence of representation of the northerners, the Tajiks, Uzbeks and Hazaras — main beneficiaries of the past two decades and with a large presence in Kabul’s 5-6 million population. The more the Taliban beat common people on the streets with chains and with every single wanton killing, they are to be seen as an occupational force by these segments, making their victory tenuous.Hamid Karzai and Abdullah Abdullah are sustaining well in negotiations, as seen from the photographs of them meeting Kabul’s acting Governor Abdul Rehman Mansoor on August 21 and a delegation of intellectuals from the Panjshir Valley, as also including women and children from their families in the photographs. This does imply a clear messaging of inclusion from the Taliban leadership, obviously due to international and Pakistani pressures. However, some observers refer to these two prominent personalities as under house arrest.All these inherent contradictions are confused with Pakistan’s interests in Afghanistan, which promise to make the formation of a government very difficult, leave alone its continuance. Pakistan is clearly focused on an inclusive government, concerned that the Pashtun versus others sentiment must not emerge, else its original concern, that of an independent Pakhtunistan, will cause it serious bother.Some experts are of the view that discussions on government formation are focused on leaving security, defence and religious affairs to the Taliban, while those with experience in civil governance, members of the Karzai/Abdullah group, could possibly handle infrastructure, development and foreign affairs. However, this view is based on the fact that after the departure of Westerners, Taliban will forget the blood that it shed, a memory rarely forgotten in tribal Afghanistan. The killing of the ex-commander of Kabul, after he had surrendered, bears testimony to the need for revenge in Afghan society. As factional negotiations continue, the words of Dr Mike Martin of the Department of War Studies, King’s College, London, sound a note of caution: “What allowed the Taliban to take over — a series of local deals along tribal lines — may well stop them from forming the political coalition necessary to form a government.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/ethnic-divisions-may-queer-the-pitch-for-taliban-302996
28-08-2021||---||Vanquished US has lost face, credibility||The 20-year Afghan war (2001-21) between the US, its allies and the Taliban was the longest in the past two centuries in the landlocked Pashtun-Tajik-Uzbek land, lying at the junction of South Asia, Central Euro-Asia and Arab-land. The three Anglo-Afghan Wars were comparatively of a shorter duration while the fourth war with the Soviets lasted a decade (1979-89).Understandably, the world faces the post-war trauma of the human catastrophe in Afghanistan, the very name of which makes a majority of the nations wary owing to more of being ‘impression-fed’ and less of dissemination of ‘credible information’. Thus, while most nations had thought war to be a necessity in 2001, few possibly could have had foreseen its consequences. Fewer could possibly have further imagined the cost of war for those wealthy nations who dreamt of a cakewalk in an unforgiving terrain of perennial inaccessibility and formidable logistics.Today, therefore, is not the day to analyse either the ongoing violence in Kabul or the inevitable parricide in Panjshir because the present wave of chaotic combat is too fast to assess and the scenario too fluid to click. It’s time to ponder the price paid for monumental blunders, catastrophic failures and astronomical fatalities leading to the present plight.The main actor is the vanquished US which initiated the war. The US has not only been routed and incurred sky-high expenditure, it has also lost face, honour and credibility. The West-led coalition doesn’t have any place to hide because it was a 48-nation force against decentralised units of men hailing from the rural terrain for whom even the best of times were “solitary, poor, nasty, brutish and short”. For several hundred years, Afghanistan has been a geography of murderous polity and inter/intra-tribal rivalry. Yet, it’s been a nation with its own honour, self-respect and identity. It’s been a bewildering mixture of pride and prejudice, usually expressing agony and anger, perilously oscillating between civil war and war.One, therefore, should recall the stark death figures of the 20-year war, through April 2021: 2,448 US and 66,000 Afghan soldiers and policemen; 3,846 US military contractors; 1,144 NATO state soldiers; 47,245 Afghan civilians; 51,191 Taliban and other opposition warriors; 444 aid workers and 72 media men (The Boston Globe, August 17, 2021). It’s further reported that the amount the US has committed to pay for the healthcare, disability, burial and other costs for approximately four million Afghans and other veterans came to $2 trillion. Lesson? The wars end, costs don’t.Did the US expect the outcome of such battering in 2021 when they landed in Afghanistan, along with British forces for Operation Enduring Freedom to fight the “war on terror”, on Sunday, October 7, 2001? It was a heady start by the US when it received unprecedented international support. On September 12, 2001, the UN Security Council unanimously expressed its unequivocal condemnation of terror attacks and stated its “determination to combat by all means threats to international peace and security caused by terrorist acts”.Expectedly thereafter came the logic and justification from the US. In a televised address to the state (and world), President Bush declared the proposed act by the US, formally justifying the plan, referred to as “the exercise of its inherent right of individual and collective defence” in accordance with Article 51 of the UN Charter, “designed to prevent and deter further attacks on the US”. The world virtually unanimously accepted the US justification and logic.The longest war began with a bang. It has now ended with a whimper as the mighty military of the superpower left the Kabul airport at dead of night without even informing those hosts who belonged to the soil and shed blood, sweat, toils and tears, jointly with the alien Americans even after incurring hostility and the displeasure of their brethren who were vehemently opposed to the presence of foreign troops in Afghanistan.So, has the longest war ended? Yes, on paper. But a ferocious Afghan civil war looms large. The fault lines of tribal rivalry of Afghans are too deeply embedded to be forgotten or forgiven. All the more as the gun-loving Pashtun-dominated Taliban have got hold of the state armoury owing to the collapse of the Afghan forces and the departure of American soldiers.How can the Taliban, which fought for 20 long years against its own countrymen, ‘collaborating’ with 48-nation forces on Afghan soil, turn soldiering to sainthood? The Military Balance (2021) figures are revealing. “Afghanistan army’s 171,500 has melted. Its seven corps evaporated (201st, 203rd, 205th, 207th, 209th, 215th, 217th and 111th Capital Division). There were Russian-made 44 T-55/T-62 Main Battle Tanks; 1,013 armoured personnel carriers; 775 towed artillery/mortar; engineering and maintenance vehicles like armoured recovery vehicles/mines”. Plus, there were air-launched missiles; laser-guided bombs; 34 combat capable aircraft; attack/medium range helicopters and transport”. All withered away, only to fall in the hands of the victorious Taliban.In this situation, which Taliban leader will resist the temptation of not calling a spade a spade to a challenger (legal or otherwise) after having won such a bumper lottery of modern weapons? Also, when the Taliban have the open backing of the Communist Party of China and the Pakistani Army-ISI duo at its disposal, it may be well nigh impossible for the gun-loving leadership not to make its “best use” to give a “finishing” touch to the unfinished mission.That the West is in disarray is indisputable. Hence, the distraught Tony Blair, the former British premier who partnered with Bush to initiate the October 7, 2001, “war on terror” on Afghan land, today refers to the Biden-led US withdrawal from Kabul as ‘imbecilic’. Blair blurted out: “The world is now uncertain of where the West stands... decision to withdraw driven not by grand strategy but by politics.” Who’s right or wrong, Blair or Biden, only time will tell. But today, the victor, whether one likes it or not, is the terrorist Taliban and the anti-terrorist US-led multi-nation forces is the vanquished.The international security assistance force, led by the US since 2007, consisted of around 1,31,000 troops from 20 NATO and 28 non-NATO nations (The Military Balance, 2011). Ten years have gone, and yet? All, including the Afghan National Army, trained and equipped by the best of the West, has melted away? Why? The future will reveal this one day surely. As of now, however, it’s the Taliban all over. Though America’s direct role in Afghanistan appears to be over, another new civil war looks likely. Afghanistan’s problems always increase post-war.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/vanquished-us-has-lost-face-credibility-302995
28-08-2021||Is it a tragedy of errors — an inept||Engaging the Kabul-walas||The signs were all there for those who could read them: the Doha talks legitimised Taliban leaders even while many of them were designated terrorists in global watch lists; the talks were meant to deal with them as stakeholders for eventual participation in the government; the appalling absence of a calendar of withdrawal without an interim government involving Taliban and the Afghan forces meant that there would be complete confusion; as late as last month, US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said that Pakistan has a vital role in Afghanistan.Intended or not, the Taliban regime has now become a fait accompli and the Western governments are bending over backwards to make them look reasonable. Nick Carter, UK’s Chief of Defence Staff, terms them “country boys with honour at their heart”. Though Blinken had insisted that a Taliban government would be treated as a pariah state if the power grab is done forcibly, none other than the CIA chief, William Burns, himself flew down to Kabul to meet Taliban leader Abdul Ghani Baradar to offer legitimacy to the new regime. Meanwhile, Carter has given the clean chit to Pakistan — the new Afghan arbiter for the US-UK combine — saying that there are no safe havens for terrorists in Pakistan. He obviously seems to have forgotten the Abbottabad guest facility offered to a certain Osama bin Laden in whose name the Afghan war and occupation began in the first place.The Indian government refuses to see these red flags as it is still being blindly led by the US’ Afghan policy. If a bomb can kill 110 people, including 13 US troops, while the Taliban are facilitating the withdrawal and evacuation of foreign nationals and their support staff from Kabul, it portends a violent, uncertain future for the region. The Islamist international project can be aimed at the Chinese Xinjiang province, the Russian enclaves with Muslim population and most importantly, Jammu and Kashmir. If it required the active participation of former US diplomat Robin Raphel in 1993, after the first Afghan jihad, to set up an Islamist separatist apparatus in Srinagar, it does not need any overground facilitation any longer — the many deadly variants of the Islamic State (one of which is being blamed for Thursday’s Kabul blast) can easily reproduce sleeper cells anywhere from Kashmir to Kanyakumari.So, the Indian establishment has to drop its US goggles and rethink its Afghan strategy. If India puts all its eggs in the US basket, nothing stops the Americans from offering a fluffy omelette to the ISI and its bearded acolytes in suicide vests. After all, before Blinken’s India visit, US President Joe Biden had offered a Quad comprising Pakistan, Afghanistan, Uzbekistan and the US. The choice of the term Quad appeared to be aimed at a balancing act to offset the Indo-Pacific Quad, which India has been tom-tomming as a major military shield against China. If the US is planning a Quad for every season, with even the Taliban in it, India would have to review its last 30 years’ diplomacy. Another easier and alliterative way out is to examine the possibility of a Quad with Russia, Iran, Tajikistan and India in it. The US withdrawal from Afghanistan is heralding a multi-polar world where everybody needs to talk to everyone and open all channels of mutual benefit. India had done well to have struck the S-400 missile deal with Russia, underscoring its independent foreign policy and commitment towards its old ally. In the 50th year of Indo-Soviet friendship treaty, India needs to renew its ties with Russia for peace in Central Asia.But the first step is obviously to reopen the embassy in Kabul. There is no point in quibbling about reopening and recognition of the new regime. It was only because Indian officials negotiated with the Taliban that the Ambassador and his staff could catch the first flight home. If they have to talk to the Taliban to save the skin of Indian diplomats, they should talk to the new regime to help all the Indians still stranded in Kabul and also to safeguard our interests in that country and the region. This cannot be achieved without a certain presence in Kabul. If William Burns can fly down to Kabul, nothing stops Indian officials from meeting Baradar. So what if they are Pakistan’s proxies? They need not remain so forever.Many Indian officials feel that the Taliban would be happy to engage with India and that this is the only way forward to secure Indian interests. The Taliban spokesperson, while hailing Pakistan as their second home, said that they seek good relations with India. In this context, to have an isolationist approach extending India’s Pakistan policy towards Afghanistan can only be self-defeating. Indian officials could not foresee the logic of the closure of the Bagram US air base or the fleeing of Ashraf Ghani, but now they need to understand the quickly unfolding events in Kabul and become a participant at the earliest. India’s over $3 billion investment, Bollywood’s cultural capital and the people-to-people ties should not be squandered away in the face of adversity or uncertainty. After all, what has ever been certain about life in poor post-colonial communities?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/engaging-the-kabul-walas-302994
