29-08-2021||When the end was nigh||Leave Chopra alone, please||Neeraj Chopra, even at the prime of his health, has known sporting mortality — he suffered a very serious elbow injury and underwent surgery at age 21. Now 23, he’s a top athlete who knows what it takes to win a global medal — he, thus, knows more than the rest of us put together exactly where he stands in his sport. Since 2000, three times the Olympics gold was won by javelin throwers with throws in excess of 90 metres. At the Tokyo Olympics, the favourite was Johannes Vetter, who has a personal best of 97.76 metres. Chopra won gold with a throw of 87.58 metres. The Panipat lad knows that many of his contemporaries have thrown the javelin farther than him. Elite athletes daily strive for improvement — something we commoners, living and wallowing in the rut, cannot fathom.Metaphorically speaking, Chopra has scaled Mount Everest — gold at the Olympics. In terms of sporting achievement, that’s the ultimate feat; in terms of improvement in technique and distance, though, gold at Tokyo is just a very important landmark — it’s a bridge he would have loved to cross, and he did cross it at a relative young age. But there would be more such bridges along the way — the Paris Olympics in 2024 or the Los Angeles Olympics in 2028 or the Brisbane Olympics in 2032 — before Chopra’s journey is done.Chopra wants to climb Mount Everest again, at Paris three years from now. He wants to throw the javelin farther than 87.58 metres, his gold-winning mark in Tokyo, or 88.07m, his personal best. He wants to become the world champion and he wants to go past the 90-metre mark, a place only a handful of men have gone before him.The life of a top athlete — as Usain Bolt or Johannes Vetter would vouch — is unimaginably hard. Why are we making things harder for Chopra, the only Indian athlete who can compete with the elite of global athletics? Why the controversy over his remark that his own javelin was with Pakistan’s thrower Arshad Nadeem before Chopra’s first throw in the final in Tokyo?For those ignorant of the rules, Chopra clarified that all throwers are allowed to use a spear belonging to any thrower at these events; he appealed to ‘fans’ to not use his off-the-cuff and harmless remark for their purposes of propaganda. It’s sad that he had to make this appeal. This is one more reminder that we must keep sport and nationalism apart — easier said than done, for sport is an old tool to build self-image and use as propaganda. Perhaps we need to go out and start playing: That would make us more sporting as a people and teach us about the transience and brevity of sporting careers.Chopra has ended his 2021 because of exhaustion due to a packed schedule — a series of felicitations and celebrations and illness have cut short his competition season. It’s not ideal for an athlete, who thrives on competition.Roger Federer, the closest to a sporting artist we have seen in a generation, has turned 40. Two years ago, at close to 38, he was one point away from his 21st Grand Slam title. Injuries and surgeries blighted his 2020.In Federer once existed the highest beauty of the human form: grace in movement, effortless shot-making, inventiveness others could only dream of. But time has acquainted even him with the inevitable unpleasantness of the human existence — aches and degradation of the body.Chopra, too, hears the ticking of the clock. Let us leave him in peace and let him be the best he can be.Also Read: Pakistan player did no wrong, asserts Neeraj Chopra||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/leave-chopra-alone-please-303461
29-08-2021||There is a motivating story often related in the Army about camaraderie and courage. Perhaps it’s of WW-I vintage but similar incidents have happened in most regiments and hence each has its own apocryphal version. The tale goes that after an attack was beaten back and the company commander was planning on the future course||We are like this only, daring as ever||In my own unit, there have been incidents where individuals have willingly dived into danger to rescue a comrade or redeem honour.On commissioning, I joined my unit (in N-E), which had recently lost 21 troops in an ambush. One standout account was the bravery of a surviving JCO. As the convoy reached a road bend, undergrounds (UGs), laying ambush, opened murderous fire. The initial burst claimed most casualties. The JCO was also hit in the leg and could have crawled to safety in the shrubs along the road. Instead, he took cover and singlehandedly kept the insurgents at bay by firing at them, thus preventing any loss of weapons. When later asked on why he didn’t take cover and awaited reinforcements, he said, “Sir, we had already lost so many, I could not countenance the ignominy of loss of weapons!”The unit was deployed along the Line of Control in J&K where infiltration attempts were common. In one such incident, a few terrorists attempting to infiltrate were detected. As the troops fired, the terrorists tried to retreat. In the ensuing firefight, all were eliminated. In the morning, it was noticed that one jawan was lying wounded, in the open, at a place where he could be seen and fired upon by the enemy. Approaching him was hazardous as the route was exposed to the enemy. While the course of action was being contemplated, the jawan’s young company commander, without permission, dashed forward alone to extricate the injured jawan. He managed to reach him safely but by then the enemy had noticed the movement. It let loose fire of all its weapons on both of them. There was no cover and while all watched with bated breath, the company commander made a shield with his bullet-proof jacket against the fire, protecting the injured jawan and himself. For hours the enemy kept firing and what separated this duo from certain death was the jacket. He did manage to recover the injured jawan a few hours later.“Kyon keeta (why)?” he was asked. “Sir, he was my company boy,” was the response.During Op Parakram, we were deployed on the IB. Each morning jawans would climb the 50-60 foot high observation towers to look into enemy area, and descend after last light. The enemy would do similar activity: it was an unwritten code that towers would not be targeted. One day, however, the enemy started firing at one of our towers at last light. It was dark and the enemy’s intermittent firing was raining on the tower, targeting the stairs. We encouraged the two jawans on top to make a dash down during a firing lull, but they were obviously apprehensive. We kept trying for an hour, but in vain. Suddenly, their platoon havildar ran up the stairs and reached the jawans. We heard him cursing the boys loudly and ordering them to climb down. All this amongst relentless enemy fire. Goaded by him, they rushed down safely and he followed last. After congratulating him, I asked why? “Saab, apne munde thode marvane si (Sir, I couldn’t let my boys die).”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/we-are-like-this-only-daring-as-ever-303462
29-08-2021||“Do you think this home is a hotel?” This is a rhetorical question that confounded my brothers and me in our young adult years. Sometimes it came as a statement||This house is not a hotel & other common lies of parenting||Many years later, after experiencing the luxuries of staying at hotels, I want my children to treat our home like a hotel. Which means that I want the home to be as comfortable, welcoming, and mindful a space as any other place where we would pay money to put up our feet, be smiled at and feel pampered. Home as a hotel without staff. A place where the light is mellow, the colours soothing, the bathrooms smell nice and there are many options of what to eat next.More importantly, home as a place where you return to rest. Where you can act out your anxieties and express pent-up feelings safely. Where you can explore the multiple ideas of who you may be. Where you can make a mess and own it. Where you can rebel and despair. Be depressed, and then recover. Create art, music and other useless things without judgment. Where you are not weighed down by ever-changing expectations that you can never meet.I realise that the privilege that makes it possible for me to imagine and create a luxurious environment within one’s home has been gifted to us by the same parents whose voice in my head still guides me, and sometimes rebukes me when I slip too far down in my work-from-home chair. “Seedhey baitho, beta, kubrey hona hai kya?” Sit up child, unless you plan to be a hunchback soon.I also realise that every generation needs to take responsibility to update the internalised voice of the critical parent in themselves. So many of us recycle outdated norms of parenting without paying attention to how much circumstances have changed and how regressive and harmful the norms were in the first place.So many of the injunctions we repeat mindlessly as harried parents stem from patriarchal structures that do not honour the work of women, disallow us from calling out injustices, give a free pass to bullying elders and dumb down the children — shaming them for being spontaneous, curious and their own unique selves.“You entered the kitchen and my roti got ruined,” mothers often snap at children when they are in the middle of executing a multi-course meal for an extended family without the support they need from others. “Your father cannot concentrate unless you stay away from him,” children hear repeatedly as they slink back to make themselves small and invisible in their own homes.Repeated enough times, this becomes a toxic dynamic between the parent and the child. In reality, it is an expression borne out of the frustration of an unsupported parent, unable to ask for help and trapped in an unforgiving, extractive system.“I have made you, I can break you too,” my friend’s mother used to say to her three sons as she tried to train them to support her to run the family restaurant that was their main source of income. Aunty was a warrior. She needed to be. She couldn’t afford to be seen as weak or soft. Now she lives by herself and when I ask her how she is doing, she often repeats, “After all, a person is finally defeated by their own children.”Her son is still struggling to find a place where he can be accepted by his mother without having to diminish himself and obliterate his own desires. “I wish she wouldn’t see our need for independence as her personal loss. How else will we thrive unless we challenge the parents’ need to control us?”Aunty is still remembered as a gracious host by the patrons of her restaurant. Somehow, she doesn’t see the contradiction in how harsh she has been in her intimate relationships to be able to maintain social etiquettes with those she transacted with. We know so many fathers who stay stuck in a similar equation.“A person’s lost childhood knocks on the window of consciousness and demands healing when the person grows up and has children,” writes psychologist Pearl Drego in her book ‘Happy Family’. Each one of us needs to look back and extend a hand to the child we once were, to be able to connect with the children we are raising with love and honesty.— The writer is a filmmaker & author. natasha.badhwar@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/this-house-is-not-a-hotel-other-common-lies-of-parenting-303463
