30-08-2021||---||India should tread with caution in Afghanistan||ON August 15, as India celebrated Independence Day, a renegade terrorist entity overran Afghan territory. As the world watched helplessly and the US and NATO forces remained engaged in a hurried departure after two decades of presence, the Taliban rushed to capture Kabul in a sweep reminiscent of medieval invaders. The return of the Taliban, after their brutal 1996-2001 rule, has defied legality and legitimacy that makes the international system run.India now faces a serious international law challenge on how to deal with a renegade Taliban for a variety of reasons, including its designation as a group engaged in “violent and terrorist activities” by the UN Security Council resolution 1988 of June 17, 2011. In a replay of their previous brutal reign of terror, the Taliban have seized power by displacing the democratically elected government of President Abdul Ghani. It was a brazen display of disregard for diplomacy and negotiated settlement even as the Afghan and non-Afghan negotiators were engaged in the Doha parleys. Ironically, India was kept out of the Doha and Moscow negotiations wherein the rival powers sought to play games on the Afghan chessboard. India was left high and dry and its famed soft power and huge investments lay in a shambles. It is more ironical since this defiance has taken place in August, when India holds the presidency of the UNSC.Recognition of a belligerent group such as the Taliban remains a matter of policy and international law. As a person of international law, a state needs to possess (a) permanent population (b) defined territory; (c) government; (d) and the capacity to enter into relations with the other states. In this case, Afghanistan’s statehood is not in question. Hence, India needs to exercise the sovereign prerogative, a politico-diplomatic function in national interest on the basis of key requirements of international law. Now, the Taliban have forcibly captured the Afghan territory and remains a proscribed entity by the UNSC. Based on its horrific past actions, the Taliban’s credentials remain highly suspect. They still have no ‘effective control’ over the territory. In these circumstances, India has to hold the moral high ground as well as for sound legal reasoning, refuse to deal with the Taliban. Most states do not per se recognise ‘governments’, especially when there is a forcible takeover of power like in the case of the Taliban.In a fluid situation, the Indian approach needs razor-sharp clarity, devoid of perceived fears of Pakistani hand or even concerns for geo-strategic interests. Though it has faded from public memory, one cannot but recall the steadfast handling of the Taliban by the then External Affairs Minister Jaswant Singh. As Prime Minister Vajpayee’s troubleshooter, it was Jaswant Singh’s statesmanship that came to the fore in the December 1999 handling of the hijacked Indian Airlines plane at Kandahar. Jaswant Singh, in his face-off with the Taliban’s so-called foreign minister, made it clear that his shaking hands with the ‘gentleman’ concerned did not amount to Indian recognition of the Taliban. It was not without reason that Strobe Talbott, his US counterpart in the nuclear negotiations, prophesised that: “Awaiting statesmanship in the future that I can only hope, on the Indian side, will approximate the standard set by Jaswant Singh.” It seems we sorely need that statesmanship today in dealing with the Taliban.The seeds of legitimacy for the Taliban’s violent ways were sown in the unilateral US agreement of February 29, 2020. Ironically designated for “bringing peace to Afghanistan”, the US explicitly termed the other side as the “Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan which is not recognised by the United States as a state and is known as the Taliban”. This was a brazen act flying in the face of grave doubts of other powers and even keeping the UNSC in the dark. Can a permanent member sign an agreement with a non-state actor that the UNSC itself designated as a terror group and imposed sanctions on it?The shocks resulting from the Taliban’s earlier seizure of power are still fresh. In full glare, the Taliban had pulled out the then Afghan president Najibullah hiding in the UN compound in Kabul and killed him as an exemplar. It entailed not only the killing of a head of the state but also violation of the UN mission. It was followed by a swift edict issued by the Taliban chief Mullah Omar on February 26, 2001, that led to an unprecedented erasing of Afghanistan’s pre-Islamic cultural history, including destruction of the giant Bamiyan Buddha statues. The then UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan’s appeal fell on deaf ears as the Taliban refused to abide by their “previous commitments to protect Afghanistan’s cultural heritage in general, and the two great Buddhist sculptures in Bamiyan in particular.”“Destroying any relic, any monument, any statue will only prolong the climate of conflict,” Kofi Annan had said. The then UNESCO head, Koichiro Matsuura, expressed distress at the Taliban’s barbaric act and rushed his special envoy Pierre Lafrance to persuade them without success. The Afghan crisis posed a challenge for ensuring effectiveness of international law in 2001 as it does now in 2021. At the time, the Taliban was not recognised by anyone except Pakistan, the UAE and Saudi Arabia. So is the case now.The Taliban’s rule placed Afghanistan in isolation as it is likely to happen now with the current triumphalism of its backers such as Pakistan. The UNSC-imposed sanctions vide resolution 1267 (1999) continue wherein the Taliban was asked to “stop providing sanctuary and training for international terrorists and their organisations”. These sanctions were further tightened by the SC resolution 1333 (2000). The UNSC had repeatedly underscored respect for the cultural and historical heritage of Afghanistan.Thus, it will make sense for India not to rush to recognise the Taliban. The scramble at Kabul airport speaks volumes about what lies in store, not only for the diplomatic missions but also the Afghan people who have desperately tried to flee.India still has a key role to play in adjudging the credentials and fixing the Taliban’s actions. In fact, India can play the card of holding the Taliban accountable by mooting a tailor-made post-conflict justice mechanism, including an ad-hoc criminal tribunal. India needs patience, sagacity and the moral high ground. Any decision in dealing with the Taliban-led government has to be based on the touchstone of international law.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/india-should-tread-with-caution-in-afghanistan-303897
30-08-2021||---||Democratic representation remains elusive||For long, political theorists stayed away from political parties. There was too large a gap between normative expectations of representation and empirical reality. Parties, once seen as the primary mode of representing citizens in elected legislatures, had become power-hungry election machines. As early as the 1950s, the ‘crisis of representation’ thesis began to do the rounds. Parties had begun to look like each other. Inter-party contestation looked suspiciously like shadowboxing.The problem with party politics became clearer after the collapse of the Berlin Wall in 1989. East Europeans had realised that political parties simply did not possess the political will to represent the people. Turning their back on the State, East Europeans opted for civil society as the domain of associational life. In this space, people who had been stripped of their basic rights by Stalinist states could participate in the formation of a public will.A number of theorists in India had begun to speak of the value of a non-party political process. This was the only alternative to a moribund party system. Political parties, led by and peopled by power-hungry elites, were irrelevant to democratic life. Political parties asked for votes, social associations gave to the people voice. The question of who was to represent the people in the State went unanswered, even unasked.By the beginning of the 21st century, civil society enthusiasts realised their mistake, for across the world, right-wing populists presented themselves as an alternative to a decrepit party system that was corrupt, corrupting, faction-ridden, unrepresentative and undemocratic. They saw themselves as the embodiment of popular sovereignty. They appealed to a nebulous category called ‘the people’ above the heads of democratic and representative institutions. Populists told us that they were the answer to dynastic leaders and political institutions that had failed to perform their allotted role. In a short period of time, institutions withered away, civil society fell into disuse and social activism was frowned upon. These incarnations of popular sovereignty were nothing more than dictators!Normative political theorists, who had concerned themselves with abstract notions of justice, equality and freedom, realised that they had to address the actually existing democracies, political institutions, and above all the political party. The party system had provided, since the inception of representative democracy, a link between the people and the State. But parties relegated to the Opposition refused to tailor their agendas to the needs of the time. And populists continued to mount a major threat to their existence, and to their capacity to participate in politics.Opposition parties could only counter the threat to democratic life if they reinvented themselves. Politics had entered a new phase, a phase controlled by demagogues who employed distinctively apolitical vocabularies to pursue their own agendas. Notably, vocabularies of governance and development are not political. The political is always contested. Who contests development and governance? But Opposition parties that were neither respected, nor even recognised as essential for democracy, refused to re-invent themselves, and their language, their politics, and their organisation. Politics continued to wend its way as usual.And we continue to watch ignoble battles for personalised power. Factionalists disdain to think about new modes of politics, a new political language, or new ways of doing politics. They would rather attack each other, using language that sadly lacks propriety and civility. They prove to their constituents that they are not an answer to the manifold problems that confront people in their quotidian lives. They are a part of the problem. They do not uphold democracy, they pursue privilege.It is time that these so-called rebels begin to think of what they owe the people, rather than what they owe an existing leader, or someone who has been propped up to be a leader. It is time they embrace an alternative form of politics that we call representation, which is after all their chief legitimacy claim, and their primary function.Theorists dispute about what constitutes representation. Does a representative ‘stand in’ for constituents; or does she act as a proxy? There is more to the concept. Irish statesman, orator, writer and parliamentarian Edmund Burke (1729-1797) had suggested that ‘it ought to be the happiness and glory of a Representative, to live in the strictest union, the closest correspondence, and the most unreserved communication with his constituents’. Yet there was no such thing as unmediated representation, for in the process of representing multiple opinions, the representative has to use his judgement. We must learn this lesson. Representatives must be men and women of judgement and probity. Otherwise, they will spend their time fighting tiresome battles only for their own disturbingly egoistical selves. If this is so, should not the constituents have a say in who will represent them and for what reason? Candidates must prove their competence before they ask for votes. The representatives must show their constituents that they have the ability and the desire to represent the needs and the aspirations of the people as honestly and sincerely as they can in public forums. This calls for the institutionalisation of primaries. Bringing people into the process of choosing a candidate will lessen the role of party bosses and increase the role of the constituents. Representation forms the crux of democracy. The right to select the representatives should be that of the constituents. What else can democratic representation be?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/democratic-representation-remains-elusive-303896
30-08-2021||---||Pakistan back as broker||WITH the Taliban sweeping across Afghanistan like a hurricane and seizing power in Kabul, Pakistan is back to what it does best: be a ‘dalal’. The most common translation of ‘dalal’ as ‘broker’ does only partial justice to what Pakistan’s relevance has been in international affairs since the 1950s. Another translation of the Hindi word is ‘pimp’, but it does a disservice to global powers for whom Islamabad acts as an agent.To regain its ‘dalal’ status on behalf of major western nations, Pakistan is expected to put forth a three-pronged approach.Contrary to the populist view in India, the creation of a Taliban-led government in Kabul will make the world cosy up to Pakistan, not condemn it. The western powers, which have made a frustrated exit from Afghanistan in stages since US President Donald Trump began peace talks with the Taliban in Doha last year, have virtually no influence on the Islamic militia, which swept aside the legal government of Afghanistan this month.As long as the Doha spirit is alive in however small measure, the Taliban will do business with the US, but only to the extent that it suits the militia. Washington will not be a benefactor of the Taliban and they know it. For the foreseeable future, the road to Afghanistan will be through Pakistan for both the western and eastern powers. The UK and Japan, respectively, are good examples. The only exceptions to this rule will be Russia, China and Iran, among the key countries which will have a role to play in Talibanised Afghanistan.The scenario for Pakistan is very similar to what it was after the September 11 terrorist attacks. The then President George W Bush issued an ultimatum: ‘Every nation, in every region, now has a decision to make. Either you are with us, or you are with the terrorists.’ Pakistan was only too eager to be ‘with us’. Legend has it that US Secretary of State Colin Powell rang up Gen Pervez Musharraf and read out the riot act to him on Al Qaeda, which had plotted the attacks on the World Trade Center, and the Pentagon.The truth is there was no need for any riot act at all. Musharraf was only too happy to embrace America all over again. For a decade since George Herbert Walker Bush’s presidency, Pakistanis have been bitterly complaining that after having used them as agents to build an insurgency against the Soviet occupiers of Afghanistan, the Americans simply abandoned them once the Soviets withdrew. After September 11, Pakistan became Washington’s ‘dalal’ once again.When NSA Brajesh Mishra came to Washington after September 11, he told me (I was reporting from the US) that he was not going to complain against Pakistan to his American interlocutors. ‘It will fall on deaf ears. They cannot do without Pakistan although the origins of the terror which hit them can be traced back to the ISI.’Many Indians who were practitioners of their country’s diplomacy during those years will squirm now if reminded that India was a beneficiary of this Mishra line, which had many dissenters within the Vajpayee government. India was still under some US sanctions for having tested nuclear weapons under Vajpayee. The bulk of the sanctions had been repealed to facilitate President Bill Clinton’s India visit in March 2000. These remaining sanctions would have continued indefinitely. Pakistan was under sanctions too, for the same reason.Bush and Powell needed all the sanctions against Pakistan to be withdrawn. If those sanctions were in place, the US could not get enough done against Al Qaeda in Afghanistan. Like today, the route to Kabul lay through Peshawar and Peshawar was out of bounds under US law because of the sanctions. There was no way Bush could lift the sanctions on Pakistan without simultaneously lifting the sanctions against India.Mishra argued that complaining against Pakistani terrorism to the White House or the US Congress then could delay all the sanctions against Pakistan and India from being lifted. He even sent his trusted back channel negotiator RK Mishra to the Pakistanis to secretly coordinate lobbying by the two countries towards a common objective of repealing the sanctions.In India, the ‘Brownback Amendments I & II’, moved by Senator Sam Brownback before Clinton’s visit to lift the sweeping US sanctions, are propagated as a win-win for Indo-US relations. The truth is that Brownback wanted everything against Pakistan — including the Pressler Amendment, which gave Washington a whip hand against Islamabad — withdrawn. He wanted Pakistan to go scot-free despite all the terrorism it had produced. The move stalled only because Musharraf seized power in a coup d’etat a day after Brownback II was adopted. Overthrowing a democratically elected government triggers US sanctions.To regain its ‘dalal’ status in Afghanistan on behalf of the major western democracies, Pakistan is expected to put forth a three-pronged approach. It will wail and self-flagellate as a victim of terrorism. There will be takers for this proposition in Washington. It will hold up the possibility of a large influx of refugees from Afghanistan to extract money from Washington, not only in the name of refugee relief, but also for de-radicalising those refugees. Thirdly, it will cite economic hardship compounded by the pandemic and the disruption in trade with Afghanistan for better business relations with western economies.Will it work? If Pakistan’s 75-year history is any guide, it should work. For 16 years, until Trump ended most of the assistance to Pakistan, the US gave Islamabad at least $33 billion. Other countries were not far behind. This time, the Russians have better relations with Pakistan than at any time in history and Moscow will want to leverage Rawalpindi’s influence on the Taliban. China is now a global economic power and will aid Islamabad.If none of this works, there is always an opportunity for blackmail. Pakistan has nuclear weapons: the bogey of these weapons falling into the hands of terrorists scares the West. And any talk of recruitment for jihad among its 200 million people sends shivers down the spine of every westerner. Whether Pakistan can monetise these assets in the wake of regime change in Kabul depends on how deftly Prime Minister Imran Khan plays his cards.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/pakistan-back-as-broker-303895
