31-08-2021||---||How Kerala’s Covid situation impacts rest of India||For the past many weeks, the Covid-19 situation in Kerala has been getting national attention. The state has been reporting nearly half of the total daily Covid-19 cases for India and the test positivity rate (TPR) continues to be more than 10 per cent (national average 2 per cent). With Onam just getting over, the TPR has reached close to 18 per cent and the daily cases from Kerala touched around two-third of the cases in India.In an epidemic or pandemic, an effective response can be assessed on a composite of at least three key parameters. One, the slowing down of transmission (which allows time to prepare health systems). Two, the reducing of the impact on those who develop infections (through better health services, as assessed by case mortality rates). Three, the implementation of measures to suppress the transmission (vaccination, containment and other restrictions).Kerala has been more successful than any other Indian state in slowing down the transmission, as noted in the fourth national seroprevalence survey, which found the lowest seroprevalence of 44.6 per cent in Kerala, among the 21 states surveyed. This essentially meant that the state has, proportionately, more susceptible people than any other state. In fact, the Delta variant reached Kerala a little later than the rest of the country and the ongoing sustained transmission is the outcome of the Delta variant spread.Regarding the second parameter of reducing the impact, the case fatality rate in Kerala has remained nearly one-third at 0.5 per cent of the national average of 1.3 per cent. Even at the peak of the second wave, when there was a crisis of hospital beds, oxygen supply and critical medical supplies in many states, the health system in Kerala was strained but never overwhelmed. The state has a high old age population and a burden of non-communicable diseases, that in a poorly functioning health system, could have resulted in higher deaths. Therefore, the state is clearly doing well on this parameter as well.About the third parameter of suppressing and halting the spread, the pace of Covid-19 vaccination is also faster in Kerala and nearly 21 per cent population has been fully vaccinated while 58 per cent has received at least one dose.Kerala is among the very few states that are still doing extensive contact-tracing and targeted Covid-19 testing in high-risk populations and in high transmission settings. This is an explanation for the high TPR. The state has India’s best infection-to-reported case ratio, with one in every six infections being picked up. In many states, only one case in nearly every 100 infections is being picked up.Nearly half of India’s daily Covid-19 cases coming from Kerala may raise eyebrows. However, the state is detecting and reporting more cases, as any well-functioning disease surveillance system should do. We cannot blame a state for doing what is right. This is at the expected trajectory of an infectious disease in well-functioning health systems. The Delta variant which affected a high number of people in a short time in most states is slow to spread in Kerala and that is a sign of an effective pandemic response.It is not that Kerala has always done everything right. It had allowed large gatherings for Onam in 2020 and then for election rallies in 2021. Some of these gatherings had resulted in an increased transmission and the consequent rise in cases.Clearly, there is a need to learn from the mistakes. As long as there is sustained transmission, Kerala (and other states) must stop any such gathering at all costs. However, we need to keep a watch on every setting reporting sustained transmission.There are a few things that Kerala should consider. First, it needs to develop a more nuanced and dynamic ‘containment and unlock’ strategy, with the use of local epidemiological parameters. Second, there is a need for active engagement of community members and local bodies. People need to come forward and unvaccinated people need to avoid attending public functions. Third, the state should avoid giving relaxations in and around festivals. Fourth, fresh communication campaigns to improve adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour should be done. Fifth, the pace of Covid-19 vaccination needs to be further accelerated. Sixth, genomic sequencing should be regularly conducted and the data analysed for faster information sharing. Seventh, the state needs to conduct epidemiological studies to guide response. Most importantly, these strategies should be implemented in a targeted manner, in settings of high and sustained transmission with a localised approach.India is still in the middle of an ongoing pandemic, with the virus circulating in all states, though with variable rates. There is a possibility of a third wave and it will take many more months before the disease could become endemic.That the sustained transmission and higher reporting of cases in Kerala is the outcome of a high proportion of susceptible population is not an immediate concern, but demands watchful intervention. Though the cases in many states are low, the situation may change if another variant emerges, which is a possibility.Therefore, irrespective of the current level of transmission, all states should continue to be prepared for a rise in cases. They should strengthen their health facilities, accelerate vaccination and learn from each other. That is what would guide India to win the fight against the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/how-keralas-covid-situation-impacts-rest-of-india-304333
31-08-2021||---||Oilseed production boost can cut imports||A few days before the Union Cabinet approved the Rs 11,040-crore National Mission on Edible Oils-Oil Palm (NMEO-OP) to incentivise domestic production of palm oil so as to reduce the dependence on edible oil imports, I was on a TV panel discussing the production scenario related to pulses and oilseeds. On that panel, a Niti Aayog member informed that the plan was to meet more than 40 per cent of our edible oil requirements from palm oil in the years to come.This came as a surprise knowing well that palm oil remains in controversy for health, ecological and environmental reasons.Considering that it is comparatively cheap, unscrupulous traders have taken advantage by often blending palm oil with other available edible oils. Moreover, there are a variety of healthy edible oils available, based on local production and local needs — mustard, sunflower, safflower, groundnut, sesame, niger and coconut, to name a few — that Indians have traditionally relied on. That’s the reason why a majority of Indian households have not shown any preference for palm oil as a cooking medium. Palm oil use remains largely confined to junk food, processing industry, cosmetics and other FMCG products like shampoo, detergents, candles and toothpastes.Nevertheless, let’s first know what the proposed scheme to boost domestic production of palm oil entails. As per the Press Information Bureau, the proposal is to increase the area under oil palm plantations to 10 lakh hectares by 2025-26, and to expand it further to 16.7 lakh hectares by 2029-30. Most of the new plantations are to come up in the ecologically fragile Northeast region and in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands.Besides subsidising the inputs required, including 100 per cent reimbursement on fertiliser cost in the initial years, farmers will be attracted with the promise of a guaranteed price to overcome price fluctuations. ‘The volatility price will be based on the average crude palm oil (CPO) price in the past five years adjusted with the wholesale price index, to be multiplied by 14.3 per cent,’ says the PIB. In case the processing industry is unable to pay the assured price to growers, the government will chip in by providing an incentive of two per cent of the CPO price to the industry.Although India imports nearly 55 to 60 per cent of its edible oil requirement, leaving a current account gap of roughly Rs 75,000 crore, the push for oil palm plantations comes at a time when the Inter-governmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) has repeatedly warned of increasing deforestation and destruction of biodiversity as a major cause of climate aberrations. Several studies have shown that cutting down natural rainforests to be replaced with monoculture plantations not only causes a loss of critical habitat for the endangered species but also leads to increased carbon emissions.In a report submitted in January 2020, the Indian Council of Forestry Research and Education too had cautioned against opening up the biodiversity-rich areas for oil palm plantations. Sri Lanka has meanwhile banned any fresh oil palm plantations, and is calling for a phase-out of the existing plantations.While it makes economic sense to increase the domestic edible oil production so as to reduce the huge import bill, the bigger question is how come India turned into the world’s biggest importer of edible oils from a stage when it was ‘almost’ self-sufficient in edible oil production in 1993-94, producing 97 per cent of its requirement within the country. The Oilseeds Technology Mission that India had launched in 1985-86, with focus on increasing oilseed production, coupled with strengthening the domestic processing industry, was subsequently hailed as the “Yellow Revolution.”The gains of ‘Yellow Revolution’ were frittered away when India began to gradually reduce import tariffs to meet WTO obligations. Under the WTO Agreement on Agriculture, India could bound import tariffs at 300 per cent for edible oils, except for soybean. Regardless of the higher bound rates that India could maintain, pressure from the import lobbies as well as from mainline economists within the country, the import tariffs were lowered. So much so that at one stage, the import duties had come to near zero. This brought in a flood of cheaper imports, pushing the domestic oilseed producers to shift.Picking up from where the ‘Yellow Revolution’ lost its way, the best pathway to boost domestic edible oil production is to bring back the focus on increasing oilseed production. If the government is willing to provide oil palm growers with a guaranteed price, I don’t see any reason why an assured price cannot be guaranteed to oilseed farmers, a majority of whom are small. Considering that farmers are at the lowest rung of the economic ladder, a push for oilseed cultivation with an assured pricing and an assured marketing set-up will in a way revitalise agriculture. Even Punjab’s farmers would shift from the water-guzzling paddy if oilseeds come as a viable alternative.Moreover, unlike oil palm cultivation, which will be benefiting absentee landlords and a few industry giants, encouraging oilseed cultivation instead will make farming economically viable for millions of small farmers. The number of oilseed growers that had come down drastically after the collapse of ‘Yellow Revolution’ will surely see an upswing. Further, expanding the area under oilseed cultivation will not require huge tracts of natural forests to be axed, nor will it result in any loss of biodiversity resources.At a time when experts decry the intensive wheat-paddy crop rotation to be responsible for groundwater depletion, where is the justification in pushing for another water-guzzling crop —oil palm. On an average, one palm tree consumes 300 litres of water per day. Multiply it with the number of trees in a hectare, and the plantations turn out to be literally mining water. The cost-benefit ratio, therefore, needs to be studied in detail before we land up with another environmental crisis.Instead of going by an industry prescription to expand the area under oil palm, the immediate need should be to revive the forgotten ‘Yellow Revolution’. That’s a sustainable route to achieve self-sufficiency in edible oils.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/oilseed-production-boost-can-cut-imports-304307
31-08-2021||---||Taliban’s charm offensive||As the Taliban cement their total victory in Afghanistan, the message coming out from their leaders is one of conciliation and moderation. On Sunday, one of their top leaders, Sher Mohammed Stanikzai, confirmed the Taliban’s commitment of not allowing their territory to be used against any country in the world. Specifically, he said they would not allow India and Pakistan to play out their rivalry in Afghanistan.Indeed, Taliban leaders Zabiullah Mujahid, Suhail Shaheen and Stanikzai have spoken of their expectations that India will continue to maintain its ‘cultural, economic and trade ties’ with the new Emirate of Afghanistan and retain its invaluable ‘air freight corridor’ with it.But these are still early days. The Taliban may have taken over power in Afghanistan, but now they are figuring out how to run it. The Taliban are warriors and have zero administrative experience, leave alone a cadre that can manage a city of the size of Kabul. The cities they ran in their brief reign between 1996-2001 lacked running water, electricity, telephones, and existence there was basic. But in the last 20 years, there has been a sea change, with cities having modern facilities, ranging from cafés to schools, malls and gyms.The big question before any putative Taliban administration is: Who will pay for the import of food, oil, salaries of government personnel, and the running of even a rudimentary administration? Hence, the rational calculation would be for them to moderate their extreme views and get assistance from abroad. The economy of their closest friend and mentor, Pakistan is down in the dumps and so are those of Russia and Iran. That leaves the US and its European allies and maybe the Gulf states.The US and the Europeans are unlikely to unbelt aid to an unreconstructed Taliban. The issue is not the Sharia or democracy, considering that Saudi Arabia and Israel are close American allies. But they would be affected by the optics of a Taliban chopping off hands or banning women’s education.Trying to understand how things could unfold is not easy. This new Taliban is a decentralised outfit which has expanded beyond its original tribal remit, hence its success in the northern part of the country dominated by the Uzbek and Tajik ethnicities. No one is clear as to their power structure, yes, there is a supreme leader, Hibatullah Akhundzada, the emir-ul-momineen, and a shura in Quetta, there are also figures like Abdul Ghani Baradar and Stanikzai who seem to be their ‘secular’ leaders, as well as people like Khalil and Sirajuddin Haqqani who have uncomfortably close links to Pakistan. There are other centres of power that are not quite visible — the Mashhad shura comprising Taliban leaders sheltering in Iran.The Taliban may have prevailed over the Americans and Europeans, but there remains a dangerous and volatile mix of Islamist radicals and other forces that have significant roots in Afghanistan. Among these are the Islamic State of Khorasan (ISIS-K), Al- Qaeda and the Panjshiris. They are concentrated in the north-eastern part of the country where the Afghan-Pakistani cadre of the ISIS-K has about 2,000 fighters. The Panjishiris say they also have thousands of fighters. This is also an area close to Xinjiang and will generate concern in Beijing.All estimates place the armed component of the Taliban at around 60-70,000, which is simply not enough to hold the country by force and take on their domestic opposition. In other words, the outfit needs to have some form of legitimacy. Just how they will manage—through western style elections, or some kind of a Loya Jirga — remains to be seen. The ISIS-K bomb attack in Kabul was aimed as much at the US as the Taliban, to show that the latter are not capable of controlling the country.In recent weeks, we have seen distinct signs of accommodation between the Taliban and the US. Though insistent on the August 31 deadline, the Taliban have cooperated with the American evacuation and reportedly also sought to prevent last Thursday’s ISIS-K bomb attack. They have criticised the American action and condemned the Americans for not informing them before ordering the strike.The primary concern of Afghanistan’s interlocutors — the US, Europe, China, India, Central Asian Republics, Russia, Iran and even Pakistan — is that the country stabilises at the earliest.In all this, where should India stand? In the UPA period, India committed significant sums of money as part of the project of building modern Afghanistan. But today, the Indian economy is faltering and New Delhi desperately needs all it has for meeting the Chinese geopolitical challenges closer home, in our immediate neighbourhood.However, it is in our interest to help the emergence of a stable Taliban regime. They have never sought to export their medieval version of Islam; their fault was in allowing others to use their territory to train terrorists. If they are committed to prevent this, the world would be ready to do business with them.India may not be able to fund projects in Afghanistan, but it could, and should, promote trade which currently stands at around $1.5 billion. This will be a more sustainable way of helping the country. Though Chabahar is there, more could be gained if Islamabad removed its blockade of overland Indian exports to the country. Maybe the new Taliban government can prove to be more persuasive in this area than the earlier government was.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/talibans-charm-offensive-304306
