02-06-2020||Keen on a bigger league of nations to corner China over the coronavirus crisis||G7 expansion||Trump’s wish to bring Russia back in the group is consistent with his repeated acknowledgement of Moscow’s global strategic importance and an inclination to shed the Cold War baggage. Russia had been expelled from the then G8 in 2014 after it annexed the Crimea region from Ukraine. With the territory still under Russian control, America will find it tough to build consensus within G7 on the country’s readmission. As Sino-Russian ties are skewed in China’s favour, Washington senses an opportunity to mend fences with Moscow and possibly gain the upper hand in the current global tussle for supremacy.Whether India and Russia become part of the group or not, the two traditional friends — who are also China’s neighbours — should strengthen their relationship. It’s a cause for concern that India and Russia are emerging as the new Covid-19 hotspots in the world. This development makes it all the more imperative for both nations to enhance cooperation and help each other weather the storm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/g7-expansion-93034
02-06-2020||India and Nepal have had traditionally good relations||Nepal’s map move||The dispute arose after Defence Minister Rajnath Singh inaugurated a road connecting Lipulekh pass with Dharchula in Uttarakhand last month. Nepal claims the road passes through its territory and wants the Indian forces withdrawn from the area that is contiguous to China as well. The demand received a riposte from the Indian Army chief: Nepal was doing it at another nation’s behest. General MM Naravane has subsequently been advised to show more sensitivity towards the Gorkha troops of Nepalese origin in the Indian Army that have been exemplary in service. Also, the needs of the economy have made Nepal seek better terms with both India and China. But the growing Chinese footprint in its neighbourhood makes India wary. Chinese businessmen have been allowed in the Terai region of Nepal, supposed to be a stronghold of the Madhesis, people of Indian origin in that country. The Madhesis are opposed to the new map and want a greater say in political matters. The area had seen an economic blockade in 2015 which Nepal believed was backed by India, a charge the latter refuted.Along with Bhutan, Nepal is among the countries where the movement of Indian nationals is hassle-free. The two countries should tone down the rhetoric and focus on overcoming impediments and improving bilateral ties.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/nepals-map-move-93065
