03-06-2020||IT’S an irony that Punjab||Clean up liquor trade||The Tribune has been running a series, ‘Booze scam’, exposing various facets of the rot in the liquor trade patronised by politicians. One startling discovery has been the manufacturing and sale of fake foreign brands. Even as the Punjab government allowed home delivery of liquor during the lockdown in a desperate bid to boost sales, some malpractices came to light during raids by excise officials. An illegal distillery was found being run from a cold store near Rajpura, allegedly by a sarpanch, who is a partner in several authorised vends. A probe is in progress to ascertain the role of such distilleries — and also the government-approved ones — in manufacturing spurious liquor using ENA (extra neutral alcohol) that was passed off as premium brands and sold at vends or delivered on the doorstep of the unsuspecting consumer.The onus is on the Punjab Police, who are separately investigating the Chandigarh incident, to connect the dots in coordination with the excise authorities. The cut-throat rivalry among stakeholders for controlling the liquor trade, the possible involvement of gangsters running extortion rackets — all aspects need to be probed thoroughly. Political will is a must to ensure that the booze business does not become a happy hunting ground for criminals. The Punjab government, which has now imposed Covid cess on the sale of alcohol, should proactively curb the illegal practices so that the revenue leaks are plugged and the customer gets what he pays for.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/clean-up-liquor-trade-93644
03-06-2020||Raging protests outside the White House forced the security service to push the US President into the safety of a bunker||Antifa and Acevedo||But what makes the US situation different is not just the response of the people who protested to safeguard their life and liberty, but the way the institutions responded. Chauvin was fired almost immediately from his job and was arrested within four days by the local police. He was charged with third-degree murder and manslaughter, which could fetch him up to 35 years of imprisonment. Attorney General William Barr, meanwhile, explained that the Department of Justice, including the FBI, was investigating to ascertain whether federal civil rights laws were violated. These are the checks and balances on authority that a truly free country offers its citizens.The silver lining in the ghastly Floyd incident is the emergence of Houston Police Chief Art Acevedo as a hero among policemen, who wants to win hearts and minds without confusing kindness with weakness. He told his own President to shut up: ‘Let me tell this to the President of the United States on behalf of the police chiefs of this country, if you don’t have anything constructive to say, keep your mouth shut.’ A nation becomes a world leader when it puts in place systems which offer organisational integrity and immunity that empower even a city police chief to call the presidential bluff. India has a lot to learn from Antifa and Acevedo.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/antifa-and-acevedo-93645
