04-06-2020||A MEETING between senior Indian and Chinese military leaders||India-China talks||Both countries find themselves at the crossroads in contrasting ways. India has its hands full with Covid-19 as the caseload has crossed 2 lakh, while China is steadily rebuilding its economy after having overcome the pandemic. At this juncture, when the interests of their citizens are of paramount importance, the military one-upmanship between the nuclear-armed neighbours is uncalled for. They need to persist with talks at the military and diplomatic levels so that a middle ground can be found for the time being. The fact that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping held two informal summits in two years after the 2017 Doklam confrontation shows there is room for further interaction and ironing out of differences.India can’t be oblivious to the geopolitical reality of being hemmed in by two unreliable neighbours — Pakistan on one side and China on the other. China’s unstinting support to Pakistan is another irritant for New Delhi. With a power shift from the West to the East being foreseen as the defining feature of the post-pandemic world order, the best course for India is to keep its cards close to its chest. Peaceful coexistence, if not cooperation, with China can help India stand tall amid the Covid ruins.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/india-china-talks-94205
04-06-2020||THERE seems to be no end to the misery suffered by thousands of migrant labourers crowding railway stations and bus terminals for a safe passage home. The petition filed in the Punjab and Haryana High Court||No end to migrants’ misery||Millions of poor migrants from all over the country trundled out on the roads with their wives, some even pregnant, and children and meagre belongings packed in bags and headed home in March-end when the lockdown was imposed. For over a month, they were left to fend for themselves. Then as the crisis snowballed, though belatedly, the Supreme Court came to their rescue and directed the states to provide the migrants with food, shelter and transport in a bid to mitigate their misery. Taking up petitions or even suo motu notice of the crisis, more than 10 high courts have sought humanitarian measures for the migrants. Meanwhile, the government announced stimulus packages for the poor and others impacted by the coronavirus-induced crisis.The Punjab and Haryana High Court has now directed Haryana to ensure food and ration supply to the migrants. It is time the states pulled out all stops to streamline the process of ensuring that they reach their villages safely, without hunger pangs, the promised money in their accounts and jobs under MGNREGA. Along with the coronavirus protocols in place.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/no-end-to-migrants-misery-94174
