11-06-2020||THE unanimous approval of a Constitution amendment Bill by Nepal’s House of Representatives to change the country’s political map would have met with consternation in New Delhi. The territorial issue — the altered map will include Kalapani||Ties with Nepal||Nepal’s ever-increasing dalliance with China and supposed deference while reshaping policy is a matter of huge concern. The displeasure would have been duly conveyed. India, however, would be better served by recognising its neighbour’s apparent balancing act in the context of the changed internal and external complexities in the region. Underplaying this and relying instead on sentiment does not seem a sustainable strategy. It is inevitable that the bilateral relationship is primed for realignment. How New Delhi handles it from here will largely dictate the future course of good neighbourly friendship.For a start, it is important for both sides to tone down the rhetoric and not let it be hijacked by a parochial narrative. The focus should be unambiguous: how to advance ties. Even if the Nepalese foreign minister’s remarks that the map issue will not be allowed to turn into a dispute are taken with a pinch of salt, the underlying belief that dialogue is the only acceptable way forward is a positive takeaway. A new framework for engaging Nepal with mutually satisfactory bilateral arrangements could well be the answer. India cannot afford to lose a friend, or appear to be bending to placate. Diplomats have a challenging task ahead.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/ties-with-nepal-97399
11-06-2020||DAREN SAMMY||Ugly Indians||Michael Holding, the great West Indian fast bowler, has said racism in sport can’t be stamped out without tackling it in society. Holding is absolutely right — sport is just another opportunity for the most regressive, unenlightened people in a society to express their racism. Indian society is extremely colour-conscious. Advertisements for skin-whitening creams or fair-skinned brides in newspapers don’t shock us. We give people names based on physical characteristics they have no control over — thus it’s not a taboo to call people ‘langda’, ‘kaana’, ‘tunda’, ‘lamboo’ or ‘githha’. Designating people by the colour of their skin or any other physical characteristic is a strict no-no in civilised societies — we have not yet reached that level of awareness and sensitivity.Three years ago, BJP leader Tarun Vijay declared that Indians can’t be called racists, saying: ‘If we (Indians) were racist, why would we have the entire South? Which is, you know... completely Tamil, you know Kerala, you know Karnataka and Andhra. Why do we live with them? We have blacks, black people all around us.’ Vijay speaks for a lot of us. This is us. Sammy has shown us the mirror. The reflection — brown, white or black — is disgusting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/ugly-indians-97398
