16-06-2020||India's relations with its northern neighbours are on a downswing. With China’s expansionist encroachment and Nepal’s cartographic aggression||Talk the talk||Nepal has shown an unusual eagerness to adopt a confrontational tone, despite India extending an olive branch. It is hard to ignore the possibility of the government in that country being susceptible to influences inimical to Indian interests. The special status that Nepalese people enjoy in India, including being allowed to serve in the Indian Army, and the traditional ties that the two nations have, all will, no doubt, work in favour of finding a resolution to this issue. However, both sides will have to climb down from their stated positions to work out a compromise. For this, they would have to prepare the political ground too.Diplomacy is all about exploring options and finding allies. India has wisely eschewed third-party intervention offers. However, the Russia-India-China virtual meet scheduled for June 22 will provide a platform for External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar to meet his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi. This would allow the two sides to take forward the initial gains made by the military-level talks held earlier. The minister enjoys the confidence of the Prime Minister and is a seasoned diplomat. More than anyone else, he knows how to walk the talk and deploy the tools of diplomatic engagement in furtherance of the nation’s objectives. The country’s political establishment should project a united stance when faced with such foreign challenges. While the government has taken the necessary steps to tone down the rhetoric, it needs to take the Opposition into confidence, even as its diplomats continue the delicate task of furthering national interest through talks and negotiations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/talk-the-talk-99802
16-06-2020||The suicide by the young and successful actor||Pushed to the edge||This assumes significance, given that mental illness even during normal times is as common as the common cold, and it impacts everything. The National Mental Health Survey-2016 found that one in every seven Indians suffered from a mental ailment of varying severity. It also showed a direct correlation between the prevalence of depression and the suicide rate. Yet, society has been unable to shed the stigma shrouding ‘madness’. The lack of support by communities, employers and families feeds the shame attached to it. As patients shy away from seeking medical aid, it has debilitating and disastrous repercussions on and around them.The talk around Sushant’s tragic case points to the fact that we are still mired in old patterns. That the Maharashtra Cyber Department had to warn of legal action, cautioning people against sharing pictures of the deceased actor on social media is indicative of unethical practices. Laying emphasis on responsible reporting more than a decade ago, the WHO had said suicides by celebrities spawn copycat tragedies as vulnerable people are likely to imitate them. A public outreach programme would go a long way to ensure that patients with mental issues are recognised and cared for in the same way as those with physical ailments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/pushed-to-the-edge-99760
