17-06-2020||Crude oil rates had hit rock bottom recently||At public expense||Around 70 per cent of the retail price of fuel comprises taxes. Oil firms resumed the daily revision of prices on June 7 following an 82-day break during the lockdown when retail rates were left untouched. The freeze was imposed in mid-March soon after the government effected a considerable hike in excise duty on petrol and diesel to shore up its finances. The impact of the hike was not passed on to consumers, but they did not benefit from the record fall in crude oil prices either. Several state governments, including Punjab, have now hiked cess on fuel to fill empty coffers. The user is again at the receiving end, and oil marketing companies have little to gain.Oil price decontrol is a curious instrument in India. When global prices go up, the increase is passed on to consumers. When they go down, taxes and levies are imposed. The only gainer is the government. Aviation turbine fuel (ATF) is a case in point. ATF prices were consistently reduced when no airline was operating passenger flights because of the restrictions. Just days after commercial flights were allowed in May-end, a 56 per cent increase was announced. Gaining at public expense is a rather uncomfortable tag, but this does not seem to bother the Central and state governments much.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/at-public-expense-100277
17-06-2020||Among the many twists and turns that the coronavirus-induced lockdown has indirectly thrown up in the common man’s lifestyle||Shifting to govt schools||To ensure a smooth transition, Haryana has eased the mandatory school-leaving certificate (SLC) rule by stipulating that the SLC, if not given within a fortnight, would be deemed to have been issued so that the wards are not left at the mercy of private schools that may be withholding it. Banking on the ‘English medium’ tag — that private institutes mainly flaunt to attract and fleece parents — along with its inherent benefit, Punjab last month allowed government schools to teach social studies in English.However, their real test will come later. The states need to recognise holes in the system and improve the facilities. Rational teacher deployment and provision for computers, laboratories, libraries and toilets in all schools can smarten them up enough to produce results and counter the appeal of private schools, many of which are mere teaching shops. Roping in NGOs, panchayats and parents’ associations is an effective tool to maximising their vast resources. Only then will the government establishments be able to retain the influx of students. Hinged to success of the endeavour is the ultimate and desirable promise of making public schooling the first choice of all.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/shifting-to-govt-schools-100238
