19-06-2020||The more the fog lifts||Too little, too late||Meanwhile, it was business as usual in Delhi with the bruised left hand not knowing what the right was doing. On June 12, while the Indian Army was trying hard to push back Chinese aggression on the Line of Actual Control, the National Capital Region Transport Corporation awarded a Rs 1,126-crore tunnelling project to Shanghai Tunnel Engineering Corporation, rejecting the bids from Indian giants Tatas and Larsen & Toubro. The tunnel is part of the Regional Rapid Transport System, whose foundation stone was laid by PM Modi near the Hindon Air Force station last year.Five days after awarding the tunnel-digging contract close to an IAF base to a Chinese company, the Union government woke up to the dangers of the Chinese virtually running the Indian telecom sector with their hardware. It is too late and too little to ask the private telecom operators to stop using Chinese hardware or the Indian Railways and Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited to cancel contracts. Strategic planning for a nation’s economic security and military capabilities cannot begin after a border clash. It ought to be inherently ingrained in all actions pertaining to infrastructure development and capacity building in core sectors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/too-little-too-late-101159
19-06-2020||The ongoing Unlock 1.0||Bumpy unlocking||The alarming spike in coronavirus cases in recent weeks partially explains people’s reluctance to use public transport. The unlocking can’t be a success unless the authorities come up with confidence-building measures. Strict adherence to the safety protocol — thorough sanitisation of the vehicles, thermal screening of the passengers and ensuring that they wear masks and use sanitisers — can facilitate hassle-free and hazard-free travel.The stigma associated with the pandemic continues to fuel mistrust and impede free movement of the public. The suicide by a Gurugram resident, hours after his wife tested positive for Covid-19, shows how paranoia is pushing people to the brink — and beyond. Such incidents underline the inadequacy of awareness campaigns being conducted to dispel fears and misconceptions about the novel coronavirus. The high recovery rate of over 50 per cent ought to be reason enough to avoid panic. Even as the PM has asked the CMs to start planning for Unlock 2.0, it is imperative to lift all travel curbs, besides enhancing the testing capacity and ramping up healthcare infrastructure. Enforced immobility won’t serve any purpose any more as the virus has already spread widely in the country and simply can’t be wished away.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/bumpy-unlocking-101153
