22-06-2020||The world has taken note of the increasing Chinese adventurism in India. The questioning of Chinese incursions by a US official after the recent talks between US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and Chinese Communist Party Politburo member Yang Jiechi indicates support for India as well as widespread concern about the aggressive stance adopted by China recently. By drawing attention to the Chinese misadventure of 2015||Gathering support||Diplomacy is a gentle art, one that involves careful considerations and calibrated incremental advancements. It does not go well with jingoistic nationalism, as Beijing has found out recently by antagonising many of the nations it seeks close business ties with. India needs to seize the diplomatic initiative. A logical step is to build a joint position with other countries which have been affected by Beijing’s ‘wolf diplomacy’. Indeed, this is time to fortify the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue between the United States, Japan, Australia, and India. There are common concerns, and the need for a coordinated effort to blunt the Chinese edge is undeniable. Even as New Delhi maintains peaceful coexistence with Beijing, there is growing awareness about the neighbour’s sticky fingers in what is, in myriad ways, an Indian bulwark.The Indian diplomats have their work cut out before them. They must build a consensus among allies, including Russia, to counter Chinese expansionism. And they have a formidable arsenal at their disposal — truth — and access to a wide variety of fora, including the UN Security Council, where India has just been elected a member. India has shown excessive restraint in matters traditionally confined to the Chinese sphere of influence. When borders are violated and soldiers killed, a rethink is in order. We need a more proactive approach and strong alliances.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/gathering-support-102462
22-06-2020||The lockdown imposed in March-end triggered the exodus of migrant labourers to their home states. Resultantly||Wooing workers back||These mainly individual-driven exercises again exposed the government authorities’ lack of preparedness. Even as the importance of reviving the economy and bringing it back on track was felt by the state and Central governments, coordinated efforts to smoothen the return of the migrants were missing. It was only after mid-June that a couple of special trains carrying a few hundred farm hands chugged into Punjab. In most cases, the landlords had paid for their tickets. Considering that lakhs of labourers are required in a season, there is much to be done. Kerala, with its health insurance scheme and housing complexes for guest workers, once again proved to be ahead of all other states.The Central government has announced a time-bound Rs 50,000-crore scheme (PM Garib Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyaan) to provide livelihood opportunities for four months to migrants who went back home during the lockdown in six states. The other states — that are in need of a reverse migration of workers — would do well to make coordinated efforts to lure the workers back.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/wooing-workers-back-102459
