23-06-2020||DURING the past week||Covid surge||On the testing front, the daily average has reached 2 lakh, but it is simply not enough in view of the country’s humongous population. States such as Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal have extremely low testing rates; their Covid numbers tell barely half the story. It was only last week that the Centre launched India’s first mobile lab to conduct coronavirus testing in remote areas. In a welcome development, the Drug Controller General of India has granted emergency marketing approval to a couple of major pharma companies for antiviral drug remdesivir for the treatment of severe Covid-19 patients. Even as a vaccine is nowhere in sight, research work needs to be ramped up so that effective drugs can be identified and put to use promptly.Hotspots such as Delhi should set their house in order at the earliest. The Centre claims that Covid-19 management has been streamlined in the national capital — right from health surveys to the cap imposed on in-patient costs in private hospitals — but the situation on the ground remains chaotic. There have been reports of patients being turned away from one hospital after another due to shortage of beds or testing kits. What Delhi — and the entire country — needs is Centre-state coordination, not political one-upmanship. With economic activity in the revival mode, another lockdown is no longer an option. From now on, India has to face the virus head-on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/covid-surge-102746
23-06-2020||THE exit plan from the lockdown earlier this month came as a relief to businessmen. Gasping for breath during the over two-month closure of units and firms necessitated by the coronavirus-induced lockdown||Chaos mars unlocking||The shocking report of a couple of rice mills of Karnal having been denied the benefit of the revised rules is symptomatic of the chaos marring Unlock 1.0. That at the heart of this denial is a blunder at the level of the district authorities is regrettable. Who is responsible for the losses incurred by the mill that was totally sealed for a fortnight following a worker having been detected Covid-positive when, as per the June 11 directive of the government, only the part of the unit in which the affected employee functioned was to be shut? The PM’s emphatic call for ‘unlock, unlock, unlock’ in the wake of rumour mills working overtime in these times of perplexity as the graph of coronavirus cases spirals wildly in the country should be the key factor for the authorities dealing with broken people making a brave effort to bring their derailed lives back on track.Equally appalling is the state of affairs in Punjab, where a lockdown relief fund scam has surfaced. That even in these times of adversity, the fund of Rs 3,000 meant for the rightful and needy workers should have been unscrupulously transferred multiple times to certain accounts calls for quick and stringent action.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/chaos-mars-unlocking-102745
