24-06-2020||Two instances from Punjab cities point to the employment scenario and are examples of the fault lines in the education system as well as the change wrought by the lockdown in the lives of the people. At Sangrur||For bread and butter||The unemployment of teachers in Punjab has even earlier been a sore point with the unions agitating and its members climbing water tanks in protest. Mismatch between the requirement and availability needs to be looked into and the necessary adjustments made. The lockdown has affected the education system, with schools and colleges yet to reopen. There have been agitations over the payment of fee and many private school teachers have lost their jobs. At some of the IITs, semester exams have been done away with and the students promoted. However, this cannot persist for long. An objective assessment needs to be made and teachers and institutions reoriented accordingly.The pandemic though has seen a boom in certain sectors like healthcare with demand for professionals increasing amid a surge in Covid cases. Punjab, in fact, has announced the appointment of more doctors for its hospitals, hundred each in the three government-run medical colleges. But there are other sectors too that will need attention as the unlock process gets underway. A contrast is the closure of the thermal power plant in Bathinda that saw an agitation by its employees. Modernisation should follow with the setting up of alternative industries that are less polluting, generate employment and harness skill sets. Many of the states have undertaken skill mapping to decide on the core strength of workers and tap them accordingly. This should be extended to every field so that manpower, the most precious of resources, gets harnessed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/for-bread-and-butter-103468
24-06-2020||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh’s ongoing visit to Russia is significant in several ways||Rapport with Russia||Though Russia has been India’s all-weather friend for decades, strengthening bilateral cooperation and gaining diplomatic support are of the essence now in view of the Chinese muscle-flexing in eastern Ladakh. China has been Russia’s largest trade partner for the past decade or so. The two neighbours have come closer following the trade sanctions imposed by the European Union on Russia in 2014. Moscow is expected to walk a tightrope: it would stop short of antagonising Beijing, but at the same time want to remain in New Delhi’s good books. While building international consensus, India needs to convince countries like Russia to make China see reason and understand contemporary geopolitical realities.Without mentioning the Galwan valley violence, India managed to convey a strong message to China during the virtual conference of the Russia-India-China (RIC) foreign ministers on Tuesday. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar stressed the need for respecting international law, recognising legitimate interests of partners, and bolstering multilateralism. With the Covid-ravaged US baying for its blood, China is running out of supporters in the international arena. Maintaining good relations with Russia could help China handle the crisis, but India — which is poised to play a key role in the post-pandemic world order — simply can’t be kept out of the equation. Covid-19, which is swamping India as well as Russia, gives both of them another pressing reason to work in tandem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/rapport-with-russia-103444
