29-06-2020||Even to a world by now numbed by Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan’s obsequious servitude towards the deep state||Imran’s martyr||Opposition leaders in Pakistan have condemned Imran Khan and called the statement a ploy to divert attention from the government’s economic failure, and its dismal performance in taming the Covid-19 crisis. His criticism of the US in the same speech is also significant. As the special role of the Pakistani military establishment in nurturing and controlling terrorists is getting exposed, hitherto steadfast support from the US is now coming with strings attached. Then there are the silken cords on the goodies that come from China. An attempt at a geopolitical realignment is becoming increasingly apparent.Pakistan has not been able to function in a meaningful and democratic manner ever since it came into existence. Its version of nationalism has allowed the military establishment virtually a monopoly over state resources, and the subversion of democracy by the establishment is well-accepted. By calling Osama bin Laden a ‘martyr’, Pakistan’s premier has legitimised the actions of the man who plotted the 9/11 attack. Even as he has exposed the true nature of Rawalpindi’s world view, he has also simultaneously alienated international opinion and triggered a diplomatic crisis that Islamabad will find challenging to get over. The man who played cricket with a sure hand is gone; instead, what is left is a bitter, hateful man whom the Opposition calls, Taliban Khan; one who seeks exalted status for terrorists, and in doing so, delegitimises Pakistan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/imrans-martyr-105840
29-06-2020||Even as the treatment of Covid-19 patients in government hospitals is free of cost||Capping Covid cure cost||It is time the Punjab Government too acted fast on its promise of making the private treatment cost for Covid patients reasonable by rationalising the rates. Most states have, in a welcome development, fixed the test fees charged by private laboratories for a suspected Covid case between Rs 2,000 and Rs 2,400. A nearly 50 per cent cut in the cost was accorded to the common man as he accrued the benefit of the now cheaper indigenously manufactured and readily available Rt-PCR testing kits.The private sector had been co-opted into fighting the pandemic as government facilities ran short of beds and equipment. Private players must live up to the role and responsibility expected of them during this time of unprecedented hardship. Sri Guru Ram Das Charitable Hospital Trust, Amritsar, is an example with its Rs 50,000 fee for a seven-day package for twin-sharing AC rooms. The government must remain vigilant against profiteering and ensure that no patient suffers for want of affordable care.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/capping-covid-cure-cost-105841
