18-08-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||Trouble for Punjab ex-DGP Saini as 2 former UT cops turn approver in Multani case||Tribune News ServiceMohali, August 18In a setback to former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini, a local court has approved the application of two former UT cops and co-accused to become approvers in the disappearance case of Balwant Singh Multani, on Tuesday.Chief Judicial Magistrate (CJM) Deepika Singh accepted the application of former cops, Inspector Jagir Singh and Assistant Sub Inspector Kuldeep Singh, to become approvers and pardoned in the Multani case.The two cops have also vouched as eyewitnesses in the case and in their statement in the court have also alleged to have been eyewitness to the torture to Multani under custody of former DGP Saini and his shifting in a Gypsy in an unconscious state. They also alleged that later they were told that Multani went missing. The two cops were also allegedly asked to declare Multani as missing and absconded, following the orders of DGP which they did, they alleged before the court. Now, the Special Investigation Team (SIT) is all set to add Section 302 of the IPC to the FIR registered against former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini at Mataur police station in the alleged disappearance of former CITCO employee Balwant Singh Multani.According to the court orders, the SIT will have to give three days’ prior notice to Saini after adding Section 302 to the FIR. Saini is on the bail in the case.The three co-accused former UT cops, then inspector Jagir Singh, sub inspector Harsahai Sharma and Assistant Sub Inspector (ASI) Kuldeep, Singh had filed an application in the court seeking permission to turn approvers and be pardoned in the ongoing probe against them in the Multani case. However, the court of CJM on August 7 turned down their plea for the want to approach from the proper channel — that is the investigating agency the Special Investigating Team (SIT) — which can make a request to the court tendering for pardon for the accused.The SIT with the support of special public prosecutor Sartej Singh Narula and district attorney Sanjiv Batra on August 14 had moved an application on behalf of the three accused to declare them approver after which the court declared two out of three as approvers.Narula said the application for making the former UT cops approvers was filed to assert that it was necessary to unearth the crime that took place in secret within four walls of the police station or which it is necessary to declare the co-accused as approvers. “So, sustaining our plea the court declared former inspector Jagir Singh and ASI Kuldeep Singh as approvers,” he said, adding the approvers are co-accused who have been declared witnesses and are granted pardon under Section 306, CrPC. The proceedings to grant them pardon will be heard on August 22.All the three UT cops had recorded their statements under Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) before the judicial magistrates on different dates in Mohali, recently.   Inspector Jagir Singh is also co-accused along with Inspector Anokh Singh in another FIR registered at Kharar Sadar police station on July 27 on charges of fabricating the evidences booked under Section 195-A (fabricating evidence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) on the complaint of Kharar (Sadar) station house officer, inspector Sukhvir Singh. Anokh Singh and Jagir Singh are also co-accused in the previous FIR registered at Mataur police station against former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini.Inspector Anokh Singh was arrested by Mohali police against fresh FIR and after taking him on three days police remand, he was sent to judicial custody. Anokh Singh and Jagir Singh are on bail in this case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/trouble-for-punjab-ex-dgp-saini-as-2-former-ut-cops-turn-approver-in-multani-case-127949
18-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 1,704 cases in new single-day high; 35 fatalities take death toll to just under 900||Punjab reported an astonishing 1,704 coronavirus cases within a span of 24 hours, the state’s COVID bulletin showed on Tuesday---the highest spike the state has so far reported---with Ludhiana and Patiala together accounting for more than half of the cases.Ludhiana reported 483 cases---the highest it has reported yet despite being the most affected of Punjab’s 22 districts since April-May this year. Patiala came second at 338 cases. The two districts, along with Jalandhar (132) and SAS Nagar (103), have been flagged by the Punjab Government as areas of primary concern in a state that has begun to see a significant rise in cases.Other districts also saw a rise in cases, although none as sharply as Ludhiana and Patiala. All 22 of Punjab’s districts reported new cases---a trend the state has been seeing most of this month. Bathinda (94), Sangrur (52), Amritsar (46), Gurdaspur (18), Ferozepur (34), Moga (33), Hoshiarpur (50), Pathankot (16), Barnala (24), Fatehgarh Sahib (52), Kapurthala (26), Faridkot (46), Tarn Taran (7), Ropar (24), Fazilka (46), SAS Nagar (16), Muktsar (49), and Mansa (15), all reported new cases.Punjab also reported 35 deaths, the COVID tally showed. With eight deaths, Ludhiana had the highest fatalities. Patiala (4), Amritsar (4), Faridkot (1), Fatehgah Sahib (1), Jalandhar (1), SAS Nagar (3), Muktsar (1), SBS Nagar (3), Ropar (2), Sangrur (4), Tarn Taran (2) and Kapurthala (1) all reported deaths.Punjab death toll now stands at 898.Among those who tested positive in Ludhiana on Tuesday were AIG Crime, Ludhiana Range, and nine other policemen. That apart, 88 cases came from flu corner, 70 were contacts of already diagnosed peopl, 37 from OPD, eight health care workers and two pre-operative. Authorities are still tracking down 40 people who remain.Four men and four women died in Ludhiana from COVID-19, taking the district’s death toll to 264.Six of the eight fatalities were between 50 and 60 years belonged to Chak Sarvan Nath village, Aman Nagar, Model Town Extension, Vishkarma Colony and Durga Colony. A 27-year-old from Thareke village and a 45-year-old woman from Kot Mangal Singh made up the rest of Ludhiana’s numbers on Tuesday.Punjab’s alarming risePunjab’s cases have risen significantly this month, with the sharpest rise being registered from August 6, when the state first began reporting over 1,000 COVID-19 infections a day. Punjab’s tally now stands at 34,400 cases. About 18,281 cases---about 53 per cent of the state’s total cases---have been registered since the beginning of this month.What is more alarming, however, is how quickly Punjab’s numbers have risen: in less than a fortnight since August 5 (19,856 cases), the infection tally has risen over 1.5 times to stand at the current 34,400 cases.Punjab’s death toll has also risen steeply within this period, almost doubling from 491 deaths recorded till August 5.About 34 per cent of Punjab’s cases are still active. The state government has said it expects the state’s coronavirus cases to peak in September.  The bulletin showed 336 people were on oxygen support in the state, and 37 were critical and on ventilator support. Ludhiana remains the most affected district in the state. In particular, Ludhiana’s numbers have seen a sharp increase since July 25, when the district began recording infections in triple digits on a daily basis.The district’s numbers have gone from 2,327 cases on July 25 to 7,577 on August 18---a 325 per cent rise in infections.Ludhiana’s deaths have also risen sharply during this period, going from 54 on July 25 to 254 on August 18---a 470 per cent rise.Punjab’s district-wise break-up of infections are as follows: Ludhiana (7577), Jalandhar (4388), Patiala (4135), Amritsar (2869), SAS Nagar  (1990), Sangrur  (1597), Bathinda (1380), Gurdaspur  (1215), Ferozepur (1092), Moga (878), Hoshiarpur  (894), Pathankot (786), Barnala (718), Fatehgarh Sahib (703), Kapurthala (649), Faridkot (646), Tarn Taran (578), Ropar  (537), Fazilka (523), SBS Nagar (489), Muktsar (460), and  Mansa (296). The state’s death toll stands thus: Ludhiana (264), Jalandhar (106), Patiala (87), Amritsar (115), SAS Nagar (38), Sangrur (60), Bathinda (16), Gurdaspur (30),   Ferozepur (17), Moga (10), Hoshiarpur (25), Pathankot (17), Barnala (13), Fatehgarh Sahib (14), Kapurthala (24), Faridkot (4), Tarn Taran (27), Ropar (9), Fazilka (5), SBS Nagar (12) Muktsar (4), and Mansa (1).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-reports-1-704-cases-in-new-single-day-high-35-fatalities-take-death-toll-to-just-under-900-127943
18-08-2020||Jalandhar||Video of Kapurthala breeder crushing dog under a car draws outrage from BJP MP Maneka Gandhi||Video of an alleged dog breeder from Kapurthala who ran over his dog caught the attention of former union minister Maneka Gandhi on Tuesday.Gandhi, now a Member of Parliament from the Bharatiya Janata Party who is a vocal animal rights activist, posted a video on Twitter of a man first placing a dog carefully before his car and then running over it. She tweeted: “This is Gurinder Singh, S/O Harbans Singh, Dandupur village, Kapurthala in Punjab. He is a breeder and seller of dogs for dog fights. This is what he does to dogs when they are no longer useful. The dog died after 30 minutes of being in excruciating pain.”   Hours later, she posted a second video of caged dogs, allegedly kept by the same breeder. “Here’s a video of this man’s dogs, which he had been using for dog fights. At night, he took all these dogs and threw them in the lake behind his house. One dog drowned and the others have been rescued by PFA. This man should go to jail.”PFA stands for People for Animals, an organisation that Maneka Gandhi founded in 1992.Punjab Police said they took note of the videos and were investigating the allegations.  “Madam, the issue is taken up and referred to Kapurthala police for immediate, necessary action please,” the Punjab police said in response to Maneka Gandhi.Kapithala Police said it had registered an FIR against the suspect, Gurinder Singh, under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act.“Necessary and immediate action has been taken by Kapurthala Police FIR number 137 has been lodged at Talwandi Chaudharian Police Station under Section 11 (1) of Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act has been registered against Gurinder Singh,” Kapurthala Police said.People for the Ethical Treatment of Animal’s India branch also confirmed in a tweet that an FIR had been registered in the case.Kapurthala’s Senior Superintendent of Police Jaspreet Singh Sidhu claimed that the video was an old one. “It came to our knowledge last evening when Shalini, a PFA activist, approached us with a complaint and a copy of the video. We got the FIR lodged last night. The man is still absconding and our teams are on a lookout”.The SSP, however, said he knew nothing about the second video.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/video-of-kapurthala-breeder-crushing-dog-under-a-car-draws-outrage-from-bjp-mp-maneka-gandhi-127909
18-08-2020||Sushil Manav ||‘Logjam broken’, claims Union minister even as Capt-Khattar meet on SYL ends inconclusively||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, August 18 The much-hyped meeting between Chief Ministers of Punjab and Haryana convened by the Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat to work out a solution on the ticklish SYL issue on the directions of the Supreme Court ended inconclusively on Tuesday. While Sekhawat sounded positive after the meet saying that today’s interaction was held in a cordial atmosphere and all the parties will meet again, Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh minced no words in warning the centre that “Punjab will burn” if the state is forced to share water with Haryana. Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, on the other hand, said whatever the outcome of today’s or the subsequent meetings to be held on this issue, Haryana will put up it before the Supreme Court. “The talks were held with open hearts. There is no doubt that the SYL must be constructed, as this is the verdict of the Supreme Court too. Whatever comes out of these meetings, will be brought to the notice of the apex court by Haryana,” Khattar said after the meeting.  “The Punjab CM couldn’t attend the meeting personally, because he has isolated himself after deputy speaker, some ministers and MLAs of his state tested positive for Covid-19. However, he attended the meeting through virtual mode. We will have second round of meeting in the next couple of days as and when doctors allow the Punjab CM to move out and will start from where we have left. I can’t say what solution we will come with, but at least I can say that the logjam between the two states on this issue has been broken with today’s meeting,” Shekhawat said after the meeting. Urging the central government to be cautious on the SYL issue, which had the potential to disturb the nation’s security, Amarinder Singh reiterated the need for a tribunal to make a fresh time-bound assessment of the water availability, even as he sought complete share of water for his state from the total resource available, including from Yamuna river. “You have to look at the issue from the national security perspective. If you decide to go ahead with SYL, Punjab will burn and it will become a national problem, with Haryana and Rajasthan also suffering the impact,” Amarinder Singh told the Centre. It was decided during the meeting that the Chief Ministers of Punjab and Haryana will meet in Chandigarh, on a date to be fixed later, for further talks on the issue, and will then go to the Union Minister again.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/logjam-broken-claims-union-minister-even-as-capt-khattar-meet-on-syl-ends-inconclusively-127907
18-08-2020||New Delhi||National Institute of Sports employee tests positive for COVID-19 in Patiala: SAI||The catering manager of the National Institute of Sports (NIS) in Patiala, who was in mandatory quarantine after arriving at the facility from Lucknow, has tested positive for COVID-19.The Sports Authority India (SAI), without giving the name of the individual, said he has been shifted to a COVID-19 care centre as per protocol."He along with two other officials had reported back to NIS Patiala after availing leave and were quarantined as per guidelines of Local Health Department and tested for COVID-19 upon arrival," SAI said in a statement."While the other two employees tested negative, the catering manager's test results came out positive for the virus, and he has thus been shifted to a COVID Centre for better treatment and as a precautionary measure."The SAI said that since he was in quarantine, he did not interact with others at the institute.On Monday, an employee of the State Bank of India branch inside NIS had tested positive.But SAI insisted that there was no threat to the ongoing camps as the athletes, coaches and support staff are confined to the green zone in the colour-coded campus. The bank is in the red zone.Currently, the national camps for boxing, weightlifting and athletics are underway at the NIS. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/national-institute-of-sports-employee-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-patiala-sai-127862
18-08-2020||New Delhi||SC Collegium approves elevation of advocate Rajesh Bhardwaj as judge of Punjab and Haryana High Court||The Supreme Court Collegium on Tuesday recommended names of seven advocates for their elevation as judges in the Delhi High Court and the Punjab and Haryana High Court.The Collegium recommended the names of six advocates for appointment as judges of the Delhi High Court. Those recommended for elevation to the Bench are Jasmeet Singh, Amit Bansal, Tara Vitasta Ganju, Anish Dayal, Amit Sharma, and Mini Pushkarna.The Collegium recommended the appointment of advocate Rajesh Kumar Bhardwaj as a Judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sc-collegium-approves-elevation-of-advocate-rajesh-bhardwaj-as-judge-of-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-127847
18-08-2020||Sushil Manav||SYL an issue between Centre & Punjab: Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 17A day ahead of his meeting with his Punjab counterpart over the Sutlej-Yamuna Link (SYL) canal, convened by the Centre, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today said he was hopeful that Capt Amarinder Singh would agree to completion of the canal in accordance with the Supreme Court order.Talking to The Tribune, Khattar said Haryana would decide its future course of action on the issue on the basis of the outcome of this meeting.Union Water Resources Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat had convened the meeting to work out a way for implementation of the Supreme Court order, that mandated completion of the remaining part of the SYL canal by Punjab.“Basically, the issue in tomorrow’s meeting is between the Centre and Punjab. The Centre has convened the meeting in compliance with Supreme Court directions issued last month that Punjab and Haryana should sit together to work out a solution,” Khattar said.“As far as Haryana’s stand is concerned, it is well known as we are eager for early completion of the canal. I am hopeful that Punjab will show a positive attitude in tomorrow’s meeting,” he stated.Asked whether he was hopeful of a positive response from his Punjab counterpart in view of the neighbouring state’s oft-repeated stand that it did not have a drop of water to spare, Khattar said he would not jump to conclusions before the meeting.Asked about Haryana’s course of action if Punjab stuck to its previous stand, he said it would be decided only after taking into consideration the outcome of the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/syl-an-issue-between-centre-punjab-chief-minister-manohar-lal-khattar-127564
18-08-2020||Jalandhar||Delivering baby during Covid a challenge||For a mother and child unit boasting of 500 to 600 deliveries per month, the maternity unit at the Civil Hospital is among the busiest and the most overworked in the state. However, that also makes it among the most controversial one.During the Covid-19 pandemic, there have been 1,962 deliveries have been conducted at the Civil Hospital.Compared to 3,840 admissions (of pregnant women) and 2,238 deliveries at the maternity ward last year, during the pandemic, there have been 2,857 admissions and 1,962 deliveries at the Civil Hospital. Among those recorded, only three of these 1,962 deliveries were of Covid-19 positive women. Of these 1,962 deliveries, 1,246 were normal deliveries and 725 are caesarians. As many as 1,244 of these were high-risk cases. As per sources, during the same period – three to four deaths of pregnant women took place at the Civil Hospital.Lives which couldn’t be savedRecently, a young Covid-19 positive woman and her baby died due to Septecemia. With the case too complicated for Jalandhar, the woman had been referred to Amritsar.While there is a high incidence of complicated cases at Jalandhar being sent to the Amritsar Medical College for treatment, staff says only extremely complicated or high-risk pregnancies are referred to Amritsar. In June, amid Covid-19 hardship, a UP migrant lost his pregnant wife and child despite visiting seven hospitals in four days. When they came to the civil hospital, they were referred to Amritsar and from there; they came back to Jalandhar for treatment where the 19-year-old died.Pregnancies during pandemicIn Jalandhar, in the months of March, April, May, June and July 2020, there have been 2857 admissions and 1962 deliveries in the gynae ward. Of these, 1,246 were normal deliveries and 725 caesarian. As many as 1,244 of these were high-risk cases.For the corresponding months from March, April May June to July 2019, there were 3,840 admissions and 2,238 deliveries at the maternity unit last year. Of these 1,475 were normal deliveries, 808 were caesareans. As many as 1005 of these were also high-risk cases.During the pandemic, so far, 50 to 60 Covid positive women have been admitted to the Civil Hospital, of whom three Corona positive pregnant women have given birth to three healthy babies. Two of the normal deliveries took place on July 14 and 22. One of them a caesarean happened on July 17.Migrant mother’s testimonyFor Gayatri, a 25-year-old mother at a Covid-19 ward in Kapurthala, the worries of a secure livelihood and her three children back home have quickly surpassed the fleeting pleasure that she felt after she delivered a healthy baby girl despite being Corona positive. Tragically, Gayatri cries inconsolably, vying to meet her three little daughters back home at Begowal. Her husband Ram Malak Sahni is a daily wager who can’t go to work (or to find it) as he has to tend to their three daughters as their mother nurses her newborn in an isolation ward. When asked whether she was happy she had a healthy baby during Corona, Gayatri chants, “Khushi to bahut hai (I’m very happy). But I want to go home. My little daughter cries all day and begs me to come home. My husband can’t go to seek out work as they can’t be left alone. The joy of having a healthy daughter is great. She is our fourth. But the girls back home also have to be fed. They call and cry all day. I am not feeling happy here. I just want to go home.”Hailing from Manwani district in Bihar, Ram and Gayatri have been living in Begowal or the past 10 – 15 years. While the newborn is a Covid baby born at Kapurthala, of her three other daughters (aged 2.5 years, 3 years and 4 years) two were born at Bihar and two at Kapurthala. She says it is the first time that her husband has been without a job this long. “How can he earn while I sit here. My daughters don’t leave his side and he can’t go anywhere leaving them home. I have been here for eight to nine days. Our very livelihood depends on my going home. We have been requesting doctors to send me back,” Gayatri says.Staff & sanitisation at mother child unitCurrently, the maternity unit at the Civil Hospital, Jalandhar, has three regular doctors and two of them are posted at Dada Colony who were posted at the ward on deputation three days a week. There are 20 to 21 staff nurses and 16 to 17 other support staff, including ward attendants and safai karmcharis. The medical officers at the mother and child unit keep changing as per rotation. What is interesting is the deputation of doctors who joined in February to the ward even as it needs experienced hands and at least five to six senior experienced doctors on a regular basis – not on deputation.The unit has been under constant criticism due to bad state of sanitation and constant smell even after the ambitious new sprawling mother and child unit was made. While bad management is often blamed for the trouble, a doctor, on condition of anonymity, said the sanitation staff is often unduly blamed for the fiasco.The sanitation staff can often be found cursing in the morning. The poorest of the poor get treatment here and there are repeated sanitation problems. Patients often dump wrappers, peels, plastic bottles, and other garbage under the beds and leave it heavily littered. Despite being told repeatedly, they litter wards rather than responsibly disposing garbage in the dustbins.At first, there were a lot of concerns about protocol and safety. For ages, I haven't stepped close to my son, daughter or parents, while earlier display of affection was a normal instinct. But now things have mellowed down and we've got used to it. Exposing ourselves to patients is a huge concern because anyone could be positive — Dr Varinder Kaur, GyanaecologistUntil March end, since the cases of Covid in the district were relatively quite lesser, the delivery mechanism for Covid positive pregnant women hadn't been segregated yet. Pregnant Covid positive women were admitted to the de-addiction ward. We are now running a parallel Covid-19 ward where all staff members have to wear PPE kits. — Dr Gurmeet Kaur, a gynaecologist||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/delivering-baby-during-covid-a-challenge-127756
18-08-2020||Sangrur||Plant saplings for arms licence||Chander Gaind, Commissioner, Patiala division, today launched a special campaign “Tree for gun” in Sangrur and made plantation mandatory for either getting a new arms licence or for renewal of an existing one.Gaind said the idea was to encourage people to plant more trees. He said anyone who would want to get a new arms licence or get an existing one renewed would have to plant 10 trees for a new licence and five for renewal. He would have to submit selfies with planted sapling at the time of filing of an application. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/plant-saplings-for-arms-licence-127550
18-08-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University extends registration date till August 20||In light of the prevailing Covid-19 situation, Panjab University has extended the date for registration, payment of fee, uploading information and photograph, for admission to PU-CET (UG), B Pharmacy and BSc (Hons) under the framework of choice-based credit system till August 20. This was revealed by Prof Prince Sharma, Dean of Science.However, the last date for filling the admission form will remain the same, that is, August 24.The students will be able to pay the fee online via net banking, credit card, debit card, but not via bank challan. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/panjab-university-extends-registration-date-till-august-20-127535
18-08-2020||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Plan for online polls to Bar bodies gets a thumbs up||Tribune news serviceChandigarh, August 17Approximately 22, 061 advocates have favoured holding online election of the office-bearers of Bar associations of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh. The Bar Councils of Punjab and Haryana have recently conducted an online survey on the issue. As per the result of the survey, while a majority of the advocates favoured the online election, only 6,200 opposed the suggestions. Besides, a majority of the advocates also supported starting of physical hearings in courts. According to the survey, 21,179 advocates supported the suggestion to start physical hearings in courts, while 7,082 were not in favour of the same.Karanjit Singh, chairman, Bar Council, said the online opinion poll undertaken by the Bar Council of the Punjab and Haryana HC had been successful and it was a first of its kind in the country. He said the Bar Council had decided to convey the genuine feelings of advocates of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh to the Chief Justice and the administrative committee of judges of the High Court about starting physical hearings in courts.The Bar Council conducted the online survey on various issues in three phases for advocates of the Tricity, Punjab and Haryana. A total of 28,261 advocates participated in the exercise.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/plan-for-online-polls-to-bar-bodies-gets-a-thumbs-up-127537
18-08-2020||Ravneet Singh||Punjabi University fails to take up ‘scam’ probe reports||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 17The Punjabi University syndicate yet again deferred a discussion on probe reports into the alleged corruption and misuse of funds to the next meeting, to be held in September. During a meeting convened by V-C BS Ghuman, the members decided they would hold a meeting every month. The meeting today was convened after a gap of a year.The university had failed to provide copies of the action taken report to the members regarding the probe into the alleged scams, which have been investigated twice by internal and external committees. The members said they could not decide on the matter without having gone through the reports after which the matter was deferred for the next meeting.The university will not make fresh recruitments of teaching and non-teaching officials without the approval of the syndicate. The university has a long-standing record of taking decisions ‘in anticipation of the syndicate’. The governing body also decided that the university had to follow the seniority list while appointing officials on administrative posts, which had been neglected in the past. Moreover, posts which are to be filled through open recruitment will be filled following proper norms rather than the previously followed process of filling them through internal promotion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabi-university-fails-to-take-up-scam-probe-reports-127538
18-08-2020||---||Portal for complaints against private schools||Faridkot, August 17The School Education Department has started an online portal to exclusively register complaints against private schools as it was receiving a large number of grievances against the managements of these schools during the Covid-19 pandemic.Assuring time-bound redressal of grievances received on this portal, Krishan Kumar, secretary, School Education Department, said the complaints would be sent to the school concerned online and the institute was bound to file its reply in the same mode. After getting the reply from the school, the department would take a decision on the complaint.Even if the department receives a written complaint or an email, such complaints would also be sent to the portal for speedy disposal.After the closure of schools in mid-March due to Covid-19, parents had filed complaints against many private schools on the issue of charging of admission and tuition fee. The issue has now reached the Punjab and Haryana High Court.To avoid anonymous and trouble-making complaints, the department was also contemplating a provision under which the complaint would accompany a self-attested affidavit, disclosing particulars of the unaided education institution concerned, along with names and addresses of complainants, sources added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/portal-for-complaints-against-private-schools-127539
18-08-2020||Saurabh Malik||Parents of dead girls allege sexual assault||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 17In a twist to the case involving the death of three minor girls found listless in a parked car nearly two months back, the parents have moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court alleging sexual assault. The police had claimed that the children had died as a result of suffocation after they locked themselves up in the car.Seeking probe by an independent agency like the CBI, the petitioners contended fair, impartial and unbiased probe was not expected from the local police. It was, rather, acting in a “blatantly partisan and lopsided manner for certain extraneous, malafide and vexatious considerations”.As the petition filed by Ravi Kumar and other petitioners against the state and its functionaries came up for preliminary hearing before Justice BS Walia’s Bench, counsel Harsh Chopra referred to the autopsy report of the victims.Appearing before the Bench through video-conferencing, he contended that the report suggested that the victims had been subjected to sexual assault, whereas the FIR in the matter was registered only for kidnapping under Section 363 of the IPC. Section 304-A of IPC regarding death by negligence was added subsequently. As such, directions were required to be issued to ensure fair and impartial probe in the matter.Directions were also sought to the investigating agency to scientifically probe peculiar aspects, attendant facts and the circumstances of the entire case to sift the grain from the chaff. Chopra added that the role of the erring and the delinquent police official, who brazenly violated the sanctity of their uniform, was also required to be looked into.After accepting the notice issued by Justice Walia’s Bench, the state counsel submitted that samples of vaginal swab had been sent for chemical analysis and the report of the same was awaited.Taking a note of the submissions, Justice Walia fixed the case for September third week.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/parents-of-dead-girls-allege-sexual-assault-127540
18-08-2020||Archit Watts||No action yet in fake beneficiaries case||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, August 17It has been a month since the state Department of Social Security and Woman & Child Development identified 70,137 ‘fake’ beneficiaries, drawing Rs 162.35 crore in pension illegally. However, recovery notices are yet to be served to these persons. Notably, the department presently gives Rs 750 per month to widows, aged, destitute children and disabled persons.NOTICES SOONThe recovery notices will be sent soon. The process is taking time because of the strike of employees. — Naveen Gadwal, Social Security Officer, MuktsarSources in the department said the fake beneficiaries would be given 15 days to return the pension received by them in the past. “However, we are yet to serve the recovery notices to these persons,” a source maintained.Notably, on July 17, the department had asked DCs to constitute district-level committees, led by district social security officers, to review the recovery process every 15 days.Naveen Gadwal, District Social Security Officer (DSSO), Muktsar, said: “As many as 7,441 ineligible beneficiaries have been detected in Muktsar district and Rs 15.7 crore is to be recovered from them.”The maximum ‘fake’ beneficiaries, 12,573, have been detected in Sangrur district, where Rs 26.63 crore has been siphoned off between 2009 and 2017.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-action-yet-in-fake-beneficiaries-case-127533
18-08-2020||Jalandhar||Nursing students want practical exam cancelled||Students of other states pursuing GNM course from the nursing colleges of Punjab are upset as they say they might not be able to appear for practical supplementary examination being organised by Baba Farid University of Health Sciences from August 19 to 28.Want no loss of timeWe want maximum number of students to take their practicals & clear the pending examination at the earliest so that there is no loss of time. — Varsity authoritiesThe university authorities maintain that this is the second chance for them to save their future and that students have been given sufficient time of 1.5 months to make arrangements. However, the students are seeking postponement again as they say it was still impossible for them to make it to Punjab owing to the prevailing travel restrictions and lack of amenities.Supriya, a student from Bihar, said: “I have got a message from my college to appear for my compartment examination but there is no way that I can return, given the flood and Covid conditions in my home state. The college authorities have expressed their helplessness in the matter”.Mike, a student of the course from Arunachal Pradesh, said: “There are no buses or trains or air travel facilities at the moment from my state. So I cannot reach my college to appear for the examination. I have been demanding cancellation of the examination but to no avail.”The university authorities said: “We want maximum number of students to take their practicals and clear the pending examination at the earliest so that there is no loss of time. In any case, if we think that there are genuine issues, we may even allow them a third chance”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nursing-students-want-practical-exam-cancelled-127534
18-08-2020||New Delhi||CBI books Ludhiana firm for Rs 1,531-cr bank loan fraud||The Central Bureau of Investigation today said it had booked Ludhiana-based SEL Textiles Ltd and its directors for allegedly defrauding a consortium of 10 banks of Rs 1,530.99 crore.Officials said the directors of the conglomerate (Ram Sharan Saluja, Neeraj Saluja and Dhiraj Saluja) had been named as accused in the FIR, along with unidentified persons.The action came on a complaint by the Central Bank of India that alleged the accused indulged in criminal conspiracy to defraud banks and divert loan funds between 2009 and 2013, causing a loss of Rs 1,530.99 crore to the banks. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cbi-books-ludhiana-firm-for-rs-1-531-cr-bank-loan-fraud-127678
18-08-2020||Chandigarh||1-day Punjab House session on August 28||The Punjab Vidhan Sabha will be convened on August 28 for a day. The go-ahead came today during a video-conference of the Council of Ministers. The meeting was chaired by CM Capt Amarinder Singh. The Cabinet noted the constitutional requirement to hold a session within six months of the previous one. The day-long session with two sittings will be followed by a regular session later after the Covid situation improves.The 12th session of the 15th Punjab Vidhan Sabha will begin with obituary references after which it will be adjourned and reconvened for the next sitting during which legislative business will be conducted. The 11th session of the Vidhan Sabha concluded on March 4. Clause (1) of Article 174 of the Constitution authorises the Governor to summon the state legislature within six months of the last sitting of the previous session. Therefore, the 12th session is to be summoned before September 4.According to the Rules of Business of the Punjab Government,1992, the approval of the Council of Ministers is mandatory for summoning the House session. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/1-day-punjab-house-session-on-august-28-127679
18-08-2020||---||Ex-DGP Sumedh Saini moves High Court against SIT probe||Chandigarh, August 17More than three months after the Punjab Police registered a case against its former Director-General of Police Sumedh Singh Saini in a 1991 abduction case, the former top cop today moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court for declaring the probe to be “non est” or nothing and in violation of the Supreme Court order. The case registered against him and other policemen pertains to the alleged abduction and disappearance of Balwant Singh Multani.Directions were also sought for transferring the investigation to any other independent agency outside Punjab or, if permissible, to the CBI. The FIR in the matter was registered on May 6 for abduction and other offences under Sections 364, 201, 344, 330, 219 and 120-B of the IPC at Mataur police station in Mohali. Saini contended that it was in violation of the direction issued by the Supreme Court in its order dated December 7, 2011, while quashing the earlier FIR dated July 2, 2008.The initial FIR by the CBI was registered on the directions of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, before both the state and Saini went into an appeal. The apex court, at that time, made it clear that recourse to fresh proceedings could be taken to, if permissible in law.Saini contended that the present FIR, being the result of “mala fide and political interference”, was a “jurisdictional error”. It was second FIR at the instance of someone not on the list of persons granted liberty to move afresh. As such, the proceedings were impermissible in law pertaining to an incident that took place 29 years ago, more so when same offences regarding which the earlier FIR by the CBI stood quashed.Saini asked for directions to the SIT not to carry out further investigation pursuance to the registration of the second FIR. Directions were also sought to the SIT not to submit its final investigation report in the matter under Section 173 of CrPC. The petition is yet to come up for hearing.Abduction case||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ex-dgp-sumedh-saini-moves-high-court-against-sit-probe-127530
18-08-2020||Mansa||Mansa farmer ends life, probe on||A farmer from Mansa’s Kotra village allegedly committed suicide today after consuming poison inside the district administrative complex.In his suicide note, victim Balvir Singh alleged that Cabinet Minister Gurpreet Singh Kangar was present at an inauguration function despite having tested positive for Covid. He sought action against Cabinet Minister Gurpreet Singh Kangar and DC Mahinder Pal Gupta.However, Gupta said, “I had never met or spoken to the farmer. Investigation has been initiated into the matter.”— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mansa-farmer-ends-life-probe-on-127531
18-08-2020||Chandigarh||High Court no to ownership right to plot allottees in Gurdaspur village||Taking note of allegations that plots for the homeless and the landless were allotted to the relatives of a sarpanch, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today directed that the allotments would not confer ownership right on the allottees.The directions by the Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh came on a petition filed against the state of Punjab and other respondents by Raman Preet Singh Bara through counsel Munish Gupta.Gupta contended the Gram Panchayat of Bara village in Gurdaspur district allotted five-marla plots to “the homeless and the landless” by way of a resolution dated November 22 last year. A substantial number of them were Scheduled Castes. He added that most of the allottees were the relatives of the Sarpanch’s family.“The entire exercise was undertaken during the period of lockdown. According to him, in the absence of vide publication and due procedure, such allotment is vitiated,” Justice Gupta observed, while issuing notice of motion to the state and other respondents for November 5. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/high-court-no-to-ownership-right-to-plot-allottees-in-gurdaspur-village-127532
18-08-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||MP Sunny Deol seldom visits his constituency||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, August 17To borrow Winston Churchill’s phrase, MP Sunny Deol remains a ‘riddle, wrapped in a mystery, inside an enigma’.The actor is seldom seen in his parliamentary constituency which elected him with a whopping margin of 70,000 votes. His extremely poor oratorical skills have let him down on more occasions than one. It is precisely due to this reason that he never delivers speeches whenever he is among his constituents. Reason enough why BJP strongman Amit Shah, who personally coordinated his election from New Delhi, asked him to stop giving speeches in the run-up to the polls. The actor was actually asked to concentrate on road shows.His visits to his constituency are indeed as rare as sighting an Igloo in the Sahara.Residents have now started questioning his efficacy as a parliamentarian. They argue that if an MP is not interested in touring his area and addressing the grievances of the people, then what purpose is he actually serving?His so-called advisers, and there are many, claim that Sunny “Phaji” is busy doing the rounds of ministries in the national capital trying to get important developmental initiates sanctioned.However, a visit to ground zero proves not even a single project has fructified till yet.Deol, not long ago, had anointed his blue-eyed man and Bollywood cameraman Gurpreet Singh Palheri as his representative to oversee the affairs of the constituency. The man was least interested in doing so and was seldom seen in the area. One fine day, he made his intentions clear and left for Mumbai for good. Now, a little known worker has been named as his PA. On his part, the PA is very selective in taking calls, a development which has not gone down well with Phaji’s voters.It is a well documented fact that Deol was a reluctant contestant. His predecessor Sunil Jakhar had endeared himself to the constituents and was unlikely to lose unless the BJP fielded some celebrity. The party’s in-house intelligence reports had pointed out that Jakhar could be derailed only and only by a big time celebrity and that is why Deol was brought in.If Phaji was reluctant to contest, he is now equally reluctant to visit the constituency.Two big ticket projects are lying in a limbo. They are the elevation of the 3.6-km narrow gauge rail track running through the municipal limits of Pathankot and a 40-km-long the Qadian-Beas rail link. Both these ventures require Central intervention which, in any case, is not forthcoming. And in the future, too, what with the Covid-induced fear hanging in the air, the chances look bleak.Post lockdown, ministers and MLAs have started visiting their respective assembly segments. With less than 18 months to go for the state polls, this development naturally assumes significance. Cabinet minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa regularly holds meetings in Dera Baba Nanak while his ministerial colleague Tripat Rajinder Singh Bajwa, who has just recovered from a bout of Covid, takes stock of development works in Fatehgarh Churian. Likewise, Fateh Bajwa and his actor son Arjun, can be seen touring Qadian. In Sri Hargobindpur, Balwinder Laddi makes it a point to inspect the ongoing initiatives every third day.The parliamentary constituency has nine seats out of which seven are represented by Congress legislators. A recent survey by a political party revealed that out of all these seats, Randhawa is the most easily placed. He has not only decimated whatever opposition he had from the Akalis but has also ushered in several works in the wake of the Kartarpur corridor. The most pronounced work he has done is to bring in the Seechewal model of water harvesting in as many as 25 villages. Residents question his efficacy as MPResidents have now started questioning his efficacy as a parliamentarian. They argue that if an MP is not interested in touring his area and addressing the grievances of the people, then what purpose is he actually serving?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mp-sunny-deol-seldom-visits-his-constituency-127501
18-08-2020||Chandigarh||One-day session ploy to avoid Opposition ire: AAP||Leader of the Opposition and AAP MLA Harpal Singh Cheema, reacting to the convening of a one-day monsoon session of the Vidhan Sabha, termed it “a clever ploy on the part of the government to run away from discussions on the core issues”.In a statement, Cheema said Punjab was facing innumerable issues, including the Covid pandemic and liquor and sand mafia, which needed to be addressed by the government, but the Congress did not want to face queries posed by the Opposition on the floor of the House.He said AAP had been demanding the live telecast of the session proceedings, but the state government had played a cruel joke with the people besides making a mockery of the democracy by reducing the Assembly session to just one day. Cheema asked Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and Speaker Rana KP Singh to reconsider the decision and hold the session for at least 15 days. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/one-day-session-ploy-to-avoid-opposition-ire-aap-127521
18-08-2020||---||Punjab Govt transfers Additional Chief Secretary, Health||Chandigarh, August 17The government today transferred the Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family welfare, Anurag Aggarwal, replacing him with Principal Secretary Hussan Lal.Though no one was willing to go on record, the apparent reason for the transfer appears to be the gnawing divide between Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu and Aggarwal. If officials in the Health Department are to be believed, the two had been at loggerheads, especially after the controversy over the indiscriminate use of buprenorphine tablets at private de-addiction centres.Aggarwal has been given the charge of the Power and New and Renewable Energy Departments.In another interesting development, Principal Secretary KAP Sinha has been retransferred as the Principal Secretary, Food and Civil Supplies. He was transferred out recently and K Siva Prasad was given the charge.The latter has now been given the charge of Sports and Youth Services, in addition to the Transport Department. Jaspal Singh has been given charge of the Elections Department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-govt-transfers-additional-chief-secretary-health-127522
18-08-2020||---||Covid-19: More curbs in Punjab cities as cases surge||Chandigarh, August 17With the Covid-19 situation in the urban areas turning grim, the Punjab Government on Monday announced additional restrictions in all cities.The state has reported more than 31,000 cases and over 800 fatalities. Deaths per million have also gone up to 27.2 and as many as 265 patients were on oxygen support and 20 on ventilators support at present, said Health Advisory Committee chairman Dr KK Talwar.Four districts in the state – Ludhiana, Mohali, Jalandhar and Patiala – have witnessed the maximum surge.Keeping this in mind, the movement of individuals for non-essential activities in the municipal limits of all cities has been restricted between 9 pm and 5 am. In the urban areas, restaurants, hotels and liquor vends would be allowed till 8.30 pm.People in Ludhiana, Patiala and Jalandhar have been asked to avoid unnecessary travel on weekdays, while shops and malls in these three cities would remain closed on Saturdays and Sundays. The previous orders of closing shops and malls on Sundays throughout the state would continue to remain in enforce.The issue came up for discussion in today’s Cabinet meeting, with Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh expressing serious concern over the surge in Covid cases and fatalities. He said he was not averse to imposing harsher measures to check the further spread of the pandemic. He, however, also made it clear that economic activity would not be allowed to suffer.Underlining the need for early testing and treatment for saving lives, Dr Talwar said the state had reached 20,000 tests per day, including rapid antigen testing.Earlier, Montek Singh Ahluwalia, who is heading the expert group for the revival of state’s economy, also said any measures to check the Covid spread should not impact economic activity.Warning that the state must also be ready for a second spike, Montek said if lockdown had to be introduced in certain areas, strict protocols should be put in place to ensure that there was no impact on industrial and income generating avenues.Not averse to harsher measures: CMChief Minister Capt Amarinder said he was not averse to imposing harsher measures to check further spread of the pandemic in the state. He, however, made it clear that economic activity would not be allowed to suffer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-19-more-curbs-in-punjab-cities-as-cases-surge-127523
18-08-2020||---||Punjab Finance Minister in isolation after Bathinda SSP tests +ve||Bathinda, August 17Minutes after Bathinda SSP Bhupinderjit Singh Virk tested positive for Covid-19, Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal and Deputy Commissioner B Srinivasan placed themselves under home quarantine as a preventive measure.SSP Bhupinderjit Virk was present along with Badal, Srinivasan and IGP Jaskaran Singh on the stage during the Independence Day function on Saturday. He had also come in contact with many other officials.Badal posted on his Facebook account: “Our SSP from Bathinda has tested Covid-positive and I met him on August 15 for the Independence Day function. On medical advice and for the safety of my family and workers, I am going in self-quarantine and as such, no public meetings will be held by me during this period.”B Srinivasan said, “The Health Department has been asked to trace the contacts of those who came in contact with the SSP and get their tests done.”The daughter-in-law of Revenue Minister Gurpreet Singh Kangar and Congress leader Narinder Bhularia have also tested positive.Revenue Dept offices shut in AboharAbohar: All offices of the Revenue Department in Abohar subdivision have been closed after Tehsildar Jaspal Singh Brar tested Covid-positive. He is the subdivisional magistrate and has also been serving as the frontline incharge of the battle against Covid for the past few months. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-finance-minister-in-isolation-after-bathinda-ssp-tests-ve-127524
18-08-2020||Amritsar||Covid patient jumps off hospital building in Amritsar, dies||A Covid patient admitted to Government Medical College allegedly committed suicide by jumping off the hospital building today. The deceased has been identified as Swaran Singh (46), a resident of Sandhpur village near Bhikhiwind in Tarn Taran district.Though the authorities presume that he might have been upset due to his disease, the exact reason behind his suicide is not known.Medical superintendent Dr Raman Sharma said the patient was an opium addict and an alcoholic. “The patient had complained of breathlessness and stomach ache,” he said. The authorities said a psychiatrist had also provided counselling to the patient last evening. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-patient-jumps-off-hospital-building-in-amritsar-dies-127526
18-08-2020||Tribune Reporters||BJP demands CBI inquiry into spurious liquor tragedy||Bathinda/Abohar, August 17BJP workers organised protests against the state government over the recent deaths due to consumption of spurious liquor in the Majha region. The protesters raised slogans against the government, and demanded adequate compensation and a CBI inquiry into the matter.The demonstrations were held in three Assembly constituencies of Bathinda (Rural), Kotshamir and Sangat, where the party members alleged mishandling of the issue by the government. In Abohar, BJP activists staged a dharna outside Nehru Park over the alleged inaction against the liquor mafia. Legislator Arun Narang said Capt Amarinder Singh had come to power promising an end to the liquor mafia in Punjab, but till date, nothing had been done to fulfil the promise.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-demands-cbi-inquiry-into-spurious-liquor-tragedy-127527
18-08-2020||GS Paul||No award, Asian Games medallist feels left out||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 17BSF jawan Gurlal Singh, who became India’s first para-cyclist since 1951 to win a bronze medal for the country in the Asian Para Games, seldom finds a place in the records of the state government.Harshly treatedI am the only breadwinner of my family of four. My daughter has a heart ailment since birth. I wanted the award money to be utilised for her treatment. Being a sportsperson, I deserve equal dignity. — Gurlal Singh, Para-cyclistOn July 22, Sports Minister Rana Gurmeet Singh Sodhi honoured three para-sportsmen — Paramjit Kumar (powerlifting) from Jalandhar, Mohammad Yaseer (shotput) from Sangrur and Raj Kumar (badminton) from Patiala and awarded them Rs 50 lakh each for their accomplishments in ‘special’ disciplines in the Asian Para Games, 2018.Minister promises supportI will look into how Gurlal’s case was skipped. If he is found deserving, I will extend him his due honour. — Rana Gurmeet Singh Sodhi, Sports MinisterIronically, Gurlal, who won a bronze medal in the 4-km time trial in the C4 category (athletes with 60 per cent disability) in the same meet, was not honoured by the state government.Minister Sodhi said, “I will look into how his case was skipped. If he was found deserving, I will extend him his due honour. As per the amended sports policy, the para-sports players are honoured at par with the normal category players,” he said.Reacting over it, Gurlal said, “It is sad to see that the state government is ignorant of my achievements. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had honoured me along with 72 other players two days after the event in 2018 in New Delhi. I appeal to the state Sports Ministry to consider me at par with my colleagues,” he said.Hailing from Nanoke village in Ajnala, Gurlal had lost his left leg while trying to save a fellow soldier who was injured in a mine blast near the LoC on December 25, 2010.Gurlal had also won a bronze medal in the 4-km time trial at Tashkent (Uzbekistan) in April 2019 and is now preparing for his next target of 2022 Asian ParaGames. At present, he is training at the Aditya Mehta Foundation Academy in Hyderabad.“I am the only breadwinner for my family of four. My daughter has a heart ailment since birth. I wanted the award money to be utilised for her treatment. Being a sportsperson, I deserve equal dignity,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-award-asian-games-medallist-feels-left-out-127528
18-08-2020||Aditi Tandon||Cops revoke security of key witness, HS Phoolka moves court||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, August 17The 1984 anti-Sikh riot case against Jagdish Tytler is back in focus with the Delhi Police withdrawing security to key witness Abhishek Verma against the former Congress MP, prompting him to petition a court and his lawyer HS Phoolka to question the NDA government over the move.Phookla has a dig at govtWe want to ask the Central Government if it wants to leave a key witness vulnerable and once again get the case against Tytler closed. We have had to petition the courts thrice to reopen the case.Tytler is a suspect in Gurdwara Pul Bangash case. Three Sikhs were charred to death by a mob at the gurdwara. Verma and his family had been granted security on the orders of the Delhi High Court in September 2017. The court had directed protection till the lie detector test on the witness was concluded.The Delhi Police in its withdrawal orders said the process of polygraph test on Verma had concluded between December 6 and 8, 2018. “Since orders of the Delhi High Court were complied with, the matter was taken up for review andthe competent authority approved the withdrawal of security,” the order read.Senior advocate Phoolka moved the local court for restoration of security to Verma and questioned the move to leave a key witness against Tytler unguarded. “We want to ask the Central Government if it wants to leave the key witness vulnerable and once again get the case against Tytler closed. We have had to petition the courts thrice to reopen the case. We wish to ask the Shiromani Akali Dal and minister Harsimrat Badal as to what is their stand on the matter,” Phoolka said.The matter is listed for hearing tomorrow. It is among the three that the Nanavati Commission ordered to be reopened for a fresh CBI probe, the other being the killing of five members of Jagdish Kaur’s family in Delhi Cantonment (in which Sajjan Kumar was convicted for life) and Sultanpuri killings in which Sajjan Kumar is under trial.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cops-revoke-security-of-key-witness-hs-phoolka-moves-court-127529
18-08-2020||---||Covid-19: Caseload up by 1,492, 51 more succumb in Punjab||Chandigarh, August 17In the highest single-day spike, Punjab reported 1,492 Covid cases along with 51 deaths in the past 24 hours.Jalandhar was the worst-affected district with 298 cases, followed by Ludhiana (220), Ferozepur and Bathinda (153 each), Patiala (130), Moga (91), SAS Nagar (65), Ropar (55), and Amritsar (50).Ludhiana reported the maximum 14 deaths, followed by Patiala (6), Jalandhar (5), Bathinda, Fatehgarh Sahib, Ferozepur and Tarn Taran (3 each), Amritsar, SBS Nagar and Sangrur (2 each), while one death each was reported in Barnala, Faridkot, Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala, Moga, SAS Nagar and Pathankot.At least 28 more prisoners tested Covid-positive in the Barnala jail where 32 had tested positive last week. “We have done 100 per cent sampling of all prisoners and jail staff and put them under quarantine. The jail authorities are shifting the positive prisoners to Moga for isolation,” said Barnala Civil Surgeon Dr GB Singh.In Ludhiana, those who tested positive today included 34 from the flu corner, 70 contacts of positive people, 29 OPD patients, 18 healthcare workers, 18 undertrials, four pregnant women and five pre-operative cases, while tracing of 47 was under way.Today’s positive cases also include Dakha MLA Manpreet Singh Ayali. He was having mild symptoms for the past few days and got himself tested. He has home-isolated himself.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-19-caseload-up-by-1-492-51-more-succumb-in-punjab-127525
18-08-2020||Chandigarh||Will support govt on water issue: Sukhbir Singh Badal||Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal today warned Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh against “any overt or covert agreement that compromises the vital interests of the state on the river water issue”.He said the river water was the lifeline of the people of the border state, especially its farmers. He was referring to a scheduled meeting between the Punjab and Haryana Chief Ministers on the issue of the Sutlej-Yamuna link canal.In a statement here, Sukhbir promised the Chief Minister that the SAD would rise above all political considerations and extend full support to him as long as he stuck to Punjab’s long-held and constitutionally valid stand based on the riparian principle. “We will back your efforts to safeguard the interests of the state along the nationally and internationally accepted riparian principle. There is no case for the construction of the SYL as there is no water available to flow through it,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-support-govt-on-water-issue-sukhbir-singh-badal-127518
18-08-2020||---||Capt Amarinder Singh-Manohar Lal Khattar meet on Sutlej-Yamuna Link today||Chandigarh, August 17Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh will be holding a meeting with his Haryana counterpart Manohar Lal Khattar tomorrow to work out a solution for the implementation of the Supreme Court’s January 15, 2002, and June 4, 2004, orders to complete the remaining portion of the Sutlej-Yamuna link (SYL) canal.Union Water Resources Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat will also be participating in the meeting, which will be held through video-conferencing.The meeting has been convened on the directions of the apex court dated July 28. Punjab has been demanding real-time assessment of the water availability in its rivers that has drastically reduced over the years. The Congress government has been stating that the level of rivers in the state has reduced from 17 million acre feet (MAF) to less than 13 MAF.In January this year, Capt Amarinder had convened an all-party meeting on the issue of state’s critical water situation and the need to reassess the water availability. It was unanimously resolved that the Union Government should ensure that the river water was not in any way transferred from basin to non-basin areas of the state’s three rivers.All parties had unanimously demanded suitable amendments to the proposed Inter-State River Water Disputes Act to set up a new tribunal to ensure that Punjab got adequate water “in a just and equitable manner in keeping with its total demand and securing livelihood of the future generations,” an official statement said.The resolution had read: “Punjab does not have surplus water and is facing a threat of desertification with reduced availability of its river water and fast depleting groundwater. The state’s groundwater that meets 73 per cent of its irrigation requirements has declined to alarming levels, threatening the livelihood of farmers and other poor people.”Punjab wants review of water availabilityPunjab has been demanding real-time assessment of the water availability in its rivers that has drastically reduced over the years. The Congress government has been stating that the level of rivers in the state has reduced from 17 million acre feet (MAF) to less than 13 MAF.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-singh-manohar-lal-khattar-meet-on-sutlej-yamuna-link-today-127520
