27-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab reports biggest single-day jump of 1,746 COVID-19 cases, tally rises to 47,836||Punjab reported its sharpest single-day spike of 1,746 COVID-19 cases on Thursday, taking the state's tally to 47,836, while 37 more fatalities pushed the toll to 1,256, a medical bulletin said.Of the latest deaths, seven were reported from Amritsar; five each from Ludhiana, Sangrur and Mohali; four from Patiala; two each from Hoshiarpur, Pathankot and Tarn Taran; and one each from Barnala, Fazilka, Kapurthala, SBS Nagar and Rupnagar, it said.Ludhiana reported the maximum number of fresh cases at 350, followed by 210 in Gurdaspur, 188 in Patiala, 186 in Jalandhar, 178 in Mohali, 127 in Bathinda, 94 in Hoshiarpur, and 74 in Amritsar.A total of 741 coronavirus patients were discharged as they recovered from the infection. So far 30,972 people have been cured of the infection.Currently, there are 15,608 active COVID-19 cases in the state, according to the bulletin.Forty-nine critical patients are on ventilator support and 425 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.With 24,068 more samples being collected for COVID-19 testing, the total number of samples taken so far has reached 9,88,119, it said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-reports-biggest-single-day-jump-of-1-746-covid-19-cases-tally-rises-to-47-836-132290
27-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Police bust bank fraud racket, 1 held||The Punjab Police on Thursday claimed to have busted a bank fraud racket in the state with the arrest of a member of a gang that used faked documents to change account details and siphon off funds.The cybercrime cell of the police investigated the case on a complaint from an official of a private bank, who has alleged that a fraud of around Rs 2 crore from a bank account was committed in a “tech-savvy” manner, police said. During the course of investigation, it was found that money was siphoned off from the account and transferred to five different bank accounts, they said.These bank accounts were opened on fake identity documents and later, the money was withdrawn from ATMs and by self-cheques, police said.They said a key member of the gang, Amit Sharma alias Nitin, was arrested from the Shimlapuri area of Ludhiana.The members of the gang changed the email id and the mobile phone number registered with the bank account, thereby gaining control of it, police said.Police on January 28 had arrested two other accused in the case Rajiv Kumar and Deepak Kumar. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-police-bust-bank-fraud-racket-1-held-132284
27-08-2020||Aditi Tandon||Sensed severe trust deficit at GST Council meet, says Manpreet Badal||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, Aug 27Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Badal on Thursday said the members from Opposition-ruled states who attended the GST Council meeting to discuss non-payment or GST compensation to states sensed severe trust deficit and felt the Centre was thrusting its solution on them.Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman today proposed that states could borrow with the Centre facilitating the process and the repayment of borrowing can be done post 2022 from cess collections.Read also: States seek a week to evaluate Centre's GST compensation options“The meeting didn’t progress in a very cordial atmosphere I am afraid. There was a clear trust deficit. A solution is being thrust on us. That was the feeling we got. They are saying states can borrow and are not even mentioning their own constitutional commitment to pay GST compensation to states,” Badal said after the meeting where the finance ministers of opposition ruled states asked for a week’s time to discuss the proposal by made by Sitharaman.Congress representatives at the meeting said they are not happy at the outcome, with Chhattisgarh minister TS Singh Deo terming the decisions at the meeting majoritarian.Manpreet said the Centre should not thrust the proposal on states and appealed for the dispute resolution mechanism under Article 279 of the Constitution to be activated.“This mechanism must be activated so that we have legal recourse in the matter. We understand the Centre has no funds to pay GST compensation to states but the trouble is the Centre doesn’t seem to have a commitment to what it has to do under law. We are a sovereign state and not a banana republic,” Punjab FM said.The GST Council meet was called to discuss the single agenda of pending GST compensation to states for April to July 2020, with states facing severe resource crunch in COVID times.The Congress which was until yesterday threatening severe action should the Centre not pay the compensation as mandated under GST regime today appeared reconciled to the turn of events. “What option do we have? We need resources to save our people,” Puducherry CM V Narayanasamy said.He, however, said the GST regime needed a review to be made equitable.“Producing states are at a severe disadvantage today,” Narayanasamy said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sensed-severe-trust-deficit-at-gst-council-meet-says-manpreet-badal-132246
27-08-2020||Shubhadeep Choudhury||Meghalaya panel for relocation of Shillong Sikhs to submit report on Friday||Tribune News ServiceKolkata, August 27Meghalaya government’s latest attempt to evict Dalit Sikhs from Harijan Colony located at the heart of state capital Shillong is all set to gain fresh momentum on Friday when a sub-committee headed by urban affairs minister Hamletson Dohling will submit its report to the High-Level committee formed by the state government to suggest measures for relocating the Sikh residents of the area.The issue has raised heckles in Punjab with the Congress-led state government sending a delegation to Shillong last year under minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa to take up the matter with Meghalaya authorities.The Punjab government step was preceded by a visit to Shillong by a SGPC team from Amritsar who met Meghalaya Home Minister James Sangma and urged him to stop the attempts being made to “relocate” the Sikh residents of Harijan Colony.Deputy Chief Minister Prestone Tynsong, chief of the High-Level Committee (HLC), set up the sub-committee under Dohling to take up with the “Hima Mylliem”, a traditional Khasi tribal institution, the issue of the land inhabited by the Harijan Colony residents.The National People’s Party (NPP)-led government of Meghalaya, which enjoys support of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), had constituted the High-Level Committee in June 2018.Receipt of the report from Dohling-led sub-committee is expected to be followed by the HLC submitting its recommendations to the state government without further delay.According to Gurjit Singh, chief of Harijan Panchayat Committee and a spokesman of the Dalit Sikhs of Shillong’s Harijan Colony, the land in question was granted to a group of people (ancestors of the current residents) by the then tribal chief of the area more than 150 years back.Disregarding the history of the settlement, the Shillong Municipal Board and other official agencies are now asking for proof of individual ownership of the plots and ramshackle structures used by the Dalit Sikhs as residences. “This is foolish”, says Gurjit Singh.So far the courts have always upheld the Sikhs’ right over the area. This has prompted the state government to approach the “Hima Mylliem” and explore ways to revoke the order by the then tribal chief granting the land to the Dalit Sikhs more than one and a half century back.Located close to Shillong’s two prime commercial districts – Police Bazaar and Burra Bazaaar – the area constituting Harijan Colony has immense potential for development as a top of the line business district. According to Gurjit Singh, the ancestors of Dalit Sikhs living in the colony had come primarily from Gurdaspur area of Punjab.Violent tactics to intimidate the residents including threat by a terror group, preceded by a mob attack and even the murder of one Lal Singh in 1995 by thugs masquerading as Khasi protesters had failed to drive away the Sikhs from Shillong’s Harijan Colony.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/meghalaya-panel-for-relocation-of-shillong-sikhs-to-submit-report-on-friday-132242
27-08-2020||Muzaffarnagar (UP)||Cybercrime gang member held in Punjab for duping Muzaffarnagar resident of Rs 2.2 lakh||A member of an alleged interstate cybercrime gang was arrested in Punjab in connection with defrauding people online from other states including Uttar Pradesh and recovered several ATM cards and mobile phones, police said on Thursday.Guru Dev Singh was arrested on Wednesday by the Muzaffarnagar police’s cyber cell after Gagan Sharma, a resident of the district, lodged a complaint a few days ago that Rs 2.20 lakh was siphoned off from his bank account while he was trying to pay his electricity bill, they said.Subsequently, a case of cheating was registered in this connection.According to the cyber cell in-charge Sanjiv Bhatnagar, the gang has connections with accomplices in Bihar and Jharkhand with many cases of online cheating and a CPU, four mobile phones and several ATM cards of different banks apart from other documents worth Rs 27,000 were seized from the accused.During the investigation, it came to light that the gang was active online as they transferred cash from bank accounts illegally. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cybercrime-gang-member-held-in-punjab-for-duping-muzaffarnagar-resident-of-rs-2-2-lakh-132210
27-08-2020||Chandigarh||Four-member Pak team visits Dera Baba Nanak for bridge survey||A four-member survey team from Pakistan on Thursday held a meeting with Indian officials over the construction of a part of a bridge under the Kartarpur corridor project in their territory.India had already constructed its 100-meter long portion of the bridge as part of the Kartarpur corridor project.Pakistan is yet to build the bridge on its side.The meeting took place on the Indian side of the bridge at Dera Baba Nanak in Punjab's Gurdaspur district, officials said.“Theirs (Pakistan) was a survey team. They were four persons led by a senior surveyor while three others were assisting him,” said Jatinder Singh, vice president of Ceigall India Limited, which executed the construction work of the corridor.“They came here to survey the 100-meter bridge which we have constructed on our side,” said Singh.He said Pakistan is to build a 260-meter portion of the bridge over the low-lying area in its territory.Singh said after meeting and talking to them, they appeared to be interested in building the bridge.“They will take this data and get part of the bridge designed and thereafter, the work will start,” said Singh while referring to his conversation with the Pakistani team.The meeting started at 11 am and lasted for about an hour, amid the coronavirus pandemic.From the Indian side, officials of the National Highway Authority of India participated in the meeting.The Kartarpur corridor links Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Pakistan, the final resting place of Sikhism founder Guru Nanak Dev, to Dera Baba Nanak shrine in Gurdaspur district. It was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in November last year.Pilgrimage for Kartarpur Sahib Gurdwara in Pakistan had been suspended in March this year in the wake of coronavirus pandemic. --PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/four-member-pak-team-visits-dera-baba-nanak-for-bridge-survey-132202
27-08-2020||Chandigarh||One-fourth of Punjab MLAs have tested positive for coronavirus so far: Vidhan Sabha||Twenty-nine Punjab MLAs—nearly 25 per cent of the strength of the Assembly—have tested positive for coronavirus so far, according to a list released by the Punjab Vidhan Sabha on Thursday.Among these, seven have already recovered from the contagion.Gurpreet Singh Kangar, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Sham Sunder Arora, Ajaib Singh Bhatti, Madan Lal Jalalpur, Hardial Kamboj, Harjot Kamal, Pargat Singh, Manpreet Singh Ayali, NK Sharma, Rozy Barkandi, Gurpratap Singh Vadala, Nazar Singh Manshahia, Harinder Pal Singh, Manjeet Singh, Kulwant Singh, Principal Budh Ram, Dalveer Singh, Kanwarjit Singh, Darshan Singh Brar and Surinder Dabar Singh have tested positive for the contagion.Those who have recovered from the contagion include Dr Dharmvir Agnihotri, Amit Vij, Amrik Singh Dhillon, Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal, Sanjeev Talwar, Lakhvir Singh and Kulbeer Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/one-fourth-of-punjab-mlas-have-tested-positive-for-coronavirus-so-far-vidhan-sabha-132165
27-08-2020||Lovleen BainsDoraha/Sahnewal||Appropriate post sought for Kahan Singh Pannu after retirement||Environmentalists, educationists, economists, agriculture experts and farmer unions have demanded an appropriate post for Kahan Singh Pannu, Secretary, Agriculture; Commissioner, Food and Drug Administration; and Mission Director, Tandarust Punjab, who is retiring on August 31. They want him to continue his services for the state.Nodal officer, Crop Residue Management for Agriculture, Punjab-cum-officiating joint director, Agricultural Engineering, Manmohan Kalia said: “None can replace Pannu. He is simply exemplary. He should be retained so that he can continue his reforms. His dedication towards work, especially for agricultural technology, motivation for officials and his steering capability for getting works done in a time-bound manner are incomparable. The Golden Temple Street, Amritsar, was declared as the state’s first clean street food hub by the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India, and its credit goes to Pannu. The state also bagged the ‘Certificate of Achievement’ on World Food Safety Day due to his efforts.”Dr Sarabjeet Singh, professor, Department of Agri Journalism, Punjab Agriculture University, said: “KS Pannu is a soldier who is never off duty. It is his vision, way of working and refusal to succumb to political pressure that has enabled the state to be recognised at the global level. In his case, there can be simply no compromise with quality and to ensure the same, he can go to any extent. The tireless efforts of Pannu in battling corruption, adulteration and environment degradation are simply incomparable.”President, Borlaug Farmers’ Association for South Asia and member, Bureau of Indian Standards Pavittar Pal Singh Pangli while lauding the services rendered by the Agriculture Secretary expressed that he had tried to practically resolve the problem of environmental degradation and a fast-receding water table.“Steps taken by him towards these issues were worth appreciating. The number of paddy straw burning incidents are fast decreasing and the credit for the same goes to Pannu. We earnestly desire that he continues to serve the state in any official capacity,” Pangli said.General secretary, Punjab Chemist Association, Gurbaksh Singh Chawla, said: “None before Pannu was seriously concerned about the sale and supply of drugs which were done without any fear or fret but the moment he issued instructions to drug inspectors to practically check the sale and supply of drugs, a sea change was witnessed. One person can make many changes, if he wants. Pannu should be assigned a good post as he is our necessity.”“If KS Pannu continues in some good position, Punjab will become the most prosperous state. His untiring efforts in checking adulteration of food, milk products, including khoya, paneer and desi ghee, curbing the use of oxytocin injections, checking the sale of spurious crop fertilisers and adulteration of milk products and sellers in the state have restored our faith in law,” said Jandeep Kaushal, president, Chemists’ Association, Doraha.General Secretary of the Bhartiya Kisan Union Harinder Singh Lakhowal said Pannu was a ray of hope for the “sinking boat” of Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/appropriate-post-sought-for-kahan-singh-pannu-after-retirement-132098
27-08-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||Once a ‘lord’, Partap Singh Bajwa is close to getting effaced as rivals wrest control||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, August 26In the past few weeks, particularly after his marginalisation in state politics, Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa’s detractors have started comparing him to the Greek mythological creature, Icarus, the one who flew too close to the sun and got its wings burnt.Political observers feel that the man’s opportunism coupled with a knack of indulging in political one-upmanship at the drop of a hat means he has virtually been reduced to a lame duck in the ongoing political melodrama.In his home borough of Gurdaspur, the political permutations and combinations, too, have changed to the extent where Amarinder loyalists and Cabinet Ministers Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa have emerged as the two most influential leaders of the ruling party.Both are known Partap baiters and were instrumental in getting him removed as PPCC chief in 2016. Subsequently, they lobbied hard to ensure that Amarinder was re-catapulted to the post of the state Congress chief, a development which must have won them brownie points from their boss.Partap, at one time, was considered to be the master of all he surveyed in Gurdaspur. His writ ran large and his stature increased manifold when he got elected as an MP in 2009. His proximity to Rahul Gandhi had become the talk of the town and Congress men would often make a beeline for Qadian residence. However, the man had forgotten that in politics, nothing is permanent. The fact is that when you realise that nothing is permanent in life, you become more tolerant, more forgiving and less judgmental. He remained oblivious to this, too.Everybody knows how he managed a Rajya Sabha seat for himself — it was a quid-pro-quo for giving up the post of the PPCC president. Ever since he lost the 2014 polls to film actor Vinod Khanna, Partap’s marginalisation and the materialisation of Randhawa and Tript as Congress bigwigs in the area have gone hand in hand.Sources reveal that top officials have now been asked by the powers that be in Chandigarh to refrain from obeying Partap’s diktats. Right now, as things stand, officials of the civil and police administration beseech Randhawa and Tript for plum postings. The serpentine queues of officials at their residences in their native villages of Dharowali and Qadian, respectively, is proof enough of their ever increasing power. Whenever police officers join their new postings in either of the two police districts — Gurdaspur or Batala — they make it a point to clandestinely visit the leaders, apparently to seek their blessings.Internal party reports of the SAD and the BJP tell how difficult, the two parties feel, it will be for them to defeat any of the two leaders in the upcoming state polls. “In the 2019 parliamentary elections, MP Sunny Deol led with substantial margins in seven out of the nine Assembly constituencies. However, he trailed behind by 20,000 votes each in the Dera Baba Nanak and Fatehgarh Churian constituencies, which are represented by Randhawa and Tript, respectively, in the state Assembly.Interestingly, in the 2017 Assembly polls, both had won by wafer thin margins of a thousand votes apiece. “The considerable increase in their voter base in two years proves, beyond reasonable doubt, how powerful they have become in state politics,” said a sitting BJP MLA.As ill luck would have it, both have fallen victim to the virus. While Tript has recuperated, Randhawa, a politician known for his no-nonsense approach to men and matters, is recovering at his official residence in Chandigarh.In Batala, a turf war has erupted between Tript and former time MLA Ashwani Sekhri. The former wants his son, who is the chairman of the Gurdaspur Zila Parishad, to contest the Assembly polls from here. This development is irking Sekhri no end. These days, he is busy lambasting his rival left, right, and centre for his “interference and intrusion” into what he considers his home-seat.“There can be only one lion in the jungle. And I am the only one in the political jungle that Batala has become. My rival should better find some other place to live in. As for his public utterances, it is a question of mind over matter. I do not mind because to me, he does not matter,” said Sekhri. He says he has decided not to utter a single word against his bete-noire and then goes on to quote Napoleon’s words: “Never interrupt your enemy when he is making a mistake.”On this, Tript has maintained a Sphinx-like silence. He is doing what he does the best: Keep his opponents guessing his next move on the political chessboard.Indomitable leaders||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/once-a-lord-partap-singh-bajwa-is-close-to-getting-effaced-as-rivals-wrest-control-131843
27-08-2020||Aparna Banerji||Mutation in strain? August sees surge in Covid deaths among young with no co-morbidity||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 26With 13.53 per cent of the district Covid deceased comprising young people and four of them in August with no known co-morbidities, there are speculations whether there is a change in the strain of the virus.While the Health Department does not officially declare a mutation in the virus yet, it admits there is a 15 per cent death rate in the state among those who are not co-morbid.Worries abound over the death of healthy people in whom so far no known co-morbidities exist.Of the 133 total deceased in Jalandhar, 18 deaths have been of people up to the age of 40 in the district since the Covid pandemic started. Of these, the highest number of deaths – 12 – in August have become a cause for concern for the Health Department. Of these 12, at least four people who died in August have no known co-morbidities.It will be too early to say whether there is a mutation or a change in strain. However, the young deceased being reported without a co-morbidity is a cause for concern. Lack of proper precautions and delayed treatment are worrisome factors. —Dr TP Singh, Nodal officer, Covid, JalandharNotably, the deaths of young (even those with co-morbidities) also saw a rise in August. While in August there were 12 deaths of those till age 40 in the district; only one person died in May, 3 people died in June and 3 people of the age group died of Covid in July as well. One of the deceased, a 38-year-old woman, also had no listed co-morbidity in June.These deceased include a 36-year-old man, who died on August 5; a 26-year-old youth, who died on August 11; a 40-year-old, who died on August 22 and a 39-year-old, who also died on August 22. The 39-year-old had obesity, but no other pre-existing health problem.Additionally, in Kapurthala two young people died of Covid recently and both of them had co-morbidities. A 25-year-old youth from Raipur Peer Baksh village had died on August 20. Another 29-year-old woman also died in Kapurthala in August, who had blood cancer.OfficialspeakAround 80 to 85 per cent deaths being reported to us are of co-morbid people. There are about 15 per cent in whom no immediate co-morbidity can be traced. But most of these deaths are due to delay in reporting for treatment. We don’t believe there is mutation in the virus. The proportion of deaths has risen across the state in August, which includes the young. But the young need to abide by protocol and advisories and need to report for treatment, lack of which is causing Covid fatalities among the youth. —Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, State Nodal Officer Covid-191 dies, 116 people test +ve, dist tally reaches 5,689Jalandhar: After Nakodar MLA Gurpratap Singh Wadala, Jalandhar Cantt MLA Pargat Singh also tested positive for Covid-19. Pargat is among the 116 people, who tested positive for the coronavirus in Jalandhar on Wednesday. With the 116 people tested positive today, the district tally has risen to 5,689. With one more death, the toll in the district has reached 145. BJP leader Vijay Sampla’s nephew Ashu Sampla and from Kapurthala Akali leader Bibi Jagir Kaur’s daughter had also tested positive from Jalandhar among key leaders and their kin, in the past few days. From the Congress, Kapurthala MLA Rana Gurjit’s staff tested positive. While contacts, kin or neighbours of MLAs Sushil Rinku and Bawa Henry also tested positive, this is the first time that two Jalandhar MLAs have tested positive on the same day. They are among the 22 MLAs, who have tested positive across the state. Meanwhile, three people died of Covid in Kapurthala on Wednesday. They include a 45-year-old woman, a resident of Darbans, Phagwara, who was admitted to GMC, Amritsar; a 74-year-old man from Guru Hargobind Nagar Phagwara, with a history of hypertension, diabetes admitted to a private hospital in Jalandhar and a 71-year-old man from Bholath admitted to a private hospital in Jalandhar with the history of diabetes and hypertension. TNSOne death, 79 new infections reported in Hoshiarpur districtApart from one more death, as many as 79 new positive patients were reported in the district on Wednesday. Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said the report of 1,313 samples was received on Wednesday, of which 79 tested positive, taking the total number of positive patients to 1,224. The total number of deaths, due to the death of another Covid-19 patient in the district, has gone up to 33. The city had the largest ever spike today with 48 new cases. On Wednesday, samples of the Civil Surgeon’s office staff were also taken and all employees tested negative. The Civil Surgeon said out of the 79 patients found positive on Wednesday, 48 were from different areas of Hoshiarpur city, while five were from Harta Badla, three from Budhawar, four from Posi, six from Garhshankar, one from Tanda, four from Dasuya, two from Chakkowal, one from Bhunga, three from Hajipur and two cases from Mahilpur health block. Meanwhile, a Covid-positive patient from village Lolta, Hajipur, died on his way to Chandigarh due to serious illness. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mutation-in-strain-august-sees-surge-in-covid-deaths-among-young-with-no-co-morbidity-132066
27-08-2020||Chandigarh||Put off session, demands Opposition||Ahead of the one-day Vidhan Sabha session scheduled for Friday, as many as 23 MLAs have been found to be Covid-positive. While three are AAP legislators, six belong to the SAD and 13 are from the Congress.AAP MLA Manjit Singh Bilaspur and SAD MLA Gurpartap Singh Wadala, both of whom tested positive, had attended the meetings of their respective legislative parties. With this, the MLAs of the two Opposition parties who attended the meetings are unlikely to get permission for attending the session.Officials in the Vidhan Sabha said they would strictly go by the guidelines issued by the Union Health Ministry. The guidelines state that any person who comes in contact with an infected person will have to undergo self-quarantine for five days even if his report is negative. Speaker Rana KP Singh said: “We have to go by what the law says. As lawmakers, we are supposed to set an example for others.”The Opposition parties are livid at the likelihood of being asked to stay away. Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema said the Congress could simply fulfil the constitutional requirement of having a session without conducting any official business, which could be done after five-day quarantine of their MLAs (who have tested negative, but were in touch with MLA Bilaspur) ended. “It is important that Punjab rejects the three farm ordinances and the Electricity Amendment Bill before the monsoon session of Parliament. This can be done when all parties have sufficient representation in the House,” he said.Aman Arora, AAP MLA from Sunam, said there were doubts regarding the test reports. “Manjit Singh Bilaspur was first told he had been tested negative, following which he attended the party meeting. Strangely, just after the meeting, he received a call where he was told that he had tested positive. Similarly, MLA Budh Ram tested negative here yesterday, but in a test conducted in Budhlada, his report came positive,” Arora said.SAD MLA Bikram Singh Majithia alleged that the government was running away from answering their questions by using these guidelines to keep the Opposition MLAs away from the session.The session has been called as it is a constitutional requirement to call a session within six months of the previous one.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/put-off-session-demands-opposition-131905
27-08-2020||Chandigarh||Covid grips judiciary too, courts unlikely to open soon||The subordinate judiciary in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh is staring at a crisis. No less than 44 judicial officers and court officials have tested positive for Covid during the past two weeks. Another 212 judicial officers and officials have been quarantined, indicating the impracticality of permitting physical functioning of the courts.HC hearing 1,000 cases dailyFurther streamlining its functioning, the High Court is hearing more than 1,000 cases daily with an increase in the number of Benches. Available information suggests that no less than 30 single Benches and three Division Benches have been functioning daily since August 24.The Punjab and Haryana High Court is also not isolated from the outbreak of Covid. Three High Court judges, too, have been quarantined after their staff tested positive. The High Court Registrar-General is also in quarantine because a staff member was tested positive. In all, 13 High Court officials have tested positive during the past fortnight.More than 600 judicial officers, their families and staff in the two states and Chandigarh were earlier quarantined after accused produced in the court complexes or police personnel bringing them following their arrest were tested positive.The judicial officers included a district and sessions judge. As of now, the total pendency of cases is 52,746 in Chandigarh, 9,74,942 in Haryana and 7,39,015 in Punjab. The surge in Covid cases involving judicial officers comes amid calls and representations by a section of lawyers to resume physical functioning, which appears to be virtually impossible under the prevailing circumstances.A senior High Court official confirmed that the administration was in regular touch with the health authorities and other experts. They were of the opinion that the cases were likely to increase rapidly in the coming days. As such, physical opening of the courts should not be resorted to at the current stage.Despite odds, the subordionate judiciary has managed to dispose of an average 850 cases daily in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh since the courts went into restricted functioning mode in March last week following the Covid outbreak in the country. Information suggests 2,69,069 cases were filed from March 24 to August 10 in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh. As many as 1,01,801 cases were disposed of.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-grips-judiciary-too-courts-unlikely-to-open-soon-131907
27-08-2020||Sangrur||Residents oppose testing, pelt cops with stones||Residents of the Dheha colony in Dirba pelted police officials with stones when they went to the area with Health Department authorities for sampling. The colony had been declared a micro-containment zone as five persons had tested positive.Though none suffered any injury, the police have started investigations while the department officials have been trying to convince the residents for testing.“Area residents manhandled the department staff after our team asked them for their samples to prevent the further spread of Covid in the area. Residents also pushed our officials and pelted them with bricks and stones,” Dr Aarti Pandov, Senior Medical Officer of a Dirba hospital, said.She said as the area had been declared a micro-containment zone, a special team had gone there for collecting samples of all residents.ASI Sat Parkash said: “We will register a case against all those who pelted the police team with stones and our investigation is going on.”However, area residents alleged that the Health Department had been harassing them on the pretext of sampling and they would not allow the testing of any asymptomatic patient.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/residents-oppose-testing-pelt-cops-with-stones-131909
27-08-2020||Chandigarh||JEE row: Coordinate with other states, Capt tells Advocate General||With just days to go for the NEET/JEE, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today directed Advocate General Atul Nanda to coordinate with his counterparts in other Opposition-ruled states for filing a collective review petition in the Supreme Court seeking deferment of the examinations.The directive followed a video-conference convened by Congress president Sonia Gandhi with the chief ministers of seven Opposition-ruled states to discuss this issue. Other issues of common concern were also discussed, including delay in the release of GST compensation and farm ordinances, as well as the new education policy, which Capt Amarinder said was thrust upon the states without consultation.There was no time to seek the intervention of the Prime Minister, said Capt Amarinder in response to a suggestion to this effect. “Let us all get together to move the Supreme Court for the postponement of the exams, which will put the lives of lakhs of students at risk,” he said. Pointing out that world over, exams were being held online, he suggested that the JEE/NEET and other professional exams like medical and law entrance could also be held online.Saying that as of today, 23 state ministers/MLAs were Covid-positive, the Chief Minister said if this was the state of legislators and ministers, one could image how grave the situation was. The scenario was not conducive to holding physical examinations, he said.He also suggested that a delegation of all Opposition-ruled chief ministers should meet the Prime Minister to press for release of GST compensation and financial assistance to fight Covid. He said the Centre’s failure to release GST compensation to the tune of nearly Rs 7,000 crore had put Punjab in a difficult situation amid a surge in Covid cases.He also raised the issue of the Centre’s decision to suspend the post-matric scholarship scheme for SC students, whose number in the state is a whopping 3.17 lakh. The Centre had no business cutting down on these scholarships for poor SC students, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jee-row-coordinate-with-other-states-capt-tells-advocate-general-131920
27-08-2020||Chandigarh||41 more succumb to virus in Punjab||With 1,513 new cases, the state count has reached 46,090. As many as 41 persons died of the infection today, taking the toll to 1,219. At present, there are 14,640 active cases and 30,231 recoveries.As far as cases are concerned, Ludhiana topped the list with 472 cases, followed by Patiala (237), Jalandhar (147), Gurdaspur (131), Hoshiarpur (83), Amritsar (73), Kapurthala (69) and SAS Nagar (54).Apart from that, at present, 423 patients are on oxygen support and 60 are critical and are on ventilator support.As far as deaths are concerned, Ludhiana reported 12 fatalities followed by Patiala (five), Hoshiarpur and Kapurthala (four each), Gurdaspur (three), Barnala, Muktsar, Mansa and Sangrur (two each), and Bathinda, Jalandhar, Moga, SAS Nagar and Pathankot (one each).In Ludhiana, a 42-year-old woman living near GNE College, a 73-year-old woman from Gurdev Nagar, a 64-year-old man from Vishnupuri, a 53-year-old woman from Siahar village, a 65-year-old man from Anand Nagar Khanna, a 57-year-old woman from New Aman Nagar, a 47-year-old woman from Rajiv Gandhi Colony, a 64-year-old man from Kuldeep Nagar near Basti Jodhewal, a 49-year-old man from Sherpur Ludhiana, a 85-year-old man from Mohalla Vijay Nagar of Jagraon and a 60-year-old man from Sahnewal died of the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/41-more-succumb-to-virus-in-punjab-131942
27-08-2020||Amritsar||Masks must at Golden Temple||With a spurt in Covid-19 cases and an increase in the footfall of devotees at the Golden Temple, the SGPC has now made it mandatory for visitors to wear face masks at the shrine complex.Earlier, the SGPC was lenient on this critical guideline that may help in providing safety from the virus, despite the fact that the Punjab Government, since April 9, had made wearing face masks mandatory for people at public and religious places.Presently, pilgrims and SGPC sewadars can be seen without masks. Even those who volunteer to serve on the premises and in the langar hall move around without masks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/masks-must-at-golden-temple-131949
27-08-2020||Sangrur||Used PPE kits found dumped on roadside in Sangrur||Panic gripped locals after used PPE kits were found dumped on the main road near Nadampur village. The callousness has raised serious questions on the working of the Health Department. Trucks loaded with PPE kits were not being checked by the police, the residents alleged.“On seeing the PPE kits, we informed health officials and the police,” said Darshan Singh, a Nadampur resident. Some villagers feared that it might spread the virus in their area.“In our area, there is no big hospital. Trucks coming from Patiala might have dumped the kits,” alleged Kulwant Singh, another area resident. Punjab Pollution Control Board SDO Sachin Singla said they had got the kits removed with the help of a Ludhiana-based company, adding that the matter was being investigated. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/used-ppe-kits-found-dumped-on-roadside-in-sangrur-131951
27-08-2020||Chandigarh||SAD submits resolution on SYL in House||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has submitted a resolution in the Vidhan Sabha, seeking directions to the Punjab Government to take all necessary legal, constitutional and political measures to ensure the implementation of the nationally and internationally accepted riparian principle with regard to the riverwaters prior to the consideration of any question relating to the construction of the SYL canal.The resolution that was submitted with the Vidhan Sabha secretariat on Tuesday evening as a motion under Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure emphasises that all riverwater disputes in the country as well as at the international level had been decided solely on the basis of the riparian principle. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-submits-resolution-on-syl-in-house-131952
27-08-2020||Chandigarh||Painter Mehar Singh passes away||Renowned portrait artist Mehar Singh breathed his last today. A master of Indian realism, he was duly awarded and rewarded for his contribution to the field of art. He was honoured as the state artist by the Punjab Government and had served as the president of the Punjab Lalit Kala Akademi and vice-president of the Punjab Art Council. He received the Punjab Rattan Award in 2012 for his life-time achievements.Mehar Singh started his initial art training while being a school student in Lahore, under celebrated artist Sobha Singh. Post Partition, he followed his ‘ustaad’ to Andretta. Mehar Singh joined the American Embassy, New Delhi, in 1958, making busts and portraits of various American presidents during his decade-plus tenure. A portrait of the then President, Richard Nixon, fetched him a signed letter of commendation from the President himself.Artist RM Singh expressed his condolences to the bereaved family on the behalf of the S Sobha Singh Memorial Art Society. He remembered Mehar Singh as an artist par excellence. “The art of realistic portraiture is a challenging field. His art was no ordinary, he had this unique palette,” he said. While Mehar Singh was considered one of the first disciples of Sobha Singh, RM Singh was amongst the last. The latter termed it a huge loss for the artistic community. “He was an inspiration to me and artists all over. To reach the position that he did needs consistent hardwork. He treated his work as a meditation,” he said. Mehar Singh moved to Chandigarh in the late 80s and continued to work till about a decade back with unparalleled zeal. In the past few years, he moved to Delhi with his sons. His son Charanjit Singh said: “He was not keeping well for the past few months. He breathed his last today around 10.15 am.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/painter-mehar-singh-passes-away-131953
27-08-2020||Ludhiana||Comply with norms or face action, realtors told||The Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA), Punjab, has put promoters of 18 unregistered real estate projects across the state on final notice for compliance through personal appearance, failing which ex-parte proceedings would be initiated while deciding the matter for imposition or recovery of penalty.In case of five city-based developers (out of 18), upon whom penalty was imposed for contravention of Section 3 of the Real Estate (Regulation & Development) Act, 2016, a final opportunity has been given for personal appearance, failing which recovery warrants would be issued and served through the District Magistrate concerned.A public notice was served under Section 3 of the Act to 13 promoters located at various places in Punjab. RERA said the promoters were required to register their projects with the authority within three months of the commencement of the Act i.e. by July 31, 2017.The defaulting promoters have been provided with one last opportunity to defend themselves by appearing before the authority personally or through their authorised agent on the dates intimated in the public notice. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/comply-with-norms-or-face-action-realtors-told-131955
27-08-2020||Amritsar||SGPC meet today||All eyes are set on the outcome of the SGPC’s executive body meeting, scheduled for Thursday, to decide the next course of action against the officials found guilty in the case of misappropriation of ‘saroops’. The Akal Takht had directed the SGPC to call a meeting and take action against those found responsible for it. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sgpc-meet-today-131957
27-08-2020||CHANDIGARH||Narco-terror racket busted by Punjab Police||The Punjab Police have busted an international narco-terror racket, linked to the banned Khalistan Liberation Force (KLF), with the arrest of wanted heroin smuggler Rajinder Singh alias Ganja alias Mithu. A police constable, who was allegedly facilitating movement of the drugs and money during the lockdown period, has also been arrested.Cop ‘facilitated’ movement of drugsDGP Dinkar Gupta said Rajinder’s brother-in-law had also been arrested from Uttar Pradesh for his involvement in the racket, which has been traced to associates of a now deceased notorious terrorist Harmeet Singh alias PhD.A .32 bore pistol and four live cartridges were recovered from the possession of Rajinder, with 530-gm heroin seized from his flat at Riverdale Aerovista, Zirakpur. A criminal case under the Arms Act and the NDPS Act has been registered at PS SSOC, SAS Nagar, against Rajinder, who has several other FIRs registered against him in various parts of Punjab. He has also been involved in several recent hawala transactions to the tune of Rs 12 crore, Gupta said.Rajinder, who was arrested on August 19, told the police that he was associated with distribution of drugs, arranged by Navpreet Singh, alias Nav, a notorious smuggler wanted by the Punjab Police in murder and drug cases. He further confessed that he had supplied huge quantities of drugs to various smugglers in different parts of Punjab on the direction of Navpreet.The DGP said Rajinder used to receive the drug consignments, mostly coming from Srinagar and Delhi, to distribute them further in Punjab. The funds generated out of drug business were sent back to Navpreet through hawala channels. In April 2020, the Police Commissionerate, Amritsar, had arrested Hizbul terrorist Hilal Ahmed Wagay when he came to collect drug money on the instructions of Riyaz Ahmed Naikoo, a slain Hizbul Mujahideen terrorist.Rajinder had also madean Aadhaar card and a passport with the help of fake documents from UP and was trying to escape from India in the near future, the DGP maintained, adding that the accused had also made a lot of property in and around Chandigarh and Amritsar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/narco-terror-racket-busted-by-punjab-police-131962
27-08-2020||Faridkot||Arms smuggling accused booked under UAPA in Faridkot||Six years after they allegedly procured prohibited and foreign-made weapons, many influential and politically well-connected persons of Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi have been booked under the stringent provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) here. The Act deals with unlawful and terror activities.While the Organised Crime Control Unit (OCCU) of the Punjab Police has already nominated more than 12 persons (two of them have been arrested), the OCCU is investigating some politically connected persons who are under the lens for ‘procuring’ the smuggled weapons.Pankaj Bansal of Moga is one of the arrested persons in the case. Owner of a car agency, Pankaj is already in the dock for his alleged involvement in the fabrication of bullet marks on a police Gypsy in the Behbal Kalan police firing case of October 2015. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/arms-smuggling-accused-booked-under-uapa-in-faridkot-131963
27-08-2020||Chandigarh||‘Damdami Taksal behind Indira’s killing’||Though it has been a common belief that Prime Minister Indira Gandhi’s assassination was just an act of revenge by her Sikh bodyguards, a new book claims that it was the Damdami Taksal which conspired the murder.More revelationsSo far, names of two assassins Beant Singh and Satwant Singh, and their accomplice Kehar Singh are known to the public, but the book claims that three more persons were involved in the conspiracy, whose names never surfaced in any investigation.Written by Chandigarh-based veteran journalist Jagtar Singh, who reported from Amritsar and Chandigarh during the turbulent years, the book “Rivers on Fire: Khalistan Struggle” claims that though assassination of Indira Gandhi was not associated with any political outfit, the Damdami Taksal was part of the plot from the beginning. As per excerpts of the book shared with The Tribune, the names of all those who gunned down Indira Gandhi and those who were part of the design to kill her are in public domain.“However, at least three more persons besides all those known names were part of the plan to avenge Operation Bluestar.”The Taksal was in the picture in the assassination of Indira Gandhi from the planning stage. When the bodyguard-turned-assassin, Beant Singh, made up his mind, he was concerned about the future of his wife Bimal Kaur and three kids.“It was at this crucial juncture that he was extended assurance by Damdami Taksal’s man Manbir Singh Chaheru. This was made possible with the help of two other persons, one of whom was a bank employee and the other member of the Taksal, Prem Singh. The bank employee was from Ropar district and never questioned by the police in this case. He later died.Manbir joined the Damdami Taksal in 1981 and became personal bodyguard of Bhindranwale and later headed the Khalistan Commando Force after Operation Bluestar. Keeping his words, Manbir provided funds for the purchase of residential plot in Mohali for the widow of Beant Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/damdami-taksal-behind-indiras-killing-131966
27-08-2020||New Delhi||Lt Gen Mago is new commander of X Corps||Lieutenant General Manoj Kumar Mago took over the command of Indian Army’s X Corps headquartered in Bathinda, Punjab.General Mago is from the ‘Brigade of the Guards’. He has served across various terrains, and has served in Siachen, Kargil Sector during Operation Vijay 1999, Desert sector during Operation Parakram 2002.He has served seven tenures in counter-insurgency operations in Jammu & Kashmir, Nagaland and Assam. Besides, he has also served in the Strategic Forces Command, and worked on United Nations peacekeeping assignments at Somalia and Congo, respectively. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/lt-gen-mago-is-new-commander-of-x-corps-131967
27-08-2020||Our CorrespondentDoraha||Three killed in road mishap  in Doraha||A truck cleaner and two occupants of a canter died on the spot when the vehicles collided on the National Highway-1 today. Four others were admitted to the Civil Hospitals at Payal and Doraha. A case has been registered against the canter driver, who managed to flee from the spot.The deceased have been identified as Shakir Gulzaar (25), Kajal (18) and Bala (45). The injured have been identified as Sanjokiata, Sham Lal and Anju. Traffic on the route had to be diverted in view of the accident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/three-killed-in-road-mishap-in-doraha-131968
27-08-2020||Amritsar||Pakistan to observe Guru Nanak’s anniversary at Kartarpur||In a first, the ‘jyoti jot’ diwas (death anniversary) of Guru Nanak Dev would be observed at Gurdwara Darbar Sahib, Kartarpur Sahib, on September 22. The event holds significance as the gurdwara is the resting place of Guru Nanak Dev.The decision was taken during a meeting of the Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC) and the Evacuee Trust Property Board (ETPB) today.Satwant Singh, president of PSGPC, also took an opportunity to appeal to the Indian Government to open the Kartarpur corridor for the Indian pilgrims between September 20 and 22.“It is for the first time that we are commemorating this occasion. We appeal to the Indian government to open the Kartarpur corridor from its side temporarily for three days so that the Indian pilgrims could participate in the historic occasion,” he said. He also appealed to Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh and SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal to lead the jatha to Gurdwara Kartarpur Sahib through the corridor. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pakistan-to-observe-guru-nanaks-anniversary-at-kartarpur-131969
27-08-2020||Ropar||Ropar woman ‘thrashed’ by son, his wife||An elderly woman was allegedly thrashed by her son and daughter-in-law at nearby Dugri village here on Tuesday. Later, Raju and his wife Kirna left the woman stranded on the Ropar-Nangal road.Raju drives a tractor at a brick kiln. The victim, Kalpana, said she was living with her elder son Raju, along with her widow daughter. The couple didn’t want her daughter to stay with them. She alleged that the duo thrashed her, and dumped her on the national highway.The police have begun a probe into the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ropar-woman-thrashed-by-son-his-wife-131970
27-08-2020||Abohar||Home guard booked on graft charge in Abohar||In a video that has gone viral, a home guard can be reportedly seen taking money from a truck driver near the Gumjal check post under the false pretext of entry fee in Punjab.Subsequently, the home guard, identified as Subhash Chander, was booked under the relevant sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. Besides, the incharge of the check post, ASI Pritpal Singh, has been suspended, and sent to the district police lines.Chander had reportedly absconded from the spot.Taking cognisance of the incident, SSP Harjit Singh has ordered action.If any other employee was found guilty in this case, strictest action would be taken against him, the SSP said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/home-guard-booked-on-graft-charge-in-abohar-131972
27-08-2020||BATHINDA||Forest Department staff boycott work over dues||Forest Department employees, who have been without salaries for the past five months, have decided to boycott work.More than 4,000 workers are finding it difficult to make ends meet. Jaswinder Singh, general secretary of the Punjab Forest Workers’ Union, said, “We have been holding protests for over a month now, but the authorities have failed to address the issue. We have decided to boycott work till August 31. If the government pays our dues, we will resume work.”He added: “We were getting Rs 8,700 per month, which is not enough to run a household.” The matter was highlighted in these columns, but no action was taken.DFO Swaran Singh said, “The process to release salaries of forest workers has been completed.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/forest-department-staff-boycott-work-over-dues-131973
27-08-2020||23 MLAs test positive ahead of Punjab Assembly session ||Covid to peak by mid-Sept in Punjab: Capt Amarinder Singh||Aditi TandonTribune News ServiceNew Delhi, August 26The Covid-19 situation in Punjab is worsening and the state will see a peak in mid-September, when cases are projected to rise to 1.10 lakh and fatalities to around 3,000, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh said on Wednesday.He was speaking at a virtual meeting of seven CMs of Opposition parties called by Congress president Sonia Gandhi.“The Covid situation is getting worse in Punjab. We are likely to hit the peak by mid-September. Today we have 44,000 cases which will rise to 1.10 lakh by September 18. So far, there have been 1,178 deaths in Punjab and the projection is 3,000 deaths by mid-September as per experts,” Capt Amarinder said.The CM said 8,000 vehicles were entering Punjab daily and the virus transmission was rising. Capt Amarinder also mentioned that 23 Punjab MLAs had tested Covid positive ahead of the state Assembly session.Punjab, he said, had so far spent Rs 500 crore on Covid and got Rs 101 crore from the Centre, which has promised Rs 30 crore more. Punjab would be conducting 30,000 Covid tests a day by the end of the month. As of today, there were 499 patients on oxygen support and 55 on ventilator in Punjab, he noted. Testing to go upPhase II trial of Oxford vaccine begins in punePune: The Phase II human clinical trial of the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine candidate, being manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, began at a medical college and hospital here on Wednesday. Two male volunteers were administered the vaccine at Bharati Vidyapeeth’s Medical College and Hospital. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-to-peak-by-mid-sept-in-punjab-capt-amarinder-singh-131960
