29-08-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||10 workers injured in furnace unit blast in Mandi Gobindgarh||Ten labourers were injured in a furnace unit blast in Mandi Gobindgarh on Saturday, police said.Of the 10 workers who received burn injuries, six were referred to a government hospital in Chandigarh, they said.The condition of two workers was stated to be critical.A blast occurred when the labourers were working near the furnace. Police said they are investigating the matter. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/10-workers-injured-in-furnace-unit-blast-in-mandi-gobindgarh-133326
29-08-2020||Chandigarh||If I believed in jungle raj, I would have sacked Bajwa back in 2002-2007: Capt||Ridiculing Congress MP Partap Singh Bajwa for trying to score political points over the alleged Rs 55.71 crore scholarship scam, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday said had he believed in following jungle raj, he would have sacked Bajwa back in 2002-2007 when the then PWD minister was under the scanner in the bitumen scam and some other cases.Reacting to Bajwa's demand for the resignation of Cabinet Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot in the alleged scholarship scam, Amarinder said the Rajya Sabha MP was behaving like an Opposition leader whose only agenda was to attack the government on any and every issue.The Chief Minister took on Bajwa for jumping at every opportunity to criticise his own party government, like a two-bit Opposition leader who has no constructive issue to raise.Clearly, Bajwa has a hidden agenda, said the Chief Minister, adding that the MP's slew of recent anti-party actions had exposed his intent to undermine the Congress in Punjab, where it was on a very strong footing.Amarinder recalled that Bajwa had himself faced serious accusations and allegations as PWD minister between 2002 and 2007, including those relating to irregularities in the purchase of bitumen worth crores of rupees.As chief minister, he (Amarinder) could have also given in to Opposition pressure to sack him, he pointed out, adding that he believed in the rule of law.The Chief Minister said that as in Bajwa's case then, he would not let unsubstantiated and unproved allegations dictate his actions in the present case too, even if his own party MP was joining forces with the Opposition on the issue.Citing Bajwa's no-holds barred criticism against his government and party in Punjab, Amarinder said the MP's actions were highly questionable and not the sign of a loyal party member.In the midst of the pandemic, the MP, far from supporting his own government's efforts to battle the multitude of problems facing the state, was actively undermining its authority, which was totally unacceptable, he added.By attacking his own party and government in the state, Bajwa was playing into the hands of the Opposition, said Amarinder, adding that the party high command should haul up the MP for what clearly amounted to gross indiscipline.While constructive criticism within the party or a government forum was always welcome, repeatedly attacking your own party and government in media and public platforms, as Bajwa had been persistently doing for several months now, could not be construed as anything but an anti-party act, added the Chief Minister.IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/if-i-believed-in-jungle-raj-i-would-have-sacked-bajwa-back-in-2002-2007-capt-133322
29-08-2020||---||41 more COVID-19 deaths in Punjab; infection tally crosses 50K||Chandigarh, August 28Fourty-one more fatalities linked to COVID-19 pushed the death toll to 1,348 in Punjab while 1,474 new cases brought the infection tally to 50,852 in the state on Friday.Seventeen fatalities were reported from Ludhiana, 10 from Patiala, three from Jalandhar and two each from Amritsar, Fatehgarh Sahib, Hoshiarpur and Moga and one each from Faridkot, Fazilka and Mohali.The places, which reported new cases include Ludhiana (272), Patiala (145), Mohali (137), Amritsar (114), Ferozepur (119) and Pathankot (81).A total of 1,083 coronavirus patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection and so far there have been 34,091 recoveries in the state.There are 15,409 active COVID-19 cases in the state as of now, it said.Sixty-nine critical patients are on ventilator support while 475 are on oxygen support.With a collection of 18,613 more samples for COVID testing, the figure of total samples taken so far for testing has reached 10,26,465 in the state. With PTI inputs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/41-more-covid-19-deaths-in-punjab-infection-tally-crosses-50k-133308
29-08-2020||Chandigarh||Nobody above law, will thoroughly probe scholarship scam: Amarinder||Making it clear that nobody found guilty of complicity in the alleged scholarship scam would be spared, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday he had asked the Chief Secretary to conduct a thorough probe into the case, which will be taken to its logical conclusion as per the law.“Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan will look into all aspects of the case, and anyone found involved, whatever his position within or outside the government, would be penalised and punished in accordance with the legal provisions,” a press release quoted the chief minister as saying. “The law will take its course.”Captain Amarinder also said “no could be put on the mat” without fair investigation, which he said Cabinet Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot deserved.“There is rule of law, which needs to be followed,” said the Chief Minister, adding that he would not succumb to Opposition trial in the case.The chief minister also criticised the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) for demanding action against Dharamsot without a proper inquiry.“Are we living in a state of anarchy, with no rule of law?” Captain Amarinder asked, reacting strongly to AAP’s and Lok Insaaf Party’s  allegations in the Vidhan Sabha over the issue. “Do you really expect me to take action without a proper inquiry against my own minister when I have not done so even against many Opposition leaders,” asked the Chief Minister.“Nobody is above the law, but everybody deserves a fair and proper inquiry,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nobody-above-law-will-thoroughly-probe-scholarship-scam-amarinder-133303
29-08-2020||Chandigarh||Cricketer Suresh Raina’s uncle killed by robbers in Pathankot||A 58-year-old uncle of cricketer Suresh Raina died while four members of his family sustained injuries allegedly in an attack by robbers in Punjab’s Pathankot district.The deceased has been identified as Ashok Kumar, a government contractor.According to police, the incident took place at Thariyal village in Punjab’s Pathankot on the night intervening August 19 and 20.Kumar’s elder brother Shyam Lal confirmed that the victim was the cricketer’s uncle. He said Raina is expected to visit the village.Read also: CSK star Suresh Raina pulls out of IPL due to ‘personal reasons’Earlier, a senior police official had said they can’t confirm the victim’s relationship with the cricketer.According to police, three to four members of the notorious “Kale Kachhewala” gang had come with an intention to loot, attacked Ashok Kumar and his family members at their house in Thariyal village near Madhopur of Pathankot.At the time of the attack, they were sleeping on the terrace of their house.Ashok Kumar suffered head injuries and died on the same night, police said.Confirming Kumar’s death, Pathankot Senior Superintendent of Police Gulneet Singh Khurana had earlier said he had no confirmation about the victim’s relation with the cricketer.“We are investigating the matter,” said the SSP.According to police, robbers decamped with some cash and gold from the house.Kumar’s 80-year-old mother Satya Devi, his wife Asha Devi, sons Apin and Kuashal suffered injuries, said police.While Satya Devi has been discharged from hospital, others are still undergoing treatment, said Pathankot Superintendent of Police Prabhjot Singh Virk. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cricketer-suresh-rainas-uncle-killed-by-robbers-in-pathankot-133277
29-08-2020||---||Jalandhar-based bodybuilder, model and celebrity fitness coach Satnam Khatra dies at 31||Jalandhar, August 29Jalandhar-based bodybuilder, model and celebrity fitness coach Satnam Khatra died of a heart attack here on Saturday.He suffered the heart attack in the wee hours of Saturday. He was 31.Once addicted to drugs, Satnam was into physical fitness for the past eight years.His coach, Rohit Khera, announced his demise on social media. Owing to Satnam’s dedication to fitness, he was widely popular among the youth. His Instagram account has around 3.7 lakh followers.His fans and those associated with the fitness industry are in a shock. His fan pages on social media are flooded with posts mourning his death.Sources said he had not been keeping well for the past sometime.Following the recent lockdown, Satnam was giving online fitness classes and was planning to launch his own fitness brand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jalandhar-based-bodybuilder-model-and-celebrity-fitness-coach-satnam-khatra-dies-at-31-133226
29-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab-born restaurateur making waves in Norway; winning hearts for 40 years||A Punjab-born restaurateur has been making waves in Norway for the past 40 years, serving Indian traditional dishes with authentic ingredients and winning hearts."Forty years ago Gurdial Singh from Kapurthala opened the first Indian restaurant in Norway. He taught me and other Norwegians to love Indian food," former UN Environment Executive Director Erik Solheim said in a tweet on Saturday."Now his family runs some of the world's best Indian restaurants. Enjoy tastes of incredible food," he added.The former Norwegian diplomat, politician and environment minister, who says he is inspired by the life and thoughts of Mahatma Gandhi in the global fight against climate change, played a crucial role in 2018 as the UN Environment chief in convincing India to phase out single-use plastics by 2022, a major achievement in his crusade against plastic pollution.40 years ago Gurdial Singh from Kapurthala opened the first Indian 🇮🇳 restaurant in Norway 🇳🇴. He taught me and other Norwegians to love Indian food. Now his family runs some of the world’s best Indian restaurants.Enjoy tastes of incredible food🌶:https://t.co/a8CpnDExef pic.twitter.com/ufcI1Yn7yq  Restaurateur Gurdial Singh came to Oslo in 1982, and began popularising Indian cuisine by founding the Maharaja Restaurant.His son, Baljit Singh Padda, created 'Listen to Baljit' that donates meals to children in many countries. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-born-restaurateur-making-waves-in-norway-winning-hearts-for-40-years-133219
29-08-2020||Gurnaaz Kaur||Operation Blue Star: Lessons from a tragedy||Hindi author Ajay Sharma has made good use of this bent in life that came with Coronavirus. He wrote his 13th novel. Titled Operation Blue Star, it is a fictional drama that he wanted to write since long.As the title suggests, the story has the military operation in the backdrop but brings to fore the trauma that common citizens faced due to the ghastly event at the Golden Temple in 1984. “Being a Punjabi, I felt it was my responsibility towards the state to narrate the ordeals of a civilian who suffered at the hands of politicians,” says Ajay.A conversation between two Sikh soldiers, who are deployed at the site before the firefight, it tells how one of them is conflicted between his faith and duty. “At the place where he prays, worships his Guru, there comes a day in his life where he has to wear shoes and carry weapons because it is a part of his job. It also means attacking innocent Sikhs who visit the place. He tells his colleague how he feels uncomfortable about the whole situation,” Ajay adds.The discussion gets pensive as the two talk about the way the government could avert the whole situation. “From time immemorial, the rulers have caused bloodshed for power and it is the innocent who suffer. In this touching story, I’ve shared the anguish of the Sikh community as a whole who till date haven’t been able to forget the tragedy.”The wounds haven’t healed and the massacre has had no winner. But there are lessons to learn and the Jalandhar-based novelist says his novel is an attempt to highlight such learnings.On his way to his next book Kumudni Ke Phool, which is about IVF babies, this doctor-turned-writer has three novels that are a part of the syllabus at Punjabi University, Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar and Lovely Professional University. He has also written serials for Doordarshan and promises that like some of his other novels even Operation Blue Star will be turned into a play. “I am waiting for the right time, when the virus will be gone and social distancing won’t be a compulsion. Then, I will showcase this emotional tale of a Sikh soldier on stage.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/operation-blue-star-lessons-from-a-tragedy-133148
29-08-2020||---||Opening of retreat ceremony, Kartarpur corridor sought||Amritsar, August 28People associated with tourism, tour and travel industry have demanded the opening of the retreat ceremony at the Attari-Wagah joint check-post and the Kartarpur corridor to bring back tourists.APS Chatha, president of the Amritsar Hotel and Restaurant Association, said it was a good sign that the number of tourists visiting the Golden Temple was increasing. However, these tourists returned to their hometowns the same day. The stay of these tourists could be increased to one or two nights by reopening the retreat ceremony, which is situated nearly 30 km from here, and the historic Kartarpur shrine, which is nearly 50 km from here.He said the hotels which were opened after the government’s announcement were incurring losses on account of low occupancy while their running costs were very high. Barring tourists within the state, nobody from the rest of the country and overseas is visiting the place.Hoteliers feel that its reason is that a majority of the trains are still cancelled, flights are suspended and travel restrictions on intra-state movement are discouraging visitors.Yogesh Kamra, a travel and aviation expert, said the states of Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Kerala and Goa had allowed domestic tourists to visit their respective states in a limited number. “Apart from the state guidelines and standard operating procedures (SOPs), tourists are required to have a Covid-19 negative report, along with the minimum number of days of stay supported,” he remarked.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/opening-of-retreat-ceremony-kartarpur-corridor-sought-133112
29-08-2020||Jalandhar||Jalandhar district gets 27 ventilators from govt – all go to private sector||Of the 27 ventilators allocated by the state government to Jalandhar to treat Covid-19 patients – all have been given to private hospitals. While six were already given — the DC on Wednesday — declared the district administration would give 21 invasive ventilators to four private hospitals for free. However, all new ventilators have been allocated to the private sector while the Civil Hospital, Jalandhar, continues to function with the 10 ventilators.The administration says the ventilators are being provided only to facilities which have adequate manpower and anaesthetists to operate them.In all, of the 27 ventilators provided by district administration to the private sector – six to the Covid facility at the Gulaab Devi Hospital and 21 more invasive ventilators to the four private hospitals on August 26. The four hospitals include Innocent Hearts Multispecialty Hospital (2 ventilators), Shrimann Multispecialty Hospital (4), Mann Medicity and Cardionova Hospital (9) and Capitol Hospital (6). These hospitals have approached Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori and sought the ventilators for the treatment of the Covid patients.These hospitals have around 77-beds for Level-III category and 78-beds for Level-II patients.Yet, even though the Level II facilities have also been readied at three community health centres (CHCs) – Basti Gujan, Khurla Kingra and Dada Colony – none of the ventilators have so far been allocated for them. Reason – they don’t have anaesthetists. Nor have they begun receiving any patients yet.Notably, the DC had already ensured the provision of 56-bedded ICU at the Civil Hospital and piped oxygen supply had also been provided at the CHCs – to ensure treatment of Covid patients.But ever since the private sector was opened for Covid patients in Jalandhar – most of the affluent or VIP patients had also been going to private hospitals.Deputy Commssioner Ghanshyam Das Thori said, “Jalandhar alone has received 27 ventilators from the state government of the total 200 they had. It is a big number for a centre like Jalandhar. As per demands from hospitals and availability from the state government, more shall be provided. The ventilators are being provided to Level II and III private facilities, which already have adequate anaesthetists and manpower to run them. There is no use providing ventilators to government facilities, which don’t have staff to run them. Also the 10 ventilators available at the Civil Hospital ICU are currently enough keeping with the patient quantum in the district.”Civil Surgeon Dr Gurinder Kaur Chawla said, “The Civil Hospital has already enough ventilators. So far, we did not have to use the ventilators all together. Currently, they are sufficient. The additional ventilators are being provided to the private sector as per the demand being forwarded by them to us. So far, 26 have been provided to the private hospitals in Jalandhar. The high-flow nasal canola available at the Civil Hospital has also proven to be useful for Covid patients. The ventilators are being provided to additional private players to ensure critical care and handle emergencies with expertise.”The DC also said private hospitals have to utilise the ventilators for the management of Covid patients who are in need of critical care and emergency cases. He said private hospitals have to ensure availability of specialised manpower to operate lifesaving medical equipment on their premises. He also said other private hospitals may also contact his office to inform about the requirement of the ventilators following which the ventilator would be provided as per the need.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jalandhar-district-gets-27-ventilators-from-govt-%E2%80%93-all-go-to-private-sector-133088
29-08-2020||---||Hours after raid on his house, Sumedh Saini gets interim bail till Sept 1||Chandigarh, August 28Hours after the Punjab Police raided former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini’s house here early this morning in connection with the 1991 Multani murder case, a Mohali court extended the stay on his arrest till September 1.The interest of justice and equity requires that interim relief already granted should continue till final disposal of the bail application. -  Mohali courtThe SIT probing the case reached Saini’s house along with members of the SOG and the Organised Crime Control Unit, but did not find him there. Later in the day, the court of Additional District and Sessions Judge Rajnish Garg granted him interim protection from arrest.Saini’s counsel APS Deol had moved an applicantion for bail on August 25, but the court granted him interim relief till August 27. The raid was conducted after the court reserved its order on Saini’s anticipatory bail plea.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hours-after-raid-on-his-house-sumedh-saini-gets-interim-bail-till-sept-1-132991
29-08-2020||---||Father, son behind pharma drug cartel held||Chandigarh, August 28In one of the biggest crackdowns on the illegal manufacture-diversion-supply chain of pharmaceutical opioids in the country, the Punjab Police today announced the arrest of Krishan Kumar Arora, alias ‘Clovidol’ Badshah, and his son Gaurav Arora of Neutec Healthcare Pvt Ltd, Narela, Delhi.Biggest suppliers of opioids: Punjab policeDGP Dinkar Gupta said the two were one of the biggest manufacturers and suppliers of pharmaceutical opioids in the country and were illegally supplying/diverting 18-20 crore tablets, capsules and syrups, worth Rs 70-80 crore, across 17 states every month through drug supply gangs, including Mathura and Agra gangs, that were busted recently. The two were the masterminds of the ‘pharma drug cartel’ that controlled a major share (almost 60-70%) of the illegal trade, he said.The two were arrested from Rajouri Garden in Delhi yesterday by a team of the Barnala police, comprising Mehal Kalan ASP Pragya Jain and CIA in charge Baljit Singh, under the supervision of SSP Sandeep Goel.The network began to unravel with the busting of the Mathura and Agra gangs by the Barnala police in February, followed by major seizures and arrests in May and July. So far, as many as 36 persons had been arrested and 73 lakh intoxicating tablets/capsules/syrup bottles and Rs 2.26 crore seized across five states, said the DGP.“Sustained investigations led to the unmasking of the linkages of the nexus and further revealed the involvement of various pharmaceutical manufacturing companies, including Neutec Pharmaceutical Pvt Ltd, Narela, Delhi, which is one of the biggest manufacturers of NRx (prescription) drugs, such as Clovidol 100 SR, Trio SR, Simplex C+, Simplex +, Tridol, Foridol, Prozolam, Alprazolam, etc. These drugs are extensively abused as pharma opioids by drug addicts all over the country,” said Gupta.The accused allegedly manufactured pharma drugs clandestinely over and above the sanctioned quota, and had created wholesale/retail firms in connivance with associates.Some of these front firms included Santoshi Pharma, Jagdeesh Pharma, SS Agency, Jai Hanuman Phama, Mayank Drug House, etc. These front firms were often shut down after three-four months to evade scrutiny.A network of transporters/ couriers, including Sri Ram Transport, Narela Transport, Annu Road Carriers, Malik Transport, Delhi Punjab Transport (all in Delhi), and Jai Bhole Transport, Aligarh Hathras, Devesh Transport, Lamba T, Radha Krishan Transport, Shreejee Roadlines (all in Agra), was created to facilitate the supply of drugs.The consignments were often delivered without bill and transporters were paid three-four times the normal rates. In other cases, the consignments were transported on fake invoices of genuine pharmaceutical firms — Kalra Medicos, Janta Medicos, JMD Pharma, Medstone Ascelepius (all in Delhi), and VR Enterprises, Shri Kaila Devi Enterprises, Jai Hanuman Pharma (all in Agra), etc.The police said to evade scrutiny by police and law enforcement authorities, the consignments were often marked as ‘carrying surgical equipment’. In addition, Neutec Healthcare Pvt Ltd used to deliver consignments through own vehicles.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/father-son-behind-pharma-drug-cartel-held-132994
29-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab House rejects farm ordinances||The Punjab Vidhan Sabha today passed a resolution moved by CM Amarinder Singh, rejecting the Centre’s farm ordinances and the Electricity Amendment Bill, 2020. No Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) legislator was present in the House that sought a fresh ordinance ensuring foodgrain procurement at the minimum support price (MSP) and continued procurement by the FCI.The resolution will be sent to both Houses of Parliament. Amid objections by AAP to restrictions placed on the entry of its members on the “pretext” of the Covid-19 pandemic, the truncated three-hour session saw 55 of the total 117 members participating in the legislative business. Moving the resolution, the Chief Minister said whether river waters or the MSP, the Centre’s actions were clearly against the interests of the state. “The motive is to pass the control of agriculture into private hands,” he said, even as he targeted SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal for “misleading” farmers on agricultural reforms.BJP MLA Dinesh Babbu argued that there was no clause to stop the MSP and farmers were being misled. Kultar Singh Sandhwan (AAP) said the Akalis must make sure that MSP clause stayed in the ordinances. Rebel AAP MLA Kanwar Sandhu said instead of the ordinances, a Bill should have been brought and the affected states taken on board. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-house-rejects-farm-ordinances-132995
29-08-2020||Chandigarh||AAP MLAs ignore Punjab Vidhan Sabha Speaker’s advice, show up for session||Paying no heed to the “advice” given to them by Punjab Vidhan Sabha Speaker Rana KP Singh against attending the session, Aam Aadmi Party legislators, including Leader of the Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema, went to the Assembly wearing PPE kits. They were, however, turned away.AAP’s charges a bundle of liesThe allegations levelled by the Aam Aadmi Party are a bundle of lies. I had advised Harpal Cheema and Kultar Sandhwan not to attend the session. — Rana KP Singh, SpeakerCrying foul, the three party MLAs, Cheema, Saravjit Kaur Manuke and Meet Hayer, staged a dharna outside the main entrance of the Punjab Vidhan Sabha, alleging that it was the democracy’s darkest hour, where the Opposition party MLAs had been forcibly kept out of the Assembly as the government was finding it difficult to face their queries on public issues.The MLAs later shifted their dharna to Punjab Bhawan and were joined by state party Chief Bhagwant Mann and in charge of Punjab affairs Jarnail Singh. The dharna was lifted after the session ended.The AAP MLAs were advised to stay away last night (through a letter sent by the Secretary, Vidhan Sabha, Shashi Lakhanpal Misra) citing their contact with Manjit Singh Bilaspur, who had tested positive on Tuesday. However, when they reached the Vidhan Sabha, they were stopped at the entrance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-mlas-ignore-punjab-vidhan-sabha-speakers-advice-show-up-for-session-132947
29-08-2020||Chandigarh||Ruckus in Punjab Assembly over  Rs55-cr scholarship scam||With 55 MLAs in the 117-member House not being allowed to attend the session due to precautionary measures in view of Covid-19, a truncated session of the state Assembly saw ruckus in the House with Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) MLAs taking on Social Welfare Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot for his alleged complicity in protecting those involved in the Rs 55.71 crore SC post-matric scholarship scam.Read also: SAD: One-hour session black day for democracyIn the line of fire from the Opposition benches, the minister did not find any support from the treasury benches. Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh was also present in the House as charges flew thick and fast against his minister. The minister’s counter verbal attack was, however, lost in the din of slogans raised by AAP MLAs.Flashing the recently submitted government report on the scam in the disbursal of the scholarship funds, LIP MLA Simarjit Bains praised the bureaucrat who exposed the minister and his deputy director Parminder Gill as he read out extracts of the report while seeking dismissal of the minister. Staging a dharna in the Well of the House, Bains demanded a CBI probe into the scam involving Central funds. He said if the government did not act, he would move the Punjab and Haryana High Court.It was pointed out that Deputy Director Parminder Gill, who was suspended in connection with the scam, had been reinstated by the minister.AAP MLAs Master Baldev Singh and Kultar Singh Sandhwan also demanded dismissal of the minister, adding that the “bungling in the scholarship scheme was a serious blot on the Congress government”. AAP MLA Aman Arora raised the issue of illegal mining and liquor mafia. Meanwhile, due to the pandemic, there was no question hour, calling attention and zero hour.Tributes paid to martyrs, warriors||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ruckus-in-punjab-assembly-over-rs55-cr-scholarship-scam-132949
29-08-2020||Chandigarh||2 MLAs test +ve, Capt Amarinder goes into  self-quarantine||Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has gone into a seven-day self-quarantine after two of his party MLAs — Kulbir Singh Zira and Nirmal Singh Shutrana — tested positive for Covid-19 today.Zira was seen in close vicinity of the CM during the Vidhan Sabha session held today.The two MLAs had attended the House proceedings after getting Covid-negative reports. However, later they tested positive.Shutrana had not interacted much with any other member in the House and had left within 15 minutes of the start of the session. Zira had mingled with a lot of MLAs and even met the Chief Minister. Panic has gripped all 55 MLAs and ministers, besides the staff of Vidhan Sabha.Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said they were on the job, tracing all those who had interacted with these two MLAs, both inside and outside the House. With these two, the total number of legislators having tested positive has reached 32. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-mlas-test-ve-capt-amarinder-goes-into-self-quarantine-132952
29-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Chief Secretary told to look into scholarship scam||After a probe report questioned the role of Social Justice, Empowerment and Minorities Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot in shielding those involved in the Rs 55.71-crore scholarship scam, the state government is learnt to have directed the Chief Secretary to probe the matter.The minister has termed the findings of the report absurd and unfounded. Meanwhile, Congress Rajya Sabha MP Partap Bajwa said he would write to Sonia Gandhi, apprising her of the situation. He sought Dharamsot’s resignation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-chief-secretary-told-to-look-into-scholarship-scam-132954
29-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Vidhan Sabha passes 7 Bills in 1-day sitting||The Punjab Vidhan Sabha today unanimously passed seven Bills. A legislation was passed to set up Sri Guru Teg Bahadur University of Law in Tarn Taran to commemorate the Guru’s 400th birth anniversary. The Bill was presented by Higher Education Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa. AAP MLA Prof Baljinder Kaur asked the government to strengthen existing institutions, including Punjabi University.Nod to extension of ParoleThe House approved the Punjab Good Conduct Prisoners (Temporary Release) Amendment Bill, to decongest jails, by extending period of parole in situation of disasters, epidemics and extreme emergencies.The House approved the Punjab Good Conduct Prisoners (Temporary Release) Amendment Bill, to decongest jails, by extending period of parole in situation of disasters, epidemics and extreme emergencies. The Punjab Good Conduct Prisoners (Temporary Release) Act, 1962 did not have any provision through which parole of prisoners could be extended from 16 weeks and condition of parole being availed on quarterly basis could be waived in unprecedented situations.The Punjab Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (2nd Amendment) Bill 2020; the Punjab Clinical Establishment (Registration and Regulation) Bill; the Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) (Punjab Amendment) Bill, 2020; Industrial Disputes (Punjab Amendment) Bill and the Punjab GST (2nd Amendment) Bill were also passed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-vidhan-sabha-passes-7-bills-in-1-day-sitting-132955
29-08-2020||Jalandhar||After 2 contradictory test reports, Pargat Singh stays away||After getting two back-to-back contradictory reports regarding his Covid-19 test, Jalandhar Cantonment MLA Pargat Singh today skipped the Vidhan Sabha session despite being in Chandigarh.The MLA said he took the first test at Civil Hospital, Jalandhar, on August 25 as all MLAs had been asked to take the test ahead of today’s Vidhan Sabha session. To his surprise, the report came positive. As soon as he got it, he immediately left for his MLA residence in Chandigarh to isolate himself and keep away from his family and supporters here. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/after-2-contradictory-test-reports-pargat-singh-stays-away-132956
29-08-2020||Chandigarh||Charges added to FIR after interim bail, cops apologise||More than two months after the Punjab and Haryana High Court ruled that the police cannot add an offence to a pre-existing FIR after the court has granted interim bail to an accused, two cops have shown “repentance” and tendered unconditional and unqualified apology in the matter.The apology came on a petition filed by an accused against the State of Punjab and other respondents. Justice Arun Monga observed that the petitioner was granted interim anticipatory bail vide an order issued on December 16, 2019, before being directed to join the investigation.An FIR in the matter was registered on May 4, 2019, for kidnapping and other offences at a police station in Ferozepur district under Sections 363, 366-A and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code and the provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.The petitioner joined the investigation, but the offence of rape under Section 376 of the IPC was later added in the FIR. Despite interim bail granted to the petitioner in the FIR, he was arrested by the police on March 9 without the leave of the court or seeking cancellation/modification of the interim bail order. As a result, the petitioner moved the court for legal action against the Station House Officer and the Investigating Officer concerned for wilfully disobeying the interim bail order. Taking note of the conduct of the police officials “to overreach the order/direction of the High Court”, the Bench issued notice to the then SHO Raman Kumar and Investigating Officer Gurdev Singh to show cause why contempt proceedings be not initiated against them.In response to the contempt notice, both the officials tendered unconditional and unqualified apology before undertaking to be careful in future and take corrective steps.“In the circumstances, taking into account the repentance shown by both the contemnors, their apology is accepted. The pre-contempt show-cause notice issued to them is dropped,” Justice Monga asserted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/charges-added-to-fir-after-interim-bail-cops-apologise-132958
29-08-2020||Gurdaspur/Pathankot||Pandemic derails four rail projects in Punjab||Covid has derailed four major rail projects in the border area. The ventures include 40-km Beas-Qadian track, elevation of the 3.6-km stretch of narrow gauge track within the municipal limits of Pathankot city, establishment of an underpass on the Gurdaspur-Tibri road level-crossing and a rail overbridge on the Sujanpur-Pathankot track.The venturesSources said the projects might get delayed as the “Covid-induced fear would stay for at least two years”.There are as many as seven level-crossings in Pathankot city and all of these are closed a dozen times a day when the Joginder Nagar-Pathankot toy train passes.This has not only brought the economic development of the city to a standstill, but also put residents under unending misery. The project cost is Rs 280 crore project, with the Union and state governments supposed to chip in equal amount. The Qadian-Beas link has also hit a roadblock.In 2011, then MP Partap Singh Bajwa had urged Railway Minister Mamata Banerjee to include the construction of the track in the rail budget under the “Socially Desirable Rail Connectivity Proposals (SDRCP)” bracket. The minister had obliged and an amount of Rs 205 crore was set aside. However, when the land acquisition started, some Akali leaders played a spoilsport for their own political gains. Ever since the project has been in a limbo.MP Sunny Deol said some BJP leaders tried to infuse oxygen in the venture before the virus struck. Qadian MLA Fateh Jung Singh Bajwa, who has written numerous letters to the the ministry and CM Capt Amarinder Singh, asked Deol to stop politicising the issue.“Deol was not even into politics when my brother Partap Bajwa managed to convince the Railway Minister about the viability of the project. Now the actor, by simply applying finishing touches, is trying to hijack the venture, which everybody knows is our brainchild,” said a livid Fateh Bajwa.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pandemic-derails-four-rail-projects-in-punjab-132961
29-08-2020||Chandigarh||Mobile testing clinic, ambulance flagged off||Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday flagged off a well-equipped Covid testing mobile clinic and ambulance, donated by Vikramjit Sahni, Chairman, Sun Foundation, and International President, World Punjabi Organisation.Sahni said the mobile clinic has contact-less thermal testing, along with nasal and oral swab tests. The fully air-conditioned mobile unit also has a separate ambulance zone for critical patients. It has the potential for sampling over 1,000 people per day at their doorsteps to achieve Mission Fateh Punjab.Notably, at present, the state government has the capacity to conduct around 24,000 tests per day and the target is to achieve the milestone of 30,000 tests per day by next week. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mobile-testing-clinic-ambulance-flagged-off-132963
29-08-2020||Bathinda||Bathinda railway station vendors struggle to make ends meet||The vendors at the local railway station, who have been providing meals to passengers for the past many years, are now struggling for their own two-square meal due to the lockdown. The railways operations are lying closed for the past five months and so is their work.With the Indian Railways temporarily suspending all train services, the workers in and around the station, from tea vendors to autorickshaw drivers, are finding it hard to make their ends meet. Many of them are now burdened with debts. The porters too are sailing in the same boat.Prithvi Raj, who had an ice cream vend at the railway station, has started working as a daily wager to earn for his family. Similarly, Asanand Saini, who served chhole bhature at the railway station has started selling vegetables. Lekh Raj, a tea vendor, is now a labourer.While talking to The Tribune, Asanand Saini said they had been badly hit due to lockdown but there was no scheme from the railways to help them overcome the economic crises. Since the vends were lying closed, their income had come down to zero. Another vendor said: “I have not earned a single rupee since the lockdown was imposed and my debts are mounting.”Sanjiv Kumar, a porter, is now worried about how to sustain and repay a debt of Rs 5,000, which he took after the lockdown.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-railway-station-vendors-struggle-to-make-ends-meet-132964
29-08-2020||Bathinda||ASHA workers’ hunger strike continues||The hunger strike of ASHA Worker and Facilitators’ Uunion members entered the fifth day in Mansa district on Friday. The ASHA workers raised slogans against the Health Department and state government for not fulfilling their long-standing demands.Seema Rani, a union leader said, “We demand that the government must pay us a fixed salary on the pattern of the Haryana Government. Our demands are genuine and we appeal to the MLAs of our area to take up the matter with the state government. We have been instrumental in making government’s ‘Mission Fateh’ campaign successful. ASHA workers and facilitators have not only been working on the frontline, but also reaching out to people at far-off areas. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/asha-workers-hunger-strike-continues-132965
29-08-2020||Muktsar||Ayurveda students want exams put off||Amid the Covid-19 outbreak, Guru Ravidas Ayurved University, Hoshiarpur, has announced the date sheet to conduct supplementary exams for BAMS, BHMS and BUMS courses, scheduled to be held from September 28 to October 24.The university will conduct the exams in 16 ayurvedic, four homoeopathic and a unani college affiliated with it. However, this decision to conduct exams did not go well with students who sought postponement of exams. Students urged Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to intervene.Dr Ish Sharma, Controller of Examinations, Guru Ravidas Ayurved University, said, “These are supplementary exams. In some colleges, around 10 to 12 students will appear. We have asked all the colleges to make necessary arrangements for conducting theory exams at their centre as per the guidelines.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ayurveda-students-want-exams-put-off-132966
29-08-2020||Barnala||Residents oppose ban  on protests||Alleging the misuse of Section 144 to muzzle the voice of residents, various organisations today took out a protest march in Barnala. Hundreds of residents, including women, participated in the rally.Narayan Dutt, leader of the Inquilabi Kendra, Punjab, said, “Under the garb of Covid-19, the government has banned protests and is trying to prevent residents from raising their voice, but we will never allow it to do so.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/residents-oppose-ban-on-protests-132967
29-08-2020||Chandigarh||51 more succumb to virus in Punjab||Punjab continued to see a spike in Covid-positive cases with 1,555 fresh infections and 51 deaths being reported today.Jalandhar reported the maximum cases (211), followed by Gurdaspur (182) and Ludhiana (140). The highest number of deaths, however, was reported from Amritsar (12), followed by Ludhiana (11), and Jalandhar and Patiala (five each).In Ludhiana, Sub-Inspector Gurbaksh Singh succumbed to the virus. This is the third death of a Ludhiana district police after ACP Anil Kohli and ASI Jaspal Singh. Besides, those who died included eight women and three men.Bathinda reported four Covid deaths today, taking the district’s toll to 32. The total cases in the district have crossed 2,200.Though the government bulletin said there were 18 new cases in Bathinda, the Health Department said 111 new cases were reported today. In Ropar, the virus claimed three lives while 31 people tested positive. Amritsar district’s death toll has reached 158 while 81 new patients took the cumulative case count to 3,691 in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/51-more-succumb-to-virus-in-punjab-132970
29-08-2020||Bathinda||Four doctors test positive at AIIMS, Bathinda||Eight persons have tested positive at AIIMS, Bathinda, in the past week. The infected include a senior official, four doctors and four staff members.Hospital Director DK Singh is under home-quarantine. On the phone, DK Singh said, “Eight of our staff members, including four doctors and an officiating superintendent, have tested positive. I am also under home-quarantine. The sampling is on and the exact situation will be known once the reports are out.”The AIIMS authorities celebrated Independence Day last week. It has been learnt that they did not follow social distancing norms and were without masks.A senior functionary of the Health Department said on the one hand, the staff were spreading awareness, exhorting people to avoid social gatherings and wear face masks, while on the other, doctors and assisting medical staff were themselves flouting the norms.Dr Amrik Singh Sandhu, Civil Surgeon, Bathinda, could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/four-doctors-test-positive-at-aiims-bathinda-132972
29-08-2020||Kolkata||Work on relocating Sikhs near completion: Meghalaya Deputy CM||Meghalaya Deputy Chief Minister Prestone Tynsong today said the high-level committee headed by him would soon submit to the state government its recommendations regarding relocation of Dalit Sikhs of Shillong’s Harijan Colony (also known as Punjabi Lane).A press conference by Tynsong at Shillong was held after a lengthy meeting between him and Urban Affairs Minister Hamletson Dohling.Land given 150 years ago: residentsAccording to the Harijan Panchayat Committee, which represents the Sikh residents of the colony, the land was granted to a group of people more than 150 years ago by the then tribal chief of the area. State government agencies such as the Shillong Municipal Board had no jurisdiction over the land, the committee said.Tynsong had set up a sub-committee under Dohling to take up with the ‘Hima Mylliem’ (a traditional Khasi tribal institution) the issue of the land inhabited by Harijan Colony residents. Dohling today submitted the report of the sub-committee to Tynsong.According to the Harijan Panchayat Committee, which represents the Sikh residents of the colony, the land was granted to a group of people more than 150 years ago by the then tribal chief of the area. State government agencies such as the Shillong Municipal Board had no jurisdiction over the land, the committee said.After meeting Dohling, Tynsong said the work was nearing completion. “The committee will sit again next week and in all probability, this will be followed by submission of recommendations to the state government,” Tynsong said. He, however, refused to share any detail with regard to the report given to him by Dohling.The Harijan Panchayat Committee, spearheading the fight against the Meghalaya Government’s attempt to evict Sikh residents from their homes, had earlier said that the committee was “partisan” and they would not accept its “decision”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/work-on-relocating-sikhs-near-completion-meghalaya-deputy-cm-132976
29-08-2020||Amritsar||3 killed in Amritsar building collapse||Three persons, including an eight-year-old girl, were killed and three others were injured after a three-storey building collapsed in the Guru Nanakpura area on the Sultanwind road after heavy rain.The deceased have been identified as Lal Singh (80), Raman Kumar (35), alias Sunny, and Guddu (8). Eyewitnesses claimed that the building collapsed around 2.15 am. The police said three families used to reside in the ill-fated building. Fire Officer Lovepreet Singh said his team had commenced the rescue operation. Iron gates inside the building were broken by hydraulic cutters, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-killed-in-amritsar-building-collapse-132977
29-08-2020||Chandigarh||Bhakra management board bags eco award||The Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB) has been conferred the ‘Silver Award’ during the 7th Exceed Environment Awards-2020 under the environment preservation category in the power sector.The award was presented by the Minister of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, Prakash Javadekar, through a virtual webinar organised by the Sustainable Development Foundation.The BBMB generates 10,000 to 14,000 million units of green and pollution-free hydropower annually. As a part of its commitment towards preserving the environment, the BBMB has been planting saplings every year in the catchment areas of its projects to prevent soil erosion and reduce the level of carbon dioxide in the environment. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bhakra-management-board-bags-eco-award-132981
29-08-2020||Patiala||Patiala SHO booked for ‘letting off’ illicit liquor smugglers||Amid the ongoing crackdown against the illicit liquor trade, a Station House officer (SHO) in Patiala has been booked for allegedly letting off liquor smugglers in lieu of a bribe.Sukhwinder Singh, who was posted as the Ghanaur SHO, has been booked under Sections 409, 213 and 120B of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Sections 7 and 13 (2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act.Man arrested for sheltering accusedTarn Taran: Jasbir Singh Sheera of Thura in Patiala district was arrested by the Sadar police for allegedly giving shelter to one of the main accused in the spurious liquor tragedy. The police said the accused gave shelter to Rachhpal Singh Shalu of Dhotian. Sheera was booked under Sections 212 and 216 of the IPC. OCThe SHO was booked following an investigation by the anti-narcotics cell of Fatehgarh Sahib, wherein an accused smuggler was let off by a constable of the Ghanaur police station on August 24 after taking some liquor bottles and a bribe of Rs 9,500 from the smuggler.The constable had revealed during the probe that he had given the money to the SHO concerned. Consequently, the Fatehgarh Sahib SSP wrote to the Patiala SSP to take action against the accused SHO, which led to the arrest.Patiala SSP Vikramjeet Singh Duggal said strict action would be taken against liquor smugglers along with their facilitators. No one would be spared, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/patiala-sho-booked-for-letting-off-illicit-liquor-smugglers-132982
29-08-2020||Morinda||Cops going soft on peddlers, allege villagers||Residents of Sarhana village today alleged that the police had been favouring two drug addicts who had tried to attack sarpanch Simaranjeet Singh. Holding a protest, they alleged that the police personnel had failed to act against drug peddlers in the area.Simarjeet said on Thursday, Lakhwinder Singh, alias Lakhi, a resident of Sarhana village, and Gurpreet Singh Happy of Samana village, entered his house with sharp-edged weapons. The sarpanch said he, along with his family members, overpowered them and handed them over to the police.The duo confessed that they were under the influence of drugs, which they had bought from a peddler in Morinda. Deputy Superintendent of Police SS Virk said the accused had been sent to jail and a case under Section 107 and 151 of the CrPC had been filed against them. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cops-going-soft-on-peddlers-allege-villagers-132983
29-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana High Court rejects bail plea of health officer||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has denied bail to a District Health Officer facing allegations of taking illegal gratification from milk sellers, grocery shops and ghee factories for not drawing samples.In his petition before the Bench of Justice Harnaresh Singh Gill, Dr Ramesh Kumar Maheshwari sought anticipatory bail in the FIR registered under Section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act at the Kotwali police station in Bathinda district.Justice Gill observed the FIR was registered on the basis of a complaint submitted to the police by the Bathinda Civil Surgeon. It was also alleged that the petitioner would draw samples from shops of those not paying such gratification.In this regard, an alleged conversation of more than 11 minutes of the petitioner with retired SMO Dr Satish Garg in the form of an audio recording went viral on the social media. A detailed inquiry was conducted and it was found in line with the contents of the audio CD. Accordingly, an FIR was registered after taking legal opinion. Justice Madaan said the allegations levelled against the petitioner were very serious. The audio that went viral in the matter was recorded by a retired SMO after his shopkeeper-brother was also asked to pay the illegal gratification. Besides, shopkeepers running the business of grocery, dairy sweets and even employees of the Food Safety Department made statements against the petitioner before the investigating agency.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-rejects-bail-plea-of-health-officer-132985
29-08-2020||Sangrur||CIA arrests gangster Bhathua||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cia-arrests-gangster-bhathua-132988
