02-04-2020||India||Cats susceptible to virus, but may not infect humans||New Delhi: Ferrets and cats are susceptible to contracting coronavirus (Covid-19) but not dogs, ducks, chickens and pigs, a non-peer reviewed study published in bioRxiv has found and said these findings can be important for vaccine and antiviral drug development for the disease. BioRxiv is a free online archive and distribution service for unpublished preprints in life sciences. There is, however, no reason for panic among pet keepers or cat lovers because the findings are based on only lab experiments, and there has been no study on whether cats can pass on the infection to humans, according to experts. It is also unclear which species of cats was used for the experiments for the study. According to the authors Hualan Chen et al, the experiments were conducted to understand how the virus behaves in animals and which among them can be used to model the efficacy of control measures in humans like drugs or vaccines. The authors are scientists affiliated to Harbin Veterinary Research Institute (China), Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences and National High Containment Laboratory for Animal Diseases Control and Prevention (China). The scientists isolated the virus from an environmental sample in a seafood market in China’s Wuhan, where the pandemic originated from, and some samples from humans. Animals studied were inoculated and the viral RNA load was quantified from organs of those euthanised and faeces of animals isolated.“In summary, we found that ferrets and cats are highly susceptible to SARS-CoV-2 [which causes Covid-19], dogs have low susceptibility, and livestock including pigs, chickens, and ducks are not susceptible to the virus. Ferrets have frequently been used as an animal model for the study of human respiratory viruses. Unlike influenza viruses and other human SARS-coronavirus, which replicate in both the upper and lower respiratory tract of ferrets, we found SARS-CoV-2 only replicates in the nasal turbinate, soft palate, and tonsils of ferrets,” the study concluded.But its too early to draw any conclusion on whether cats can contract the infection in natural conditions (non-experimental) and whether they can infect humans. Dr Nivedita Gupta, a viral diseases expert at the Indian Council of Medical Research, said some animals will be susceptible to the virus and that is how animal models are created for research on vaccines. “But to jump to the conclusion that they can infect pet owners and humans is not right. We have domestic cats in India which can be very different from the cats in China. First, we need to understand what is the spill over point to cats there. Such spill overs happen due to zoonotic interface between humans and wild animals. In the SARS epidemic also we saw that civet cats were a reservoir of the virus. Nobody keeps civets as pets.”Amit Singh, an associate professor at Benguluru’s Indian Institute of Science, said there is a question mark on whether an animal could have played an intermediate host in the transmission of SARS-CoV-2. “That is the most probable hypothesis in how the virus may have transmitted from bats to humans. The study is important because some animals are in close contact with us. The paper is also interesting because it has looked into infection replication and viral load. We cannot ignore these findings because cats and ferrets can then serve as elegant animal models to verify vaccine and anti-viral drug efficacy. It will add to fundamental science on Covid 19,” he said Uma Ramakrishnan, an associate professor at the National Centre for Biological Sciences, called the study significant because it shows that cats and ferrets could be reservoirs for the virus. “The study is significant because it shows that cats and ferrets could be reservoirs for the virus. Macaques also have been found to contract the infection in other studies. It shows that the virus does replicate in them. But we can’t say yet whether they can transmit the infection to humans because the density of cats is not as high. Also, they have been infected during an experiment. We don’t know if they can get infected naturally,” she said.Another study by Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences published on March 14 in BioRxiv said rhesus macaques can be infected and show symptoms of the disease. There was weight loss in some infected monkeys and viral replication was noticed in nose, pharynx, lung and gut and some also developed interstitial pneumonia.Some media reports have suggested that even dogs can be infected. Bloomberg carried a report on March 19 saying two dogs tested positive for the virus in Hong Kong.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cats-susceptible-to-virus-but-may-not-infect-humans/story-q2vUIYRFcJUiG3UoicA5QL.html
02-04-2020||India||Pakistan court overturns murder conviction in Daniel Pearl case||Ahmed Omer Saeed Sheikh, the terrorist convicted of the 2002 kidnapping and murder of journalist Daniel Pearl, had his death sentence commuted to a prison term of seven years by a Pakistani court on Thursday.The Sindh high court delivered its ruling in response to appeals by Sheikh and three other men convicted in connection with the killing of the Wall Street Journal reporter in Karachi. The high court overturned the verdict of an anti-terrorism court.Reacting to the ruling, US House foreign affairs committee tweeted, “Deeply concerned by Pakistan court’s overturning of convictions...It’s critical Pakistan demonstrate a real commitment to addressing its longstanding terrorism problem by holding those involved accountable.”Sheikh, 46, a British citizen of Pakistani origin, was freed by India with Jaish-e-Mohammed founder Masood Azhar and terrorist Mushtaq Ahmad Zargar in exchange for the passengers of Indian Airlines flight IC-814, which was hijacked by a group of Pakistani terrorists from Kathmandu to Kandahar in December 1999.The murder conviction of Sheikh was overturned by the high court, which found him guilty of the lesser charge of kidnapping, for which he was given the seven-year prison term.The court also acquitted and freed the three other men – Fahad Naseem, Salman Saqib and Sheikh Adil, who were earlier sentenced to life imprisonment.“The court has commuted Omar’s death sentence to a seven-year sentence,” defence lawyer Khawaja Naveed told Reuters. “The murder charges were not proven, so he has given seven years for the kidnapping.”Naveed added, “Omar has already served 18 years...He will be out in a few days.” It was not immediately clear whether the Pakistan government will appeal against the high court’s ruling.A two-judge bench headed by Justice Mohammad Karim Khan Agha announced its verdict on the appeals filed by the four men 18 years ago. The high court also dismissed the prosecution’s appeal that the life sentence given to the three other men should be enhanced to capital punishment.Pearl, an American national and the South Asia bureau chief of the Wall Street Journal, was kidnapped in Karachi on January 23, 2002 and later beheaded. The four men were convicted by the anti-terrorism court on July 15, 2002. They filed appeals in the high court four days later, and the defence lawyers had contended the prosecution had failed to prove beyond reasonable doubt that the men participated in or abetted the crime.Sheikh is being held in a prison in Hyderabad city of Pakistan’s Sindh province. A former student of the London School of Economics, Sheikh was accused by officials of India and several Western countries of having long-standing ties with the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) agency. Several media reports from 2002 said Sheikh had given himself up after Pearl’s murder to his ISI contact, Ijaz Shah, who is Pakistan’s current interior minister. Those reports also said Sheikh was held by the ISI for a week before he was handed over to police.Pearl disappeared in Karachi on January 23, 2002, while researching links between Pakistani militants and Richard Reid, who was arrested the previous month on a flight from Paris to Miami with explosives in his shoes. Pakistani prosecutors said Saeed lured Pearl into a trap by promising to arrange an interview with an Islamic cleric, who police believe was not involved in the conspiracy. A video emerged of Pearl being beheaded. Khaled Sheikh Mohammed, one of the key plotters of the 9/11 attacks, confessed in 2007 to beheading Pearl, according to a statement issued by the Pentagon.Sheikh was also a member of the Harkat-ul-Ansar and was involved in the 1994 kidnapping of four foreign tourists – three from the UK and one from the US – in New Delhi. The tourists were subsequently freed and Sheikh was arrested by police. He was in prison in connection with the kidnappings when he was freed along with Masood Azhar.Perhaps the most bizarre incident involving Sheikh was the phone call he reportedly made from prison to then Pakistan President Asif Ali Zardari at the time of the 2008 Mumbai attacks. Sheikh pretended to be then Indian external affairs minister Pranab Mukherjee and apparently threatened Pakistan with military action.The situation was defused after then US secretary of state Condoleeza Rice intervened.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/conviction-overturned-in-daniel-pearl-murder-case/story-Lw8iMPWOQa8paqXiuW9nJL.html
02-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Amit Shah orders blacklisting of 960 foreigners who took part in Tablighi Jamaat events||The government on Thursday blacklisted 960 foreigners currently in India for their involvement in Tablighi Jamaat activities in violation of their visa ‬conditions amid the coronavirus pandemic.Their visas were also cancelled. The Union home ministry also directed police chief s of all States and Union Territories concerned and the Delhi Police to take necessary legal action against all such violators, on priority, under relevant sections of the Foreigners Act, 1946 and Disaster Management Act, 2005.The government has been spurred into action after hundreds of foreigners took part in a Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area last month which turned the locality into a coronavirus hotspot.The Home Minister’s Office asked Delhi Police and police chiefs of other states, where these foreigners are currently living, to take legal action against them under the Foreigners Act and the Disaster Management Act.“The Home Ministry has blacklisted 960 foreigners and their Indian visas have also been cancelled for their involvement in Tablighi Jamaat activities while coming on tourist visas,” the home minister’s office tweeted.The action against the foreign Tablighi Jamaat members was taken after over 2,300 members including 250 foreigners were found to be living at its headquarters in Nizamuddin despite the 21 days lockdown and a prohibitory order in force in the national capital.Most of these foreigners came to India on tourist visas, which prohibit involvement of any religious activities. The government has also decided not to issue tourist visa to any foreigner who wishes to visit India and take part in Tablighi activities.The home ministry also said over 1,300 foreign Tablighi Jamaat activists, including those from the US, France and Italy, have been identified in different parts of the country and most of them have quarantined.More than 300 of the Tablighi Jamaat activistshave tested positive for coronavirus . About 400 cases of coronavirus and about 12 deaths in the country have been linked to the Nizamuddin event so far.On Tuesday, the home ministry had said had said that about 2,100 foreigners had come to India since January 1 and indulged in Tablighi activities in different parts of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-amit-shah-orders-blacklisting-of-960-foreigners-who-took-part-in-tablighi-jamaat-events/story-Vn3JjBTIa2m8dooQ1IMwKN.html
02-04-2020||India||Coronavirus deaths climb to 53 in India, positive cases cross 2,000||The total number of Covid-19 cases in India on Thursday climbed to 2069 with 235 fresh cases being detected today. There have been 53 deaths, of which at least 12 deaths have been reported in the past 24 hours.Nearly 9,000 people who attended New Delhi’s Tablighi Jamaat congregation between March 10 and 15, have been traced across India, confirmed home ministry spokesperson Punya Salila Srivastava, in a news briefing on Thursday. Of the total number of people traced so far, 1306 are foreigners and the rest are Indians.In the national capital, of all the 2,138 people evacuated from the Markaz, 250 are foreign nationals. Health workers have sent 1,804 people to various quarantine facilities in and around Delhi, and 334 symptomatic people have been hospitalized.“In some positive news, 151 people have recovered so far,” Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, health ministry said.The Nizamuddin cluster was discovered after aggressive contact tracing done by Telangana of its positive cases.People from Delhi went to different states such as Telangana, Jammu & Kashmir, Tamil Nadu, Assam, Uttar Pradesh, Andaman and Nicobar, Puducherry, Andhra Pradesh, and Rajasthan making the south Delhi area a Covid-19 hotspot.At least 400 positive cases have been identified from these states and their epidemiological linkage has been established with various clusters.Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has expressed concern that the numbers may go up further as countrywide contact tracing of the people who attended the event, progresses.On Thursday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a video-conference with Chief Ministers of several states on the coronavirus pandemic, where he asked them to decide on the phased movement of the population as the lockdown is lifted. The Centre, has asked states to take stern action against people who violate the lockdown.There has been a death in the Dharavi slums in Mumbai, Maharashtra. The building from where the death was reported has been sealed. There are 300 flats and 90 shops in the area that are being screened.Very few doctors, so far have been infected in the line of duty, the health ministry official said.The ICMR’s epidemiology department has said there is no change in testing protocol yet, but new tests are being introduced so the committee is reviewing the protocol. To expedite the detection of coronavirus cases in Maharashtra, the Centre has allowed the state to conduct rapid Covid-19 tests. The Maharashtra government will from now on use blood samples instead of swabs in rapid tests to detect the highly contagious coronavirus, according to state Health Minister Rajesh Tope. The highest number of coronavirus confirmed cases have been reported from Maharashtra so far, followed by Kerala and Tamil Nadu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-deaths-climb-to-53-in-india-positive-cases-cross-2-000/story-Uobg2C1XxRGZUrKrvvzBbO.html
02-04-2020||India||Congress president’s comments unfortunate, says Javadekar||Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting Prakash Javadekar on Thursday said Congress president Sonia Gandhi’s comments about the ongoing 21-day nationwide lockdown to contain the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak being necessary but unplanned is “unfortunate”.Javadekar, who also holds the portfolio of environment, forest, and climate change, said Gandhi’s reaction after the Congress Working Committee meeting accusing the government for the lockdown not being properly planned is “not only unfortunate, false but also more importantly unnecessary”.Gandhi on Thursday said that the nationwide lockdown may have been necessary but the unplanned manner in which it has been implemented has caused chaos and pain to millions of migrant workers across the country.“It is the politicisation of an issue of national calamity,” Javadekar said. The minister said India has taken quick and effective steps to control the spread of Covid-19 and the world is praising it for the timely action it took by announcing the lockdown.“People have made the lockdown successful. There will be pain, hurdles and hardships, but the government with the cooperation of people, state governments, district administrations, non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and all political parties is doing a laudable job. Political discussions can take place after we defeat the virus together,” he said.The minister urged political parties to join forces with the government in its battle against Covid-19. “I hope wisdom will prevail upon the Congress leadership … everyone needs to be on the same page. I hope such comments won’t be repeated again till we overcome our battle against the virus.”Union Home Minister Amit Shah tweeted: “Under PM @narendramodi’s leadership, India’s efforts to fight coronavirus are being lauded domestically and globally. 130 crore Indians are united to defeat Covid-19. Yet, the Congress is playing petty politics. High time they think of national interest and stop misleading people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-president-s-comments-unfortunate-says-javadekar/story-4LC4vgWUSaVpeMeYMo3C1O.html
02-04-2020||India||Maharashtra to use blood samples instead of swabs for early detection of Covid-19||To expedite the detection of coronavirus cases in the state, the Centre has allowed Maharashtra to conduct rapid Covid-19 tests. The Maharashtra government will use blood samples instead of swabs in rapid tests to detect the highly contagious coronavirus, state Health Minister Rajesh Tope said on Thursday.Soon after Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a video conference with all chief ministers to discuss methods to check the spread of Covid-19, Tope said around 3.25 lakh migrant workers are housed in state-run shelters across Maharashtra.Apart from Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, the video conference was attended by the health minister and state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh.“The prime minister has informed us that the state can now carry out rapid tests for early detection of coronavirus cases. We will be using blood samples for the early detection of Covid-19 infection,” Tope said.PM Modi also urged the Maharashtra government to take care of migrant workers in the state in view of the nationwide lockdown.“There are some 3.25 lakh migrant workers in various state-run facilities. PM Modi asked us to not only to take care of their food, but to also to provide them with television so that they can have some entertainment and not leave the shelter homes,” Tope said.The highest number of coronavirus confirmed cases have been reported from Maharashtra so far, followed by Kerala and Tamil Nadu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-to-use-blood-samples-instead-of-swabs-for-early-detection-of-covid-19/story-thmbUiEm9IMe3wokrJnyCO.html
02-04-2020||India||UP coronavirus victim’s lonely last rites as most kin in hospital||The 72-year-old man, who died of coronavirus on Wednesday, got infected with the deadly virus from his son-in-law who arrived in Meerut from Amravati in Maharastra on March 19, and stayed with his family in Sector 13 of Shastri Nagar. The son-in-law also infected 9 other family members, who were undergoing treatment at corona ward of the Meerut Medical College here.His son-in-law, who came here to take part in a wedding ceremony, has infected 10 relatives, district officials said. While his father-in-law has succumbed to COVID-19, the elderly man’s wife, their four sons and four daughters-in-law were admitted at the Meerut Medical College’s coronavirus ward, officials said. “Ahmad had diabetes and respiratory problems and died at 11 am on Wednesday. He was under treatment in the hospital’s coronavirus ward. It was first death of coronavirus here,” said Dr RC Gupta, LLRM Medical College’s principal. Following the medical protocol, doctors and medial staff packed the body in a three-layered bag before handing over it to police. As family members were also admitted in the same ward, they were allowed to see his face from a distance and walk a few steps, up to the exit of the ward, along with the packed mortal remains of Ahmad.The body was taken in an ambulance to a graveyard near Nauchandi ground and buried after performing rituals in presence of 6 people, including the maulvi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meerut-covid-19-victim-s-lonely-last-rites-as-most-kin-in-hospital/story-yTLZEzE6IK6wHvVL5zg4sM.html
02-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 PM: Imprison coronavirus lockdown violators, Centre tells states and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Imprison coronavirus lockdown violators, Centre tells statesThe Centre on Thursday told state governments that those violating the coronavirus lockdown or obstructing officials should be imprisoned amid reports of doctors and healthcare personnel being attacked. Read moreAir India crew who operated evacuation flights tests positiveOne of Air India’s cabin crew that recently operated one of the evacuation flights between Mumbai and Newark in the United States has tested positive for Covid-19, said officials aware of the developments. Read moreTwo Tablighi Jamaat members test positive in UP, 884 quarantinedTwo Tablighi Jamaat members tested positive for Sars-CoV-2 in Uttar Pradesh, one in Ghazipur and another in Meerut’s Sardhana, state officials said at a press briefing in capital Lucknow on Thursday. Read moreInternational flights may resume from April 15 on case-by-case basis: Hardeep PuriCivil Aviation Minister Hardeep Puri said on Thursday that the government would like to ensure that international flights are resumed on a case by case basis after the ongoing 21-day nationwide lockdown, which was enforced on March 25 to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, ends on April 15. Read moreCovid-19 updates: Saudi imposes 24-hour coronavirus curfew in holy citiesSaudi Arabia on Thursday extended curfew restrictions on Islam’s two holiest cities to 24 hours to stem the spread of coronavirus as the number of deaths from the disease rose to 21. Read moreDelhi government launches Covid-19 chatbot on WhatsAppThe Delhi government has launched a Covid-19 helpline chatbot on WhatsApp. Similar to other Covid-19 chatbots, this one too will keep users informed on the latest developments around the pandemic. Read morePremier League clubs threatened with extra tax on players’ wagesPremier League clubs that use government money for the salaries of non-playing staff, while continuing to pay players their full wage could be hit by a new tax. Read moreSylvia Plath, the beekeeper, Leo Tolstoy, the chess player: 5 writers and their fascinating hobbiesAs the world battles a widespread pandemic and an indefinite lockdown, social distancing did not remain a choice. It has become a way of life. The line between public and private that was blurred to an extent since the advent of social media is being restored and how. Read moreShah Rukh Khan contributes to PM-Cares, other Covid-19 relief funds: ‘This is a start’Shah Rukh Khan and his companies - Kolkata Knight Riders, Red Chillies Entertainment, Meer Foundation and Red Chillies VFX - are helping in the fight against the coronavirus. Read moreMan finds unusual way to teach student, hailed as ‘teacher of the year’ by netizensThe worldwide lockdown may have resulted in the shutdown of schools, but it has failed to dampen the eagerness of kids to learn. Case in point this little girl who called upon her mathematics teacher when she couldn’t understand a problem. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-air-india-crew-who-operated-evacuation-flights-tests-positive-and-all-the-latest-news/story-uXKPw34pESKDNY0Z4ndBcL.html
02-04-2020||India||Imprison coronavirus lockdown violators, Centre tells states||The Centre on Thursday told state governments that those violating the coronavirus lockdown or obstructing officials should be imprisoned amid reports of doctors and healthcare personnel being attacked.In a letter to all chief secretaries of the states and union territories, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla directed states and union territories to book those who violate lockdown rules or make false claims under relevant provisions of the Indian Penal Code and the Disaster Management Act, 2005 ,“Violators of lockdown should be punished under the IPC. Anyone obstructing enforcement of lockdown could be punishable for jail term of up to 2 years,” Bhalla wrote according to PTI. Follow coronavirus live updates here.Nine days into the 21-day lockdown ordered by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to break the chain of transmission of the virus, the number of infected people in the country has reached almost 2,000 while more than 50 have died so far. The home secretary’s letter came in the wake of reports of violation of lockdown in different parts of the country and people clashing with health workers and police.Under the Disaster Management Act, obstructing government officials from discharging their duties can land the offender in jail for a year which could extend to two years if the obstruction results in a death and anyone making false claim on any matter can be punished up to two years of jail with fine and laws.“Anyone making false claim on any matter can be punished up to 2 years of jail with fine and laws,” his letter said.Under the Disaster Management Act, misappropriation of money or material in disaster-like situation invites two years of jail with fine.The home secretary reminded the chief secretaries that he had already asked them to strictly implement the lockdown measures issued by the home ministry under the Disaster Management Act, 2005 without any exception.The government invoked the Disaster Management Act on March 24 to enforce the lockdown shortly after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imprison-coronavirus-lockdown-violators-centre-tells-states/story-n6s3Uk0aWvS4ru7U7vaDsL.html
02-04-2020||India||Two Tablighi Jamaat members test positive in UP, 884 quarantined||Two Tablighi Jamaat members tested positive for Sars-CoV-2 in Uttar Pradesh, one in Ghazipur and another in Meerut’s Sardhana, state officials said at a press briefing in capital Lucknow on Thursday.Additional chief secretary (Home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi said 1172 Tablighi Jamaat members have been identified in various districts of the state so far and the health department has quarantined 884 of them. He added that samples of 429 Jamaat members have already been sent for tests and except for two, all results were awaited. He said that the rest will also be tested.Several members of the Tablighi Jamaat, who participated in a religious congregation or Markaz in Delhi’s Nizamuddin in March, have been found to be infected with the virus, a few of them have also died. Nationwide efforts to trace the participants and their contacts, who may be carrying the disease, is on.Awasthi said 304 Jamaat members were found in Meerut followed by 197 in Varanasi, 187 in Gorakhpur, 145 in Bareilly, 104 in Agra, 70 in Gautam Buddha Nagar, 69 in Lucknow, 40 in Prayagraj, 33 in Kanpur and 24 in other districts located in the Lucknow division.The state police have also identified 287 people of foreign origin who were staying in the state on tourist visas, all barring one--who is missing-- have been quarantined, Awasthi said, and added that a majority of them did not inform the local police about their whereabouts. Passports of 211 such foreigners who arrived on tourist visas and yet participated in religious activities have been seized, he said. “Passports of 211 foreign nationals have been seized after registration of 34 FIRs in 14 districts for violation of the Foreigners’ Act. Several people who gave them shelter and concealed their presence in the state have also been booked in this connection,” he said.Action against them will be taken under the Epidemic Control Act 1897 as well as the Disaster Management Act, he said.The district magistrates and superintendents of police of all the 75 districts have been directed to carry out extensive searches to locate foreigners residing illegally. A senior police official at the director general of police headquarters in Lucknow said state police teams, including intelligence sleuths were deployed to trace Tablighi Jamaat members and foreign nationals.He said while FIRs were lodged against the Jamaat members in 14 districts, no action will be taken till the quarantine period is over.Awasthi said the district police officials have been asked to monitor the tracking exercise till all Jamaat members were quarantined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-tablighi-jamaat-members-test-positive-in-up-884-quarantined/story-2PktDj5iHGHwvSB6bDDb9J.html
02-04-2020||India||Covid-19: No fresh cases in Goa, 2 of 5 patients show signs of recovery||Two of the five patients who had tested positive for coronavirus in Goa have now tested negative in a subsequent test and are likely to be discharged from hospital and sent to a quarantine facility if their confirmatory test on Friday are also negative.There have been no fresh cases in Goa for the third day in a row.“Primary test for two patients out of five positive cases have tested negative, However, we are waiting for the second test that will be done in a gap of 24 hours as per guidelines. This encourages us to take corrective measures to ensure safety of citizens…,” Health Minister Vishwajit Rane said adding that the patients will continue at the special Covid Hospital and will be tested again and if they test negative will be discharged but will remain in quarantine. Follow coronavirus live updates here.The news comes on a day when 48 samples that were sent to the National Institute of Virology in Pune tested negative. “All the 48 samples sent to NIV, Pune have been reported negative,” Rane said. Four of the five who had tested positive, had returned from abroad, while a fifth is the brother of one of the four. Earlier Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said the state will be in the ‘safe zone’ if there were no new cases reported in the next few days and further until April 14 when the lockdown is scheduled to end. “We sent 48 samples to Pune and 7 samples were tested locally. No quarantined patients are showing signs and symptoms. If the above samples are negative, then Goa is in a safe zone. Quarantined patients are checked day to day for signs and symptoms,” Sawant said. Goa has quarantined around 160 people who had either returned from outside the state or had been in contact with persons who are suspected to have contacted the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-no-fresh-cases-in-goa-2-of-5-patients-show-signs-of-recovery/story-1L7kqHyYB6F0KaAVRe7iGL.html
02-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Students rush to aid daily wagers in and around campus||Students from Delhi’s different varsities have taken it upon themselves to raise funds, and tend to the woes of those who have been suffering due to the lockdown. The college goers are at the forefront when it comes to procuring essential food items, medicines and other necessities for those daily wage earners who have been an integral part of their once active campus life — from a bun tikki vendor to a construction labourer. “Reality hit me hard when 45-year-old year old Ganga Devi, who sells sanitary napkins in a slum near Kashmere Gate, told me that feeding her family had become impossible because of the lockdown,” says Sanskar Saraf, a B Com (Hons) student at Shri Ram College of Commerce, Delhi University, adding that he got motivated to help more daily wage earners and “Spoke to them about their basic requirements, jotted all the government schemes they could avail, and even helped them avail these schemes.” READ | Delhi University staff to contribute day’s salary in fight against Covid-19Students of Indian Institute of Technology Delhi (IIT-D) have managed to raise money, with the support of their faculty members, to fund the living of some workers on their campus, which includes about 350 daily wage construction labourers who have been stuck there due to the lockdown. Pranay Piyush, a final year student of textile engineering at IIT-D recounts, “It all began with a campus wide student initiative to extend financial support to the rickshaw pullers on our campus. Soon our efforts caught attention of our faculty members, and a Benevolent Fund Managing Committee was set-up, which helped to bring in more funds on a larger scale to extend the contributions to mess workers, construction workers and other such people who had been working to make our lives on campus easier. We have now received a a total contribution of around ₹12 lakh, in two days, from the students, faculty and our alumni. I have no words to express how glad I feel that so many students came forward to contribute for this cause. I am grateful to have been a part of this initiative.” The students of Jamia Millia Islamia are all heart. Hundreds of students have come forward to help the daily wage earners in their own capacity, and funds have been collected via online platforms from each department. Adeeba Ashraf, a graduate in Bachelor of Dental Surgery from Jamia Millia Islamia, says, “The students of Jamia Millia Islamia have been collecting money, buying essential items and delivering them on scooties and bikes. I believe the faculty is also thinking of contributing one day’s salary to the PM’s funds. There is a huge campus wave, and the students are doing whatever they can to raise money and help those in need.” READ | JEE Advanced 2020 postponed due to coronavirusAmit Tuteja, founder of Connecting Dreams Foundation, a non-profit organisation, has brought together youngsters from DU, to help the daily wagers. Tuteja says, “We work with 40 colleges in DU who have been assigned various projects that involve action targeted programmes for economic, environmental and social upliftment of the economically weaker sections of the society. To help the daily wage workers, there was a core team of students that got in touch with the communities of daily earners, and asked them about their problems and challenges. Students then created a list of beneficiaries near the communities that are ready to help and then they became facilitators for solving problems by connecting the beneficiaries with the daily wagers.”Author tweets @FizzyBuddha Follow @htdelhi||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/covid-19-students-rush-to-aid-daily-wagers-in-and-around-campus/story-sUtfBQTb6F8viQFxwczsaO.html
02-04-2020||India||Air India crew who operated evacuation flights tests positive||One of Air India’s cabin crew that recently operated one of the evacuation flights between Mumbai and Newark in the United States has tested positive for Covid-19, said officials aware of the developments. The staffer who tested positive is a resident of Vasai-Virar, a Mumbai suburb, and was servicing the Newark- Mumbai flight on March 20. She has now been admitted to Kasturba hospital after testing positive.The national carrier has operated special flights to China, Germany, Iran, Israel and is expected to operate more flights to the US, UK and Canada. Air India’s cargo handling subsidiary- AI Airport Services(AI APS), had recently asked 14 of its employees to go into home quarantine after one of their employees tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday.The infected woman, who handled the check-in counter for Air India, is in her early twenties and got herself tested voluntarily on March 27 after reporting fever and uneasiness in breathing. However, while addressing media on a video conference, Air India chairman and managing director Rajeev Bansal said there were no COVID-19 cases among the airline’s ground staff. He did not mention the status of the cabin crew. Air India pilots involved in rescue missions for stranded Indians and those operating chartered flights to rescue foreign nationals amid the coronavirus outbreak have raised concerns over their safety. The Air India management pilots, on Monday, had alleged that operating pilots and cabin crew are being provided with substandard, ill-fitting and flimsy personal protective equipment (PPE) that tear easily during operations. They also alleged that sanitizers were not being provided in sufficient quantities and disinfection processes were short of industry best practices.“These inadequacies compound the chances of viral exposure and equipment contamination - and may even lead to a community (Stage 3) transmission of Covid-19 infection within crew members, passengers and the public at large, since most reside in large residential societies,” the airline’s executive pilots stated in a letter written to Hardeep Puri- the civil aviation minister on March 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-crew-who-operated-evacuation-flights-tests-positive/story-SvBBSw8Hy2wcFf1haldWJN.html
02-04-2020||India||International flights may resume from April 15 on case-by-case basis: Hardeep Puri||Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Puri said on Thursday that the government would like to ensure that international flights are resumed on a case by case basis after the ongoing 21-day nationwide lockdown, which was enforced on March 25 to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, ends on April 15. All modes of conveyance, including rail traffic, road and air transport, have been suspended after the lockdown came into effect. Initially, international flights were suspended for a week from March 22 but later extended until April 15 coinciding with the lockdown. Domestic flights were suspended from the day the lockdown started on March 25.“We can think of resuming international flights after the government examines the situation. Both the health and home ministries have to assess that the Covid-19 outbreak is under control in other affected countries before international flights become operational again,” said Pradeep Kharola, secretary, ministry of civil aviation.The minister said incoming flights to bring back Indian nationals will remain suspended until the lockdown ends on April 15.“We’re under lockdown till April 15. Any incoming flights to bring back Indian nationals will have to wait until the lockdown is lifted,” Puri said. “We can start considering the resumption of (international) flights on a case by case basis depending on where they are coming from,” he added. Airlines are open to start advance bookings as per their own discretion and contingency plan, the minister said. “The ministry is proceeding on the understanding that the lockdown is in place till April 15. There is no directive from the ministry about the contingency planning of airlines. But, as an eternal optimist, I am hoping that on April 15, flights can at least start, if not all, then in a calibrated manner. But that is a decision that we still need to take,” Puri said.India has also established an aerobridge with China for setting up medical cargo freight services. Rajiv Bansal, chairman and managing director (CMD) of the national carrier, Air India, said flights to Shanghai will operate on April 4 and April 5. “We’ve also got approval to operate flights to Hong Kong,” he added. India has also signed a contract with Germany, France, Canada, and Ireland to repatriate their citizens on commercial charges, he added. The government has operated 84 flights to date to carry essential medical supplies and goods. A total of 76 tonnes of cargo has been transported so far, according to the ministry.Carriers involved in Lifeline Udan operations include Air India, Alliance Air, Indian Air Force (IAF) and Pawan Hans. Private carriers such as IndiGo, SpiceJet and Blue Dart are also operating medical cargo flights on a commercial basis.The Centre has granted special permission to conduct cargo operations using passenger aircraft for ferrying medical equipment and essential goods during the lockdown. Aviation regulator Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) in an order issued on Wednesday said there has been an additional demand for transporting essential cargo services due to the viral outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/international-flights-to-resume-from-april-15-on-case-by-case-basis-hardeep-puri/story-SPNxdVQrC1QaCcXDbpWzXP.html
02-04-2020||India||Delhi top cop tweets ‘5 simple mantras’ to overcome Covid-19||Days after Delhi emerged as a coronavirus hotspot following a Tablighi Jamaat congregation in the Nizamuddin area, the city’s police chief on Thursday tweeted “five simple mantras” to overcome Covid-19.“I suggest five simple mantras to make your individual contribution in our fight against COVID-19: We must practice Self-isolation, Social distancing, Self-hygiene, Self-Quarantine, and Co-operate with all health officials “LET US UNITE TO FREE INDIA FROM COVID-19,” Delhi Police Commissioner S N Shrivastava tweeted. There have been reports of people jumping quarantine and ignoring isolation protocol in different parts of the country. In the initials days of the lockdown, social distancing was largely ignored as people thronged markets in panic buying. Follow coronavirus live updates here.Over 200 people have tested positive for coronavirus in Delhi so far and almost have of them are for the Nizamuddin area. Four of those infected have lost their lives.The country is now into the second week of a three-week lockdown to break the chain of transmission of coronavirus. Shrivastava said coronavirus was the most serious challenge facing modern civilisation and that people need to make right choices.“I would like to reach out to every citizen of India to unite as a member of humanity to face the most serious challenge faced by modern civilization today. History teaches us that societies survive if they make the right choices at the right time in the right direction., he wrote in another tweet.Shrivastava took charge of the Delhi Police on February 29 in the aftermath of the Delhi riots that left over 50 dead, hundreds injured and thousands homeless.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-top-cop-tweets-5-simple-mantras-to-overcome-covid-19/story-bYWDuzrJ1hwfM2kTm5b3OK.html
02-04-2020||India||Tragic spectacle of migrants walking home will remain a blot on Modi govt: CWC||The Congress Working Committee (CWC), the party’s highest decision-making body, on Thursday said the tragic spectacle of thousands of migrant workers taking a long walk back to their villages in the wake of the 21-day nationwide lockdown will “forever remain a blot” on the Modi government.The CWC, at its meeting held through video-conferencing and chaired by Congress president Sonia Gandhi, criticised the government for “not giving any thought to the deteriorating” economic situation in the wake of the pandemic, and demanded a task force consisting of world renowned economists to suggest measures to deal with the crisis.It also pledged to continue its unstinted support to the Centre and state governments in dealing with the situation.“The CWC is of the opinion that the government has not given any thought whatsoever to the deteriorating economic situation. This does not brook any delay. Many useful ideas are on the table,” read the CWC statement.“The CWC demands that the government should immediately appoint an economic task force consisting of world renowned economists to suggest three plans – firstly an emergency plan within one week, secondly a short to medium term plan within one month and thirdly a medium to long term plan within three months in order to protect and revive the economy,” it said.The CWC said it is conscious that India and the whole world face an unprecedented crisis due to the rapid spread of Covid-19 that has the potential to claim hundreds of thousands of lives and devastate the world’s economy. “From the day the first person tested positive in India, the Congress has extended its total support to the central and state governments in their efforts to deal with the grave and unfolding circumstances. The Congress pledges to continue its unstinted support,” it added. The statement said the order of priorities before the government should be to contain the spread of virus, medical treatment to the infected persons, livelihood support to the poor and maintenance of supply of essentials and measures to deal with a sliding economy. “It is in a spirit of co-operation and constructive criticism that the CWC wishes to point out that the measures taken by the Modi government so far leave much to be desired and there are several grave shortcomings. It is imperative that we address these shortcomings,” it added. “On containment and treatment, the government has erred in adopting a strategy of limited testing. A lockdown or any restriction is futile unless accompanied by extensive testing. Inexplicably, we have not put to full use even our limited testing capacity. The flawed strategy must be revised and testing must be scaled up urgently.”The CWC urged the government to undertake massive production and procurement of Personal Protection Equipment (PPE), Hazmat suits, body overalls, goggles, gloves, N-95 masks and ventilators. “Medical infrastructure should be expanded on a war footing with more isolation wards, hospital beds, testing labs, quarantine facilities etc. Supply of drugs must be maintained at pre-February levels and all drug stores must be directed and facilitated to function for an adequate number of hours a day.”The CWC regretted that the government has “miserably failed” to provide adequate livelihood support to the poor.“The Financial Action Plan I announced on March 25 was miserly, hopelessly inadequate and left out several vulnerable sections. It failed to instill confidence in the poor and, as a result, we witnessed the tragic spectacle of thousands of migrant workers desperately trying to go back to their villages by any means whatsoever, including on foot. That spectacle will forever remain a blot on the Modi government.”The CWC demanded that the government should immediately announce FAP II that will reassure the poor people and also provide adequate financial support to the sections that were left out including tenant farmers, landless agricultural workers, MGNREGA workers, laid-off industrial workers and male Jan Dhan account holders.“It is the foremost duty of the government to ensure shelter, rent relief, wages and food to the poor. The NYAY scheme put forward by the Congress offers a useful model that can be adapted and implemented,” the statement said. The party said supply chains to crores of people, especially those living in towns, cities and remote villages have been severely disrupted by poor preparation and thoughtless orders and notifications.“If people have to survive in a lockdown, these supply chains must be immediately restored and maintained throughout the period of restrictions,” it added.The Congress urged the government to initiate measures such as cutting GST rates for a period of three months on goods of mass consumption, mandatorily postponing tax payment deadlines and EMI dates to June 30 and beyond, restoring the thoughtless reduction in interest rates on PPF and small savings.“Each step, though small, will bring significant comfort to the people in these difficult and stressful times.”The CWC noted that all the measures will require massive resources to the tune of Rs 5-6 lakh crore or USD 70-80 billion. “Anything less will be totally insufficient and may actually exacerbate the situation. These resources can be found within the country and largely within the expenditure budgets of central and state governments for 2020-21.”The CWC said eminent economists have supported the party’s assertion that “we must do whatever it takes” and find the resources to fund the multi-dimensional effort to save the people and the country.The party further urged the government to ensure the return of thousands of Indian students, Indian citizens and sailors stranded abroad to their homes after appropriate testing. It said majority of state governments have complained of inadequate financial resources in absence of the Centre not releasing state’s share in the GST, and demanded its immediate release to enable them to fight Covid-19 more effectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tragic-spectacle-of-migrants-walking-home-will-remain-a-blot-on-modi-govt-cwc/story-aoiTuCzTVin7yBSieKo2nI.html
02-04-2020||India||Say Hi to Delhi’s dedicated WhatsApp helpline for authentic coronavirus info||In order to ensure that the citizens of Delhi have easy access to credible information around Covid-19, the Health & Family Welfare Department of Govt. of NCT of Delhi has launched a dedicated WhatsApp helpline number - +91 88000 07722. This service is free-to-use and will act as a central source for accurate, trustworthy and up-to-date information on the ongoing pandemic.To use the free Delhi Govt. Corona Helpline on WhatsApp, simply save the number +91 88000 07722 in your phone contacts and then text the word ‘Hi’ in a WhatsApp message to get started. This service has been built on the WhatsApp Business API, using Infobip India and will be available in English.The Delhi Govt. Corona Helpline is an automated ‘chatbot’ service which will allow citizens to get verified answers to questions about Coronavirus from the Health & Family Welfare Department of Govt. of NCT of Delhi within 24 hours. The service will provide information on topics such as coronavirus prevention and symptoms along with tips on containment, other service helpline numbers, e-passes and general information on measures taken to tackle the crisis. Urging citizens to be vigilant and rely on official sources for information, Arvind Kejriwal, Chief Minister of Delhi said, “The Delhi Govt. is happy to partner with WhatsApp to establish a dedicated coronavirus helpline for its residents to ensure that all your queries related to coronavirus are answered with credible and accurate information. We are doing everything we can to keep our citizens safe in these challenging times and urge everyone to stay indoors and ensure they rely only on verified channels of information”Abhijit Bose, Head of India for WhatsApp, added, “Our focus, at this time, is to make sure every citizen can access credible and accurate health information. We value the opportunity to support the Government of Delhi and urge people to do their part by relying on authentic and official sources of information.”In addition to the MyGov central helpline, similar services have been introduced in several states of India to empower users to find credible information both in English and the respective regional languages. Users can now reach health ministries of Maharashtra (+91 20 2612 739), Gujarat (+91 74330 00104) and Kerala (+91 90722 20183) on WhatsApp with more states set to launch a similar service in the coming days. Users can reach out to the fact-checking community by visiting our recently launched WhatsApp Coronavirus Information hub whatsapp.com/coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/say-hi-to-delhi-s-dedicated-whatsapp-helpline-for-authentic-coronavirus-info/story-mnoRmWBbtN895bBGkWcA0O.html
02-04-2020||India||Online reservation for journeys after April 14 was never stopped: Western Railways||Western Railways on Thursday said that online reservations for journeys after April 14 were never stopped during the lockdown period.“Certain media reports have claimed that Railways has started reservation for post lockdown period, but it is not correct. It has been clarified by Shri Ravinder Bhakar - Chief Public Relations Officer of Western Railway, that online reservation for journeys post 14th April, 2020 was never stopped and it is not related to any new announcement,” an official release form Western Railways said. “Shri Bhakar stated that online reservation through IRCTC’s website has already on always for the trains w.e.f. 15th April, 2020 onwards, so all the passengers are requested to not to get confused by any such media reports,” it said.PM Narendra Modi announced a 21-day nationwide lockdown from March 25 to contain the spread of coronavirus.During the lockdown period, only railways’ freight movement is active to carry essential commodities across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/online-reservation-for-journeys-after-april-14-was-never-stopped-western-railways/story-KzXcVRit0kAfeBRXxQ2o1J.html
02-04-2020||India||‘Coronavirus a wildfire, stay home for safety’, says Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday invoked the Mahabharata to underline the need to stay home to avoid being infected by coronavirus.He said it is vital that everyone follows the lockdown in the battle against the virus that has killed thousands across the globe and has affected close to 10 lakh people. Referring to US President Donald Trump’s statement that coronavirus could kill up to 2.5 lakh Americans, Kejriwal said it underlined how dangerous the virus is and that safety lies in staying at home.Follow coronavirus live updates here.“We must follow lockdown protocol to keep ourselves safe given how dangerous coronavirus is,” he said.To drive home his point, Kejriwal narrated a tale from Mahabharata where Yudhishthir tells Vidur that neither the strongest nor the fastest would survive a forest fire and only those animals that live in burrows would see themselves through the fire. “This coronavirus is like a forest fire. Those who will stay home will remain healthy,” Kejriwal said.The Delhi chief minister had come under fire from the Centre late last month following an exodus of migrant workers who thronged the Anand Vihar area on the border with Uttar Pradesh to catch buses to take them home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-a-wildfire-stay-home-for-safety-says-arvind-kejriwal/story-vymvOFnNLB4Ggx1JYr3NKI.html
02-04-2020||India||Spike in domestic violence cases since lockdown, 69 complaints received: NCW||The National Commission for Women has received over 250 complaints since the country-wide lockdown was imposed to control the spread of coronavirus, out of which 69 are cases of domestic violence which indicates an alarming rise in such cases, its chairperson Rekha Sharma said on Thursday.Since March 24, a total of 257 complaints related to various offences against women were received, out of which 69 were of domestic violence, she said. State-wise analysis of the data showed that the maximum number of complaints were received from Uttar Pradesh (90), followed by Delhi (37). Thirty domestic violence complaints were received between March 2 and March 8, while 58 such complaints were received between March 23 and 30, according to the data. Complaints of other crimes like rape or attempt to rape and dowry harassment saw a slight reduction in the mentioned period, the NCW data showed. Sharma said the number of domestic violence cases must be much higher but the women are scared to complain due to constant presence of their abuser at home. She said from March 24 till April 1, the NCW has received 69 domestic violence complaints and it is increasing by the day. “Women are not approaching the police because they think that if they take her husband away, the in-laws will torture her. Because of the lockdown, women are not able to reach out to the police. They don’t even want to go to the police because they are afraid that once their husband comes out of the police station, he will again torture her and she can’t even move out,” she said. “Earlier women could go to their parents’ place but now they are unable to reach. The NCW is in touch with these complainants,” she added. Women rights activists said they have also received numerous complaints of domestic violence from women since the enforcement of the lockdown. Activist Kavita Krishnan, also the secretary of All India Progressive Women’s Association, said vulnerable women could have moved to safer places if the government had given some warning of the lockdown. “All the women (domestic violence victims) who contacted me said had they known (about the lockdown), they would have tried to get out earlier and be somewhere safer,” she said. “The only thing to do is help and rescue domestic violence survivors. Their situation is worse now in the lockdown,” Krishnan added. According to Vani Subramanian, who is a member of the women’s group Saheli Trust, “captivity anyway drives people crazy and abusive situations only make it worse”. Ranjana Kumari, the director of Centre for Social Research, said everyone is at home due to the lockdown and women are not getting the courage to contact for help. “It is not a good situation for women,” Kumari said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spike-in-domestic-violence-cases-since-lockdown-69-complaints-received-ncw/story-UHbBLGugkp5dxDXteN1ZML.html
02-04-2020||India||Massive sanitisation drive carried out in Covid-19 hot spot Nizamuddin||Delhi Fire Services personnel sprayed on Thursday thousands of liters of disinfectant in south Delhi’s Nizamuddin in a massive sanitisation drive after over 300 people who visited the area in March for a religious gathering tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in different parts of the country.The six-storey building of Islamic missionary group Tablighi Jamaat in the congested Nizamuddin area has emerged as a hot spot of the infection, and authorities across states have launched efforts to trace the footprints of the attendees.DFS director Atul Garg said the department sanitised the Markaz, as the building is known, in Nizamuddin, lanes surrounding the building and other adjoining residential areas.“We sprayed at least two fire tenders full of disinfectants. One fire tender contains 10,000 litres of water mixed with sodium hypochlorite (liquid bleach). We used two fire tenders…,” he said.Garg said fire personnel sprayed the disinfectant on shops (which were closed), footpaths, walls, parked vehicles and buildings in the vicinity as well. On Wednesday, in a meeting with the chief secretary and top bureaucrats in Delhi, lieutenant governor Anil Baijal directed that the fire department be used to disinfect Covid-19 clusters, quarantine centres and vulnerable public places in Delhi.Health workers from the integrated diseases surveillance programme are also preparing to go door-to-door in the area as they seek to track and contain cases of Covid-19.On Wednesday, the last of the 2,346 people who had been in the building were evacuated; 536 of them were sent to the hospital and 1,810 placed in quarantine. So far, the March congregation has been identified as being responsible over 358 infections and 11 deaths.Everyone within a 3km radius (focal area) of the building and in the buffer area (5km radius) will be screened for symptoms. Those who are symptomatic -- a cough will do -- will be tested. This will entail door-to-door coverage, first in the focal area and then the buffer area.“The cluster containment strategy has two components: one is to mark the epicentre and the buffer zone where extensive door-to-door surveys will be conducted. We do a complete lockdown in and around the area. The next step is identifying all potential positive cases by going in for aggressive testing. We pick samples from everyone with any respiratory illness in the area,” said a senior technical expert with the Union health ministry who asked not to be named said on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/massive-sanitisation-drive-carried-out-in-covid-19-hot-sout-nizamuddin/story-aIkiPtRZlWAXXC9SA6cG0I.html
02-04-2020||India||‘We are the worst affected, but we hope to recover the fastest,’ says Sanjeev Balyan||Union minister of state for animal husbandry, dairying and fisheries Sanjeev Balyan is hopeful that the sector reeling under the impact of the 21-day lockdown, which started on March 25 to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19} outbreak, will bounce back as soon as normal services resume. In a telephonic interview to HT, he said the ministry is taking stock of the sector’s problems on a daily basis and pulling out all stops to address its concerns. Excerpts from the interview:Q How is the ministry dealing with the crisis in the dairy sector? Pictures of farmers throwing away tonnes of milk have gone viral on social media.A. The ministry officials are meeting daily to take stock of the situation. We are closely monitoring the production of milk, its collection and the problems being faced by the milk producers. There are three sectors involved in the milk production business --- the cooperatives, the private players and the small, independent milk suppliers, who are involved in door-to-door milk supply, to sweetshops and other commercial establishments such as those that make cheese, etc. The third category has been impacted the most because the overall consumption of milk has drastically fallen after restaurants, ice cream manufactures and sweetshops were closed due to the lockdown.While we cannot legally impose on the private sector to buy more quantity of milk but we’ve instructed the cooperatives to increase their collection, which has gone up by 8% since the lockdown started. We’re focusing more on the cooperatives during this period.Q: What about the meat and poultry industry? There has been a decline in the sales of meat and chicken products, as shops are largely closed across states.A: The ministry has issued an advisory to the states to ensure that meat and poultry items are included in the list of essential commodities and be exempt from the lockdown. However, there have been swirling rumours that it’s unsafe to consume meat and poultry products, which, in turn, have impacted their sale. The states have to take a call on whether to keep these shops open, as the ministry has already issued the advisory.Q: Several animal protection organisations have urged the Union government to regulate all meat markets in the country in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. Is this being looked at?A: Our slaughters houses are being run in keeping with the laid down rules and procedures. There is no mixing up of various kinds of meat, such as poultry with fish. There are designated places for each segment. The fear and the perception that has arisen that it (virus) originated from meat markets have not yet been scientifically proven.Q The Rs1.7 lakh crore economic package announced by the government as a cushion to bailout sectors in the aftermath of the Covid-19 outbreak has left out over one crore fish workers. They have not even been included in the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) scheme that offers Rs2,000 to each farmer.A: The ministry is acutely aware of the fisherfolks’ difficulties. The poultry sector is also one of the worst affected because of the ongoing lockdown. Talks are on to include them under the PM-KISAN scheme.Q: How will the sectors cope with the shortage of manpower that will arise from the mass movement of migrant workers back to their respective native places?A: My ministry is among the worst affected sectors but we hope to recover the fastest. Poultry farmers don’t need too much manpower; those who run dairies also have the required manpower. Other sectors will also not be impacted, as the reverse migration of labourers has stopped.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-are-the-worst-affected-but-we-hope-to-recover-the-fastest-sanjeev-balyan/story-2DYKH15Mhots7A22KaarPO.html
02-04-2020||India||‘2 who attended Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi died of Covid-19 today’: Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said two people who had attended the Nizamuddin Markaz had died from coronavirus on Thursday and added that all the 2346 participants from Delhi were being tested for the deadly virus. Kejriwal, however, added that there was no evidence of community transmissions in Delhi so far as per the available data which establishes travel and contact history for the existing cases.“There are two questions that worry me more, is Corona spreading among the commoners in the community and secondly how many have died due to the virus,” he said.He further analysed the figures to say that data suggested that the virus was not spreading among the people in the capital.“As I have told you, 51 people brought coronavirus from abroad and infected their family members. They have infected 29 people so far but not everyone in their families is infected. This figure of 29 has remained static for some days now, this would mean coronavirus is not spreading in Delhi,” Kejriwal said.“There is a slight increase in the corona cases, there are 219 cases including 51 flyers, 108 from Markaz, 29 close relatives of foreign returned individuals and 4 people are unfortunately dead,” Delhi CM said.He added that the some of the infected people from the Nizamuddin Markaz of the Tablighi Jamaat were appearing to be in a serious condition, adding that two of them had died on Thursday. “Out of 2346 people brought out from Markaz in Nizamuddin, 1810 have been quarantined and 536 have been admitted to hospitals in the city,” he said.He added that all 2346 attendees were being tested for coronavirus.Delhi’s Health services department director general, Dr Nutan Mundeja, had said yesterday that the asymptomatic people will be tested for Covid-19 only if necessary. “Due to this it is possible that the no. of Covid-19 cases in the city might rise in coming days,” Kejriwal said.The Delhi Police on Tuesday filed a case against the Jamaat functionaries for flouting social distancing rules formulated to check the spread of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-nizamuddin-congregants-succumb-to-covid-19-in-delhi-all-2346-participants-to-be-tested/story-sIdu1TCFPHAjjTymN5Fo7J.html
02-04-2020||India||Defence Ministry mobilising ex-servicemen to fight Covid-19 outbreak||The Ministry of Defence (MoD) on Thursday announced that it is mobilising thousands of ex-servicemen (ESM) to assist state governments and district administrations wherever required to supplement the country’s efforts to fight the novel coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.An MoD spokesperson said the department of ex-servicemen welfare has taken the initiative to mobilise the services of veterans as part of an overall plan to increase the available workforce to assist the civil administration across the country.“Rajya Sainik Boards and Zila Sainik Boards are playing a dynamic role in identifying and mobilising maximum ESM volunteers to assist the state and district administration in performing public outreach activities such as contact tracing, community surveillance, management of quarantine facilities or any such tasks assigned to them,” the ministry said in a statement.Also read: PM, in video call with CMs, bats for staggered relaxations after lockdown endsOver 8,500 military doctors and support staff are ready to help the government in its fight against Covid-19 pandemic, apart from 9,000 hospital beds that have been prepared to meet emergency requirements, the armed forces told the government on Wednesday.The MoD said on Thursday it is heartening that veterans across the country have risen to the occasion in keeping with the motto of“service before self” to fight the Covid-19 outbreak.“ESM are disciplined, motivated and well trained to operate in adverse situations and they have a pan-India presence in all the districts and villages across the country,” the statement said.ESM are assisting the state governments across the country. They include over 4, 200 ESM collecting data from villages in Punjab, helping police in Chhattisgarh, assisting district collectors in Andhra Pradesh and being on standby for any emergency in Uttar Pradesh.“In addition, Sainik rest houses are being readied in Uttarakhand to act as isolation/quarantine centres if the need arises. In Goa, a control room has been established and ESM have been asked to remain on standby for any assistance to the local administration,” the release added.The ministry also said the National Cadet Corps (NCC) has issued guidelines for temporary employment of its cadets to increase relief efforts and the functioning of various agencies involved in battling the pandemic under ‘Exercise NCC Yogdan’.“The tasks envisaged for NCC cadets include manning of helpline/call centres, distribution of relief material/medicines/ food/essential commodities, community assistance, data management and queue and traffic management,” the ministry said in another statement.Cadets should not be employed in the handling of law and order situations or for active military duties or at hot spots, it added. Only senior division volunteer cadets above 18 years will be employed.“They should be employed in small cohesive groups of eight to 20 under the supervision of permanent instructor staff or and an associate NCC officer,” the MoD said.The ministry said on Wednesday that around 25,000 cadets are being mobilised to provide necessary local assistance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mod-mobilising-ex-servicemen-to-fight-covid-19-outbreak/story-ATirPzjnzDw2wzbwY4IWWM.html
02-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Delhi govt to transfer Rs 5000 to poor to tide over lockdown||The Delhi government will transfer an amount of Rs 5,000 to the poor whose income have been hit by the 21-day lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said Thursday.“Rs 5000 each will be transferred into the accounts of auto, taxi, e-rickshaw, RTV and Gramin Sewa drivers and all those plying public service vehicles. This might take between a week and 10 days to implement,” Kejriwal said. He said that out of the 219 coronavirus positive cases in Delhi, 108 are linked to the Tablighi Jamaat event in Nizamuddin.Follow coronavirus live updates here.“Till now there are 219 coronavirus cases in the city, including 108 people from Markaz Nizamuddin. There have been four deaths, including two from Markaza Nizamuddin,” he said.Kejriwal said 2943 people quarantined in Delhi while 31307 are in self-quarantineKejriwal also said that the government has expanded its operation to feed the poor and on Wednesday around six lakh people had availed lunch and dinner at various centres in Delhi.“Yesterday we provided free meals to 6 lakh people. And from today we have made arrangements for at least 10 lakh people. Ten lakh people can have food at our relief centres ,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-govt-to-transfer-rs-5000-to-poor-to-tide-over-lockdown/story-9dQNhApFBpx2CQ9LUqwMZK.html
02-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: ICMR advises antibody testing in hot spots for faster diagnosis and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19: ICMR advises antibody testing in hot spots for faster diagnosisThe Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) advised on Thursday antibody tests (or blood tests) in areas that are emerging as hot spots of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), a move that will ensure faster detection of all possible cases in these clusters and help authorities buy some precious time to contain the fast-spreading pandemic. Read moreAmid fight against Covid-19, Prateek Hajela moved from health commissioner’s postFormer National Register of Citizens (NRC) coordinator for Assam and 1995-batch IAS officer of Assam-Meghalaya cadre, Prateek Hajela was removed as commissioner of health services, Madhya Pradesh by Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan. Read moreKyrgyzstan nationals test negative belying speculations of Jamaat linksSamples of all 17 foreign nationals from Kyrgyzstan, and two tour guides, who were in the eye of a media storm, tested negative for coronavirus (Covid-19) in Patna on Thursday resulting in huge relief for state officials. Read morePolice arrest Jamia scholar for alleged role in Delhi riotsThe Delhi Police on Thursday said they have arrested a PhD scholar of Jamia Millia Islamia in connection with a case of rioting and criminal conspiracy pertaining to February’s communal violence in north-east Delhi that claimed 53 lives and left over 400 others injured. Read moreCovid-19 update: North Korea insists it is free of coronavirusNorth Korea remains totally free of the coronavirus, a senior health official in Pyongyang has insisted, despite mounting scepticism overseas as confirmed global infections near one million. Read moreAakash Chopra lists 5 cricketers who will suffer the most if IPL gets cancelledThe 13th edition of the Indian Premier League (IPL) is reportedly set to be cancelled due to the outbreak of coronavirus pandemic, which has gripped the entire world. More than 920,000 people have been infected by the virus while in excess of 47,000 people have lost their lives so far. Read moreDalgona coffee, #UntilTomorrow: Instagram trends in the times of lockdownSince the past few weeks, on account of the coronavirus pandemic, most people are staying home, working or lounging, only leaving the warm embrace of their couch or bed for frequent snacking and meals. Read moreZoom apologies for privacy issues, announces a 90-day feature freezeVideo conferencing app Zoom has been in news off lately owing to its exponentially growing popularity amid the Covid-19 lockdown. This has prompted a spotlight on its privacy and security issues. Read moreShirtless dad interrupts daughter’s news report at home. WatchIf there’s one tweet that demonstrates the biggest problem of working from home, this one by reporter Jessica Lang does so perfectly. Benefits such as no commuting, sitting in dirty pyjamas all day, not having to meet that co-worker you hate aside, WFH has a huge disadvantage - the distractions. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-icmr-advises-antibody-testing-in-hot-spots-for-faster-diagnosis-and-all-the-latest-news/story-CtEjl98n3FT83ZAzGvXhpO.html
02-04-2020||India||Cats, ferrets susceptible to contracting SARS-CoV-2: Study||A new study has found that ferrets and cats are susceptible to contracting SARS-CoV-2 but not dogs, ducks, chickens and pigs. The yet to be peer-reviewed study published in bioRxiv suggests that these findings can be important for vaccine and antiviral drug development.But there is no cause for panic among pet keepers or cat lovers yet because these are only lab experiments and there has been no study on whether cats can pass on the infection to humans. Also, its not clear from the study which species of cats have been used for the experiments.According to the authors from Harbin Veterinary Research Institute, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences and National High Containment Laboratory for Animal Diseases Control and Prevention in China, the objective of the experiments were to understand how the virus behaves in animals and which animals can be used to model the efficacy of control measures in humans (such as drugs or vaccines). The scientists isolated the virus from an environmental sample in the Hunan Seafood Market in Wuhan and some samples from humans. Animals studied were inoculated (infect or introduce) and the viral RNA load was quantified from organs of those euthanised and faeces of animals isolated.“In summary, we found that ferrets and cats are highly susceptible to SARS-CoV-2, dogs have low susceptibility, and livestock including pigs, chickens, and ducks are not susceptible to the virus. Ferrets have frequently been used as an animal model for the study of human respiratory viruses Unlike influenza viruses and other human SARS-coronavirus, which replicate in both the upper and lower respiratory tract of ferrets, we found SARS-CoV-2 only replicates in the nasal turbinate, soft palate, and tonsils of ferrets,” the study published on Wednesday concluded.Some media reports have suggested that even dogs can be infected. Bloomberg, for example, carried a report on March 19 that two dogs had tested positive for the virus in Hong Kong. But it’s too early to draw any conclusion about which animals are reservoirs, said scientists. “Definitely some animals will be susceptible to the virus that’s how animal models are created for further research on vaccines. But to jump to the conclusion that they can infect pet owners and humans is not right. We have domestic cats in India which can be very different from the cats in China. First, we need to understand what is the spillover point to cats there. Such spillovers happen due to zoonotic interface between humans and wild animals. In the SARS epidemic, also we saw that civet cats were a reservoir of the virus. Nobody keeps civets as pets,” said Dr Nivedita Gupta, viral disease expert at Indian Council of Medical Research.Based on genome sequence data of SARS-CoV-2 released earlier by Chinese scientists, scientists from the Department of Immunology and Microbiology at US-based The Scripps Research Institute recently said the virus cannot be a “laboratory construct” or “purposefully manipulated”, and has natural origins. The virus is believed to have jumped from bats to an intermediate host animal which may have passed the infection to humans.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cats-ferrets-susceptible-to-contracting-sars-cov-2-study/story-sJGHGWZPKiuaNoKjR7DggP.html
02-04-2020||India||9,000 Tablighi Jamaat members quarantined, includes over 1300 foreigners||India reported 328 new coronavirus cases since yesterday which took the combined tally of the infected from 29 states and Union Territories to 1965, including 50 deaths, a dozen of which were reported in the last 24 hours, health ministry said on Thursday.The central government officials added that a total of 9,000 Tablighi Jamaat workers and their primary contacts have been identified so far and put in quarantine. 1306 of them are foreigners and the rest are Indians. However, these numbers could rise if more contacts are reported.“There were about 2000 Jamaat workers in Delhi, including around 250 foreigners. 1804 of them have been shifted to quarantine centres and 302 symptomatic cases have been hospitalized,” said Punya Salila Srivastava, joint secretary of the home ministry.The Jamaat members were identified from Andaman Nicobar, Delhi, Jammu and Kashmir, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Uttar Pradesh and Puducherry, a senior health ministry official added.“400 cases have been identified from these states with epidemiological linkages to this cluster. Additional testing is going on and more positive cases may get linked to this cluster,” said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, ministry of health.Agarwal said that most of the coronavirus positive cases among the Jamaat members were from Tamil Nadu.“173 positive cases have been found from Tamil Nadu, 11 from Rajasthan, 9 from Andaman Nicobar, 47 from Delhi, 33 from Telangana, 67 from Andhra Pradesh, 16 from Assam, 22 from Jammu and Kashmir and two from Puducherry,” Agarwal said, and added that this number could increase as results of more samples come in over the next few days.The government officials at the routine daily briefing on Covid-19 status and government’s containment efforts said that states have been again asked to strictly implement the lockdown provisions without any exceptions.“Lockdown violations are a punishable offence under the Disaster Management Act and states have been asked to strictly enforce the provisions without any fear or favour,” Agarwal said.Earlier today, Prime Minister Narendra Modi advised the chief ministers of states to priorities “testing, tracing, isolating and quarantining” and requested them to send him suggestions for a staggered exit from the nationwide lockdown that ends on April 14. During the interaction, the Prime Minister thanked the states for supporting the lockdown decision due to which India has achieved some success in limiting the spread of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/9-000-tablighi-jamaat-members-and-contacts-quarantined-including-over-1300-foreigners/story-8AZOwPx3p3aLZ9HwaelYIN.html
02-04-2020||India||‘Common plan needed for exit after lockdown,’ PM Modi tells chief ministers: 10 points||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday asked chief ministers of various states to chalk out a common plan for staggered re-emergence of people from the 21-day nationwide lockdown in place to contain the spread of Covid-19. The prime minister interacted with chief ministers over video conference held from his residential office at 7, Lok Kalyan Marg. Ten facts on what the PM said:1. PM Modi has told chief ministers to send their suggestions to the Centre on how to exit the lockdown. At the video conference, he also emphasized the need for social distancing as a mandatory requirement to beat the deadly disease. During the interaction, the PM spoke about formulating a “common exit strategy” to ensure “staggered re-emergence of the population” once lockdown is over. All sections of society may not be able to go out of their homes even after the lockdown is lifted.2. The Prime Minister emphasized that in the next few weeks, “testing, tracing, isolation and quarantine” should remain the focus areas of state administrations.3. This is the prime minister’s second video conference with chief ministers on tackling the huge challenge posed by the coronavirus. The video conference with CMs took place a fortnight after the first virtual interaction with states was held on March 20.Also Read | PM, in video call with CMs, bats for staggered relaxations after lockdown ends4. The prime minister has asked for staggered release of funds to beneficiaries under the PM Garib Kalyan Yojana to avoid crowds at state-run banks.5. PM Modi asked chief ministers of states to enforce the lockdown, help the needy get food and to ensure contact tracing of people known to have tested positive with the deadly pathogen, particularly Tablighi Jamaat participants.6. The PM did not reveal anything specific about the lockdown being lifted after the three-week schedule. Arunachal Pradesh chief minister, one of the participants in the meeting had tweeted that the lockdown will end after April 14. However, he deleted his tweet later.7. PM Modi praised different states for extensive teamwork which he said had helped to check the transmission of the virus to some extent. He also expressed concern about the rapidly deteriorating global health crisis.8. The prime minister highlighted the need to maintain the supply of essential medicines, essential food items and availability of raw material for manufacture of medicines and medical equipment. He asked the states to ensure dedicated hospital facilities for Covid-19 patients, tap into the resource pool of AYUSH doctors, organize online training and utilize para-medical staff, NCC and NSS volunteers.9. The Prime Minister also suggested a Crisis Management Groups at district levels in line with the groups of bureaucrats formed by the union government and appointment of District Surveillance Officers.10. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Home Minister Amit Shah, Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan and other top bureaucrats were present along with the prime minister for the video conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/common-plan-needed-for-exit-after-lockdown-pm-modi-tells-chief-ministers-10-points/story-CGZwoETz3itpLDH3nd8FZL.html
02-04-2020||India||In 4 years, India put 4,200 foreigners on visa blacklist for Tablighi activities||As many as 4,200 foreigners have been blacklisted by the Home Ministry’s Immigration Department for flouting tourist visa norms and engaging in Tablighi activities, particularly missionary work, since 2015.The focus on Tablighi Jamaat has come after a large number of its workers were infected with the Sars-CoV-2 pathogen that causes Covid-19 virus from foreigners visiting the Markaz in Nizamuddin last month.While Maulana Saad, the fourth emir of Jamaat, has made it clear from his quarantine that Tablighi workers must follow medical advice, the initial resistance or hesitation by the group has been blamed for a spike in virus positive cases all over India.About 216 foreigners were still in the six-storey building in central Delhi when Indian officials began their evacuation a few days back. Another 824 had touched base at Nizamuddin before dispersing to different parts of the country for their activities.Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba has told state police chiefs to run a quick background check on them to ascertain their activities.According to North Block officials, Tablighi followers from abroad attract the immigration blacklist if they are found preaching or proselytizing in India. It is not a violation to merely listen to sermons from the Jamaat leadership, one official clarified.Once it is found that an individual engaged in missionary work on a tourist visa, the Tablighi Jamaat follower is blacklisted for two years. Since January 2020, more than 2,000 foreigners particularly from Indonesia, Malaysia, Bangladesh and Myanmar have visited the Markaz at Nizamuddin.It is understood that in cases where the immigration finds that a Tablighi preacher with a big following is misusing the visa norms by not applying for a missionary visa but coming on a tourist visa, then the Home Ministry blacklists the culprit permanently.A foreigner on the blacklist will not be given a visa again for two years. Now the Home Ministry is debating if it should extend the validity of the blacklist to at least four years or more to send a strong message.“Under the existing provisions, such kind of visa condition violations do not attract permanent blacklisting. But we intend to revisit the issue,” said a senior official.The Tablighi Jamaat, an off-shoot of Deobandi movement, preaches on how to be a good Muslim by focusing on Quran and Hadiths while also incorporating some of the local traditions. In that way, it is different from Ahle-Hadith and Wahabbi movements of Islam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-4-years-india-put-4-200-foreigners-on-visa-blacklist-for-tablighi-activities/story-8oT12RFAzKQMuDq8aYuNgP.html
02-04-2020||India||From post-lockdown strategy to teamwork: What PM Modi told CMs||Underlining that India’s goal is to ensure minimum loss of life and outlining the next steps in India’s strategy to deal with the coronavirus pandemic (Covid-19), Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday indicated that once the lockdown ends, the Centre and the states will together ensure a staggered re-emergence of the population. Interacting with the state chief ministers over video conference from his residential office at 7, Lok Kalyan Marg, the PM emphasised that in the next few weeks, “testing, tracing, isolation and quarantine” should remain the focus areas of the local administrations, according to an official statement. During the interaction, Modi also spoke about formulating a “common exit strategy” to ensure “staggered re-emergence of the population” once the lockdown ends. The PM asked the state governments to brainstorm and send suggestions to the Centre on how to do this. He emphasised that even after the lockdown ends, the importance of social distancing to prevent the spread of COVID-19 must continue. This is the first hint of the government’s thinking on what happens after April 14; it suggests that while a complete lockdown will not continue, neither will there be entirely free movement of people, with restrictions in place for certain geographical clusters, demographic groups and on travel. The video conference with CMs took place two weeks after the first such meeting on the pandemic on March 20. Thursday’s meeting focused on the current strategies in force and the next steps in the battle against pandemic. The PM praised different states for their “teamwork” which had helped check the speed of the virus, and thanked them for supporting lockdown, due to which, the PM suggested, India had achieved some success in limiting the spread of COVID-19. He also asked the states to make available dedicated hospital facilities for COVID-19 patients, tap into the resource pool of AYUSH doctors, organise online training and utilise paramedical staff and civil society volunteers. States could consider setting up crisis management groups at the district level, in line with groups of bureaucrats formed by the union government, and appoint district surveillance officers, he suggested. At a time when there remains a debate about whether India is testing enough, the PM underlined that data for testing must come from accredited labs so that there is congruence in data of district, state and the Centre. The PM also asked for staggered release of funds to the beneficiaries under PM Garib Kalyan Yojana to avoid crowding at banks.Talking to the CMs, the PM said that the Centre has provided some relaxation of rules to harvest crops but monitoring and social distancing must take place during harvesting. He also asked the states to think of other platforms for procuring grains apart from agriculture produce marketing committees, and explore the possibility of creating pooling platforms for rural areas, like that in ride sharing apps, which can be used for this purpose.He also appealed to work on war footing and quick identification of virus hotspots and to encircle them to ensure the virus does not spread out. He emphasised the need to maintain law and order across the country and added that COVID-19 has “attacked faith and belief and is threatening our way of life”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-post-lockdown-strategy-to-teamwork-what-modi-told-cms/story-gBLCuktxlBlwmdx5duwDgO.html
02-04-2020||India||‘Test, trace, isolate and quarantine’: PM Modi’s message to states on tackling coronavirus crisis||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday held a virtual meeting with Chief Ministers of various states over the prevailing coronavirus situation in the country.During the meeting, the Prime Minister said that coronavirus has “attacked our faith and belief and is threatening our way of life,” read a release by the Prime Minister’s Office.PM Modi lauded the effort by the the state governments in tackling the Covid-19 crisis in the country.“It is truly praiseworthy how all the States have worked together as a team to check the spread of the virus,” he said.The Prime Minister said that the focus for the coming weeks should be on “testing, tracing, isolation and quarantine”.He said that it is important to formulate a common exit strategy to ensure staggered re-emergence of the population once the lockdown ends and asked states to send suggestions for the same. The meeting also saw Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh in attendance.This was Prime Minister’s second video conference with chief ministers on coronavirus. The first was on March 20.Earlier in the day, PM Modi held a telephonic conversation with Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on the coronavirus situation in the state.This comes as Covid-19 cases in the country jumped to 1,965 on Thursday. Of the current 1,965 coronavirus cases in the country, 1,764 are active cases, 150 recoveries and 50 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/test-trace-isolate-and-quarantine-pm-modi-s-message-to-states-on-tackling-coronavirus-crisis/story-CX55iIdCOXbM4WccyLbK3H.html
02-04-2020||India||Kyrgyzstan nationals test negative belying speculations of Jamaat links||Samples of all 17 foreign nationals from Kyrgyzstan, and two tour guides, who were in the eye of a media storm, tested negative for coronavirus (Covid-19) in Patna on Thursday resulting in huge relief for state officials.A section of the media (not the Hindustan Times) had questioned the authorities for not taking samples for a confirmatory test of the foreign nationals during their initial screening at AIIMS-Patna on March 23.Patna AIIMS had defended the administration’s decision to not collect suspects’ oropharyngeal samples for confirmatory testing.“The foreign nationals did not show any symptoms of coronavirus. Besides, they did not have any international travel history during the last 14 days. They had arrived in India in the month of January and to Bihar only on March 3,” said Dr Neeraj Aggarwal, nodal officer for Covid-19 and dean of AIIMS-Patna.He added that the foreigners had denied coming in contact with any high-risk Covid-19 patient, including those from the Nizamuddin religious gathering.“They also did not tell us anything about having visited Nizamuddin markaz in Delhi. As per the health ministry’s guidelines, taking their oropharyngeal sample was not necessary. Based on their clinical assessment and results of thermal scanning, our doctors advised 14 days of home quarantine to them,” Dr Aggarwal added.Patna district magistrate Kumar Ravi was guarded in his comments when this reporter asked him if any of the 19 people tested had visited the Nizamuddin markaz.“That is for the police to investigate,” said Ravi, while confirming that all 19 samples had tested negative.Efforts to reach Patna senior superintendent of police Upendra Kumar Sharma proved futile, as he did not respond to phone calls or text messages.Twelve of the 19 people, who have now been put under home quarantine, were staying at a mosque in Kurji area of the capital and another seven at Phulwarisharif, before apprehensive locals informed the police on March 23.On Wednesday, the electronic media reports speculated that the 17 Kyrgyzstan nationals could have also been among the 86 Tablighi Jamaat attendees from Bihar, identified by the centre.The swab samples of these foreigners were collected on Tuesday evening and sent for test to ICMR-Rajendra Memorial Institute of Medical Sciences in Patna. It was necessitated as a precautionary step following a spike in the number of Covid-19 cases in the country due to cases linked to the Nizamuddin congregation.Bihar chief secretary Deepak Kumar said the samples of 4,000-odd foreigners, who reached Bihar between March 15 and 23, were now being mandatorily screened.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kyrgyzstan-nationals-test-negative-belying-speculations-of-jamaat-links/story-YAUxjarBzilweehuZRFveM.html
02-04-2020||India||Police arrest Jamia scholar for alleged role in Delhi riots||The Delhi Police on Thursday said they have arrested a PhD scholar of Jamia Millia Islamia in connection with a case of rioting and criminal conspiracy pertaining to February’s communal violence in north-east Delhi that claimed 53 lives and left over 400 others injured. His alleged “involvement in the conspiracy to instigate the riots, funding the violence and the agitation against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) in Shaheen Bagh” is also being probed, officers privy to the case said.Joint commissioner of police (special cell) Neeraj Thakur confirmed the arrest of Meeran Haider but did not share further details.Haider is also the president of the youth wing of the Delhi unit of the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD). He is currently being interrogated in the special cell’s Lodhi Colony office.A senior police officer from the special cell, who did not want to be named, said a notice was served to Haider, a resident of Jamia Nagar, on March 31, asking him to join the probe in the case of rioting and criminal conspiracy that was registered by the crime branch after the northeast Delhi riots. Haider was asked to reach the special cell’s Lodhi Colony office at 10 am on April 1 (Wednesday). “We arrested Haider in the case, as we have enough evidence to prove the charges against him. His role in funding the riots and anti-CAA protests are being probed,” said the special cell officer cited above.Jamia media coordinator Ahmed Azeem said that the University has not been informed about the incident by the police and denied to comment further.The Jamia Coordination Committee (JCC), a group of alumni, alleged that the charges against Haider were baseless. “Yesterday around 10 pm, men in uniform had approached his local residence enquiring about him. He was taken into custody at around 10:30 pm on Wednesday. The JCC demands that he must be immediately released as all charges against him are baseless,” said the committee in a statement.On March 9, the special cell had arrested Mohammad Danish, a 33-year-old member of the Popular Front of India (PFI) in connection with the case on similar charges. Danish’s arrest came a day after the special cell arrested a couple – Jahanzaib Sami,36, and his 39-year-old wife Hina Bashir Beigh -- for alleged links with the Islamic State-Khorasan Province (ISKP), instigating protests against the CAA and spreading hatred against India and between communities in the country.The Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) unit of RJD on Thursday issued a statement demanding Haider’s release. “Delhi police had asked Miran Haider, the president of the youth RJD, Delhi, to join the investigation and then arrested him without giving any valid reason. Today, when the whole country and the whole world is busy dealing with this pandemic, the government is arresting Innocents like him. We demand his immediate release,” the statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-arrest-jamia-scholar-for-alleged-role-in-delhi-riots/story-tZ6zGeFh1w75jafoEl8kMO.html
02-04-2020||India||Amid fight against Covid-19, Prateek Hajela moved from health commissioner’s post||Former National Register of Citizens (NRC) coordinator for Assam and 1995-batch IAS officer of Assam-Meghalaya cadre, Prateek Hajela was removed as commissioner of health services, Madhya Pradesh by Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan.Hajela’s removal comes on the ground of his ‘dereliction of duty during the Covid-19 pandemic,’ according to a government statement.“Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan instructed immediate removal of Prateek Hajela from the post of commissioner, health services on his extreme carelessness towards his duties amid the Covid-19 pandemic”, said an official statement from directorate of public relations on Wednesday evening.The CM expressed his displeasure with Hajela’s work during his review meeting with officials over coronavirus situation in the state on Wednesday evening, as per an official.The health department is tasked with taking all possible measures for identifying, quarantining and treating the Covid-19 patients and suspected patients besides working as a nodal department to coordinate among all the departments engaged in the fight against the pandemic.A native of Madhya Pradesh and BTech in Electronics from Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi, Prateek Hajela moved to Madhya Pradesh on deputation as per an order of the Supreme Court passed on October 18, 2019.Earlier, in Assam, he was appointed as a coordinator to prepare National Register of Citizens (NRC) as per a directive of the Supreme Court in September 2013.However, he had his share of controversies too.The Assam police registered two cases against Hajela and other unidentified officials in September 2019 for alleged “discrepancies” in the final NRC list published on August 31, 2019.Nearly two million people were left off the list as a part of an exercise to check illegal immigration.According to Assam Police, a businessman and an indigenous Muslim students organisation — All Assam Goriya-Moriya Yuva Chatra Parishad (AAGMYCP) — filed separate FIRs against Hajela in Dibrugarh and Guwahati.In its complaint, the indigenous organisation alleged that “even when people had correct documents, NRC coordinator Prateek Hajela intentionally excluded the names of Goriya, Moriya and many indigenous sons of the soil”.In Dibrugarh, the police registered a case against Hajela and other NRC officials on the complaint of businessman Chandan Mazumdar who was upset over his exclusion even as his mother made it to the list.An Assam-based NGO, Assam Public Works (APW), also lodged an FIR against Hajela and two persons who were declared as foreigners in 2016 and included in the NRC list.Despite efforts, Hajela could not be reached for his comments. He didn’t take calls and didn’t respond to the text message.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-fight-against-covid-19-prateek-hajela-moved-from-health-commissioner-s-post/story-ufUSGyasALLDZTmAJJryEN.html
02-04-2020||India||Coronavirus cases and deaths in India much lower than global average||India has only one positive case of coronavirus for every million of its population against a global average of over 120 cases/million, according to the data available on Worldometers, a website that records all coronavirus cases across the world and follows them to their outcome—cure or death.The data suggests that the country fares well on ‘deaths per million’ statistics with 0.04 reported deaths per million against the world average of over 6 deaths.An analysis of the data of the countries that reported at least one coronavirus case indicates that India ranks 133rd among the 208 countries listed with respect to ‘deaths per million’.Several European countries including Italy, Spain, Belgium, Netherlands, France, Switzerland and the UK top the list of countries with most deaths per million.Iran is the only Asian country among the top twenty nations via-a-vis deaths/million calculation. The United States, which has registered the most number of coronavirus deaths, is 21st on the list.In terms of infections per million people, India is ranked lower, at the 178th spot. Bangladesh and Nepal are the only other Asian countries with an even lower average of 0.3 and 0.2 positive cases per million.The statistical calculation of the people who have been infected in the past is not an indicator of the future, particularly given how the Sars-CoV-2 pathogen is highly contagious and can spread.It is in this context that Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in his interaction with the chief ministers too, underscored that the country has had “some success” in checking the spread of the disease. PM Modi asked the chief ministers to ensure the lockdown is enforced strictly and contact tracing carried out scrupulously so that the successes are not reversed.The case fatality rates for Covid-19 have fluctuated over the past few months and varied from region to region, in part because of comorbidities.Scientists from the MRC Center for Global Infectious Disease Analysis at Imperial College London have estimated that symptom onset to death is 18 days and that the case-fatality rate in and outside of China is 1.4%, but declined to 0.66 after adjusting for undiagnosed cases, according to an update by the US-based Center for Infectious Disease Research and Policy on Wednesday. This study is based on case data from people who died from Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-cases-and-deaths-in-india-much-lower-than-global-average/story-6HLReJbyOCvdcq1KDrurDJ.html
02-04-2020||India||‘Listen to doctors, avoid gatherings’: Jamaat chief in message to followers||Maulana Saad Khandhlawi, the chief of Tablighi Jamaat, has urged the followers to cooperate with the government and follow the prescribed procedures to check the spread of coronavirus disease Covid-19.“We should follow the instructions given by the authorities, and listen to the doctors. For example, we should avoid gathering at places and provide support and help to the government in these times,” Khandhlawi said in an audio message posted on the group’s YouTube channel.“We should not go against the law, it is against our principles,” he further said in the audio message. The message from the Jamaat chief came amid the ongoing raids by the police in Delhi and Uttar Pradesh. Khandhlawi is believed to be hiding at an undisclosed location and had earlier released an audio clip in which he had said that he is under self-quarantine.One of his lawyers too released a video message in which he said that this Covid-19 crisis should be taken seriously. “This is a serious thing. We should not indulge in any discussion on this, as to who is responsible for this disease. With folded hands, I urge all the countrymen to unite in fight against this disease,” said the lawyer Musharraf Ali Khan.Some 9,000 people were exposed to the country’s biggest infection cluster at the gathering organised by the group at its global headquarters in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area last month. The number of Covid-19 positive cases jumped by more than half to 1,965 on Wednesday, fuelled by infections among people who either attended prayers and lectures at the Jamaat’s headquarters or came into contact with them later.Khandhlawi claims to have over 100 crore followers in nearly 200 countries. The Nizamuddin markaz serves as the global headquarters of the Jamaat.His family comes from Kandhla, a place near Shamli district of western Uttar Pradesh, around 80 kilometres away from Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/listen-to-the-doctors-jamaat-chief-in-message-to-tj-workers/story-iyrSWftzPXYS5vekvoiARJ.html
02-04-2020||India||Air India to operate special flights to London for foreigners stranded in India||Air India (AI) will operate charter rescue flights from Delhi and Mumbai to London between April 4 and 7 to fly back foreigners, who got stranded in India after the 21-day nationwide lockdown started on Mach 25 to contain the spread of coronavirus (Covid-19) outbreak. The national carrier will use Boeing 777 aircraft for these rescue flights. Delhi to London flights will operate as AI 161 and will take off from Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGI) at 2 am between April 4 and 7 and arrive in Delhi as AI 162. However, AI’s flights from Mumbai to London will operate only on April 5 and 7 as AI 131 (Mumbai- London) and AI 130 (London- Mumbai). The carrier has not released information on the number of passengers who will be flown to London. The stranded passengers do not need to pay any air fare but will have to arrange their journey from London onwards. The aircraft will return as ferry flights --- without any passenger --- on their way back to Delhi and Mumbai. Earlier, AI operated rescue flights to Israel, Wuhan, China and Frankfurt, Germany to bring back passengers stranded in these countries due to Covid-19 outbreak. Usually, the airline flies with two sets of crew members during such rescue flights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-to-operate-special-charters-to-london-to-fly-out-foreigners-stranded-in-india/story-hJ7oD0NwrYtHHzhF73gDoM.html
02-04-2020||India||Covid-19: ICMR advises antibody testing in hot spots for faster diagnosis||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) advised on Thursday antibody tests (or blood tests) in areas that are emerging as hot spots of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), a move that will ensure faster detection of all possible cases in these clusters and help authorities buy some precious time to contain the fast-spreading pandemic. The test used now --- PCR (polymerase chain reaction) --- identifies the Sars-CoV-2 virus from throat of nasal swab samples of people with symptoms or high-risk individuals (health workers and family members) who might have come in contact with a Covid-19 patient. The antibody detection blood test will identify people who already have been infected, but have mild or no symptoms, according to experts who say the move will help us know how many have been able to fight off the infection and have become what could be called a “corona-blocker”.While the results of PCR tests take up to five hours, the antibody test results will be available in 15-30 minutes.“Population in hotspot areas may be tested using rapid antibody test. And antibody positives to be confirmed by RT-PCR (reverse transcription-PCR) using throat/nasal swab, and antibody negatives to be quarantined at home,” said the interim ICMR advisory.This means positive results will be reconfirmed using the PCR test. The antibody test uses a few drops of blood to determine whether a person has antibodies against the coronavirus. Antibodies in the immune system means the person had the disease at some point in the past, even though the person was never tested for it, and has now recovered. An ICMR official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity said, the move will mean getting quicker results even if there is a large number of people.“However, to ensure there are no false positives or false negatives, we recommend confirmatory PCR-based test for all positive results,” this official said.The ICMR also released a link (www.finddx.org/) having an information on all available CE-marked rapid SARS-CoV-2 antibody tests. CE-In Vitro Diagnostic approved kits can be used directly after due approval from Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) and intimation to ICMR.ICMR earlier made public an expression of interest to procure a million anti-body testing kits from manufacturers across the globe. However, due to the shortage of supply, the number was revised to 500,000 testing kits. The first shipment is expected by this weekend (April 5).Experts say that India’s decision to introduce anti-body testing kits could be a game.“These tests are expected to be very economical, simple and give results within 15-20 minutes. They are being used for contact-tracing in some countries. The Indian health system has lot of experience in doing such tests, like the ones for dengue and chikungunya. So it will be easy to ramp up the screening. It is also a great tool for surveillance, and building up epidemiological data. Indian companies would be able to produce them easily and at massive scale,” Lalit Kant, a senior infectious disease expert, said.Kant also had a word of caution. “While using these tests, one has to be careful about false positives as there may be cross-reaction with other virus antigens. Antibodies take time to develop, so if the test is performed early in the phase of the infection, may not give correct results. This decision is transformational,” he said.But he pointed out that the move would ease workload off main laboratories, as sophisticated equipment or highly trained manpower would not be needed for the process. “Mass screenings can be done using these tests to give us vital information on the number of people infected who never went to the hospital. It would give us an idea of the denominator to calculate fatality ratios,” he said.On Thursday, the Union health ministry said it identified 20 existing and 22 potential hotspots in the country, and asserted that although there was no evidence of widespread community transmission, containment measures will require large human resources.The advisory stressed capacity building, saying identified human resource needs to be trained online in areas such as field surveillance, contact tracing, packaging and shipment of specimen and hospital infection prevention and control, including use of appropriate personal protective equipment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-icmr-advises-antibody-testing-in-hot-spots-for-faster-diagnosis/story-UVYeChipleiLNc9re5gbyH.html
02-04-2020||India||PM, in video call with CMs, bats for staggered relaxations after lockdown ends||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday asked chief ministers to formulate a common exit strategy to ensure staggered re-emergence of the population once the 21-day lockdown ends.The prime minister, who asked chief ministers to send across suggestions on how to exit the lockdown, stressed on the importance of social distancing. India has “achieved some success” in limiting the spread of Covid-19, the prime minister told chief ministers at a conference with chief ministers via video conference.This was Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s second video conference with chief ministers on tackling the huge challenge posed by the coronavirus disease. The first was on March 20.PM Modi, who heard the chief ministers praise the Centre for the nationwide lockdown ordered nearly 10 days ago, said the country’s common goal is to ensure minimum loss of life.“In the next few weeks, testing, tracing, isolation and quarantine should remain the areas of focus,” he said, emphasising on the necessity of maintaining supply of essential medical products, availability of raw material for manufacture of medicines and medical equipment.PM Modi and other central government functionaries also stressed on enforcing the lockdown, helping the poor cope with food and contact tracing of people known to have been infected with the deadly virus, particularly in context of the Tablighi Jamaat participants.Home Minister Amit Shah talked about the need to implement lockdown more strictly in some states and the importance of effective district level implementation of the guidelines issued by the Centre.Union Health Secretary Preeti Sudan updated the chief ministers of the rise in number of cases in India. She also outlined the spread of cases from Nizamuddin Markaz and the Centre’s preparations to tackle medical cases arising out of further spread of the virus and need to break transmission chain in the districts with high number of confirmed cases..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-outbreak-pm-modi-pitches-for-staggered-relaxations-after-covid-19-lockdown-ends/story-AVLLVNM2vv33fgl7LdDtBN.html
02-04-2020||India||COVID-19 effect: Air India suspends contract of around 200 pilots||Air India on Thursday temporarily suspended the contracts of around 200 pilots, who were re-employed after retirement, as all domestic and international commercial passenger flights have been suspended in the country till April 14 to curb the COVID-19 pandemic, a senior official said.“Since almost all the planes have been grounded and the carrier’s revenues have taken a significant fall during the last few weeks, the airline has decided to temporarily suspend the contract of around 200 pilots who were re-employed after their retirement,” said the official.The national carrier has already cut the allowances of all employees, except cabin crew, by 10 per cent for the next three months in order to save money amid the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-effect-air-india-suspends-contract-of-around-200-pilots/story-MOaHhPRmMh9JcllI36cBJK.html
02-04-2020||India||Covid-19: In meeting with Harsh Vardhan, IMA flags PPE shortage||The representatives of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) has flagged the acute shortage of personal protective equipment (PPE) such as N-95 masks for doctors treating coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients as a primary concern during a review meeting held by Union health minister Harsh Vardhan via video conferencing on Thursday. “The meeting was held to get a sense of the kind of problems that doctors are facing on the ground since the IMA has 1,764 branches across the country. The primary concern is the acute shortage of PPE such as N-95 masks. However, the crisis is not restricted to India, as China supplies 80% of the global requirements. Fortunately, the industry has chipped in and indigenous production has started. We’ve been told that we’d get supplies in the next 10-15 days,” said Dr Rajan Sharma, president, IMA.Harsh Vardhan urged the private sector to help the government in spreading awareness on the viral outbreak and disseminate authentic information on the disease at the grassroots level to dispel several myths doing the rounds. He also reviewed the preparedness and concerns of the medical staff across the country, including the availability of hospital beds, isolation wards and laboratories’ readiness in coping with a high volume of tests.“I urged the members to create a task force and take a proactive role in helping the official machinery at state, district and local levels. It is critical due to your position in the society as being medical professionals,” the minister said.The doctors were apprised of the various guidelines, treatment and protocols that the government has come up with to inform the public about effective Covid-19 management. He also sought their support regarding strict enforcement of the ongoing nationwide lockdown that started on March 25 to contain the viral outbreak.The minister assured the IMA representatives that the government is pulling out all stops to ensure doctors and health care workers are not ostracised or targeted because of the panic created among common people by the Covid-19 outbreak.Doctors from Delhi, Kerala, Jharkhand, Maharashtra, Arunachal Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Punjab, Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan, Mizoram, Karnataka, Manipur, Assam, Odisha, Gujarat, Chandigarh, Telangana and Uttarakhand participated in the meeting.The private sector has been involved in Covid-19 tests after the government approved 51 private laboratories on March 21. The designated private laboratories have conducted around 1,500 Covid-19 tests to date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-in-meeting-with-harsh-vardhan-ima-flags-ppe-shortage/story-KQU0uvo8ssAIvceDmsSQ3J.html
02-04-2020||India||High court stops Kerala from liquor sales amid lockdown, says recipe for disaster||In a huge embarrassment to the Pinarayi Vijayan government, the Kerala High Court on Thursday stepped in to stop the government move to allow addicts to buy alcohol if they produce a doctor’s prescription. A bench of the high court comprising justices AK Jayasankaran Nambiar and Shaji P Chaly called the government order “disturbing” and a “recipe for disaster”.The bench was hearing appeals against the government order filed by activists, doctors and the state wing of the Indian Medical Association.On Monday, Kerala’s Excise Department issued orders allowing liquor vends to sell liquor in controlled quantities to addicts if they come with a recommendation from a government doctor.The government order had drawn immediate criticism from medical practitioners and opposition parties. The Pinarayi Vijayan government had defended the order, pointing out that eight people had killed themselves due to unavailability of liquor due to the national lockdown.In court on Thursday, the government presented a similar defence but the judges weren’t convinced. The state’s law officer tried, pointing that liquor in moderate quantities was administered to addicts as part of treatment also.The judges expressed concern at the state’s unilateral decision to administer alcohol to persons suffering from alcohol withdrawal syndrome, calling it a disturbing decision that wasn’t supported by scientific studies.This is a recipe for disaster, the bench observed, ordering the government to immediately stop implementing the decision for the next three weeks.The government had initially tried to keep liquor vends open by classifying them as an essential service but had to backtrack after opposition attacks. It also considered online sale of liquor so that social distancing norms aren’t violated.Before the lockdown was ordered, the state-run Beverages Corporation was selling an average of liquor worth Rs 40 to 45 crore a day. In 2018-19, the corporation sold alcohol worth Rs 14,508 crore. Excise duty on liquor is between 300 per cent and 500 per cent in the state which means a Rs 100 bottle of rum in the brewery will cost in the Rs 400-500 in the market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/high-court-stops-kerala-from-liquor-sales-amid-lockdown-says-recipe-for-disaster/story-IUihXg3X9WTAX4d5E4xtTK.html
02-04-2020||India||Tablighi Jamaat chief, in hiding, releases audio message; says he is in self-quarantine||Tablighi Jamaat chief Maulana Saad Khandhlawi has stated that he will fully support the government in its fight against coronavirus disease Covid-19. This comes soon after an FIR was registered against him in connection with the religious gathering organised at a Markaz (centre) in the Nizamuddin area of the national capital.“We should avoid gathering at places and follow what the government and law want us to do. It is also our duty to provide support and help to them in these times,” Khandhlawi appealed to members of Jamaat through an audio message posted on the Markaz’s YouTube channel.“Quarantine yourself, no matter where you are, it is not against Islam or Shariyat,” he added. He is believed to be hiding at an undisclosed location. An audio clip has surfaced in which Khandhlawi purportedly saying he is in self-quarantine. “I am in self-quarantine in Delhi as advised by the doctors and appeal to all Jamaat wherever they are in the country to follow the directives of the law,” Khandhlawi is purportedly saying in the clip.The Delhi Police’s crime branch has been conducting raids at several places in the national capital and in Uttar Pradesh since Wednesday to find Khandhlawi. So far, raids have been held in three of his residences in Delhi’s Zakir Nagar and Nizamuddin, reported news agency IANS.Khandhlawi claims to have over 100 crore followers in nearly 200 countries. The Nizamuddin markaz serves as the global headquarters the Jamaat.His family comes from Kandhla, a place near Shamli district of western Uttar Pradesh, around 80 kilometres away from Delhi.Deemed as one of the most influential movement in Muslim world, Tablighi Jamaat was established by Maulana Muhammed Ilyas Khandlawi, the great grandfather of Maulana Saad. Tablighi Jamaat was an offshoot of Deoband movement and aims at revival of the true Islam as perceived by the Prophet Mohammed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tabligi-jamaat-chief-in-hiding-releases-audio-message-says-he-is-in-quarantine/story-S0SfAdFQl1Y7ReT7VM6YXM.html
02-04-2020||India||Coronavirus: Supreme Court seeks government’s response on price gouging of masks, sanitisers||The Supreme Court on Wednesday issued notice to the central government and Delhi government in a plea by the NGO, Justice for Rights Foundation highlighting price gouging of masks and hand sanitisers.The petitioner claimed that due to the rise in demand for these commodities, as a result of the coronavirus threat, chemists and medical shops were selling them at a price much higher than the maximum retail price (MRP) as well as the price prescribed by the government.“If the chemists and other medical outlets persist with the current mode of functioning, it will affect the most vulnerable section of our population like daily wage workers and other economically challenged citizens, who would not be able to purchase masks at such prices”, the petition said.The court gave liberty to the petitioner to serve a copy of the petition to the central government’s second senior-most law officer, solicitor general Tushar Mehta and posted the case for hearing on April 3.The petitioner alleged that several chemists and medical outlets, in an attempt to defraud and profit from the coronavirus outbreak, were striking out the MRP of masks and sanitisers and applying their own price labels.In order to deal with this, the government had come out with notifications and orders declaring face masks and hand sanitizers as essential commodities and capping their prices.“The Department of Consumer Affairs, in wake of the need and urgency of the present condition, published a notification dated 21 March 2020, fixing the prices of the mask i.e. 2 ply masks to be priced at Rs 8 and 3 ply masks to priced at Rs 10 and that the sanitiser bottle of 200 ml to be sold at a price of Rs 100,” the petition pointed out.The petitioner claimed that despite the notification, medical outlets were still selling masks and sanitisers at higher prices in brazen defiance of the notification.Fair and equitable distribution of N95 masks and hand sanitisers is essential in order to deal with the pandemic of Covid-19, the petitioner submitted.The Supreme Court on Wednesday also sought the response of the central government in another petition filed by a Nagpur based doctor, Jerryl Banait seeking directions to ensure that all health professional including doctors, nurses, ward boys, other medical and paramedical professionals who are attending to and treating Covid-19 patients, are provided with World Health Organisation-graded protective equipment.“It is imperative for doctors to be in constant contact with patients, so as to monitor them on regular intervals and observe their symptoms. In the absence of appropriate protective gear, doctors put themselves at the risk of being affected by the virus in the discharge of their duties. It is the duty of the States to ensure graded protective gear to doctors and other welfare facilities, so as to aid them to combat the virus”, the petition said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-supreme-court-seeks-government-s-response-on-price-gouging-of-masks-sanitisers/story-ard7fqVM7bNLbdeTv69HxI.html
02-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Lockdown necessary but unplanned implementation causing chaos, says Sonia Gandhi||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Thursday said that the 21-day nationwide coronavirus lockdown may have been necessary but the unplanned manner in which it has been implemented has caused chaos and pain in the lives of millions of migrant workers all over India.“We meet today in the midst of an unprecedented health and humanitarian crisis. The magnitude of the challenge before us is daunting but our resolve to overcome it must be greater,” she said in her opening remarks at a meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC), the party’s highest decision-making body, on Thursday.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Gandhi said there is no alternative to constant and reliable testing to fight Covid-19. “This is the most effective way to combat it. Our doctors, nurses and health workers need all the support possible. Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) such as hazmat suits and N-95 masks must be provided to them on a war footing,” she said.“Equally important are ventilators and breathing equipment, isolation beds and designated hospitals to treat Covid-19 patients. The onus lies on governments to ensure that the spread of infection and casualties are not caused owing to lack of infrastructure or preparedness,” Gandhi told the meeting held through video-conferencing.The Congress president said the pandemic has already caused untold suffering across the world, but it has also reaffirmed the bonds of brotherhood that unite humanity.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage“In our country, those who are most vulnerable to the consequences of this pandemic are the poor and disadvantaged. We must come together for their sake and do all we can to support them through the difficult days that lie ahead,” she added. “It has been heart-breaking to see lakhs of people walking for hundreds of kilometres towards their villages without food or shelter. It is the duty of us all to do our utmost to lessen their suffering. I wish to thank all those who are offering them help, our workers, civil society and people who have shown their kindness and compassion to them.”Gandhi urged the government to publish and make available details of designated hospitals, number of beds, quarantine and testing facilities, as well as information regarding the availability of medical supplies to the general public.Referring to farmers, having to cope with the harvesting season at a time when the entire country is under lockdown, she said the government should urgently provide them with fertilisers and pesticides, give them access to easy lines of credit, help them in preparing for planting the kharif crop and remuneration prices to enable them to survive the present economic onslaught.About medium and small-scale enterprises, Gandhi said they are gravely threatened and have been hit hardest by recent events. “The livelihood of crores of our citizens has been imperilled. Government needs to put in place a comprehensive strategy to manage this crisis,” she added. “Close to 90% of our fellow Indians toiling in the unorganised sector are also extremely vulnerable. The economic consequences of the pandemic threaten to destroy their livelihood. They are already facing tremendous hardship due to hunger and lack of health facilities. As a nation, we owe them our full and constructive support.” Gandhi said the middle classes too are vulnerable. “Wage cuts, job losses across all sectors, high petrol, diesel and gas prices are causing them acute distress. If this was not enough, while EMIs have been deferred, no interest subvention or relief has been provided. This offsets the entire purpose of the deferment.” The Congress chief urged the central government to prepare and publish a ‘Common Minimum Relief’ programme, saying it is vital and help alleviate several of the concerns that currently afflict the people. She said covid-19 does not differentiate between political ideology, religion, caste, age or gender. “The choices we make today will have a direct impact tomorrow on our family, neighbourhood, community, environment and nation. How effectively we meet this challenge, how we protect all sections of our society, specially the most vulnerable among us will define us for generations to come. Only if we act together in solidarity, we will overcome,” added Gandhi. Gandhi also urged Congress governments, frontal organisations, party leaders and workers to step forward and offer their help to those families who are at extreme risk. “We must take immediate measures to guarantee adequate shelter, food and medicines to as many of them as we can,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-lockdown-necessary-but-unplanned-implementation-causing-chaos-says-sonia-gandhi/story-o7w9loCjBpbIHN1gUVca2K.html
02-04-2020||India||Navy develops Rs 1K temperature guns for Covid-19 screening||The Naval Dockyard, Mumbai, has designed and developed a hand-held infrared temperature sensor and it has the capacity to scale up production if agencies require these instruments in large numbers to screen people for fever amid the Covid-19 outbreak, the navy said in a statement on Thursday.The navy said the instrument had been developed to overcome the scarcity of temperature guns in the market where these were being sold at a very high cost. “The instrument has been manufactured for under Rs 1,000 using in-house resources. The cost is a fraction of the price of the temperature guns in the market,” the statement said, adding that the country’s medical infrastructure was being tested by the surge in the count of Covid-19 cases.The dockyard’s temperature sensor has an accuracy of 0.02 degree Celsius, it said.The temperature guns will be used for screening the 20,000 personnel who visit the dockyard daily and this will reduce the workload of the sentries at the gates, the navy said.“In view of Covid-19, initial screening of these personnel entering the dockyard was essential to prevent the spread of the disease within the yard and the navy’s Western Fleet. The most preliminary method to screen a probable patient is to check for body temperature by non-contact means,” the statement said.As the country prepares to handle a rising number of cases and meet its need for ventilators, which about 5% of the Covid-19 patients may require, the navy has also pitched in with an innovative ventilator design that can cater to six patients simultaneously.The Naval Dockyard, Visakhapatnam, has manufactured this portable multi-feed oxygen manifold ventilator.“To cater to the requirement of oxygen supply for multiple patients during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, personnel from Naval Dockyard Visakhapatnam have designed an innovative ‘Portable Multi-feed Oxygen Manifold(MOM)’ using a 6-way radial header fitted to a single cylinder. This innovation will enable one oxygen bottle to supply six patients concurrently thus enabling critical care management to a larger number of Covid patients with the existing limited resources,” the navy said in a statement earlier this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/navy-develops-rs-1k-temperature-guns-for-covid-19-screening/story-wBvWwtv6Qg8k3Nc9IsiARJ.html
02-04-2020||India||Mylab ties up with Serum India for Covid-19 testing kits||As India faces a severe shortage of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) testing kits, Mylab Discovery Solutions, the first Indian company whose testing kit was approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), has tied up with Serum Institute of India, world’s largest vaccine manufacturer by number of doses produced, to scale up the operations and escalate faster delivery of testing kits.“…Pune-based molecular diagnostics company Mylab Discovery Solutions Pvt Ltd has partnered with Serum Institute of India’s CEO Adar Poonawalla and Abhijit Pawar, Chairman of AP Globale. Funds invested will be used for scaling production of COVID-19 testing kits and expansion of molecular diagnostic solutions,” the company said in a statement on Thursday.AP Globale, a positive impact business solutions company, will be helping Mylabs scale its operations within India and globally. Abhijit Pawar, chairman of APG, will be joining the board of the company.Many of the 51 private labs approved by the ICMR for Covid-19 testing in the country have not been able to conduct tests as per their capacity and demand because of the shortage of kits.“The kits are in short supply; the orders are getting delayed and, as a result, we are not able to conduct tests. The manufacturers are overburdened,” said Dr Naveen Dang, founder, Delhi’s Dr Dangs Lab, one of the first private labs to have received ICMR approval for testing. From the day the first batch of private labs was given approval on March 21, all of them put together so far have done about 1500 tests.With the tie-up, in the next few weeks, the production of kits is likely to be ramped up from the number that currently can perform about 150,000 test kits per week to at least 20 lakh tests per week.“The shortage of testing kits will come to an end in a month or two,” said Serum Institute of India’s CEO Adar Poonawalla.Mylab is the first Indian company to get commercial approval for its testing kits called Mylab PathoDetect COVID-19 Qualitative PCR kit.The testing kits that get endorsed by the ICMR are further approved by Indian FDA or Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) for manufacture, sale and distribution in India.“Global innovation is the need of the hour to curb this pandemic that has affected millions across the world. The need for the maintenance and manufacturing of medical and healthcare equipment at the pace required to keep the numbers at bay has never been more important. Mylabs and their team have shown exceptionally innovative capabilities when they were able to develop a time-saving testing kit within 6-weeks of its outbreak. Keeping in mind their resilient approach and quick response, I am certain that the company has a variety of similar innovation-driven projects which will help bring drastic improvements in the healthcare sector. The investment towards Mylab will enable them to build their infrastructure and expand their capabilities further,” said Poonawalla.“The Mylab manufacturing facility, approved by FDA/CDSCO is compliant with MDR 2017 regulation for Manufacturing Medical Device of Class A,B,C and D and ISO 13485: 2016 certification,” said the company statement.Sujit Jain, director, Mylab, said, “This will help Mylabs create a world class organization, which will help India become a leader in molecular diagnostics.’’The ICMR has so far validated four PCR-based testing kits that have not had US FDA or European CE approvals. The US FDA and CE endorsed kits are already eligible for use. However, for the rest, ICMR recommends usage after thorough evaluation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mylab-ties-up-with-serum-india-for-covid-19-testing-kits/story-oR7TUW2MboOSZvTXf7oDNK.html
02-04-2020||India||Jamaat members resisting testing,hospitalisation, complains Delhi hospital||A Delhi hospital said on Thursday that many members of the Tablighi Jamaat, suspected of carrying coronavirus infection, are resisting testing for the disease and feel they do not require to be admitted to the hospital. A hospital official quoted by news agency ANI said this was putting the security of the medical staff at the hospital at risk.Medical director of Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narain Hospital (LNJPN) in Delhi, said 188 out of 216 Covid-19 patients at the hospital were from the Tablighi Jamaat from Nizamuddin and 23 out of the 24 samples tested from the group had come out positive. He called the situation “alarming”.“We’ve 216 Covid-19 patients, out of which 188 belong to one group (attendees of Tablighi Jamaat event). We had received reports of 24 patients from the group out of which 23 tested positive. This is alarming,” said Dr JC Passey, Medical Director of Delhi’s LNJPN HospitalHe added that police has been deployed around the three blocks were the attendees of the Jamaat were admitted to prevent them from causing any trouble.“Many of them (attendees of Tablighi Jamaat event) are objecting against testing and they feel they don’t need admission (to the hospital). So, this puts the security of our staff at risk. Now, police have been deployed around 3 blocks where they have been kept,” Dr JC Passey was quoted as saying by ANI.The Indian railway authorities, too, had reported alleged misbehaviour by some of the members of the Tablighi Jamaat admitted at its quarantine facilities on Wednesday. The authorities had complained that some members had made unreasonable demands related to food and raised a din at the centre that also included threatening behaviour towards the nursing staff.In another related incident in Madhya Pradesh, two doctors are reported to have suffered injuries in an incident of stone-pelting in Indore when they were out to screen and identify possible Covid-19 patients in the city, which is among the worst affected in the state.Roughly, 8,800 members of the Jamaat, who had attended a three-day religious meet at the Tablighi Jamaat headquarters in Nizamuddin, are being traced by Indian authorities after it emerged that several of them were infected with coronavirus and could spread the disease further in the local communities in different states. The congregation is being called the single largest source of infections in the country, as of now and efforts are on to trace, test and quarantine its members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jamaat-members-resisting-testing-hospitalisation-complains-delhi-hospital/story-2XEDL38NHvKp2rdpAktMHP.html
02-04-2020||India||In rare move, Centre turns to young IAS officers to up Covid-19 battle||Bureaucrats across the country have offered a host of suggestions such as indigenously producing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) testing kits and ventilators as well as ending the 21-day nationwide lockdown, which began on March 25 to combat the pandemic, in a phased manner.In a survey, conducted by the Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances (DARPG), 266 Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers submitted their suggestions and identified Covid-19 hotspots across 16 states. They flagged crucial gaps such as an acute shortage of medical staff, equipment, and facilities like intensive care unit (ICU) beds at hospitals, ventilators, ambulances, oxygen cylinders. They also underlined the hardships faced by people in their daily lives because of the lockdown at such a short notice. Also read | PM Modi holds Covid-19 review meeting with Chief MinistersThe bureaucrats also pointed out the lack of quarantine, isolation and testing facilities. “Personal protective equipment (PPE) such as masks, gloves, etc; for the medical staff are an area of major concern for several districts and across states,” the National Preparedness Survey report, seen by Hindustan Times, said. The Union Minister of State for Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions, Jitendra Singh, along with K Shivaji, secretary, DARPG, and V. Srinivas, additional secretary, DARPG, will release the report on Thursday.The survey was conducted between March 25 and 30, where 410 district collectors and IAS officers, who belong to batches between 2014 and 2018 and have served as assistant secretaries, registered for the nationwide exercise. Altogether, 266 bureaucrats submitted completed reports to the DARPG.“This is the feedback we have received from across the country,” a DARPG official told Hindustan Times. “This the situation on the ground. We want to highlight the gaps in our fight against Covid-19. The suggestions have been noted and will be addressed appropriately,” he added. According to the report, the civil servants have “encouraged” the domestic production of testing kits. “It has been suggested that testing kits and ventilators be manufactured in the country,” the official mentioned above said. The respondents have recommended that issues related to procurement, logistics and supply chain of medical equipment should be addressed on a priority basis to bridge the massive demand-supply gap. More testing centres, including separate facilities for rural areas, and isolation wards should be set up to help prevent further transmission, the report said.The bureaucrats have also suggested using the expertise of health care start-ups to fight the pandemic.“Other countries are doing this as well,” BS Baswan, said a former director of Indian Institute of Public Administration. “Many are retooling the engineering sector in a bid to take care of the mechanical aspect of producing ventilators. It’s important to take advantage of global innovations and cater to growing needs such as testing kits and isolation wards,” he added.The bureaucrats have pitched for a regular mapping of quarantined people by creating a database that is shared at district level. There is a “need to coordinate with big data analytic firms for studying state-wise patterns, identifying areas of infection and disseminating the information through media”, the report said.“The respondents suggested an increase in the fiscal spending (around Rs 5-10 trillion, or 2% of GDP) on health care infrastructure, essential commodities for the poor and vulnerable sections in the society,” it added. Other economic relief could include partially waiving commercial rent of shops during the lockdown period, they suggested. Also read | Govt launches coronavirus tracker app called Aarogya Setu: Here’s what it doesThe bureaucrats have recommended issuing “standard operating procedures and guidelines for inter-state movement of people across state borders considering temporary/migrant workers’ exodus after the nationwide lockdown”. They have also urged the government to come up with relief packages and ensure food supplies to daily wagers.“Lockdown should be continued until the Covid-19 is not controlled. Any instances of non-adherence to lockdown should be dealt with harshly, particularly, where there is a gathering of over 50 people,” the report said. Research is also one of the key areas that the civil servants believe will provide a long-term solution to fight the viral outbreak. “The government should strengthen the research and development facilities to develop vaccines to fight Covid-19 with a long-term solution. Research institutes may be given all the necessary support and increased funding,” it said. The bureaucrats are in favour of doing away with the ongoing lockdown in a phased manner, suggesting the government lift it in states that have stopped reporting fresh Covid-19 positive cases.“A majority of districts across the country highlighted the shortage of medical staff, equipment and facilities like ICU beds, ventilators, ambulances, oxygen cylinders etc. The sub-district hospitals and health centres’ readiness is an area of focus, particularly in the north-eastern region,” the report said. The bureaucrats noted that there was a lack of awareness about Covid-19 among people living in backward districts and the tribal population. They have also flagged other concerns such as migrant workers’ unwillingness to adhere to the lockdown, inadequate sanitisation of public places and people hiding their travel histories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-health-care-to-migrants-ias-officers-take-on-fighting-covid-19/story-oTOe5oWzvPGP0ltKC2D04L.html
02-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Sonia Gandhi seeks interest subvention with deferment of loan EMIs and all the latest news at this hour||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Sonia Gandhi seeks interest subvention with deferment of loan EMIs, slams govtThe Congress party also demanded that the government made public the list of all medical facilities devoted to fighting coronavirus including hospitals, number of beds, ventilators, quarantine and testing facilities. Read morePakistan court commutes death sentence of key convict in Daniel Pearl killingAhmed Omer Saeed Sheikh, the terrorist convicted of murdering journalist Daniel Pearl, had his death sentence commuted to a prison term of seven years by a Pakistani court on Thursday. Read moreHow Nizamuddin markaz became Covid-19 hotspot; more than 8,000 attendees identifiedAs many as 13 people who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi were on Wednesday picked from a mosque in Barwalan area in Uttar Pradesh’s Moradabad. Read morePakistan is failing in fight against Covid-19. Here’s whyPakistan on Wednesday reported the biggest jump in Covid-19 cases for the third consecutive day as the number of people infected with the deadly disease reached 2,238. Read more‘Hit your obsession for a six’: Gautam Gambhir reminds World Cup 2011 was won by entire teamIt is a day that will remain etched in the memory of Indian fans forever. On April 2, 2011, the Indian cricket team became the first team to win the ICC World Cup on home turf. Read moreNafisa Ali stuck in Goa without ration and medicines, reveals her niece has tested positive for Covid-19 in BengaluruThe lockdown situation in the country amid the Covid-19 pandemic has hit hard throwing daily life off the gear. Actor Nafisa Ali Sodhi, who is currently in Goa, has also been impacted massively by the situation and reveals that she doesn’t have access to basic food and medicines. Read moreLife in the times of Coronavirus: Why I regret buying that Zara dress over a kettleCoronavirus Lockdown: How social isolation and the government-mandated lockdown has shown us what truly matters in life. Read moreGovt launches coronavirus tracker app called Aarogya Setu: Here’s what it doesThe Aarogya Setu app will use your smartphone’s location data and Bluetooth to check if you have been near a COVID-19 infected person or not. Read moreJEE Advanced 2020 postponed due to coronavirusIIT Delhi has postponed the Joint Entrance Exam (JEE) Advanced 2020 that was scheduled to be held on May 17, in view of preventing further spreading coronavirus. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-sonia-gandhi-seeks-interest-subvention-with-deferment-of-loan-emis-and-all-the-latest-news-at-this-hour/story-E5KiJt3y5dSpZvxvotkcyL.html
02-04-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 cases nearly double in week, could hit 10,000 by end of 21-day lockdown||Coronavirus cases in the country are on the rapid rise, showing no sign of abating. A look at the historical figures points to the fact that the cases have more than doubled in India in the past week. Last Thursday, Covid-19 cases in the country were under 700. This Thursday, the cases have nearly jumped to 2,000 with 1,965 patients. The figure includes 1,764 active cases, 150 recoveries and 50 deaths.At this pace of increase in fresh coronavirus cases, the number of patients could go beyond 10,000 by the end of the 21-day lockdown, Hindustan Times’ business publication Mint reported.It will be too early to predict whether the rate of the increase in coronavirus cases in the country will pace up or hit a plateau in days to come. The government is also trying to push the testing numbers which could further have an impact on the number of fresh cases. Also Watch | India’s COVID-19 cases rise, 7 Delhi Doctors test positive & more: Top 5 stories from HT In a conversation with Hindustan Times’s Amandeep Shukla, Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan talked about ‘flattening the curve’ and said that it may take anywhere between 2 to 4 weeks to bend the curve.“There have been only a few sporadic cases, which do not indicate a wider community-wide spread of infection at the national level,” the minister said. India reported 437 new Covid-19 cases between March 31 and April 1. As many as 131 new coronavirus cases have been reported across the country in the last 12 hours, the health ministry announced today.With a staggering 335 patients, Maharashtra leads the Covid-19 tally in the country followed by Kerala which has reported 265 cases so far as per the central government figures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-cases-nearly-double-in-week-could-hit-10-000-by-end-of-21-day-lockdown/story-EAfWM6N32iTmvt1L0xcIeM.html
02-04-2020||India||Sonia Gandhi seeks interest subvention with deferment of loan EMIs, slams govt||The Congress has hit out at the Centre for not announcing an interest subvention scheme along with the moratorium announced on payment of EMIs for three months against loans including for house, personal requirements, auto and other purposes, and said that it defeats the purpose of the relief.“The middle classes, too, are vulnerable. Wage cuts, job losses across all sectors of the economy, high petrol, diesel and gas prices are causing them acute distress. If this was not enough, while EMIs have been deferred, no interest subvention or relief has been provided. This offsets the entire purpose of the deferment,” party’s statement says. The statement issued by Congress president Sonia Gandhi after meeting of the party’s working committee also accused the centre of implementing the 21-day nationwide lockdown without any preparation, resulting in the suffering of hundreds of thousands of migrant workers who walked on foot in an attempt to return to their home states.The party also demanded that the government made public the list of all medical facilities devoted to fighting coronavirus including hospitals, number of beds, ventilators, quarantine and testing facilities.“We urge the government to publish a common minimum relief programme. This is vital and will help alleviate several of the concerns that currently afflict all people,” the release saidThe official release urged all the Congress-ruled states, party’s frontal organizations and its leaders and workers to “step forward” and offer their help to those families who are at “extreme risk”.Lastly, in a reference to the focus on attendees of a religious gathering at Nizamuddin, who have arguably become the single largest source of Covid-19 infections across the country, the Congress statement adds that the disease doesn’t differentiate on the basis of religions, castes, political ideology, age or gender and therefore utmost care must be taken to protect the vulnerable among all communities against the spread of the disease.“Covid-19 doesn’t differentiate between political ideology, religion, caste, age or gender. The choices we make today will have a direct impact tomorrow on our family, neighbourhood, community, environment and nation. How effectively we meet this challenge, how we protect all sections of our society, especially the most vulnerable amongst us will define us for generations to come. Only if we act together in solidarity, we will overcome,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-gandhi-seeks-interest-subvention-with-deferment-of-loan-emis-slams-govt/story-4qjat1xVdFGWK71gnpQUAK.html
02-04-2020||India||Coronavirus Update: Arunachal’s first Covid-19 case is also a Tablighi Jamaat attendee||Arunachal Pradesh became the fourth state in the northeast to record a case of coronavirus on Thursday morning with a 31-year-old man from Wakro in Lohit district, who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event at Nizamuddin in Delhi, testing positive.The northeast region now has a total of 20 Covid-19 patients—18 of them linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation.“Seven people from Arunachal Pradesh had attended the Nizamuddin event. Test result for one of them, which was carried out at ICMR lab in Dibrugarh, Assam, has come positive for Covid-19,” state health minister Alo Libang told HT.Of the seven suspects, one is from Lohit district and the rest are from Namsai. All of them had returned to Arunachal Pradesh on March 19 after attending the congregation held between March 13 and March 15.“The person found positive is a 31-year-old from Wakro in Lohit district. The patient, as well as 6 others who travelled with him, are in quarantine at present. Test results of the six others are awaited,” Libang said.Arunachal Pradesh doesn’t have a testing facility for Covid-19 at present and samples from the state are tested at ICMR, Dibrugarh in Assam. Till Wednesday, 58 samples had been collected in the state and sent for testing.The first Covid-19 positive case in the northeast was detected in Manipur, when a 23-year-old student who returned from UK was found positive. It was followed by a 50-year-old pastor from Mizoram who had returned from the Netherlands last month.Assam with 16 positive cases has the highest number of patients in the region. All of them had attended the Tablighi Jamaat gathering last month. On Wednesday, Manipur reported its second positive case—a person who had attended the Delhi congregation.No positive case has been recorded in Tripura, Nagaland and Meghalaya yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-arunachal-s-first-covid-19-case-is-also-a-tablighi-jamaat-attendee/story-6JacCgKFwJJeLik6agk4xJ.html
02-04-2020||India||131 new Covid-19 cases in last 12 hours, total jumps to 1,965 in India: A statewise tally||As India entered the ninth day of the 21-day coronavirus lockdown on Thursday, the total number of cases in the country inched toward 2,000. The Covid-19 death toll in India climbed to 50 on Thursday, the health ministry stated. The total number of coronavirus cases in the country now stands at 1,965 including 1,764 active cases, 150 recoveries and 50 deaths.As many as 131 new coronavirus cases have been reported across the country in the last 12 hours, the health ministry announced today. Maharashtra, Kerala and Tamil Nadu have emerged as the states with the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the country followed by Delhi, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh.Here’s a quick look at the statewise coronavirus active cases, recoveries and fatalities. MaharashtraThe state has the highest number of Covid-19 cases with 335 patients. Maharashtra has registered 13 coronavirus deaths so far while 42 patients have recovered.KeralaWith 265 coronavirus cases, Kerala is the second most coronavirus-affected state in the country. As per the latest data by the Ministry of Health, Kerala has witnessed 2 Covid-19 deaths while 25 people have successfully recovered.Tamil NaduThe southern state has seen a dramatic rise in the number of Covid-19 cases. The cases in the state have jumped to 234 which is third highest in the country. Tamil Nadu has seen 6 recoveries and one Covid-19 death.DelhiDelhi closely follows with the fourth-highest number of coronavirus cases in the country. As many as 152 people have tested positive of coronavirus in the national capital. Two people have died from the infection while 6 people have made a recovery, as per the health ministry’s data.Delhi’s Nizamuddin area has emerged as the hotspot of coronavirus disease after several cases of Covid-19 emerged in people who were a part of a religious congregation in the area earlier this month. According to reports, more than 2,000 delegates from countries like Indonesia and Malaysia attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin West from March 1-15.Uttar Pradesh113 people have been infected from Covid-19 in the state. While 14 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh. Two people have died from the infection here.KarnatakaThe state has recorded 110 Covid-19 cases and 3 deaths. 9 people have been cured and discharged.Telangana96 positive cases of coronavirus have been reported here so far. One person has made a recovery from the virus while three people have died from Covid-19.RajasthanThe state has 108 positive cases of coronavirus with no reported cases of fatalities. Three patients have recovered from the infection.Madhya PradeshThe state has reported 99 positive cases of coronavirus. Six people have died from Covid-19 here.Andhra PradeshThe state has witnessed a sudden spike in its Covid-19 cases. 86 positive Covid-19 patients have been reported in the state and one case of recovery. One person has died. GujaratPrime Minister Narendra Modi’s home state has registered 82 coronavirus cases and 5 recoveries so far. As many as 6 people have died from the infection in the state.Jammu and Kashmir62 positive cases of coronavirus have been reported here. Two people have died from the infection while two were cured.Haryana and PunjabThe neighbouring states have 43 and 46 Covid-19 cases respectively. While 4 people have died in Punjab, Haryana has seen no deaths. 21 people have been recovered from coronavirus in Haryana, one in Punjab.West Bengal has 37 people who tested positive for the infection with three deaths and six recoveries. In Chandigarh, 16 people were found infected from Covid-19. Andaman has recorded 10 coronavirus cases. Chhattisgarh has recorded 9 cases of coronavirus, two people have recovered. In Bihar, 23 people have tested positive for coronavirus, one has died.Uttarakhand has 7 coronavirus patients, two patients have recovered from the virus. Goa has reported 5 cases of Covid-19 infection. Himachal Pradesh has 3 cases, one patient has died and one patient has recovered. Odisha has 4 Covid-19 positive patients and Pondicherry has reported three cases.States and Union territories with just one positive Covid-19 case include Manipur and Mizoram. The official figures for Tuesday were not released by the health ministry when this copy was being written.On Thursday, India entered the ninth day of the 21-day long nationwide coronavirus lockdown announced by PM Modi to break the chain of Covid-19 infection in the country.Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/131-new-covid-19-cases-in-last-12-hours-total-jumps-to-1-965-in-india-a-statewise-tally/story-8AdsG7rMa40KgbUYOVPiuK.html
02-04-2020||India||On Ram Navami, Arvind Kejriwal seeks strength from Lord Ram to fight coronavirus||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday greeted people on the occasion of Ram Navami and sought strength from Lord Ram for all, especially healthcare personnel, to fight coronavirus.The spring festival of Ram Navami is celebrated to mark the birth of Lord Ram.“Heartfelt greetings to all of you on the occasion of Ram Navami. My only request to Lord Ram is to give strength to all of us, especially healthcare personnel, to fight COVID-19,” Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi.On Wednesday, the total cases of coronavirus in the national capital rose to 152, including 53 who attended a large religious congregation in the city’s Nizamuddin area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-ram-navami-arvind-kejriwal-seeks-strength-from-lord-ram-to-fight-coronavirus/story-7M6cMoC1ijmsQXAdxW9w8L.html
02-04-2020||India||As coronavirus cases rise, here are simple tips that may boost immune system||Experts have said that up to 50% people infected with coronavirus are unlikely to feel any discomfort or symptoms of the disease while it may prove fatal for elderly people and for those suffering from other serious ailments like diabetes, hypertension, respiratory problems and heart diseases to name a few.It is widely believed that a healthy person with a strong immune system stands a better chance to survive the disease than most, however, there is no concrete scientific evidence so far that establishes a direct link between a person’s immune system and coronavirus.While the government has started online information dissemination campaign to counter myths and fake news related to Covid-19 and its treatment, it is at the same time, also encouraging people to adopt healthy lifestyle habits that may boost a person’s immunity, making them less prone to illnesses.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, too, referred to these tips and said he had been following some of these for ages now. Here are the tips to stay healthy as released by the Ayush ministry and recommended by a panel of Ayurveda and Yoga experts. It must be made clear at the outset that none of these can either be considered to be a vaccine or medicine against coronavirus.General Measures1. Drink warm water throughout the day even during summers2. Daily practice of Yogasana, Pranayama (breathing exercises) and meditation for at least 30 minutes3. Use of spices like Haldi (Turmeric), Jeera (Cumin), Dhaniya (Coriander) and Lahsun (Garlic) are recommended for cooking.II Tips to boost Immunity as per Ayurveda1. Take Chyavanprash 10gm in the morning. Diabetics should take sugar-free Chyavanprash.2. Drink herbal tea and or decoction, also known as ‘Kadha’, made from Tulsi (Basil leaves), Dalchini (Cinnamon), Kalimirch (Black pepper), Shunthi (Dry Ginger) and Munakka (Raisin) - once or twice a day. Jaggery and or fresh lemon juice could be added to this preparation to suit one’s taste.3. Golden Milk- Half teaspoon Haldi (turmeric) powder in 150 ml hot milk - once or twice a day.III Ayurvedic procedures for detoxification and sinus care 1. Nasal application - Apply sesame oil or coconut oil or ghee in both the nostrils in the morning and evening. This is also called Pratimarsh Nyasya in Ayurveda.2. Oil pulling therapy- Take 1 table spoon sesame or coconut oil in the mouth. Do not drink, swish in the mouth for 2 to 3 minutes and spit it off followed by a warm-water rinse. This can be done once or twice a day.IV During dry cough / sore throat1. Steam inhalation with fresh Pudina (Mint) leaves or Ajwain (Caraway seeds) should be practiced once in a day.2. Lavang (Clove) powder mixed with jiggery or honey can be taken 2-3 times a day in case of cough or throat irritation.These measures generally treat normal dry cough and sore throat. However, it is best to consult doctors if these symptoms persist. The above measures can be followed to the extent possible as per an individual’s convenience.These measures are recommended by following eminent Vaidyas from across the country as they may possibly boost an individual’s immunity against infections.1. Padma Shri Vaidya P R Krishnakumar, Coimbatore2. Padma Bhushan Vaidya Devendra Triguna, Delhi3. Vaidya P M Varier, Kottakkal4. Vaidya Jayant Devpujari, Nagpur5. Vaidya Vinay Velankar, Thane6. Vaidya B S Prasad, Belgaum7. Padma Shri Vaidya Gurdeep Singh, Jamnagar8. Acharya Balkrishna ji, Haridwar9. Vaidya M S Baghel, Jaipur10. Vaidya R B Dwivedi, Hardoi UP11. Vaidya K N Dwivedi, VaranasiThe ministry describes Ayurveda as the science of life which propagates the gifts of nature in maintaining healthy and happy living. It says that Ayurveda’s extensive knowledge base on preventive care derives from the concepts of “Dinacharya” - daily regimes and “Ritucharya” - seasonal regimes to maintain a healthy life. It is a plant-based science. The simplicity of awareness about oneself and the harmony each individual can achieve by uplifting and maintaining his or her immunity is emphasized across Ayurveda’s classical scriptures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-coronavirus-cases-rise-here-are-simple-tips-that-may-boost-immune-system/story-mDAa80Ly3T1kgxVgj1Dh2M.html
02-04-2020||India||Pakistan court commutes death sentence of key convict in Daniel Pearl killing||Ahmed Omer Saeed Sheikh, the terrorist convicted of murdering journalist Daniel Pearl, had his death sentence commuted to a prison term of seven years by a Pakistani court on Thursday.The Sindh high court gave its verdict following appeals by Sheikh and three other men convicted of kidnapping and murdering Pearl in Karachi in 2002, the Pakistani media reported. The high court overturned the verdict of an anti-terrorism court.Sheikh, a British citizen of Pakistani origin, was freed by India along with Jaish-e-Mohammed founder Masood Azhar and terrorist Mushtaq Ahmad Zargar in exchange for the passengers of Indian Airlines flight IC-814 that was hijacked by a group of Pakistani terrorists from Kathmandu to Kandahar in December 1999.Sheikh’s death sentence was commuted to seven years in jail while the three other men convicted of Pearl’s murder were acquitted and freed by the Sindh high court.Reports in the Pakistani media said Sheikh’s seven-year prison term will be counted as part of the 18 years he has already spent in jail.A two-judge bench headed by Justice Mohammad Karim Khan Agha announced its verdict on appeals filed by the four men 18 years ago after hearing arguments by prosecution and defence lawyers and examining the records of the case.The high court also dismissed an appeal by the prosecution seeking enhancement of life sentence given to the three other men – Fahad Naseem, Salman Saqib and Sheikh Adil.Pearl, an American national and the South Asia bureau chief of the Wall Street Journal, was kidnapped on January 23, 2002 in Karachi and later beheaded by his captors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-court-commutes-death-sentence-of-prime-accused-in-daniel-pearl-killing/story-Ggnl4dmo3S0jXkBSGP7IGO.html
02-04-2020||India||Health team pelted with stones during Covid-19 screening drive in Indore||Two doctors suffered injuries in stone-pelting in Madhya Pradesh’s Indore during a drive to screen and identify possible Covid-19 patients in the city, according to state officials. A group of health officials involving the doctors was attacked in an Indore neighbourhood on Wednesday after an elderly woman, suspected to have come in contact with a coronavirus disease patient, was asked to accompany the team to a hospital for diagnostic tests.Indore has recorded over 60 Covid-19 patients. The alleged attack took place in Tatt Patti Bakhal area. Watch | COVID-19: Locals in MP’s Indore pelt stones at a health department teamA video purportedly showing the doctors and health workers being attacked was widely shared on social media. It showed people wearing personal protective equipment being heckled, chased and pelted with stones in a narrow lane. HT could not independently verify the authenticity of the video.“We have been visiting the locality for the past three days for the screening of residents. We had information about a person coming in contact with a Covid-19 patient…We were talking to the person (the elderly woman) when, all of a sudden, residents got agitated and attacked us,” said one of the doctors.She said the police had to intervene and save the members of the team.“Two female doctors suffered injuries. They managed to save themselves by hiding behind the jeep of a tehsildar,” Praveen Jadia, chief medical and health officer, Indore. Said.Additional collector Dinesh Jain said: “The police are trying to identify as to who are the persons who indulged in the attack. Action will be taken.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-team-pelted-with-stones-during-covid-19-screening-drive-in-indore/story-Yvqf325VVMWOfFhSdPJWSN.html
02-04-2020||India||Coronavirus: 9 more Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan, total count jumps to 129||Nine more Covid-19 cases were reported from Rajasthan on Thursday, seven of them from Ramganj area of Jaipur which has emerged as the new coronavirus hotspot.Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary, health department, said nine more positive cases have been reported in the state, taking the total number to 129.“All 7 positive patients are ‘close contact’ of the person who was the first person to test positive in Ramganj. He has transmitted the disease to 17 of his close contacts till now,” Singh said.One case was reported from Jodhpur and one case of a Tablighi Jamaat member was reported from Jhunjhunu.Jaipur has the highest number of positive cases at 41 followed by Bhilwara at 26 and Jodhpur at 9.The total samples received in the state are 6,557 of which 111 are positive. 18 of the evacuees from Iran, who are housed in the Army Wellness Centre in Jodhpur, have tested positive. The cumulative positive cases in the state stand at 129.The total number of negative samples is 6,279 while 167 are under process, said Singh.On Wednesday, 13 cases were reported from Ramganj, all are contacts of the first person who tested positive in Ramganj on March 26.The 45-year-old man from Ramganj, who returned from Oman via Dubai on March 13, has become a super-spreader, transmitting the virus to at least 20 family members and sparking fears of community transmission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-9-more-covid-19-cases-in-rajasthan-total-count-jumps-to-129/story-ypSvuI7Jg1DJ4I5rsDRZLJ.html
02-04-2020||India||Coronavirus Update: Haryana reports 1st Covid-19 casualty, 67-yr-old man from Ambala dies||Haryana recorded its first COVID-19-related death as a 67-year-old man from Ambala died at the PGIMER here soon after testing positive for coronavirus, a senior health department official said on Thursday.The man had multiple underlying health conditions and had reported to Ambala civil hospital with acute respiratory distress from where he was referred to the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) in Chandigarh, he said.“He tested positive for coronavirus around midnight Thursday and passed away around the same time,” the health official from Ambala told PTI.Haryana has so far reported 29 positive cases of coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-haryana-reports-1st-covid-19-casualty-67-yr-old-man-from-ambala-dies/story-Kk093eB0VPTecjZySySu3H.html
02-04-2020||India||52-year-old dies of Covid-19 in Gujarat’s Vadodara, had travel history to Sri Lanka||A 52-year-old person who had tested positive for coronavirus disease Covid-19 patient died in Gujarat’s Vadodara on Thursday morning.Vadodara district collector S Agarwal said that the person had a history of travel to Sri Lanka and was admitted to SSG Hospital on March 19. “Four members of his family have also tested positive for the virus and are undergoing treatment,” said Agarwal.With 13 new cases, the number of Covid-19 positive cases in Gujarat rose to 87 on Wednesday, a senior health department official said. Out of these, 66 people are stable while three are on ventilator support.“On Wednesday, 13 new Covid-19 cases were reported in the state - eight from Ahmedabad, two from Porbandar and Surat each, and one from Panchmahal district,” Principal Secretary (Health) Jayanti Ravi said.A 57-year-old Covid-19 patient was discharged from the hospital on Wednesday after recovery, taking the count of such patients to seven.The number of locally transmitted cases rose to 46, while the number of patients with history of travel abroad went up to 33.Till now, 1,726 samples have been tested in Gujarat, of which 87 have been found to be COVID-19 positive, 1,628 turned negative, while the results of 11 others are awaited, Ravi told reporters.The Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Wednesday said that there are 1,834 coronavirus positive cases in India, including 1,649 active cases, 144 cured/discharged/migrated people and 41 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/52-year-old-dies-of-covid-19-in-gujarat-had-travel-history-to-sri-lanka/story-J1lzTNqYxe7993yuZxa06H.html
02-04-2020||India||Three more Covid-19 deaths in Telangana, all linked to Markaz event||Three more patients have died in Telangana due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the state announced late on Wednesday night, linking all these cases to a religious gathering in the national capital’s Nizamuddin area.Thirty new cases were detected in the southern state in a 24-hour period on Wednesday. The government said all these could be traced back to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at the Islamic missionary group’s Delhi headquarters that has emerged as a hot spot of Covid-19 infections. The state also said it was planning to conduct diagnostic tests on over 300 of its residents who attended the event.According to data from states, over 300 confirmed cases and 11 deaths, including the three in Telangana on Wednesday, could be linked to the March gathering. Officials are scrambling to trace the footsteps of those who visited Jamaat’s six-storey headquarters, also known as Markaz, and then fanned out across the country.Altogether, nine deaths have been reported in Telangana -- all linked to the gathering.The total number of infections in the state stand at 121, including 14 persons who have been discharged after recovery.Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao briefed governor Tamilisai Soundarajan at the Raj Bhavan on the pandemic situation and also held a meeting with officials toll late in the night.“All three who died and 30 people who tested positive on Wednesday are those who had been to Markaz at Nizamuddin in Delhi. The six who died earlier were also those who had gone to Markaz,” an official release from the chief minister’s office said.“Initially, the virus spread among those who came from abroad, and through them it spread to others. They are all recovering. Many of them have been discharged. No case among them was serious. Nobody died. But the positive cases for the past few days involve those who went to Markaz,” it said.The chief minister also appealed to the Markaz attendees, their family members and those who came in contact with them to undergo tests. “Since the virus is spreading through those who went to Markaz, they all should undergo tests without failure,” he said.ANDHRA REPORTS 67 POSITIVE CASESThe neighbouring Telugu state of Andhra Pradesh reported 67 positive cases in a span of 24 hours. Forty-three of them were reported between 9 pm on Tuesday and 9am on Wednesday. According to a late-night bulletin on Wednesday, another 24 cases were reported during the day, taking the overall tally of positive cases in the state to 113. This includes two patients who have been discharged.“...1085 persons attended the Delhi prayer meeting, and we have tracked and taken samples of 585. While 70 people tested positive, 500 results are yet to come and 21 people are yet to be traced,” Andhra chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-more-covid-19-deaths-in-telangana-all-linked-to-markaz-event/story-X0xlWmGltcOvrQClVdEzAI.html
02-04-2020||India||Nizamuddin trail widens, GST kitty dips: Covid-19 news from India||Covid-19 cases in India soared past 2,000 on Wednesday, fuelled largely by infections linked to a March event of the Tablighi Jamaat in the national capital’s Nizamuddin. Across states, 8,700 people who attended the gathering have been identified and quarantined. As cases increased, the stress on the economy front was evident. Goods and Services Tax collections for March recorded an 8% decline over the same month a year ago to the lowest in five months, and auto sales in the month for India’s largest carmaker, Maruti Suzuki, were down almost by half.Here are the top stories on Covid-19 pandemic from India today. Nizamuddin markaz trail widens; coronavirus cases in India hit 2,000According to a tally of numbers released by 25 states and union territories, close to 8,500 people have been identified as having been to the Islamic sect’s headquarters in the capital’s Nizamuddin area, prompting authorities to intensify efforts to trace them since they may be carrying the virus and potentially infecting others.Read more States scramble to map trail of 8,700 Jamaat attendeesState governments identified on Wednesday nearly 8,700 people who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi and deployed a large posse of police and intelligence officers and anti-terror personnel to trace anyone who attended the event that has emerged as the country’s biggest Covid-19 hotspot. Read moreAggressive testing to begin near NizamuddinNizamuddin, in the heart of Delhi, will see health workers from the integrated diseases surveillance programme start going door-to-door from Thursday as they seek to track and contain cases of Covid-19 in what has emerged the latest and biggest cluster of the coronavirus disease in the country. Read more‘Biggest challenge is fighting stigma’, says health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Covid-19In the middle of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) crisis, Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan spoke to Amandeep Shukla about “flattening the curve”, the importance of the lockdown period, aggressive testing, community transmission, and the quest for a cure, among other issues. Read moreCovid-19: What you need to know todayA recession for the rest of this year and maybe next year as well. $3.4 trillion in incomes and 25 million jobs gone. These are among the more frightening predictions in a report released by the United Nations overnight Tuesday on the impact of Covid-19. Read moreGST collection dips, auto sales fall as Covid-19 takes toll on economyGST collections in March fell to Rs 97,597 crore. Apart from Maruti, which has a close-to-50% share of the Indian car market, Tata Motors, the leading maker of trucks and buses, said sales of these commercial vehicles were down 87% in the month. Read moreCBSE to hold board exams only for 12 main subjectsThe Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) will hold nationwide class XII board exams in 12 main subjects, and will promote all students of classes I to VIII to the next grade in schools affiliated to it, in a move necessitated by the coronavirus crisis, the board said on Wednesday. Read moreKerala to Punjab, places that became epicentre of coronavirus infectionAlmost half of the coronavirus (Covid-19) cases in Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Punjab have been traced to areas spread over a few kilometers, with these hot spots accounting for 226, or about 14%, of the infections in India so far, according to an analysis of the numbers.Read moreProtective equipment scarcity a concern as Covid-19 infects 7 doctorsFive more doctors tested positive for Covid-19 in the past week in the national capital, taking the total to seven, and underscoring how leading the war against the virus from the front is coming at a huge personal cost for doctors and health workers who often operate with inadequate protective equipment. Read moreScientists use lockdown to get data on unpolluted Delhi airThe 21-day nationwide lockdown, coupled with favourable weather conditions, is not just giving Delhi its cleanest air possible, it is also allowing scientists to determine the city’s baseline pollution levels -- for the very first time. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nizamuddin-trail-widens-gst-kitty-dips-covid-19-news-from-india/story-3auQHKAaS9IgaonBaa49tN.html
02-04-2020||India||At 93, Kerala man beats Covid-19; family shares secret behind his recovery||It’s being dubbed as a miracle. A 93-year-old from Pathanamthitta district in Kerala recovered after contracting the deadly coronavirus disease Covid-19.Thomas Abraham and his 88-year-old wife Mariyamma have been fully cured after days of life-and-death battle against the deadly virus which they contracted from their son, daughter-in-law and grandson who returned from Italy last month.The secret behind their recovery seems to be the healthy lifestyle they have been leading, said Rijo Moncy, their grandson. He said Thomas, a farmer in Ranni sub-division of Pathanamthitta district, is a very healthy person being a teetotaller and non-smoker. “Even without going to the gym, he had a six-pack body.”More on Covid-19:• Covid-19: Your guide to staying safe• Covid-19: What you need to know today• Can Covid-19 spread after symptoms end?• How coronavirus is different from seasonal flu and common coldAlso Watch | Coronavirus: Kerala police’s dance video to encourage hand washing goes viral Abraham loves Pazhankanji, Kerala’s own super food made of rice gruel, and tapioca or jackfruit snacks. And that’s what he insisted on eating while confined in the isolation ward of the Kottayam Medical College Hospital. Coronavirus is known to be especially deadly for elderly people.“It’s a miracle that they survived the pandemic and the doctors and the health officials have put in their all efforts to save them,” said Rijo who works in Italy in the radiology field.He and his parents, who also have been living in Italy for many years, praised the state government.“We were planning to come to Kerala in August but advanced the journey as my grandfather insisted that we should visit him soon. However, now we feel that it was a blessing or else we would have been in Italy right now,” Rijo said.Italy is the hardest hit country in the world with more than 11,500 fatalities and over 1,00,000 infections, as per the latest reports.The couple have three children, seven grandchildren and 14 great grandchildren. Besides his parents and grandparents, Rijo’s sister and brother-in-law and his father’s elder brother were among those infected by the virus in the family.“Grandparents had age related complications. But the nurses and the doctors of Kottayam Medical College considered them as their own family and took care of them. We are really thankful to the government, health minister and the chief minister for the care we got,” Rijo said.Rijo’s sister and brother-in-law, both nurses, had arrived from Italy eight months ago.Along with the seven-member team of doctors who led the treatment, 40 medical staff including 25 nurses actively took part in various stages of treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/93-year-old-kerala-farmer-becomes-india-s-oldest-person-to-beat-covid-19/story-5nKt27UDYD4090wGEF2gbM.html
02-04-2020||India||Day 9 of 21-day lockdown, Covid-19 cases near 2,000 in India: Key developments||India reported 437 new Covid-19 cases between March 31 and April 1. The Covid-19 death toll in India climbed to 50 on Thursday, the health ministry stated. The total number of coronavirus cases in the country to now stands at 1965 including 1764 active cases, 150 recoveries and 50 deaths.While Maharashtra and Kerala continue to be the worst affected states by coronavirus, cases are on a rapid rise in Delhi, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh.The headquarters of a religious group in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area has now emerged as the single-biggest source of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infections in the country. On Wednesday, State governments identified nearly 8,700 people who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin and deployed a large posse of police, intelligence officers and anti-terror personnel to trace anyone who attended the event.On Thursday, the country entered the ninth day of the 21-day Covid-19 lockdown.Here are the key developments: 1. Three more Covid-19 cases have been reported in Maharashtra - two from Pune and one from Buldhana, taking the total number of positive cases in the state to 338, Maharashtra Health Department said on Thursday evening.2. Giani Nirmal Singh, former Hazoori Ragi of Golden Temple in Amritsar, who had tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday, died away at around 4:30 am on Thursday. The 67-year-old was a Padma Shri awardee.3. Tamil Nadu on Wednesday recorded a spike of over 110 fresh cases of Covid-19 all of whom had attended the Tablighi Jamaat religious conference held in the densely populated area of Nizamuddin in New Delhi in the middle of March. This is the highest number of new cases recorded in Tamil Nadu in a single day so far.4. The railways is setting up isolation and quarantine facilities with 80,000 beds for positive and suspected cases of the disease, the government said on Wednesday.5. From Thursday, Delhi’s Nizamuddin will see health workers from the integrated diseases surveillance programme start going door-to-door as they seek to track and contain cases of Covid-19.6. The Mata Vaishno Devi shrine near Jammu, where the rush of devotees peaks during the ongoing nine-day long Navratri festival, has almost been deserted in the wake of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board suffered a loss of around Rs 4 crores this Navratri.7. Railways is scrambling to provide information regarding thousands of passengers who travelled on five trains with people who participated in the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi, many of whom have tested positive. All these trains began from Delhi between March 13 and March 19.8. The Centre is in the process of issuing a comprehensive, indicative list of what constitutes essential commodities and services to all states and union territories to iron out supply chain disruptions caused by the lockdown to contain the Covid-19 pandemic.9. The government is working to increase the production of personal protective equipment (PPE) with the textiles ministry roping in domestic companies to ramp up supply of coveralls and N95 masks, crucial for healthcare workers against Covid-19, an official said on Wednesday.10. The Indian government has decided to accept contributions from abroad for the Prime Minister’s Citizen Relief and Emergency Situations (PM-CARES) fund which has been launched to battle the Covid-19 outbreak and similar emergencies in the future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-nizamuddin-to-see-door-to-door-covid-19-surveillance-india-open-to-foreign-donations-key-developments/story-Cdk1OOm34AZNY2fUqsubBM.html
02-04-2020||India||How Nizamuddin markaz became Covid-19 hotspot; more than 8,000 attendees identified||As many as 13 people who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi were on Wednesday picked from a mosque in Barwalan area in Uttar Pradesh’s Moradabad. The people who attended the event are being aggressively pursued after reports that many of them are the likely carriers of the coronavirus disease Covid-19.Amit Kumar Anand, Meerut Superintendent of Police, said,”They are all from Assam. They will be placed under quarantine.”A man from Manipur, who attended the congregation last month, has tested positive for Covid-19, taking the total number of coronavirus cases in the state to two, Chief Minister N Biren Singh said on Thursday. Also Watch | How Ajit Doval cleared Nizamuddin Markaz. Now for contact tracingMore on Covid-19:• Covid-19: Your guide to staying safe• Covid-19: What you need to know today• Can Covid-19 spread after symptoms end?• How coronavirus is different from seasonal flu and common coldSeveral state governments are tracing and identifying all those who attended the gathering. A large number of people in different states have already been placed under quarantine as a precautionary measure.Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Wednesday that a social media campaign has been launched by the state government to identify all those who participated in the Jamaat gathering.“The situation is under control and there is no need for any concern. A purposeful campaign is being run particularly on social media targeting those who attended Nizamuddin Markaz gathering in Delhi and their community,” Vijayan said.The number of Covid-19 cases in India soared over 2,000 on Wednesday, fuelled largely by infections linked to the March event of the Jamaat that emerged this week as the biggest domestic source of the disease in the country.According to a tally of numbers released by 25 states and union territories, close to 8,500 people have been identified as having been to the group’s headquarters in the Nizamuddin area, prompting authorities to intensify efforts to trace them.Health workers from the integrated diseases surveillance programme have decided to launch aggressive testing; these workers will start going door-to-door from Thursday.As part of the testing, everyone within a 3 kilometre radius (focal area) of the building and in the buffer area (5 kilometre radius) will be screened for symptoms. Those who are symptomatic - a cough will do - will be tested. Thus far, the congregation has been identified as being responsible for 358 infections and nine deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-nizamuddin-markaz-became-a-hotspot-for-covid-19-8-000-people-identified/story-zedKlaDNTPpbDLdMsgExAM.html
02-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: States scramble to map trail of 8,700 Jamaat attendees and all the latest news at this hour||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.States scramble to map trail of 8,700 Jamaat attendeesState governments identified on Wednesday nearly 8,700 people who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi and deployed a large posse of police and intelligence officers and anti-terror personnel to trace anyone who attended the event that has emerged as the country’s biggest Covid-19 hotspot.Read MoreGenetic sequencing takes lead in Covid-19 vaccine developmentIn the race to develop a vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), scientists around the world are simultaneously using multiple vaccine-development platforms, with DNA- and RNA-based platforms taking the lead because of their potential for speed.Read MoreKin call TablighiJamaat chief ‘cult figure’, with ‘low profile’Maulana Saad, the head of the Tablighi Jamaat that came under the spotlight after its headquarters in Delhi emerged as the single-biggest source of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Tuesday, is known to be a recluse who maintains a low profile.Read MoreLocked in village, Sarfaraz keeps knockingWith humanity facing unprecedented crisis due to coronavirus pandemic, sporting continuance takes a backseat . As fate would have it, Mumbai cricketer Sarfaraz Khan and his father find themselves spending lockdown time, confined in Chhatarpur village, Sarfaraz’s maternal home, 17 kms from Azamgarh in UP. Sarfaraz was playing a club match in Bhopal, when news of corona virus’s spread in India began to trickle in.Read MoreSinger Adam Schlesinger dies of coronavirus, Tom Hanks mourns deathAdam Schlesinger, the Grammy and Emmy-winning singer and songwriter best known for rock band Fountains Of Wayne, has died after being diagnosed with coronavirus, reports Variety. He was 52.Read MoreAny age is the right age to pick a hobby An activity that you already enjoyed is a good pick for a hobby, or will lead you to one. Try them in this time of lockdown. Read MoreZoom says its video calls are not end-to-end encrypted, users hacked with porn content: Here’s what happenedZoom, a popular video calling app is in hot waters as it confirms the video calls are not end-to-end encrypted. The service also got hacked or ‘Zoom bombed’ by hackers recently, disrupting online classes and revealing personal information of teachers.Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-states-scramble-to-map-trail-of-8-700-jamaat-attendees-and-all-the-latest-news-at-this-hour/story-MvtfTakHRewwv2Z7viLYjM.html
02-04-2020||India||Stopped from distributing food during Covid-19 lockdown, Bengal BJP leaders target TMC||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Sabyasachi Dutta has accused the ruling Trinamool Congress of not letting the opposition help people after he was stopped by the police from distributing food during the Covid-19 lockdown, saying chief minister Mamata Banerjee was doing the same.Dutta, a former mayor of Salt Lake, alleged that officers in the administration did not take his calls or respond to his messages when he tried to inform them about his plans. He said the police stopped him on Tuesday saying it might lead to crowding in violation of the 21-day lockdown orders.“I was only inspired by the chief minister,” Dutta said after he was stopped by police from distributing rice, pulses, etc among poor people. Also read: Two patients die in West Bengal, death count reaches 6Dutta left the Trinamool Congress and joined the BJP last year. BJP state general secretary Sayantan Basu also alleged he was not allowed to distribute food in the Hare Street police station area on Tuesday and the matter was resolved only after a long argument. Interestingly, the administration did not stop the BJP’s West Bengal unit president Dilip Ghosh or the party’s Asansol Lok Sabha member and Union minister Babul Supriyo from distributing relief material on Monday and Tuesday. No police officer commented on these incidents.“So, we have to conclude that it is alright when the chief minister distributes relief material but when the BJP does the same it is a violation of lockdown orders. This is absolutely unacceptable,” Dilip Ghosh said. “We have received reports that people are not getting relief material in many districts. Hoarding of essential items has led to price rise and the state government is doing nothing,” Ghosh added.Urban development minister and Kolkata mayor Firhad Hakim said the opposition leaders were breaking the rules of the lockdown announced to stop the spread of coronavirus disease.“Opposition leaders should not put people at risk by starting a political competition. This is not the time for it. By drawing crowds while distributing relief materials they are only violating the lockdown announced by the Prime Minister,” Firhad Hakim said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stopped-from-distributing-food-during-covid-19-lockdown-bengal-bjp-leaders-target-tmc/story-DiXKOKcyMHcYHdHXVDYV3I.html
02-04-2020||India||Social distancing goes off rails as 32 migrant workers ‘hidden’ on truck||Around 32 migrant labourers, including women and children, were packed on a truck like sardines in a tin can and covered by a tarpaulin, as the vehicle stopped at a compressed natural gas (CNG) pump for a refill at Lucknow’s Gomtinagar around midnight on Tuesday.The labourers were trying to evade the 21-day nationwide lockdown enforced since March 25 to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. They were travelling on a truck with a Delhi registration number to their native villages in violation of the strictly enforced social distancing norms to combat the contagious viral outbreak. The labourers, who were travelling at the dead of night would have got away unnoticed, had it not been mandatory for all passengers to get off their vehicle at a CNG pump for a refill.The migrants were employed at a Delhi factory and whiled away their time chatting among themselves during the refill. Some even lit up their beedis during the brief timeout. A few children in the group gawked wide-eyed, as their parents stretched themselves out in the open.Some of the labourers were wearing masks, but most were ignorant of the threats that their travel posed to them and the community at large.Vijay, who identified himself as the leader of the group, said, “It’s been two days since we left Delhi. We managed to enter UP, despite the border being sealed because we knew alternative routes to sneak in. We’ve managed to reach Lucknow with great difficulty. We didn’t choose to leave Delhi. The factory, where we worked, has shut. We’re left high and dry without any food, water and other essential commodities. We’ve somehow managed to come this far and now not too far from our destination,” he said.“I belong to Bhatpura village in Barabanki district. Please call me later. I will answer whatever you want me to ask, but right now we need to reach our villages safe,” he said as the truck hurriedly sped away after the refill, barely before he could share his mobile phone number with the reporter.He responded to the call only once since the last conversation at the dead of night.Asked over the phone, how they were doing and how did his neighbours treat them, he said, “All of us are doing well and are quarantined at our homes.”He, however, glossed over whether they have been discriminated by their neighbours.“Well, there are all kinds of people in a village. Some would say whatever they want to. The gram pradhan knows that we’re back at our homes,” he said.“I will call you later,” he said before disconnecting the phone. Neither did he call back, nor answered his phone later.Crazy rush for govt busesThere has been a mad scramble for buses ever since the UP government announced that it would provide transport facilities to ferry stranded migrant labourers back home. The rush is palpable from Lucknow to Bahraich and from Barabanki to Bualandshahr. The migrants, who have defied the lockdown with impunity because of the sudden loss of livelihood and depleted savings, travelled hundreds of kilomteres by foot in a bid to reach their native villages. Most of them claim they are not aware of community kitchens and the financial help announced by the UP government for the daily wagers. Consider the case of an eight-month pregnant woman, who accompanied by her labourer husband, travelled around 500 kilometres from Delhi to Mahoba on foot to reach her native village. The desperate movement is fraught with fears of community transmission of Covid-19, which the Central government is still maintaining hasn’t reached that stage yet.Manning villagesLocal youths at Prahladpur and Dhikoli villages in western UP’s Baghpat district have taken the responsibility to check the entry of outsiders.“If they’re from our villages, we’ll ensure that they are quarantined for 14 days as advised by the government,” said Mahendra, a village youth.UP chief secretary Rajendra Kumar Tiwari said hundreds and thousands of people from other states have entered the state. “We have set up over 300 shelter homes to screen migrant workers who are on their way back to their respective native villages,” he said.“We’re appealing to them to stay wherever they are as chief minister Yogi Adityanath has spoken to his counterparts from other states to ensure that they’re safe. But for those who’ve travelled here, we’re making sure that they are screened and quarantined,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-social-distancing-goes-off-rails-as-32-migrant-workers-hide-in-truck-in-uttar-pradesh/story-avNgC6IloMBVjcFRBG9zMM.html
02-04-2020||India||Labourer kills himself in Karnataka over fear of contracting Covid-19||A 40-year-old Karnataka labourer killed himself on Wednesday, over fear of contracting coronavirus. Guru Sangappa Janganavvar lived in Kalliganuru village in the Gajendragad Taluk of Gadag district.This was the fifth such instance in Karnataka where a person took the extreme step over the fear of contracting the dreaded Sars-CoV-2 virus.According to police, Janganavvar used to work in Mangalore as a labourer and returned to his native place four days ago. After returning, he developed mild fever and cough. He went to a government hospital in Shantageri located in the same district. The doctors who examined him said that he did not have the virus and gave him some medication.But that did not convince Janganavvar, and his body was later discovered hanging from a tamarind tree on the outskirts of the village. His wife worried about him not having returned home had initiated a search along with some neighbours. The body has been sent to the district hospital for post-mortem. Gajendragad police have registered a case and are investigating.Nine fresh cases were reported in Karnataka on Wednesday, taking the count to 110 in the state.“Covid-19 cases climb to 110 in Karnataka, with nine fresh cases being reported between 5 pm yesterday and 2 pm today. Out of the total cases, three have died while nine others have been discharged,” a bulletin issued by the state health department said on Wednesday.“Out of 110 cases detected and confirmed in Karnataka so far, seven cases are transit passengers of Kerala who have landed in our airports and being treated in Karnataka,” it added.The number of Covid-19 cases climbed to 1,834 in the country on Wednesday, registering the biggest single-day jump, according to the Union Health Ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/labourer-kills-himself-in-karnataka-over-fear-of-contracting-covid-19/story-ENIIl6Y3lJUP0jX1bF55EL.html
02-04-2020||India||Covid-19 positive man dies in Telangana, brother attacks doctors when told about it||In a bizarre incident, a person who tested positive for Covid-19 attacked the doctors at Gandhi Hospital in Secunderabad on Wednesday evening. The man did this after the doctors declared that his brother died due to coronavirus disease.With the latest death, the Covid-19 toll in Telangana reached seven.Gandhi Hospital Superintendent Dr P Sravan Kumar told reporters that the brothers had been undergoing treatment at the isolation ward for the last few days. One of them, a 56-year old, was in critical condition and had been put on ventilator.“On Wednesday, his condition deteriorated and he succumbed to the disease. His brother, who was informed of the death, turned furious and attacked the resident doctor and other healthcare workers in the ward. He also broke the window panes in the ward,” Kumar said.He said the attack caused panic among the doctors and other staff of the hospital who had been working under tremendous pressure since the outbreak of Covid-19.The hospital staff immediately alerted the policemen stationed in the hospital, who initially hesitated to enter the isolation ward because they had no safety gear like Personnel Protection Equipment (PPE).Later, Hyderabad Commissioner of Police Anjani Kumar rushed to the hospital and took control of the situation and restored normalcy. The attacker was immediately moved to another isolation ward.The commissioner said a case was registered against the person who attacked the doctors. While appreciating the doctors for their selfless service, he said that additional security arrangements were being made to prevent recurrence of such incidents.Health minister Etela Rajender issued a statement condemning the attack on the doctors, who he said, were risking their lives while rendering service to the Covid-19 patients. He said the government would get the highest possible punishment for the accused.The minister assured protection to the doctors and staff of the hospital. He appealed to them not to be disturbed by a stray incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-positive-man-dies-in-telangana-brother-attacks-doctors-when-told-about-it/story-u4dRTqQgQOX6QwOqnLjnMO.html
02-04-2020||India||Coronavirus: Vaishno Devi shrine remained deserted this Navratri, loses offerings worth Rs 4 crore||For the first time in the history of Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Yatra, no pilgrim visited the holy cave shrine during the ongoing nine-day long Navratri festival. This is due to the coronavirus outbreak and the ongoing nationwide lockdown. The holy festival of Navratri would culminate on Thursday.The famous pilgrimage attracts lakhs of devotees from various parts of the country and abroad throughout the year. Katra, the base camp, bursts at the seams during Navratri festival when the footfall of the pilgrims goes up to 35,000 to 45,000 every single day.However, this Navratri, the hustle-bustle was missing and the Katra town, two tracks and the sanctum sanctorum remained deserted.Consequently, Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board suffered a loss of around Rs 4 crores this Navratri.“During Navratri festival, the base camp of Katra, on an average, witnesses a footfall of 35,000 to 45,000 pilgrims in a day. And, during this nine-day long festival, offerings in cash, ornaments and online donations accrue to Rs 45 lakhs on a single day. The major share always belongs to cash offerings and donations at the shrine. However, this Navratri festival no pilgrim could come to the holy cave shrine because of the Covid-19 infection and subsequent lockdown,” said an official of the shrine board.He estimated that the shrine board may have suffered a loss of Rs 4.05 crores.“However, despite the lockdown, Pooja and other rituals are being performed twice a day in the morning and the evening by a team of dedicated priests,” he said.“Devotees of the goddess were very disappointed because they could not come to pay obeisance here but the shrine priests have advised people on how and where to immerse “Saankh” and how to do “Kanya Poojan” on the culmination of the nine-day long festival,” said the official.“The head priest said that social distancing has to be maintained at every cost to defeat this virus. He also advised the people that in place of worshipping ‘Kanjaks’ (little girls), they should worship “Suparis” (betel nuts). Similarly, ‘Saankh’ can be respectfully immersed in a utensil filled with water and then kept in flower pots in the house,” he added.The pilgrimage, considered to be second richest after Tirumala Tirupati Devsthanam, was suspended on March 18 because of the coronavirus outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-vaishno-devi-shrine-remained-deserted-this-navratri-loses-offerings-worth-rs-4-crore/story-80xN0FFq4Up0ncjukfhI0N.html
02-04-2020||India||Rajasthan to scale up Covid-19 screening, will cover all the people of state, says govt||The state government in Rajasthan plans to screen all its population for coronavirus disease Covid-19, health minister Raghu Sharma said in a statement on Wednesday. This will make Rajasthan the first Indian state to do that.Sharma said that 27,000 active surveillance teams have screened 38.62 million people from 9.2 million households. “The work of survey and screening is on. Our target is to screen every person in the state so that all suspected cases could be identified,” the minister said.Meanwhile, 15 positive cases of the coronavirus disease were reported in Rajasthan on Wednesday, taking the overall number to 108, including 18 evacuees. So far, 6,942 samples have been tested, including those evacuated from Iran; 108 of them tested positive and 6,656 negative, while results of 178 are still awaited.Sharma also said that more than 2000 people who came in contact with 108 Covid-19 positive people are being traced and screened.Rajasthan has prepared 97,000 quarantine beds and 18,000 isolation beds to tackle with the rise in Covid-19 numbers. The minister said that orders for 250 ventilators have been placed. He did not specify the number of existing ventilators in the state - public health experts said there were about 1,500 ventilators in Rajasthan.The Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Wednesday said that there are 1,834 coronavirus positive cases in India, including 1,649 active cases, 144 cured/discharged/migrated people and 41 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-to-scale-up-covid-19-screening-will-cover-all-the-people-of-state-says-govt/story-IJ5mjMqPJA9Wd8ChQanJkO.html
02-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: US begins repatriation of its nationals from India, receives help from govt, says official||The US has begun repatriation of its stranded nationals, who want to return home, from India which is undergoing a 21-day lockdown to stem the spread of coronavirus pandemic, a senior American diplomat has said, praising the Indian government for extending full support to undertake this “important mission”. The repatriation from India is part of the massive effort being undertaken by the US for its citizens from across the world. So far, the US has repatriated over 30,000 citizens from over 60 countries on more than 350 flights. “We began our repatriation efforts from India yesterday with a flight that brought in some 170 US citizens,” Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary for Consular Affairs Ian Brownlee told reporters during a conference call on Wednesday. “We will begin a steadier flow of flights out of New Delhi and Mumbai in the coming days, really beginning toward the end of this week and into the weekend,” he said in response to a question. There are more than 80 flights scheduled or in the planning stages from various locations, he added. Reluctant to share the specific numbers which remain highly dynamic, Brownlee said the number from India is in the multiple thousands, who have indicated a possible interest in being repatriated to the US. “We have found the Government of India has been very cooperative and very helpful with us in arranging these repatriation flights. We are thankful to them for their assistance and their support as we undertake this important mission,” Brownlee said. The US has run into some complications with regard to its efforts in Africa because of the closures in airspaces there, he added. In Africa, out of the 57 international airports on the continent, over 30 of them are either at restricted or no operations, and every repatriation flight is being negotiated by the country team on the ground on a case-by-case, flight-by-flight basis in a great number of the countries involved, said William Walters, Deputy Chief Medical Officer for Operations, Bureau of Medical Services in the State Department. The United States has some 20 million people living overseas. Walters said the Department of State was making every effort to assist US citizens overseas who wish to return to the country. “But as the COVID-19 situation develops, our ability to provide such assistance, whether working with commercial airlines or arranging for evacuation flights, may become more limited or even unavailable,” he said. Brownlee said that if US citizens wished to return to America, they should make arrangements to do so now, and contact the nearest embassy or consulate for assistance. “There’s no guarantee the Department of State will be able to continue to provide repatriation assistance, and transportation options from many countries to the United States may become unavailable in the future, even in a few weeks’ time,” he warned. Those who choose to remain overseas should be prepared to remain there for the foreseeable future, he asserted, in an indication of the gravity of the situation. “If you were on the beach when an earthquake struck, you wouldn’t just stand there waiting for the coming tsunami. You would head for higher ground immediately. Well, in this case, the earthquake has happened. It’s time to seek higher ground now, and not hope for rescue later,” Brownlee said. A nationwide 21-day lockdown was enforced on March 24 in India to check the spread of coronavirus as social distancing is possibly the only way to prevent people from infecting the deadly virus. A total of 932,605 COVID-19 cases have been reported across more than 175 countries and territories with 16,809 deaths reported so far, according to Johns Hopkins University data. The US has reported 213,372 COVID-19 cases, the highest in the world, and over 5,000 people have died due to the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-us-begins-repatriation-of-its-nationals-from-india-receives-help-from-govt-says-official/story-9bnfM4FvdhSmyy4tvHliJM.html
02-04-2020||India||Life convicts in Bengal jail donate to CM’s Covid-19 relief fund||Five inmates, including Md Khalid convicted in the 1993 Bowbazar blast case that killed 69 people, have donated Rs 42,000 for the state emergency relief fund to fight the coronavirus outbreak. The convicts are presently serving life sentences in a correctional home in south Bengal“Five murder convicts, all of whom are serving life sentences at the Midnapore Central Correctional Home in south Bengal, have donated Rs 42,000 to the corona relief fund set up to fight the disease,” said a top official of the state jail department.The prisoner’s canteen has also donated Rs 24,500, taking the total amount of donation from the jail to more than 60,000. The jail officials have received eight more applications which are being processed. “This is the first time in the state, and probably in the country too, that jail inmates have donated their income to fight the disease,” said a jail official.The Bowbazar blast killed 69 people in 1993 in central Kolkata. In 2001, a city court convicted satta don Rashid Khan and five others, including Md Khalid, under various sections of the TADA and the Explosives Substance Act.“Out of the 42,000, Khalid donated Rs 20,000 and another one who was convicted in a murder case donated Rs 14,000,” said the jail official.Convicts earn Rs 60 – Rs 80 per day depending on the work they do in the jail. They can buy everyday items such as food, clothes, soaps etc from the prison canteen. The prison canteen spends 50% of the profit for the prisoners’ welfare. On Tuesday, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee donated Rs 5 lakh each to the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund and the state Emergency Relief Fund to help combat the spread of novel coronavirus. Premier clubs in Kolkata and some eminent citizens including Member of Parliaments have also donated to the state Emergency Relief Fund.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-life-convicts-in-bengal-jail-donate-to-cm-s-covid-19-relief-fund/story-AoAIkRsrDkxSRUDs1YsekK.html
02-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Locals pelt stones at healthcare workers in Indore||The residents of a locality in Madhya Pradesh’s Indore pelted stones at healthcare workers who went there to screen people in the wake of coronavirus outbreak. Two female doctors reportedly sustained injuries in the incident.Health department officials said that the incident happened when the workers sought to take an elderly woman to hospital for her medical examination as she was said to have come in contact with a Covid-19 positive patient.The locality where this incident took place was Tatpatti Bakhal in Indore. A case has been registered against unidentified people.More on Covid-19:• Covid-19: Your guide to staying safe• Covid-19: What you need to know today• Can Covid-19 spread after symptoms end?• How coronavirus is different from seasonal flu and common coldMeanwhile, 19 new Covid-19 positive cases have been reported in Indore, taking the total number of cases to 75 in the city. The total number of positive cases in Madhya Pradesh stand at 98.Chief Medical Health Officer Dr Praveen Jadiya said that as many as 600 people have been put in quarantine in the city.A 65-year-old man who had tested positive for Covid-19 died in Indore on Wednesday.Taking into consideration the rising number of coronavirus cases in Indore, Collector Manish Singh has divided all the hospitals in the district into three categories - Red, Yellow and Green - to ensure that there is no further spread of the disease and the general treatment of people can also continue.“The yellow category hospitals have been provided with PP kits, the red category hospitals, where the COVID-19 patients will be treated, will also be provided with ample PP kits. In the rest of the green category hospitals, where no such cases will go, can use the other kits readily available for the screening of patients,” Singh told reporters on Wednesday.The Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Wednesday said that there are 1,834 coronavirus positive cases in India, including 1,649 active cases, 144 cured/discharged/migrated people and 41 deaths.Covid-19 infections across the world crossed 900,000, with the United States, Italy, Spain and the UK now reporting the bulk of approximately 4,000 new daily fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-locals-pelt-stones-at-healthcare-workers-in-indore/story-e4fINBIUuHoBsVZ8jBuIEP.html
02-04-2020||India||Covid-19: 5 trains, thousands of passengers under scanner over travelling with Tablighi Jamaat participants||Railways is scrambling to provide information regarding thousands of passengers who travelled on five trains with people who participated in the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi, many of whom have tested positive.All these trains began from Delhi between March 13 and March 19 - the Duronto Express to Guntur in Andhra Pradesh, the Grand Trunk Express to Chennai, the Tamil Nadu Express to Chennai, New Delhi-Ranchi Rajdhani Express and the AP Sampark Kranti Express.While there are yet no definite numbers with the railways on the actual number of people who could have come in contact with the participants of this event, sources say that each train carried around 1000-1200 passengers and other staff members which could put them all at risk. State officials said that the railways is providing lists of passengers to the district authorities which are being compared to the list of participants of the event to ensure contact tracing. Of the contacts being traced, one is the case of 10 Indonesians who took the AP Sampark Kranti Express back to Karimnagar district after the event on March 13, and subsequently reported positive for coronavirus.Around 60 passengers who travelled on the New Delhi-Ranchi Rajdhani Express in the same B1 coach as a Malaysian woman who tested positive for the virus, believed to be part of the Nizamuddin Tablighi cluster, are under the scanner with the district authorities scrambling to find their whereabouts. The woman who travelled on the train on March 16 with 23 others tested positive and is Jharkhandś first confirmed case of COVID-19.According to inputs from states, two people who attended the congregation and later tested positive travelled by the Duronto on March 18 in the S8 coach along with “two companions”, two of them travelled by the Grand Trunk Express in the S3 coach with two minors, while a couple of others took the Tamil Nadu Express.What is making the contact tracing of these individuals a herculean task for both the railway and district authorities is the fact that they moved around freely at that time as it was before any restrictions were imposed.Both Hazrat Nizamuddin stations and the New Delhi railway station are one of the busiest railway stations in the country. While Hazrat Nizamuddin station in Delhi, sees 56 long-distance trains departing every day and 130 trains from other sources halt here, 62 trains originate and 76 trains halt at the New Delhi railway station every day. While the former has a footfall of about two lakh every day, the latter has a daily footfall of around 5 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-5-trains-thousands-of-passengers-under-scanner-over-travelling-with-tablighi-jamaat-participants/story-n8jSMwIVFDgKqokAecldXO.html
02-04-2020||India||Covid-19: For years PM did this to stay fit, now Ayush ministry advises it too||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday emphasised the need to be fit and urged people to follow Ayush ministry’s protocols on ways to improve health and immunity amid the coronavirus pandemic. Of the many easily doable things in Ayush ministry’s protocol list, the Prime Minister said he himself has been diligently practising many for years such as drinking only warm water throughout the year.  आयुष मंत्रालय ने बेहतर स्वास्थ्य और इम्यूनिटी के लिए कुछ दिशानिर्देश दिए हैं। ये ऐसे उपाय हैं, जो आसानी से किए जा सकते हैं। कई तो ऐसी बातें हैं, जो मैं वर्षों से कर रहा हूं, जैसे सालभर सिर्फ गर्म पानी पीना। आप इन्हें अपने जीवन का हिस्सा बनाएं, साथ ही दूसरों के साथ भी साझा करें। pic.twitter.com/szF2UOgNGWThe ministry document states that enhancing the body’s natural defence system (immunity) plays an important role in maintaining optimum health. “We all know that prevention is better than cure. While there is no medicine for Covid-19 as of now, it will be good to take preventive measures which boost our immunity in these times,” it said.It suggested drinking warm water throughout the day, practising pranayam and meditation for at least 30 minutes, using haldi (turmeric), jeera (cumin), dhaniya (coriander) and lahsun (garlic) in cooking.Recommending people to make the ministry’s protocol a part of their lives, Modi said in a tweet, “ I urge you to have a look at the Ayush Ministry protocol, make it a part of your lives and share it with others. Let’s keep the focus on being healthy. After all, good health is the harbinger of happiness.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-for-years-pm-modi-did-this-to-stay-fit-now-ayush-ministry-advises-it-too/story-0QzOiwc98TxCs3tv10eaqN.html
02-04-2020||India||Lockdown hits Vaishno Devi yatra||The Mata Vaishno Devi shrine near Jammu, where the rush of devotees peaks during the ongoing nine-day long Navratri festival, has almost been deserted in the wake of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic even as the rituals have continued and are being telecast live. The three-week countrywide lockdown imposed to check the Covid-19 spread has coincided with the festival that would conclude on Thursday.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic“During the Navratri festival, the shrine’s base camp of Katra, on an average, witnesses a footfall of 35,000 to 45,000 pilgrims daily. And during this nine-day long festival, offerings in cash, ornaments and online donations, on average, are worth Rs 45 lakh daily. The major share is cash offerings and donations at the sanctum sanctorum. However, this Navratri festival, no pilgrim could come to the holy cave shrine because of Covid 19 and subsequent lockdown,” said an official of the Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board, which manages the temple. He added the board has suffered a loss of Rs 4.05 crore.Also Read: ‘Biggest challenge is fighting stigma’: Dr. Harsh VardhanThe official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said despite the lockdown, Puja and other rituals are being performed twice daily in the morning and the evening by a team of priests. “They are being telecast live on MH One channel,” he said.The official said the devotees are disappointed but the priests have advised people on how and where to immerseSaankh (holy grass) and do Kanya Poojan (a ritual involving the worship of nine girls, representing the nine forms of Goddess Durga) on the culmination of the nine-day festival.Also Read: Genetic sequencing takes lead in Covid-19 vaccine development“Head priest Dwarka Nath Shastri has said social distancing has to be maintained at every cost to defeat this virus. He also advised the people that in place of worshipping Kanjaks [little girls], they should worship suparis [betel nuts]. Similarly, saankh can be respectfully immersed in a utensil filled with water and then kept in flower pots.”The pilgrimage to the cave shrine was suspended on March 18 because of the pandemic. The shrine attracts lakhs of devotees from various parts of the country and abroad throughout the year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-hits-vaishno-devi-yatra/story-ooakrCOW46EkYP8vrPRLEJ.html
02-04-2020||India||White House fears up to 240,000 deaths due to coronavirus||The death toll in the US from the coronavirus pandemic, which is now over 4,500, has eclipsed the number of nearly 3,000 people killed in the September 11, 2001 terror attacks. And if trends continue, the White House fears that 100,000 to 240,000 deaths are likely in the country. Anthony Fauci, the country’s top infectious disease expert, warned that the numbers are what “we need to anticipate, but that doesn’t mean that that’s what we’re going to accept. Our hope is to get that down as much as we can”.Fauci, a member of the White House task force, and Deborah Birx, who also serves on the task force, said in a presentation that 100,000 to 240,00 Americans could die despite the social distancing and other mitigation efforts. The toll could be higher - 1.5 to 2.2mn - if nothing was done, they said.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicAlso on Tuesday, UN secretary-general Antonio Guterres said the pandemic is the “most challenging crisis we have faced since the Second World War”. The deadly disease has spread to more than 170 countries. It has infected more than 912,000 people worldwide, claiming over 45,500 lives so far. The staggering scale and reach of the pandemic is unprecedented in recent history, as the UN secretary-general noted at a news briefing to release a report on the socioeconomic impact of Covid-19. “This is, indeed, the most challenging crisis we have faced since the Second World War and the one that needs a stronger and more effective response that is only possible in solidarity if everybody comes together and if we forget political games and understand that it is humankind that is at stake,” Guterres said.Also Read: China shielding top cities from 2nd waveThe US has the most confirmed cases now. Going up by nearly 30,000, the figure stood at around 205,000 on Wednesday - more than twice the number of cases in China. At least 4,500 people in the US have died from the disease. New York state with over 83,700 cases has overtaken Hubei province’s 67,000.The US, which has more deaths than in China, remained behind worst-hit Italy and Spain in terms of fatalities. New York state and NYC remained the hardest hit in the US. These numbers, as around the United States, will continue to rise in the coming days and weeks..US President Donald Trump told reporters the US will “go through a very tough two weeks.. very, very painful two weeks”. The Trump administration is accepting help from other countries. A planeload of masks and other medical equipment took off from a Moscow airfield earlier on Wednesday for the US.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/white-house-fears-up-to-240-000-deaths-due-to-coronavirus/story-scvcqRj2yLE2s0CZupQ6DO.html
02-04-2020||India||‘Complete lockdown essential,’ says Mamata after Covid-19 figures jump in Bengal||The number of Covid-19 patients in West Bengal jumped from 27 on Tuesday to 37 on Wednesday, with three more people reportedly testing positive for the disease posthumously, the state’s daily bulletin on coronavirus revealed on Wednesday.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee escalated preparations for a worsening of the situation in the coming days. In addition to the three people who previously died of Covid 19, three more who died on Tuesday night and Monday morning are suspected to have been infected with the coronavirus.“Two male persons both aged 57 years and one male person aged 62 years all having Severe Acute Respiratory illness expired. One of them had chronic renal failure, another had respiratory failure and the third one had hypertension and other co-morbid conditions. They had all reportedly tested positive, which is subject to confirmation,” the bulletin issued on Wednesday night said. In the evening, a worried Banerjee held a meeting with the health task force comprising senior doctors to chalk out elaborate treatment plans. She also wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday, seeking a grant of Rs 25,000 crore, release of dues and relaxation of debt management.In her letter to the prime minister, Banerjee wrote, “I earnestly urge you to sanction a grant of a minimum of Rs 25,000 crore for the state of West Bengal and release the funds still due to us from the Government of India, as per my earlier letter to you. To uphold the spirit of cooperative federalism, we need this minimum help from the central government to cope with the unprecedented impasse at this hour to fight against the Covid-19 pandemic,” Banerjee wrote in her letter. Addressing the media, Banerjee insisted that “a complete lockdown” had become absolutely necessary to prevent the infection from entering “stage 3”, which is community transmission of the disease. She expressed dissatisfaction over a section of people who were not abiding by the lockdown and loitering on the streets.“We are still in stage two. The coming two weeks are going to be very very critical and sensitive. We must ensure we do not reach the third phase. Lockdown must be made completely successful. I can see people still roaming around, chatting together. I plead before you like a sister, please do not do this. You’ll get enough time in life to play carom,” she said.In a warning to those violating the lockdown, she said, “Do not play with fire”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/complete-lockdown-essential-says-mamata-after-covid-19-figures-jump-in-bengal/story-Fl2JcjWTDCOdikhJFnpz7M.html
02-04-2020||India||Aggressive testing to begin near Nizamuddin||Nizamuddin, in the heart of Delhi, will see health workers from the integrated diseases surveillance programme start going door-to-door from Thursday as they seek to track and contain cases of Covid-19 in what has emerged the latest and biggest cluster of the coronavirus disease in the country. Cases of Covid-19 around the country have been traced back to a religious congregation of the Tablighi Jamaat at its headquarters in the area, attended, through March, by thousands of the group’s members. On Wednesday, the last of the 2,346 people who had been in the building were evacuated; 536 of them were sent to the hospital and 1,810 placed in quarantine. Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThus far, the congregation has been identified as being responsible for 358 infections and 9 deaths. So, starting Thursday, everyone within a 3km radius (focal area) of the building and in the buffer area (5km radius) will be screened for symptoms. Those who are symptomatic -- a cough will do -- will be tested. This will entail door-to-door coverage, first in the focal area and then the buffer area.“The cluster containment strategy has two components: one is to mark the epicentre and the buffer zone where extensive door-to-door surveys will be conducted. We do a complete lockdown in and around the area. The next step is identifying all potential positive cases by going in for aggressive testing. We pick samples from everyone with any respiratory illness in the area,” said a senior technical expert with the Union health ministry who asked not to be named.The health ministry has come up with a detailed “Micro-plan for Containing Local Transmission of Coronavirus Disease (Covid-19)” in a defined geographic area. The cluster containment strategy has been refined over the past two weeks and is being used in 12 clusters around the country. Nizamuddin is the 13th. The strategy involves mobile testing units with experts that go to the epicentres of the clusters to collect samples. The clusters where containment measures have been put in place over the past 10 days include Dilshad Garden in Delhi; Bhilwara in Rajasthan; Sangli in Maharashtra; Parts of Mumbai and Pune, also in Maharashtra; Srinagar in Jammu & Kashmir; Agra and Meerut in Uttar Pradesh; and Kasaragode, Ernakulam, Pathanamthitta and Kannur in Kerala. State governments have been asked to aggressively identify and contain cases that could lead to clustering. Movement in and around the epicentres of the clusters are completely prohibited. In Nizamuddin, for instance, these are the lanes in and around the Jamaat’s HQ, the Markaz Nizamuddin. The government is already testing all severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) cases for Covid-19, but in clusters, it will test anyone with any kind of respiratory illness.“SARI cases are usually hospitalised, but this (cluster containment) is about picking up samples from within the community. We have well-equipped mobile vans with adequately trained people to collect samples that are sent to these hot spots,” said the expert from the health ministry. Doctors said cluster containment is the correct approach, especially because it aggressively widens testing. “It is a very good idea to test aggressively as it will help in knowing the exact magnitude of the problem. To look for a solution you need to know the extent of problem. Covid-19 is a highly infectious disease that needs aggressive containment strategy, like locking down hot spot areas. No person should be allowed to leave these areas” said Dr Chand Wattal, chairman, clinical microbiology and immunology, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital. Local clustering of cases usually occurs when family members, neighbours, friends or colleagues are infected by the same P0 (index patient, in medical terminology) or infect each other. Aggressive contact tracing is also a part of containment strategy.“The increase in numbers during the past couple of days is related to the congregation in Delhi, and all efforts are being made to trace the contacts and quarantine and isolate suspected cases. Close to 1,800 people have been moved to various hospitals and quarantine facilities in and around Delhi, and we are expecting positive cases to increase as and when the results start pouring in. Our experts are at work to ensure the spread is contained,” said Lav Aggarwal, joint secretary, health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aggressive-testing-to-begin-near-nizamuddin/story-SwyQaIoU7b7B5uC6Mdm8oN.html
02-04-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||A recession for the rest of this year and maybe next year as well. $3.4 trillion in incomes and 25 million jobs gone. These are among the more frightening predictions in a report released by the United Nations overnight Tuesday on the impact of Covid-19. The report called for “large-scale coordinated and comprehensive multilateral response amounting to at least 10% of global GDP” and for the developed world to help the developing world. “It is in everyone’s interest to ensure that developing countries have the best chance of managing this crisis, or Covid-19 will risk becoming a long-lasting brake on economic recovery,” it added.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicIt is unlikely that countries will take some of the report’s recommendations seriously – especially those about not being protectionist and orchestrating a multilateral response; it’s pretty much “every man for himself” right now. “Covid-19 is the greatest test we have faced together since the formation of the United Nations,” UN secretary general Antonio Guterres said in a media briefing. It is also very likely that the crisis will pose a risk to the continued relevance of bodies such as the UN, like no other crisis has before.It is a health crisis that has killed, as of Wednesday morning, over a thousand people (1,139) in what many consider the greatest city on the planet, New York. Globally, the number of deaths stood at 45,540, and the number of infections at 912,098 people on Wednesday afternoon. Of these, 205,035 infections are in the US (the death toll in the country crossed 4,000). China, where the disease originated in Wuhan, and whose initial reluctance to share information on the severity of the threat may have lulled many other countries into a false sense of safety, is now fifth on the list in terms of deaths – after Italy, Spain, the US, and France.In India, the number of infections rose by 392 on Wednesday, after rising by 294 on Tuesday, driven by new cases that were traced back to the gathering of the Tablighi Jamaat at Markaz Nizamuddin in the heart of New Delhi’The event, of indeterminate length, it now emerges, saw people come and go. India’s cabinet secretary has asked states to trace those who attended, now believed to number in the thousands. Many are believed to have dispersed across India, in a nightmarish recreation of what happened in South Korea where around 1,000 members of the Shincheonji Church of Jesus met in the city of Daegu in February for a Sunday service, infected each other, and then left, travelling to various parts of the country. Of the 9,887 cases of Covid-19 in South Korea now, 5,162 can be traced back to the church – a number that highlights the damage that can be wrought by the Jamaat’s meeting. In Delhi, 531 from the Markaz have been hospitalised and all are in the process of being tested, and over 1,800 are in quarantine. Markaz Nizamuddin is a cluster, but it isn’t the only one in India. There are at least 10 such, across states, and India’s efforts at halting the spread of Covid-19 now includes aggressive testing of symptomatic (it could just be a cough) people who live around these clusters, up to an 8km radius.In what is perhaps the only silver lining to this swathe of grey, researchers in Delhi are now in a position to collect so-called base-level air quality data – most industrial activity has been stopped; no harvests are happening; and there’s next to no traffic in the city-state. The data will help them refine their models, and perhaps point to the real causes of air pollution in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dispatch-15-covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-oBbRZUnDMccLnNT0hky8II.html
02-04-2020||India||Coronavirus lockdown: Is it your house or Bigg Boss ka ghar?||Cooped up in your house without the luxury of any house help or driver, due to lockdown? How can you say no to the household chores , right from cleaning the house to washing utensils and clothes, when all family members are expected to pitch in! These times have drastically changed the dynamics of almost every family, and that’s the reason why most are feeling that their house has turned into Bigg Boss ka ghar — the house of the popular reality TV show. Picture this, family members are contestants, who are having dramatic stand-off and arguments over household chores while locked in, and to top it, they are also being given tasks to fulfil. Wonder how? Remember the 5pm call for thaali (utensil banging) and taali bajana (clapping), for the corona warriors? For some people who are locked in, their burst of excess energy is taking a hilarious turn! “Yeh lock down bandh kara do, nahi toh Savdhaan India (real-life crime story show) ke bahut episodes ban jaayenge, with husband and wife in lead characters,” says Charanpreet Singh, a resident of Delhi’s Defence Colony. READ | Sidharth Shukla on coronavirus lockdown: ‘In Bigg Boss 13, we were locked up with strangers but now it’s with loved ones’The frustration of not being able to go out and having to do all the work in the house has even lead to division of tasks between life partners. Urmika Sahai , a resident of Delhi’s Vasant Kunj, Sector C, says, “Our life has become so similar to that of contestants in the Bigg Boss house. We don’t feel like getting up in the morning, and the house help doesn’t come so there’s further no one to disturb by ringing the doorbell. Mood change karne ke liye I start the day by playing peppy songs to wake up my husband. Also, we have been living on a limited ration, and without a luxury budget! Ab toh bahar ka khaana aana bhi band ho gaya hai... And we have divided the house tasks. While I do the cooking and brooming, my husband does the mopping and washing of the utensils. That’s another thing that my husband keeps postponing his tasks, and I have to remind him.” Soumya Shrivastava, a resident of Gaur City 2, Noida is facing a similar experience. She says, “My hubby and I keep switching roles from ripping each other apart like actors Dolly Bindra and Manoj Tiwari (former contestants of Bigg Boss), to being hopelessly romantic like Shehnaaz Gill and Sidharth Shukla (contestants of the recently concluded Bigg Boss 13). We get along pretty well as far as the cooking and cleaning are concerned because we have assigned our responsibilities, and neither of us interferes in the other department.” READ | Big Brother Germany contestants are still unaware of coronavirus pandemic, will be told in special live showAsk about the tasks and Neha Bindal, a resident of Delhi’s Safdarjung Enclave cracks up, “We feel we did our assigned tasks like thokoing tali and thali quite well!” So, has anyone found a way to survive in such a house without ending up in unnecessary fights that call for Salman Khan’s ire? Meharr Dhatt, a resident of Nirvana Country in Gurugram, says, “Over all, through this lock down our family has proved that we can actually tolerate each other. We will see this thing through together, as we are together... We are taking it as a summer break that has arrived early, except that we are holidaying in prison style! Just that the wine is a saviour.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/coronavirus-lockdown-is-it-your-house-or-bigg-boss-ka-ghar/story-ihn6AXqtExNE3B8gF6cEKN.html
02-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Foreign returns face the heat||A panic-stricken Indian student, who was studying in Paris, returned to Delhi just days before the city started inching towards a complete lockdown. She chose to come back because it was getting difficult for her to survive in Paris — where the lockdown was already underway. “My university was going to shut down in a week’s time. The lockdown of the city I lived in was had begun, and people had started panic stocking toilet rolls, sanitizers and food from the supermarkets. I felt that there is soon going to be a scarcity of food; I didn’t know French, the public transport was avoidable in these times and I didn’t own any form of a conveyance. If something would’ve happened to me, I would have been completely stranded,” says the 34-old-student who has now returned to her home in Noida. Upon landing at the Indira Gandhi International Airport, this student says that she was had to not just undergo tests but was also escorted to a quarantine facility in Chhattarpur, before she was released a few days later, and asked to home quarantine further. “We were taken to a bus, escorted with plenty of policemen after hours of screening at the airport. While we sat in the bus, the public from outside started making our videos and taking photos as if we weren’t international returns but zoo animals! It was really unnerving,” she recalls, adding that the treatment of her neighbours and those living in her society hasn’t been much different with her parents having to face scorn every now and then. She asks, “Now I’m thinking, did I make a mistake by returning home in between the coronavirus outbreak?” READ | 2 million NRIs residing in 10 countries hit by coronavirusAssociation of those societies that house residents with family members who have recently returned from abroad, are having a tough time tackling the situation of ostracization of these foreign returns. Take for instance Shweta Gupta, joint secretary of the society Mahagun Moderne in Noida. Gupta had to deal with multiple cases of foreign return nationals in her society. Concerned residents kept messaging her. Gupta says, “Our tower people were concerned because the foreign return individual would be using the same common place areas, like the lift, to go home. Furthermore, people were afraid that the maid who would be working at that individual’s place would be working at other places in the society as well. I asked the individual to write in our society’s WhatsApp group assuring other residents that all the necessary precautions are being undertaken by her. We even sent a mailer to all residents that the society has been thoroughly cleaned, and that the individual is practising self isolation properly.”Did this help in comforting the society residents and their fear around the foreign return resident? “Absolutely! Overnight, because of proper communication and pro-active attitude of the international resident in taking precautions, she became the hero of the society. Other residents also reached out to her, and offered to deliver groceries to her doorstep. Once the society residents were assured that they are safe, the panic subsided,” adds Gupta. READ | Facing the virus of hateThe cold-shouldering of people who recently travelled abroad is quite an issue in some cases. A Gurugram resident, who runs a pre-school, says on condition of anonymity, “I had just returned from my travel at a time when the coronavirus epidemic hadn’t reached India. So a parent asked me, ‘Mere bachche ka khaasi zukaam theek nahin ho raha bahut din se. Mujhe pata chala aap bahar se ho kar aaye ho. Toh yeh poochna tha ki aap theek ho ya nahin’. I immediately clarified that I was fine!”But experts say that ostracization isn’t the right way to deal with the present situation. Dr Jivitesh Satija, who currently working as a resident in cardiology, addresses how to tackle this problem, and says, “Please follow the guidelines that the government has issued. Sanitize often, maintain social distancing and adhere to the lockdown. All foreign return individuals must also practice self quarantine. Help the foreign return individuals by encouraging them to maintain isolation, but do not shun them or stop talking to them through messages because the need of the hour is that people who are travelling from abroad must feel encouraged to report their travel history and voluntarily self isolate. If we make a big deal out of this issue, the fear is that the foreign returns might try to hide their travel details, because of feeling unwelcome. Do not panic, just be well informed, and let’s work together to tackle this pandemic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/covid-19-foreign-returns-face-the-heat/story-cZ9360VX2tqs4Pq47AJQFP.html
02-04-2020||India||GST collection dips, auto sales fall as Covid-19 takes toll on economy||Goods and Services Tax (GST) collections for March saw an 8% decline over the same month a year ago to the lowest in five months, and auto sales in the month for India’s largest carmaker Maruti Suzuki were down almost by half as the lockdown imposed to combat the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) took a toll on the economy. The numbers are significant because they are among the first available so-called high-frequency indicators of the economic impact of the pandemic and the hard lockdown that India has imposed for three weeks till April 14 to slow its progress. Over the next few days, more indicators, including Purchasing Managers Index, a measure of economic health, will become available. GST collections in March fell to Rs 97,597 crore. Apart from Maruti, which has a close-to-50% share of the Indian car market, Tata Motors, the leading maker of trucks and buses, said sales of these commercial vehicles were down 87% in the month. Demand for commercial vehicles is considered an indicator of economic activity. India imposed a lockdown starting March 25. The lockdown has exacerbated an existing slowdown in vehicle sales. Sales at Hyundai Motor were down 47% in the month and at SUV-maker Mahindra & Mahindra by 88%. Analysts and economists say India is unlikely to meet its target of 5% growth in 2019-20 and have revised downward their estimates for 2020-21 too. SBI Research said in a report that India could grow by 4.5% in 2019-20 and 2.6% in 2020-21. Nomura has said in a report that it expects India’s GDP to fall by 0.5% in 2020 (calendar year), revising its earlier estimate of 4.5% growth. Total GST for the financial year 2019-20 has increased by 3.8% to Rs 12,22,131 crore compared to Rs 11,77,369 crore collected in 2018-19. Experts said things could get worse. Abhishek Jain, tax partner at consulting firm EY, said, “With most businesses being non-operational for a considerable period in March and the relaxation of delayed payments being allowed, the collections in the coming quarter would see quite a fall.” The fall in March breaks the trend of four months of robust GST collections since November that saw monthly revenue figures crossing the Rs 1 lakh crore benchmark. Out of the gross GST revenue for March, the share of central GST is Rs 19,183 crore, state GST is Rs 25,601 crore, integrated GST is Rs 44,508 crore (including Rs 18,056 crore collected on imports) and cess is Rs 8,306 crore, a finance ministry statement said. Pratik Jain, partner and leader of Indirect Tax practice at PwC India said although the March collection has seen some impact of the Covid-19 lockdown, the real impact would be reflected in April. “There is around 7% reduction in filing of GSTR 3B (returns) over last month. It seems that many businesses may not have been able to pay GST because of liquidity issues.” Vishal Raheja, deputy general manager (DGM), Taxmann said: “It is noteworthy that the import of goods has also shown a negative growth of 23% as compared to March 2019. It has also played a crucial role to push back the GST collections.”Experts said the impact of coronavirus and consequent lockdown of major economies will continue to be a drag for global growth and India will also be impacted. International Monetary Fund (IMF) managing director Kristalina Georgieva said last week that the outlook for global growth in 2020 is negative and remarked it a recession “at least as bad as during the global financial crisis (2008) or worse”. Moody’s Investors Service on Friday slashed India’s economic growth projection for calendar 2020 from 5.3% to 2.5% and ICRA Ltd estimated India’s growth at 2% for FY-21.(With Reuters inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gst-kitty-dips-auto-sales-fall-as-covid-19-takes-toll/story-RPaUJfPWIAnKch4F6J34uO.html
02-04-2020||India||Protective equipment scarcity a concern as Covid-19 infects 7 doctors||Five more doctors tested positive for Covid-19 in the past week in the national capital, taking the total to seven, and underscoring how leading the war against the virus from the front is coming at a huge personal cost for doctors and health workers who often operate with inadequate protective equipment.All but one of these doctors work in government-run facilities. Two doctors, a couple that worked in two mohalla clinics in north-east Delhi, had tested positive earlier.One of the doctors treated Covid-19 patients at Safdarjung hospital, home to at least 21 positive patients at present. Another two of the doctors – from the Delhi State Cancer Institute in Tahirpur and the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel hospital in west Delhi – were among the 23 people who tested positive on Tuesday.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic“We have still not seen any proper PPE kits that can prevent droplet infections. We are using an HIV kit instead, which does not cover the body entirely. So, residents are using a scarf to cover the head, a towel to cover the neck, and N-95 masks along with them in the hope of preventing infection. This is dangerous, especially for those collecting throat swabs because patients tend to cough when the samples are collected,” said Dr Srinivas Rajkumar T, general secretary of the resident doctors’ association at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS).Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday announced a compensation of Rs 1 crore to family members of health care workers who die treating Covid-19 patients. So far, there have been 120 cases and two deaths due to Covid-19 in the city.The affected 35-year-old doctor from the Delhi State Cancer Institute worked in the department of preventive oncology and has been admitted to Baba Saheb Ambedkar hospital in Rohini, where he resides. The doctor’s wife and child have been admitted to Lok Nayak hospital near Delhi Gate on suspicion of having the disease.The hospital had to suspend its out-patient clinics on Wednesday to sanitise the area.“Yes, the OPD has been suspended in order to sanitise it. We cannot take the chance of spreading it to our patients. At the moment, we only have emergent cancer patients coming to the hospital, all of whom are immuno-compromised and at a greater risk of developing severe disease,” said Dr BL Sherwal, director, Delhi State Cancer Institute.The hospital has been receiving around 100 to 150 people in its out-patient department since the nationwide lockdown. Usually, between 1,000 and 1,500 cancer patients visit the hospital clinics.Another doctor to have tested positive is a 32-year-old paediatrician from Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel hospital in East Patel Nagar. He was tested after his wife — a doctor from the biochemistry department at Safdarjung hospital — tested positive for the disease two days back.Another of her colleagues — a 26-year-old man from the respiratory department — who treated Covid-19 patients at the hospital tested positive.Apart from these, a doctor couple from Delhi’s mohalla clinics in north-east Delhi’s Maujpur and Baburpur area tested positive on March 21 and March 25. They and their daughter is also admitted to GTB hospital in Dilshad Garden after testing positive. The 49-year-old husband had contracted the disease from a 38-year-old woman who had returned from Saudi Arabia and is the index for a 10-person cluster.Delhi’s integrated disease surveillance programme is tracing around 2,600 people who visited the two mohalla clinics.Another 48-year-old doctor from west Delhi’s Hari Nagar tested positive for Covid-19 after providing home consultation to a person who had returned from New Zealand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ppe-scarcity-a-concern-as-7-city-doctors-infected/story-d9k5skIkencMziCaKPUkVN.html
02-04-2020||India||Covid-19 update: Nizamuddin markaz trail widens; coronavirus cases in India hit 2,000||The number of Covid-19 cases in India soared over 2,000 on Wednesday, fuelled largely by infections linked to a March event of the Tablighi Jamaat in the heart of Delhi that emerged this week as the biggest domestic source of the disease in the country. According to a tally of numbers released by 25 states and union territories, close to 8,500 people have been identified as having been to the Islamic sect’s headquarters in the capital’s Nizamuddin area, prompting authorities to intensify efforts to trace them since they may be carrying the virus and potentially infecting others.This is in addition to the 2,346 people who have been evacuated from the Tablighi Jamaat’s six-storey mosque complex – called a markaz – in Delhi since Sunday, including 531 who have now been taken to hospitals as they showed symptoms of the disease. Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicIn all, 358 confirmed Covid-19 cases across the country have been linked to the markaz.Covid-19 infections across the world crossed 900,000, with the United States, Italy, Spain and the UK now reporting the bulk of approximately 4,000 new daily fatalities.In a video conference with the police and administration heads of the states, Union cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba asked all states to launch on “war footing” a contact tracing of all those who attended Tablighi Jamaat events in Delhi this month. In a briefing later in the evening, the health ministry said the country recorded 386 new cases in 24 hours – a surge that was driven by the infections among the sect’s members. “I want to highlight that the rise in the number of positive cases does not represent a national trend, but if there will be a failure anywhere, obviously cases will rise,” said health ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal, reiterating the need for people to follow social distancing guidelines and not violate the nationwide lockdown underway at present.Over the weekend, officials discovered infections were multiplying at the markaz after alerts began streaming in from other states where people who had been to the building had developed symptoms after heading out to other cities. At least nine of these people – six in Telangana and one each in Kashmir, Gujarat and Karnataka – have died due to the disease.By 1pm on Wednesday, the markaz was sanitised by sanitation workers in decontamination suits. The workers said they found the insides of the building to be damp. “We have sprayed every corner of the building, but its insides are damp due to the absence of sunlight. Usually the surfaces we have been spraying all these days were dry, so we don’t know how effective the disinfectant would be,” said Harish Kumar, a sanitation worker.Kumar described the markaz as comprising mostly large halls, many of which had rows of beds spread out. “Rows and rows of mattresses were spread out in the halls, floor after floor,” he said. Authorities may now begin an exercise to canvass the Nizamuddin area, a congested residential locality. “As part of the cluster containment strategy, Nizamuddin, which is turning out to be a big cluster, would require aggressive- door-to-door- contact tracing and testing to pick up positive cases. After the evacuation and segregation at the epicentre, next step will be to trace possible cases that may have directly or indirectly come into contact with them; and test them,” said a senior health ministry official, requesting anonymity. The Delhi Police and Intelligence Bureau separately estimated that around 6,500 to 7,000 people visited the markaz between March 10 and March 24 – when active infections are believed to have been taking place at the building. At least 300 of these were foreign nationals, including the six Indonesians who died in Telangana. Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu have seen the bulk of infections linked to the markaz, with the three states reporting 237 cases. Tamil Nadu added 110 on Wednesday alone, taking its total to 190. Officials in at least two other states — Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra — said they are using cellphone location and call data to search for people who had been to the Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi.According to intelligence bureau officials who asked not to be named, about 2,000 foreign nationals arrived on tourist visas from at least 70 countries to take part in the sect’s work across the country since January 1. Participating in religious activity while on a tourist visa is prohibited by Indian immigration rules. According to the home ministry’s assessment, a majority of these foreign nationals were from Bangladesh (493), Indonesia (472), Malaysia (150) and Thailand (142). “All the ambassadors of the concerned countries have been contacted and they’ve been informed about the position of various nationals that are involved in this [matter],” said a person who asked not to be named.The home ministry has now directed state authorities to immediately deport foreigners who test negative for Covid-19 by the “first available flights”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/markaz-trail-widens-cases-hit-2-000/story-1FQGNRLqLYTspZSILnoilM.html
02-04-2020||India||Covid-19 update: Centre receives 916 complaints from citizens||From groceries not being delivered in Goa to pleas from the UK and New York to evacuate stranded Indians, from frantic requests for garbage disposal to complaints about police harassment -- these are some of the matters that have come to the Central government ‘s notice since the 21-day lockdown to curtail the spread of the coronavirus disease began on March 25.Around 916 complaints, from departments/ministries and states were received by the Department of Administrative Reform and Public Grievances (DARPG) relating to Covid-19 as of April 1. While many of these complaints were registered through the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO), others were filed on the Department’s website after it launched a separate section for COVID-19 grievances on Wednesday. The DAPRG has sorted 336 complaints, received as of March 30, into 11 categories to “expeditiously address them.”“Many of these grievances were filed through the Prime Minsiter’s Office on the PM”s website, now they are all being forward to the separate COVID-19 grievance portal,” a senior DARPG official said on condition of anonymity. “There is a 60 -day period for the redressal of grievances filed through the PMO. But since these are urgent, and a huge data dump has taken place, a separate portal has been set up to monitor and address them.”These complaints will be resolved in a period of three days.The 11 categories include inadequate facilities in hospitals, problem in donating to the PM-CARES fund, essential supplies not being provided, request for rescue from another country, stuck in some place because of lockdown, harassment, lockdown not adhered to, examination-related and quarantine-related matters, suggestions and others, according to data accessed by Hindustan Times.A majority of the grievances are health-related, the official cited above added. These include overcrowding of isolation wards, lack of masks and sanitisers and not enough testing facilities or hospitals being ill-equipped to test patients.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicAccording to the official, the DARPG has also received requests for immediate garbage disposal and evacuation of Indians from overseas.“We have received requests from UK and New York to evacuate Indians stranded there as the situation has gotten really bad in those countries,” he said. Several students, family members and concerned parties have also reached out to external affairs minister S. Jaishankar on the same issue, including senior Nationalist Congress Party leader Supriya Sule.“We are looking into it. People have also complained that essential services, like garbage collection, are not happening anymore,” the official said.There have also been requests from people to intervene with banks since the Reserve Bank of India has allowed a moratorium on payments of equated monthly instalment but the banks haven’t responded, leading to concerns among consumers about being penalised in case of non-payment of dues.“There are also litigants who have reached out to us,” said the first official. “They haven’t been able to reach courts on time and are afraid it may adversely impact their cases. They have asked us for help.”The DARPG has also received requests to help ease supply chains so that essential services may not be hampered. In Goa, according to the analysis accessed by Hindustan Times, people have complained about groceries not being provided. Seven requests to postpone government exams have also been received.Among the harassment complaints are cases of people being evicted from college and police high-handedness. Around 28 grievances have been lodged under the lockdown not being followed category; that includes private sector and postal employees being called to work, according to the data.“In the general pipeline (PMO or CPGRAMS) we receive lakhs of grivances,” a second official said. “The Covid-19 specific ones have been segregated for immediate attention.”CPGRAMS is short for Centralized Public Grievance Redress and Monitoring System.The department has also received suggestions to extend the lockdown. There have also been bogus claims like discovery of a Covid-19 cure. A person even lodged 54 grievances not related to Covid-19 that the department has noted.The grievances have been collated on a portal on the DARPG website launched by minister of personnel, public grievances and pensions Jitendra Singh on Wednesday. These have further been allocated to each department/ministry for redressal.On the day of the launch, the National Monitoring Dashboard received 43 grievances related to the ministry of health and family welfare, 31 grievances under the ambit of the ministry of external affairs and 26 grievances in the domain of the ministry of finance.“It is the endeavour of the Modi Government to ensure timely redressal of Covid-19 grievances and directions have been issued to all ministries/ departments to prioritize these grievances and provide redressal in a period of three days,” Singh said on Tuesday.“For the remainder of the lockdown, these will be addressed on a priority basis and anyone wishing to lodge a complaint may log on to the website,” the first official said. “After that, they may be merged addressed via the PMO.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-receives-916-complaints-from-citizens/story-8gJuoTBafknk9q2hrGhq4H.html
02-04-2020||India||CBSE to hold board exams only for 12 main subjects||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) will hold nationwide class XII board exams in 12 main subjects, and will promote all students of classes I to VIII to the next grade in schools affiliated to it, in a move necessitated by the coronavirus crisis, the board said on Wednesday. For classes IX to XI, the board has advised schools that have not already completed their examination schedule to promote students on the basis of project work, periodic tests, terms exams and so one.The 12 class XII subjects for which nationwide exams would be held are business studies, geography, Hindi (elective), Hindi (core), home science, sociology, computer science (old), computer science (new), information practice (old), information practice (new), information technology and biotechnology, according to a statement released by CBSE.“In all the CBSE will hold 12 subject exams nationwide for class XII. For specifically, North-East Delhi which had seen much violence during the time exams were held, exams for 6 class X subjects and 11 class XII subjects will be held,” said a senior official, referring to the rioting that took place in the district in February.The board also decided that it will not hold exams for schools outside India. A system of marking and assessment for declaring results would be chalked out, it said.The board was not able to conduct class XII exams on eight examination days due to the Covid-19 outbreak. Because of the February violence, examinations could not be held on four days in north-east Delhi.A small number of students from and around the district were not able to take their examinations on six days , it said.According to officials, the board will inform students about the schedule 10 days in advance.“At this stage it is difficult for the board to decide and announce the new schedule for examinations. However, we will give notice of about 10 days to all stakeholders before starting the examinations,” CBSE secretary Anurag Tripathi said.(PTI contributed to this story)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbse-to-hold-board-exams-only-for-12-main-subjects/story-YW1chp3Gi8Sy2ZAzNs29PO.html
02-04-2020||India||One list of essential goods for all states||The Centre is in the process of issuing a comprehensive, indicative list of what constitutes essential commodities and services to all states and union territories to iron out supply chains disruptions caused by the lockdown to contain the Covid-19 pandemic, an official who serves on an interministerial team overlooking coordination with states said, requesting not to be quoted. Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe list aims to bring inter-state parity of what constitutes essentials, the official said. The list of essential items and transportation norms have been found to vary across states, which tends to clog supplies and spark shortages, the official added. Currently, all states have exempted transportation of medical supplies, food, pharmaceutical raw materials, including for masks and sanitisers, and petroleum products from the lockdown, the official explained.However, a review meeting with states showed that some are regulating transportation of supplies according to their own norms which are being enforced by district collectors or magistrates. The review found “bottlenecks” in inter-state coordination. For instance, a state that doesn’t recognize a particular item as an essential item may not allow entry of the item originating in another state. Moreover, inter-state transport permit norms also differ. “To streamline these bottlenecks, an indicative list of essential items and services will be sent out to states. The transport ministry will also take steps to bring uniformity in land transportation norms,” the official said. The government is looking to amend rules to the Essential Commodities Act to streamline supplies.The consumer affairs ministry has held a series of video conferences with heads of civil supplies departments of all states to bring about uniformity in supply of essential items. States have been asked to utilize the Essential Commodities Act to crack down on hoarding and black-marketing and have already been given a free hand to impose maximum retail price caps on any item considered necessary, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-list-of-essential-goods-for-all-states/story-87XRoKWRdvTpCAc3IeNnJO.html
02-04-2020||India||Covid-19 update: Food, migrants on Government panel agenda||Hassle-free movement of food, diary products, and other essential goods and a close watch on the movement of migrant workers -- these are the main areas where the government’s senior bureaucracy sees need for urgent intervention, as 1.3 billion Indians continue to stay under a federal lockdown. Prime Minister Narendra Modi formed 11 empowered group of secretaries to monitor different aspects of the situation arising out of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) . The groups, empowered to take decisions, meet every day to take stock of the unfolding ground situation. Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicDuring their internal discussions on Wednesday, many bureaucrats found several complaints about non-compliance of the government’s order on movement of food and dairy products. According to a senior official who is a member of one of the committees, continued “production and seamless supply of food items right to the neighbourhood level holds the key to the success of the lockdown.”According to a government official, the issue related to the supply of food is significant and Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to take it up in in his video conference with state chief ministers scheduled for Thursday. Also Read: Genetic sequencing takes lead in Covid-19 vaccine developmentOn Wednesday, the supply of essential commodities also came up during the video conference between cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba and the chief secretaries of the states. A press release that was issued subsequently said: “The manufacturing of essential goods should be ensured. It should also be ensured that the supply chains of such goods are maintained.”The government also wants to keep a tab on the movement of migrant workers and will ask panchayats to inform local police about the return of any workers in their area or if anyone shows symptoms of the coronavirus disease in the village. The rural development ministry has sent a letter to the states, asking them to involve gram panchayats in the identification of a migrant workers and any anyone showing symptoms.Following the nationwide lockdown imposed on March 25, millions of migrant workers sought to rush home -- walking hundreds of kilometres in some cases in the absence of public transport. The panels also discussed several other issues, including the compliance, in different states, of norms issued by the Centre. They will also explore how to widen the use of Corporate Social Responsibility funds in tackling the pandemic. There is also a proposal before the government to further increase the duties on petrol and diesel. “After the duty was hiked a few weeks ago, the price of crude oil in international markets have fallen further. So, a section of the establishment wants to hike the excise appropriately. The final call on this issue will be taken by the finance ministry,”said a secretary-level officer. The government gave itself the width to raise special excise duty by ₹3 per litre on petrol and diesel on March 14 by increasing additional excise duty and special additional excise duty. Former rural development secretary Jugal Kishore Mohapatra said, “I hope these groups are getting feedback from the ground and are not relying entirely on what government officials are feeding them from the states. The government also needs to come up with a plan regarding the crop harvesting season that starts from mid-April.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/food-migrants-on-govt-panel-agenda/story-cLxS4BXdpGg2mpUlBi4pVL.html
02-04-2020||India||Govt ropes in local firms to boost supply of PPEs||The government is working to increase the production of personal protective equipment (PPE) with the textiles ministry roping in domestic companies to ramp up supply of coveralls and N95 masks, crucial for healthcare workers against Covid-19, a official said on Wednesday. The ministry, under its technical textiles arm, is now working with 16 companies, a second official added. “Orders of 3.3 million coveralls and five million N95 masks have been placed with these manufacturers. While 1.9 million masks have come in, the supply of overalls have been slow as it needs more specifications,” the second official said.“Supply of coveralls have just started this week, and less than 500,000 have come in,” the official added. In a release on March 30, the government said the textiles and health ministry have been able to ensure the supplying 6,000-7,000 coveralls per day. “... this is expected to go up to 15,000 per day within the next week,” read the release. The Hindustan latex Limited, under the health ministry, is looking at the procurement of all PPEs including medical equipment like ventilators, while the textile ministry is supplying PPE with textile material. This involves masks, both of N95 and surgical 2/3-ply ones, and coveralls with meltblown material, which is a special kind of polymer. The manufactured product is sent by the ministry to the Coimbatore-based South India Textile Research Association (SITRA) for test specifications. SITRA chairman Prakash Vasudevan told HT that the scarcity of meltblown fabric producers was one of the key reasons for the PPE shortage. “Meltblown material has a general shortage of supply around the world, and the pandemic has made matters worse,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-ropes-in-local-firms-to-boost-supply-of-ppes/story-CjhmYklWwb3EsoYgm4nXNL.html
02-04-2020||India||Covid-19 update: Railways plans isolation, quarantine units with 80,000 beds||As part of efforts to scale up the medical infrastructure across the country in view of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic, the railways is setting up isolation and quarantine facilities with 80,000 beds for positive and suspected cases of the disease, the government said on Wednesday.The announcement came amid fears that the number of Covid-19 cases could surge and overwhelm India’s fragile health system.“The railways is in the process of modifying at least 20,000 of its train coaches to be converted into well-equipped isolation facilities. We have been told the work has already started on converting 5,000 coaches in the first batch. By doing so, India will get at least 80,000 additional isolation beds,” said Lav Aggarwal, joint secretary, Union health ministry. Railways minister Piyush Goyal also said in a statement that all the zones will meet the challenge of making these coaches fully ready and equipped at the earliest. “…work on the conversion of first lot of 5,000 coaches has already started in a phased manner.”Also, under the Lifeline Udan initiative of the ministry of civil aviation, 74 flights have been operated to date for transporting medical cargo across the country. A total of 37.63 tonnes of cargo has been transported, of which more than 22 tonnes was transported on March 31.“The flights are helping in transporting medical and essential supplies. The supplies include personal protection equipment, masks etc,” said Agarwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rlys-plans-isolation-quarantine-units-with-80-000-beds/story-O9phSWZIvR7IfaW5d8CBnI.html
02-04-2020||India||India open to foreign donations for PM fund||New Delhi The Indian government has decided to accept contributions from abroad for the Prime Minister’s Citizen Relief and Emergency Situations (PM-CARES) fund ,created to carry out relief efforts in the aftermath of the Covid-19 outbreak, and similar emergencies in the future. The decision marks a shift from India;s earlier position of refusing foreign donations during crises.People familiar with the development said on condition of anonymity the decision was in line with the unprecedented situation created by the Coronavirus outbreak that has resulted in more than 850,000 infections and around 42,000 deaths worldwide.“The pandemic is unprecedented and when the prime minister spoke to envoys [via video conference on Monday], he asked them to make efforts for contributions towards this fund. A decision has been taken to accept contributions from abroad in the PM-CARES Fund,” said one of the people.The PM-CARES Fund was set up in view of several spontaneous requests from India and abroad for making contributions to support the government’s relief efforts in the wake of Covid-19, the people said.Contributions to the fund can be made by individuals and organisations, both in India and abroad, in view of the expressed interest to contribute to the government’s efforts and keeping in mind the “unprecedented nature” of the pandemic, the people said.In 2018, the government refused all foreign aid, including a reported offer of $100 million from the United Arab Emirates, for disaster relief following floods in Kerala that displaced millions of people. Offers of help from Thailand, Qatar and the Maldives too were declined.This was in line with a long-standing policy put in place after the Indian Ocean tsunami in 2004, and at the time, the external affairs ministry had said in a statement that the “government is committed to meeting the requirements for relief and rehabilitation through domestic efforts”.The people cited above pointed out that no overseas government had so far come forward to donate to the PM-CARES Fund, which has largely attracted pledges from non-resident Indians (NRIs) and people of Indian origin based in several countries.Prime Minister Narendra Modi has directed the heads of Indian missions around the world to explore the possibility of sourcing medical equipment needed to fight Covid-19 – especially personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, ventilators, and three-ply, surgical and N95 masks – as there is a huge shortage of such products in the country, the people said.In the case of China, some relief materials were coming to India from independent sources as donations while the mission in Beijing is looking at procuring available equipment on a commercial basis, the people said.“The embassy in Beijing is working on this and we are looking at various options and sources,” said a second person. “There is a huge shortage and we will source materials from wherever they are available.”At the same time, domestic companies are being encouraged by the health and textile ministries to ramp up production of PPE and medical equipment, the people said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-open-to-foreign-donations-for-pm-fund/story-JR5MM0AUnIno5y6V7n2bgN.html
02-04-2020||India||Coronavirus outbreak lockdown will affect forecasts: WMO||The World Meteorological Organisation (WMO) has flagged that lack of meteorological data from commercial aircraft, grounded across the world because of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic will affect the reliability of weather forecasts.In a statement issued on Wednesday, WMO said it is very concerned about the impact of Covid-19 on the quantity and quality of weather observations and atmospheric and climate modelling exercises. In-flight measurements of temperature, wind speed and direction are used both for weather prediction and climate monitoring. Commercial aircraft contribute this data to the Aircraft Meteorological Data Relay Programme (AMDAR) of the WMO, which utilises onboard sensors, computers and communications systems to collect, process and transmit weather data to ground stations via satellite or radio.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicIn several parts of Europe, the decrease in weather observations over the past couple of weeks has been dramatic, WMO said.The AMDAR used to produce over 700000 (7 lakh/0.7 million) high-quality observations per day of air temperature, wind speed and direction. In developed countries, surface based weather systems are all automated but in developing countries most observations are still taken manually, which are already affected by the outbreak. But even for automated systems missing repair, maintenance and supply work will start having an impact if the pandemic lasts a few more weeks, the statement cautioned.India Meteorological Department (IMD) is also impacted by this loss of weather data from aircraft. “This is a worldwide problem. India is no exception. Data from aircraft is very important, no matter where they are flying over the Indian territory. When they land, they send us crucial meteorological data, which is then compiled. We brief them about the forecast before they fly, and when they land, they debrief us. This debrief is used for numerical prediction models, which is further used for weather forecast,” said M Mohapatra, director general, IMD.“The IMD and Ministry of Earth Sciences Network are being operated with hardship but our people are cooperating, so we will continue issuing forecasts and observations based on our own data. There is no disruption in giving information,” added Mohapatra. IMD and state governments have 552 manually operated weather stations, from which data needs to be collected by personnel every three hours. This may be affected later as people will have to be available to collect and compile this data.“The impacts of climate change and growing amount of weather-related disasters continue. The Covid-19 pandemic poses an additional challenge, and may exacerbate multihazard risks at a single country level. Therefore, it is essential that governments pay attention to their national early warning and weather observing capacities despite the Covid-19 crisis,” said WMO Secretary-General, Petteri Taalas.“Meteorological organisations usually use ground observations, satellites, pilot balloons and weather radars on commercial aircraft. Stable weather is expected in the southern hemisphere now and pre-monsoon activity will begin in the tropics. I am hoping the disruption will not cause much of a problem,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice president, Skymet Weather.“At the present time, the adverse impact of the loss of observations on the quality of weather forecast products is still expected to be relatively modest. However, as the decrease in availability of aircraft, weather observations continues and expands, we may expect a gradual decrease in reliability of the forecasts,” said Lars Peter Riishojgaard, Director, Earth System Branch in WMO’s Infrastructure Department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/outbreak-lockdown-will-affect-forecasts-wmo/story-0cFa3p8RCACco1m5gkDMEK.html
02-04-2020||India||Lockdown offers best time to study soil, seismic activity||This is possibly the best time to monitor and study seismic events like the detection of small earthquakes as many parts of the world are in lockdown. The transient seismic “noise” from vehicles, trains, metros, construction work etc which used to mask the sound of seismic activity beneath the soil is now reduced greatly, according to analysis by seismologists.The Royal Observatory of Belgium tweeted on March 20: “The earth continues shaking. Ground movements at frequencies 1-20 Hz, mainly due to human activity (cars, trains, industries,...) are much lower since the implementation of the containment measures by the government.” Thomas Lecocq, a seismologist from the Royal Observatory of Belgium, who is studying the changes in seismic noise due to the lockdown, tweeted on March 27 that mean noise level was 33% lower since stay-at-home orders were issued in Belgium. Our staff is teleworking. The earth continues shaking. Ground movements at frequencies 1-20 Hz, mainly due to human activity (cars, trains, industries,...) are much lower since the implementation of the containment measures by the government. #StayHome @ibzbe @CrisiscenterBE pic.twitter.com/pGgQAyLuUP“This is probably the best time for scientists like me to study soil structure and natural waves because there is little transient noise being recorded by our monitors. It will help understand a particular site and conduct hazard assessments,” said AP Pandey, seismologist at National Centre for Seismology under the Ministry of Earth Sciences. But India has not analysed seismic noise reduction because of the lockdown yet.Nature journal reported on the observations of seismologists on Tuesday. “If lockdowns continue in the coming months, city-based detectors around the world might be better than usual at detecting the locations of earthquake aftershocks,” Andy Frassetto, a seismologist at the Incorporated Research Institutions for Seismology in Washington DC was quoted as saying in the report by Nature.Stephen Hicks, Faculty of Engineering, Department of Earth Science & Engineering at the Imperial College, London, also tweeted on March 27 about how a seismometer saw the UK lockdown. Data from the British Geological Survey’s station suggests a reduction in average daytime background seismic noise because of much reduced traffic on roads. There are similar tweets from seismologists in other parts of the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-effect-best-time-to-study-soil-seismic-activity/story-ChyVxpwsV4AyPhOa6zlCQM.html
02-04-2020||India||Congress slams Centre over PPE Serbia export amid shortage||New Delhi: The Congress on Wednesday attacked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the export of 90 tonnes of personal protective equipment (PPE) to Serbia at a time when India’s health workers are struggling to get their necessary supply amid the Covid-19 pandemic.“What is this happening Mr Prime Minister Narendra Modi? While Frontline Indian Health workers are struggling for protective equipment we are supplying Serbia. Air India to fly out Germans and 90 tonnes of Protective Medical Equipment to Serbia. Are we nuts? This is CRIMINAL,” Congress spokesperson Manish Tewari tweeted.People familiar with developments said an assessment by the commerce and external affairs ministries concluded the equipment sent to Serbia – 3.5 million pairs of surgical gloves sold by a Kerala-based private company – was not on the list of medical gear whose export is prohibited.At the Congress’ news briefing through video conference, Congress spokesperson Jaiveer Shergill hit out at the government on the issue. He alleged that when doctors and nurses across the country are crying for better equipment, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government was exporting PPE to Serbia.Shergill attacked the government for using Air India to fly out German nationals when Indian migrant labourers are dying on the roads.“This is heartless, shameless and brainless behaviour of the BJP government,” he alleged.On March 29, the official Twitter handle of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in Serbia said a Boeing 747 had arrived in Belgrade with 90 tonnes of medical protective equipment from India.“The transportation of valuable supplies purchased by @SerbianGov has been fully funded by the #EU while @UNDPSerbia organized the flight & ensured the fastest possible delivery,” it tweeted.The people cited above, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the guidelines regarding medical equipment whose export is prohibited are very clear. “The restricted items can be exported on a case-by-case basis with the approval of the DGFT [Director General of Foreign Trade],” said a person.Notifications issued by the DGFT on Feb 25 and March 19 state the exports of surgical and disposable masks, ventilators, and textiles and raw materials for masks and overalls are prohibited. Other equipment such as gloves, non-woven shoe covers and gas masks with chemical absorbents can be exported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-slams-centre-over-ppe-serbia-export-amid-shortage/story-EgTc47BdCN0iTOshjFbppJ.html
02-04-2020||India||Genetic sequencing takes lead in Covid-19 vaccine development||In the race to develop a vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), scientists around the world are simultaneously using multiple vaccine-development platforms, with DNA- and RNA-based platforms taking the lead because of their potential for speed.RNA and DNA are fragments of genetic material . The genome of the Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, was sequenced and shared by China in early January. Since then, several countries, including India, have sequenced the virus. These genetic sequences are used to grow the live virus and study its behaviour, including how it enters human cells and causes disease -- information critical in developing drugs and vaccines to fight it.Work on the Covid-19 vaccine began soon after the first genetic sequence was available, and Moderna’s mRNA-based Sars-CoV-2 candidate entered a phase-1 trial (to test safety and dosage in healthy volunteers) on March 16. A non-replicating vector-based vaccine has also received regulatory clearance to start phase 1 studies in China, while approvals of for phase 1 trials of nucleic-acid vaccines are expected in April.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicAlso Read: ‘Biggest challenge is fighting stigma’: Dr. Harsh Vardhan“The speed with which we have [produced these candidates] builds very much on the investment in understanding how to develop vaccines for other coronaviruses,” says Richard Hatchett, CEO of the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (Cepi), a non-profit supporting development of vaccines against five epidemic pathogens on the World Health Organization (WHO) priority list, in a statement.Despite the optimism, a Covid-19 vaccine is at least 18 months away. “There are candidate vaccines that are emerging all over the world. I’ve watched vaccine development on other atypical viruses, and I don’t want anybody to believe that we will have a vaccine within a month or two,” said Dr David Nabarro, one of the six World Health Organisation special envoys on Covid-19.“Any vaccine development requires a lot of testing for to establish it’s efficacious and safe, we need to make sure countries licence the vaccine through proper procedure. They then need to get a massive build up in manufacturing capacity and have a system to ensure that those who need the vaccine the most get it first. So we really have to recognise it’s an 18-month delay; we should not anticipate (it) quicker,” said Dr Nabarro.Vaccine development is an expensive process with high failure rates, with developers following a linear sequence of steps that include massive data analysis and manufacturing-process checks. To develop a vaccine quickly, carries higher financial risk as it requires a fast start and many steps executed in parallel before confirming a successful outcome, according to a new paper in New England Journal of Medicine (NEJM). For example, for platforms that have been tested in humans, phase 1 clinical trials may be able to proceed in parallel with animal testing.“The use of reverse genetics and next-generation sequencing is used to shorten the time taken for development, compared to conventional vaccines. In the case of coronaviruses, the virus’s spike protein is a promising immunogen for protection and optimising antigen design to optimise immune response,” said Dr N K Ganguly, former director general, Indian Council of Medical Research.According to the study, preclinical experience with vaccine candidates for other coronaviruses, such as the ones causing severe acute respiratory syndrome (Sars) and middle-east respiratory syndrome (Mers), have raised concerns about exacerbating lung disease, either directly or as a result of antibody-dependent enhancement.“Since the adverse effects could be because of type-2 helper T-cell (Th2) response, vigorous animal testing and clinical trials to establish safety, dosage and adverse-effects in humans cannot be neglected. Given that Covid-19 will infect millions, there can be no compromise in data quality and regulatory reviews,” said Dr Ganguly. Th1 cells generate immune responses against intracellular parasites, such as bacteria and viruses, while Th2 cells work against helminths (parasitic worms), infections from which are very common in Asia and Africa.Also Read: Kerala to Punjab, places that became epicentre of coronavirus infectionLessons from vaccine development against H1N1 influenza, Ebola, and Zika, are guiding scientists. The H1N1 influenza vaccine was developed fairly quickly because influenza-vaccine technology is well developed and vaccines made using egg- and cell-based platforms could be licenced rapidly under the rules for strain changes in influenza viruses. The vaccine is now part of the commercially available seasonal influenza vaccines.Vaccine and biotech companies are now investing in development-and-manufacturing platforms that can be adapted for new pathogens. The US National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases is supporting early development and test of platforms against prototype viruses from different viral families.Moving beyond phase 2 trials for monitoring efficacy and side-effects would also need scaling up manufacturing to commercial levels before substantial safety and immunogenicity data are available, which means if the vaccine fails, the investment in manufacturing will be wasted. “It’s therefore critical that vaccines also be developed using tried-and-true methods, even if they may take longer to enter clinical trials or to result in large numbers of doses,” said the NEJM article.Cepi also supports development of platform technologies to prepare for Disease X, the yet unnamed next big emerging epidemic disease, such as Covid-19. “An ideal platform would support development from viral sequencing to clinical trials in less than 16 weeks, demonstrate elicitation of consistent immune responses across pathogens, and be suitable for large-scale manufacturing using a pathogen-agnostic platform,” according to NEJM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/genetic-sequencing-takes-lead-in-covid-19-vaccine-development/story-A4mjutfeefKjkSeGeM8NCL.html
02-04-2020||India||South Korea church was first religious hot spot||On February 18, a 61-year-old South Korean woman associated with a religious group in the city of Daegu tested positive for the coronavirus disease Covid-19 – becoming the country’s 31st patient. Before she was isolated, she was part of a congregation with an estimated 1,000 group members at the Shincheonji church. In less than a month, as South Korea’s cases rose from 50 to close to 8,000, officials estimated at least 60% of these – around 4,300 -- were linked to the group.Also Read: Covid-19 update: Markaz trail widens; cases hit 2,000India’s biggest source of Covid-19 infections – the Tablighi Jamaat headquarters in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area – now bears a striking resemblance to what happened in South Korea, and if social contact patterns of the preachers and the members pan out in a similar manner, the number of people infected in the vicinity could balloon to thousands.But the Shincheonji cluster and the city of Daegu now also offer the biggest lesson for India. South Korea launched a widespread testing programme in the city and the mayor and the head of the disease outbreak response steered a programme to identify what would later turn out to be 10,000 members of the group. “We used dorms and similar facilities to set up 5,500 hospital beds,” Min Pok-kee, who heads the response in Daegu, told Wired in an interview on March 26. Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe mass mobilisation to round up and isolate the group members helped Daegu reduce transmission, going from the province with the highest share of cluster infections to the third-highest by April 1.“In Daegu, we had more than 10,000 members of Shincheonji. When we tested those who were symptomatic, 87.5 percent turned out to be positive. When we tested a sample of people who weren’t symptomatic, it was 74.4 per cent,” Pok-kee said in the interview, adding: “If we hadn’t done it from the very beginning, we’d be where the US is now, where Italy is now.”The Shincheonji group and the Tablighi Jamaat are not the only instances where religious gatherings have acted as super-spreaders of the disease. In Singapore, the health ministry linked three churches to 38 of the country’s confirmed cases when total infections were at a mere 313 around March 14. On April 1, the country had over 900 cases.In India itself, a 70-year-old Sikh religious leader in Punjab returned from Italy and went preaching in several villages, leading to at least 28 more infections. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/s-korea-church-was-first-religious-hot-spot/story-dlyuwuh8D0M1FHTxNZ4M9K.html
02-04-2020||India||Cabinet secretary tells states to trace Jamaat attendees on ‘war footing’||Cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba on Wednesday directed all state governments to, on a “war footing” trace all the people who came in contact with participants in the Tablighi Jamaat’s congregation last month in New Delhi’s Nizamuddin, which has become the country’s biggest coronavirus disease (Covid-19) hotspot.Gauba informed all state chief secretaries and director generals of police (DGPs) in a video-conference that the unfettered travel of Tablighi Jamaat followers to various parts of India after the congregation has put at risk the government’s efforts o contain the virus. At he meeting, the central government’s top civil servant also asked state police forces to take action against foreigners who participated in the congregation as well as the organizers of the event for violating visa conditions. Many of the foreign participants came into India on a tourist visa, while they should have ideally come in on a religious missionary visa. Gauba’s directive comes as the Centre strives to ensure the success of the three-week lockdown of India aimed at breaking the chain of transmission of the rapidly spreading virus. The effort is to trace and isolate the people who may have come in contacts with the thousands of Jamaat followers who attended the congregation and then fanned out across the country.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicAccording to estimates by Delhi Police and the Intelligence Bureau, around 6,500 to 7,000 people, including at least over 300 foreigners, attended the congregation in rotation at Markaz Nizamuddin , the headquarters of the Islamic missionary organisation, starting on March 10, an official who didn’t wish to be named said. The main event concluded on March 15, but followers of the sect came calling at the headquarters until March 23. The ministry of home affairs, after initial cases of Covid-19 from among the congregants were recorded, issued an advisory to the states on March 28 in which it mentioned that an estimated 2,000 foreigners from 70 countries, who came to India on tourist visas, spread out across India for the Tablighi Jamaat’s religious work over five-six weeks. A majority of the foreigners belonged to Bangladesh (493), Indonesia (472), Malaysia (150) and Thailand (142). Central agencies are now tracing how many more among these 2,000 foreigners came to Delhi or travelled back and forth to different states.The Delhi government and police have stated that the sect had been warned against holding the congregation and had been asked to vacate the Markaz building.The Tablighi Jamaat participants, who violated the tourist visa norms by travelling across India on religious activities after arriving in the country on tourist visas, are now being treated as biggest carriers of the Coronavirus in India. For example, in Andhra Pradesh alone, a third of the Covid-19 patients were those who attended the congregation.The government also recently asked all its missions abroad to stop giving tourist visas to any foreigner in future “who is likely to use it for Tablighi activities”. Gauba also asked the states to implement the Prime Minister’s Garib Kalyan Yojana,aimed at providing benefits to the poor for loss of work because of the national lockdown, within a week. “This will involve large cash transfer to beneficiaries. It should be organized in a staggered manner to ensure social distance,” said a statement fro the Press Information Bureau (PIB).The cabinet secretary also directed the states to coordinate and manage the movement of migrant workers in ensuring lockdown measures. The meeting noted that the lockdown was being implemented effectively all over the country. The states were asked to ensure that interstate movement of goods was allowed without any hindrance while maintaining social distance.Gauba also asked the officials to ensure that manufacturing of essential goods and supply chains of such goods were maintained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-secy-tells-states-to-trace-jamaat-attendees-on-war-footing/story-UwDqknZMri1qOd2uX1pBAO.html
02-04-2020||India||Kin call Jamaat chief ‘cult figure’ with ‘low profile’||Maulana Saad, 55, the head of the Tablighi Jamaat that came under the spotlight after its headquarters in Delhi emerged as the single-biggest source of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Tuesday, is known to be a recluse who maintains a low profile.A great-grandson of Jamaat’s founder, Muhammad Iliyas, Saad was born in Western Uttar Pradesh’s Kandhla town in May 1965. Saad received his early education from his father and he went on to get degrees from prominent Islamic seminary Darul Uloom in Deoband. He also studied at a Delhi seminary, his family in Kandhla said.Saad has an ancestral house in Kandhla’s Maulvian locality. A relative of Saad, Maulana Badrul Hasan, claimed 14-century ruler Muhammad Bin Tughlaq had gifted their family a tract of land in the town in Shamli district.Hasan called Saad a cult figure, who maintains a low profile during his regular visits to his hometown. “Within no time, big crowds gather to meet him. Therefore, he avoids meeting people here to stay in peace for a day or two,” said Hasan.The Delhi police on Wednesday said Saad has been the run since a case was registered against him for flouting social distancing and allowing a gathering at the Jamaat headquarters in Delhi. Officials across the country have been trying to trace the people who attended the gathering at the headquarters that later emerged as an infection hotspot.Shamli police superintendent Vineet Jaiswal said he had no information about Saad’s presence in Kandhalvi.Hasan said Saad usually stays at Jamaat’s Nizamuddin centre in New Delhi and visits Kandhla for a day or two every month. He denied reports of his presence in Kandhla. Hasan insisted Saad is not a fugitive as suggested by a section of the media. He added Saad is in Delhi and supports every action and order of the government.Hasan said Saad and other organisers of the gathering are yet to receive a copy of the First Information Repot lodged against him  He called for an end to Saad’s media trial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kin-call-jamaat-chief-cult-figure-with-low-profile/story-gSVqrRG54sjihelY4v8kDJ.html
02-04-2020||India||800 Jamaat attendees in Karnataka to be quarantined, 2 identified in Andhra||The Karnataka government on Wednesday said about 1,500 people from the state attended the gathering in March at Tablighi Jamaat’s Delhi centre that later emerged as a coronavirus (Covid-19) infection hotspot. Samples of as many as 143 of them have so far been taken for testing while 800 have been screened.Health and family welfare department principal secretary Jawaid Akhtar said the department had received the list of the 1,500 people from the Centre. “Of them, 800 have been identified and the 143 who were symptomatic have undergone tests. We expect the results to start coming in from tomorrow. Efforts are on to trace the rest of the people who attended the meeting.”Akhtar has issued an appeal asking all those who participated in the Jamaat’s Delhi congregation to voluntarily get in touch with the department. He added the 800 will be in public quarantine and after 14 days would be put under home quarantine. “We are in the process of collecting travel history of all these people.”Officials said the 1,500 belong to all the 30 districts of the state, where nine more people tested positive for Covid-on Wednesday.In Andhra Pradesh, two people, who attended the Jamaat event, have been quarantined along with their family members. Both of them belong to Krishna district. “It has been found that many of those who went to Delhi Markaz [centre] and returned are testing positive for coronavirus,” said Nandigama deputy police superintendent GV Ramana Murthy. “Tests have been performed but the results are pending.”Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy appealed to all those who had attended the Delhi gathering to get tested voluntarily.In Puducherry, two people, who attended the Jamaat event, tested positive for coronavirus on Wednesday while seven others were under observation. Chief minister V Narayanasamy appealed to all those, who took part in the meet, to volunteer themselves for screening.As many as 21 people from Puducherry had attended the congregation last month, and only nine returned to the Union territory.Health and family welfare director Mohan Kumar said the two had been admitted to a government hospital and undergone tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/800-in-karnataka-to-go-under-quarantine-two-identified-in-andhra/story-EYRxmR3nVE2WvNY7xOgyHJ.html
02-04-2020||India||Covid-19 update: Highest single-day spike in Tamil Nadu, all 110 attended Jamaat||Tamil Nadu on Wednesday recorded a spike of over 110 fresh cases of Covid-19 all of whom had attended the Tablighi Jamaat religious conference held in the densely populated area of Nizamuddin in New Delhi in the middle of March. This is the highest number of new cases recorded in Tamil Nadu in a single day so far. The state now has 234 positive Covid-19 cases, of which 190 are related to the religious conference, which is now being treated as the largest cluster in the country as several states scramble to contain, identify and treat the attendees.Wednesday’s fresh cases are spread out across 19 districts including Chennai, Coimbatore and Dindigul, among others.Till Wednesday, the state had traced 1103 conference attendees and all of them are in isolation wards in their respective districts, Tamil Nadu health secretary Dr Beela Rajesh said. Close to 1500 persons from Tamil Nadu are believed to have attended the religious conference, of whom over 1130 people are believed to have returned to the state. Till Tuesday, the state had traced and tested 515 persons. In the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday, over 580 persons came forward following the government’s appeal asking attendees to get themselves tested, raising the total number of those traced to 1103.“Through the night we have also been testing and admitting people who are coming in,” Rajesh said. In all, the state had tested 658 persons till Wednesday evening. Officials said that all 1103 persons would be tested by Thursday.“We have seen a spike of cases over the last two days to prepare ourselves, the state is building capacity accordingly,” Rajesh said on Wednesday.The state has rolled out a containment plan which involves contact tracing the attendees of the conference, their family members, and their primary contacts, all of whom will be investigated and tested. Health workers have been instructed to conduct door-to-door surveillance of the attendees’ families across several districts in the state. The district authorities have also been instructed to cordon off a 7-8 km radius area around the attendees’ homes, where movement will be restricted. “This plan will come into effect not just for those who tested positive, but whoever participated in this conference. It is already under process by district administration,” Rajesh said adding, “The good thing is today is the eighth day of the lockdown so several of these people were already at home.” At least 300 persons from the state, who attended the conference are believed to be in quarantine in New Delhi.The Hindustan Times spoke to a Jamaat attendee who is under quarantine in the national Capital, and who did not wish to give out his name. He said that the result for his Covid-19 test had come out negative.“I reached Delhi around March 20 and even then several people were coming to the gathering (in Nizammudin). That weekend at an event, we heard that transport was going to be restricted so those who had money left immediately,” he said. “We followed all instructions in quarantine and made sure that the senior citizens or those who had ailments like diabetes among us got help first.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/highest-single-day-spike-in-tn-all-110-attended-jamaat/story-u3IQ7mMYXAmSRZ6Wpzoo6L.html
02-04-2020||India||Covid-19 update: States scramble to map trail of 8,700 Jamaat attendees||State governments identified on Wednesday nearly 8,700 people who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi and deployed a large posse of police and intelligence officers and anti-terror personnel to trace anyone who attended the event that has emerged as the country’s biggest Covid-19 hotspot. All of them, including the son of a Jharkhand minister, have been quarantined.Data from the Union health ministry showed that 154 of the 356 new cases of infection reported on Wednesday -- -- or nearly 43% -- were people who attended the event held in Delhi’s Nizamuddin. So far, seven of the attendees --- six in Telangana and one in Kashmir --- have died. The Centre has sounded a nationwide alert and asked police in states to trace all people who attended the congregation and get them tested for Covid-19.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicWednesday was the second day of tracking attendees but top officials said they expected the number of people linked to the event to rise in the coming days as many people who attended the weeks-long event came back to their homes in the first week of March. In some states like Jharkhand, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, members of the Jamaat attended the summit on a weekly rotational basis, officials said. “Entire Muslim dominated areas are being scanned,” said a Bihar government official, who was not willing to be named. Across states, officials scanned all local mosques and directed heads of gram panchayats to provide information about the attendees who haven’t contacted the authorities. The biggest jump was reported in Haryana, Kerala, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand. Officials In Haryana and Rajasthan, most of the 503 and 524 attendees identified, respectively, hailed from the Mewat region, which begins at the edge of the national capital region and comprises parts of Haryana and Rajasthan. Police officers in the two states said they were trying to find out whether some of the attendees were foreigners. “If they turn out to be foreigners, the persons who provided them lodging will be booked for violating the orders asking people to inform presence of foreigners,” said a senior Rajasthan police officer on condition of anonymity. Haryana home secretary Vijai Vardhan said the entire Mewat region was being scanned with the help of Rajasthan government. In Himachal Pradesh, the state government released a list of 840 persons who travelled to Nizamuddin but it was not immediately known how many of them attended the Jamaat event. On Tuesday, the figure was 17. In Maharashtra, authorities identified over 300 persons and in Gujarat, officials named 72 people who attended the congregation. All of them have been quarantined and their swabs have been taken for Covid-19 tests. In Uttar Pradesh, the police identified 569 Jamaat members who attended the Nizamuddin meeting in March, said additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi. In Uttarakhand, 230 attendees were identified. Awasthi said the police were also searching for 218 foreign nationals, who had come to participate in the congregation in Delhi and were staying in different places across Uttar Pradesh. Awasthi said they were also looking whether the foreigners violated visa norms, which prohibits persons coming on tourist visa to visit a religious function. In Andhra Pradesh, as many as 812 people were identified as having direct and indirect links with the Jamaat meeting . In Telangana, the government identified 1,030 persons who had attended the event. Officials in the two states said their health conditions are being monitored. In Assam, all 13 Covid-19 patients had attended the congregation. Of the 547 attendees, 230 have been traced, said health minister Himata Biswa Sarma, appealing to the attendees to voluntarily contact local health authorities.In Bihar, where only 86 attendees, apart from 57 foreign nationals, have been tracked, the government asked the state’s anti-terror squad and district police to look for the returnees. “Those who attended the religious gathering at Nizamuddin will be traced. We are coordinating with other states to trace them,” said Bihar police chief Gupteshwar Pandey. In neighbouring Jharkhand, Mohammad Tanveer, the son of Jharkhand minister Haji Hussain Ansari, was among the 37 people who attended the event. Tanveer is now in quarantine. “The minister’s son Md Tanveer and one another have been sent to quarantine run by the administration. Their samples had been taken and sent for testing for Covid-19. They are fully cooperating with the administration,” Deoghar SP NK Singh said, Ansari, however, said his son had not gone to Delhi since 1993 when he studied there. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-scramble-to-map-trail-of-8-700-jamaat-attendees/story-cR86mx4ydI72m7KmN2dxcM.html
02-04-2020||India||Goods trucks seek extension on payment of road tax, GST||Trucks carrying goods have sought government intervention for extending the due date of payment of road tax and GST to September 30 amid growing concerns of penalizing truck drivers during the lockdown period. “After the Centre relaxed norms on expired national permits we have also requested the government to grant extension on payment of road tax. The issue of e-way bill expiry is yet to be resolved. There is a growing concern of overzealous personnel extorting and penalizing truckers once the trucks start moving. Other concerns about, insurance premium, goods tax, road tax etc. too needs to be addressed urgently. On an average we are facing a loss of Rs 2000 crore per day,” Kultaran Singh Atwal, president All India Motor Transport Congress said. Under GST, transporters have to carry an e-way bill for movement of goods.“More than 85% of the trucking population is of small operators having one to five trucks and once their wheels stop moving there is no other source of income for them. In the ongoing lockdown, there is no business or revenue inflow to the transporter. Given the present critical situation of the trade, the poor truckers and transporters are devastated and the situation has been further aggravated by the lockdown due to the coronavirus crisis. It will be very difficult for them to pay road tax, goods tax or token tax till September 30,” a letter written to Union Minister for Road Transport and highways Nitin Gadakri by the apex body of registered goods trucks said. Transport associations have also raised concerns with the ministry of road transport and highways alleging non-compliance of the ministry of home affair’s order to all states allowing transport of both essential and non-essential goods. “MHA’s order has not percolated to the ground level even though operators want their vehicles to move. Trucks are still being stopped at various state borders and many complaints of vehicles being stopped have come from states like Delhi, UP and Haryana. We are also getting reports of consignors pushing transporters to move fresh loads. There is no staff left, no labour, traders, factories and workshops are also closed, and the drivers have no facilities for eating or basic shelter,” Singh said. The transport ministry has also discussed the issue of the logjam across highways with lakhs of trucks stranded as movement has been stalled since the lockdown, with the home ministry. The lockdown left nearly six lakh cargo carrying trucks stranded across the country. The home ministry on March 29 had allowed transportation of all goods, without distinction of essential and non-essential items during the lockdown period.In a clarification issued on March 29, Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla had said the changes have been incorporated as addendum in the consolidated guidelines issued under the Disaster Management Act five days ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goods-trucks-seek-extension-on-payment-of-road-tax-gst/story-juBmLDA3hZMI43L4v8a8XM.html
02-04-2020||India||Scientists use lockdown to get data on unpolluted Delhi air||The 21-day nationwide lockdown, coupled with favourable weather conditions, is not just giving Delhi its cleanest air possible, it is also allowing scientists to determine the city’s baseline pollution levels -- for the very first time.With pollution sources brought down to a bare minimum, within and outside the National Capital Region, researchers from the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC), IIT Delhi, IIT Kanpur and other private organisations, have started gathering data to determine Delhi’s baseline pollution levels, or the lowest pollution level Delhi can ever hope to achieve.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic“Even though baseline data is important to fight air pollution, it is hard to get. There is always some form of pollution in a city that skews the data. If we can determine the lowest achievable pollution levels, it would help us to prepare a road map and strategy to cut down on sources,” said D Saha, former head of the CPCB’s air quality lab.Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the lockdown on March 25 to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Since then, factories, construction sites, and some other local sources that pollute Delhi have been totally shut, while vehicles on the roads have been at a bare minimum. “The city’s air quality is at its best at the moment, and is unlikely to get better than this. All man-made pollution has come down to near-zero levels. Nothing is operating within a range of 300km, barring a few essential vehicles, and service providers such as power plants and oil refineries. This is a never-before opportunity to collect the city’s baseline pollution data,” said MP George, a scientist with DPCC. The 24-hour average Air Quality Index (AQI) of the last seven days has not crossed 100 on a single day. It dropped to 45 (good) on March 28, and has been hovering in the 50-100 (satisfactory) range for the rest of the past week. During the corresponding period in previous years, it remained much higher – often in the 200-250 range (poor). The AQI had crossed 300 (very poor) on March 25, 2016. In the winter, it frequently shoots up beyond 400 (severe). “We hardly get such an opportunity when almost all major sources of pollution are stopped in one go. We plan to start work on preparing baseline pollution level for Delhi very soon with the data that is being collected during the lockdown period,” said Mukesh Sharma, a professor of civil engineering from IIT Kanpur, whose team prepared the Capital’s first source apportionment chart in 2016.A 2018 study by The Energy Resources Institute (Teri) and Automotive Research Association of India (Arai) had shown that during winters 36% pollution is generated within Delhi. Around 34% comes from areas within the NCR and 18% comes from northwest India (beyond NCR). At least 13% of Delhi’s pollution was coming from outside India. Real-time source apportionment of air pollution has been a problem in Delhi, and the state government is working on a project with Washington University to fill the gap.“The shutdown is not limited to a particular sector like industry or vehicles. Neither is it a city-level shutdown. It is a pan-India shutdown, so chances of pollution coming from outside has also been minimised. We are gathering data as this an opportunity that Delhi will not get in years to come,” said Sagnik Dey, associate professor at the Centre for Atmospheric Sciences, and coordinator of Cerca at IIT Delhi.State pollution control board officials from Haryana and Punjab confirmed that summer stubble burning (when farmers clear their fields for the next crop) is not happening at present, which also contributes heavily to the city’s pollution.Now add to this good weather – strong winds, occasional sharp showers, and sunlight. The India Meteorological Department (IMD)’s Safdurjung observatory, which is taken to be a representative of Delhi, received 109.6mm rain in March 2020. This is the highest rainfall in the month of March since 1901. In 2015, Safdarjung received around 97.5mm rain. With moist soil there is hardly any dust in the air, say experts. “Delhi, along with other parts of north-west India, received good rain because of more western disturbances this month. Over the past one week, north westerly winds with a speed of 15-20km per hour are blowing,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre in Delhi.Though the yearly average PM2.5 level in Delhi usually remains two to three times higher than WHO permissible limits at all times, in the last one week, the levels of both PM2.5 and PM10 have remained well within the daily permissible limits of 60ug/m3 and 100ug/m3 respectively.Such levels are usually seen only after heavy showers during the monsoon. In the winter, PM2.5 and PM10 breach their respective severe+ marks of 300ug/m3 and 500ug/m3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scientists-use-lockdown-to-get-data-on-unpolluted-delhi-air/story-6tk0y7b1qXAFtvbLamcJmO.html
02-04-2020||India||Covid-19 update: 36-hour operation to evacuate 2,346 Jamaat attendees||Tablighi Jamaat headquarters in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area and two lanes leading to it were sealed on Wednesday as 2,346 people were rescued from there in India’s biggest coronavirus (Covid-19)-related rescue operation so far that lasted 36 hours. The evacuees were sent to quarantine centres and hospitals even as officials across the country scrambled to identify, trace and isolate the people, who, this month, attended a congregation at the headquarters that has emerged as the country’s biggest source of Covid-19 infections and has been linked to at least 10 deaths. “A total of 536 symptomatic people, out of all those who were brought out of Markaz [headquarters], have been admitted to hospitals. Besides, 1,810 asymptomatic people have been put in quarantine facilities. So, a total of 2,346 have been brought out of Markaz,” said chief minister Arvind Kejriwal.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicDelhi’s Health services department director general, Dr Nutan Mundeja, said the asymptomatic people will be tested for Covid-19 if necessary. “As of now tests have not been conducted on those being quarantined. But, in all likelihood, we will conduct a few in the days to come. No specific decision on this has been taken as of now.”Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia thanked the people involved in the evacuation--the medical staff, administration, police, Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC)--who put their lives at risk for the operation. “Heartfelt gratitude to all of them,” he saidDTC officials said they deployed around 25 buses for the evacuation and each bus made at least two trips. A DTC official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said people were brought out of the building in batches of 30-35. “They were screened for their body temperatures and then taken to hospitals or quarantine centres in DTC buses. The [bus] drivers wore protective suits. No conductors were deployed since health officials were escorting them.”By 1 pm on Wednesday, workers wearing decontamination suits sanitised the building, the plants outside and the path the evacuees had walked. Dr Vivekanand Bhagat, a deputy health officer who supervised the work, said it took them around two hours to sanitise the building that stands on a 1,000 square yard plot.Harish Kumar, a sanitation worker, said they sprayed every corner of the building even as parts of it were damp due to the absence of sunlight. “Usually the surfaces we have been spraying all these days were dry. So we do not know how effective the disinfectants would be.”Kumar said there are mostly large halls in the building with beddings spread out. “Rows and rows of mattresses were spread out in the halls and floor after floor.”A health official involved in the evacuation process, who did not wish to be named, said the Delhi government ordered the closure of cinemas on March 12, saying they do not get sunlight and people sit in close proximity for long hours there. “The scene inside the Markaz was exactly the same. Despite being aware of the outbreak, there was no social distancing practised inside,” he said.The Delhi Police on Tuesday filed a case against the Jamaat functionaries for flouting social distancing rules formulated to check the spread of the pandemic.Tauseef Khan, a lawyer representing the Jamaat, said social distancing inside was not possible and that is why Markaz functionaries repeatedly urged the government for help once the three-week national lockdown was announced on March 25 and hundreds of people were stuck in the building. The South Delhi Municipal Corporation continued sanitising operations in Nizamuddin Basti, Nizamuddin West and other areas adjoining the Jamaat headquarters on Wednesday. A team of 40 people, with sodium hypochlorite (a disinfectant) on shoulder-mounted knapsack pumps and three tractor-driven tankers, sanitised the area.Another team, comprising over 50 people, have been tasked with keeping the area clean by sweeping and collecting garbage. Civic officials said they have sprayed at least 60,000 litres of disinfectants in the entire area.A police station near the building, too, has been sanitised. “Some of us have taken the road on which the Markaz is located as part of our policing duty. We were also actively involved in the evacuation process. We know the threat that we exposed ourselves to, but this is part of our job,” said a policeman. Delhi health department officials said of the 536 hospitalised evacuees, over 200 are in Lok Nayak, some 130 in Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality hospital and 100 in All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Jhajjar. The rest have been admitted to the Deen Dayal Upadhyay and Guru Teg Bahadur hospitals.AIIMS, Jhajjar, was on Tuesday authorised to treat Covid-19 patients. An order to this effect was issued late last night as the authorities feared a surge in the number of infections following the discovery of the Nizamuddin infection hot spot. The five dedicated Covid-19 centres now have at least 5,850 beds for coronavirus patients.At least 1,810 people have been sent to the government’s quarantine centres in Railway Colony, Tughlaqabad, and the flats of New Delhi Municipal Council at Bakkarwala. Around 1,000 people were initially believed to have been at the Markaz.Delhi had 152 Covid-19 cases till Wednesday night. Out of them, 53 were traced to Nizamuddin. Teams of civil defence volunteers and health officials were on Wednesday involved in contact tracing as the authorities started advising home quarantine for those suspected to have had any contacts with the Markaz. Officials have put up ‘under home quarantine’ posters outside some houses in the Nizamuddin West area. They did not give any number for the people advised home quarantine in the area.Lieutenant governor Anil Baijal separately held a review meeting with chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, Sisodia and all the district magistrates. “He has issued directions to utilise fire brigades to disinfect Nizamuddin and Dilshad Garden, both of which are top coronavirus hot spots,” said an official, who attended the meeting via video conferencing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-outbreak-two-lanes-leading-to-tablighi-jamaat-headquarters-in-nizamuddin-sealed/story-CDRSawMSngagRAVV88PyQI.html
02-04-2020||India||Covid-19 outbreak: Some patients hid during checks at Markaz, says Police||Tablighi Jamaat head Maulana Saad, who has been booked for defying restrictions on public gatherings, concealed crucial information on the number and the health condition of those inside the Islamic missionary group’s headquarters in Delhi’s Nizamuddin, which has emerged as a hot spot driving up the tally of Covid-19 cases in India, according to multiple police and government officials.On March 25, when a joint team of police and health officials went inside for the first time, people in the six-storey building hid in bathrooms, concealed symptoms of the contagious disease even as some took medicines to reduce their body temperature, a senior police officer said on the condition of anonymity.This officer also said the Jamaat management lied about the size of the gathering, putting the number of people present between 800 and 1,000. The joint team of police, health workers, and the World Health Organization has evacuated 2,346 people, including at least 250 foreigners, from the building in a 50-hour operation till Wednesday morning. They have been sent to quarantine centres and hospitals.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicSaad and six other top functionaries of the group were booked on Tuesday after the Jamaat headquarters emerged as the single-biggest source of Covid-19 infections in the country. By Wednesday evening, the headquarters, also known as Markaz, was linked, directly and indirectly, to at least 283 infections and eight deaths.States have been instructed by the cabinet secretary to trace the thousands of attendees of the March event organised by the Jamaat. Over 500 people who were at the headquarters have shown Covid-19 symptoms.The Centre has separately begun the process of blacklisting about 250 foreigners who attended the congregation, allegedly flouting visa rules by claiming to be tourists. Ideally, they should have applied for a religious missionary visa.Amid reports of Saad going missing, another senior officer of the Delhi Police’s crime branch said: “I am not sure if you can say he is absconding. He [Saad] is not at the Markaz. He is also not at any hospital or quarantine facility. We have just started the probe...The police were busy clearing the site and getting it sanitised while also identifying others who may have been infected by the Sars-Cov-2 virus [which causes Covid-19].”Fuzail Ayyubi, the legal counsel of Jamaat, said Saad was in Delhi, and denied allegations of concealing information. “... [He] will join the investigation when police summon him. We got to know about the FIR from the media reports. The allegation of concealing information is wrong because between March 25 and 28, the police and health teams came inside and took several pilgrims.”Between March 25 (the day a three-week, nationwide lockdown was imposed) and March 28, officials evacuated 39 people showing symptoms of the infection and sent them to hospitals.A third police officer, who too spoke on the condition of anonymity, said until the night of March 28, Jamaat members tried to hide from health workers who were allowed inside the building.“The health authorities found about 40 cases of people showing symptoms till then (March 25-28). Nobody volunteered to take the test. Most of the persons who had symptoms were hiding in the rooms above. Some of them had taken medicines to reduce fever. The actual number of people with symptoms was likely over 500. When we realised that they were not cooperating, we decided to visit each room to find those people on the morning of March 29. The main process of evacuation started then,” this officer said. Officials also said they were seeking to interrogate Saad over an audio recording (mentioned in the FIR filed on Tuesday) in which he is purportedly heard asking his followers to flout social distancing guidelines. Jamaat counsel Ayyubi, however, said the allegation about the audio tape was “completely misplaced”.“Before the lockdown, they [Jamaat management] should have sent back the visitors. Instead of making arrangements, the head [Saad] wilfully misled the gathering and asked them to stay put. The case against him and others has been registered under sections of criminal conspiracy and the Epidemic Diseases Act,” the third police officer said.Investigators said Saad allegedly ignored the government’s March 13 and March 16 orders banning gatherings of over 200 persons and any form of religious congregations.The Tablighi Jamaat issued a statement on Tuesday, saying the visitors were stuck at the headquarters because of the lockdown. Its spokesman, Mohammed Shoaib, said the group sent a request for curfew passes to the Delhi government to help the visitors leave the Jamaat headquarters but received no reply.A Delhi government official said Jamaat reacted late. “The orders to ban gathering were issued more than 10 days before they sent the request for passes [on March 24]. Panic over coronavirus had already gripped Delhi when the first order was issued on March 13. Schools were closed. Holi celebrations were cancelled across the city,” the official said on condition of anonymity.He said despite knowing that foreigners and people from across the country were inside the building, the Jamaat stayed put and “endangered the lives of everyone”.“Their request for passes was kept in abeyance because there was confusion on whether issuance of passes to them would have violated the lockdown norms as their request did not come under essential services [which were allowed to function]. We are still looking at lapses, if any, on the part of government officials,” he said.This official added that chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s office asked for an explanation on why the district magistrate and the sub-divisional magistrate did not escalate the matter after meeting Jamaat members inside the building on March 26 over health concerns involving those who attended the gathering earlier in the month.(With inputs from Sweta Goswami and Vatsala Shrangi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-outbreak-tablighi-jamaat-head-concealed-crucial-information-about-health-of-those-inside-finds-police/story-3YtMpirbamjahlf2L54JAO.html
02-04-2020||India||Markaz leadership resisted, then NSA Ajit Doval dropped by at 2 am||When Maulana Saad, head of Nizamuddin Markaz, refused to yield to pleas from Delhi Police and security agencies to vacate the Banglewali Masjid, Home Minister Amit Shah requested National Security Advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval to get the job done.According to top home ministry officials, Doval reached around 2.00 am on March 28-29 night at the markaz and convinced Maulana Saad to get the occupants to be tested for the Covid-19 infection and be quarantined. Shah and Doval knew about the situation building up since the security agencies had tracked down the nine test positive Indonesians at Karimnagar, in Telangana, to the markaz on March 18 itself.The security agencies had sent an alert on the markaz infection the very next day to all state police and subsidiary offices. Also Watch | How Ajit Doval cleared Nizamuddin Markaz. Now for contact tracingWhile the markaz allowed 167 Tablighi workers to be hospitalised on March 27, 28 and 29, it was only after the intervention of Doval that the Jamaat leadership yielded to cleaning up of the masjid. Doval, for the past decades, has built very close connections with the various Muslim movements in India and abroad. He is on a first name basis with virtually all the Muslim ulemas and spends time with them to form a national strategy for India.The operation has now moved into Phase 2. In this, security officials say the effort is to trace all the foreigners who are in India, get them medically screened and then take a hard look at violation of the visa norms. There were 216 foreign nationals in the markaz in Delhi but there are over 800 more in different parts of the country. Most of them are nationals of Indonesia, Malaysia and Bangladesh.Since January, the home ministry has said, about 2,000 foreigners have attended the markaz congregation. Initial reports indicate almost all of them violated their visa conditions by entering India on visas for tourists, not missionaries.This, officials said, had happened despite the government’s repeated reminders to file visa requests under the missionary category. They will be blacklisted from entering the country again.Apart from the foreigners, a massive effort is also afoot to identify all Indians who attended the congregations in Delhi or came in close contact with people who did. They are also being screened for Covid-19 and placed in quarantine.The Tablighi Jamaat was founded by Maulana Ilyas Kandhlawi, great grandfather of Maulana Saad, in the Mewati region. The Tablighis, then comprised of Muslim converts of Mewati rural population, fought with Rana Sangha of Mewar against Babur in Battle of Khanwa near Bharatpur against Mughal ruler Babur in 1527 after the first Battle of Panipat. The Jamaat purely focuses on Quran to preach on how to be a good Muslim with the objective of proselytisation.The movement has now been split into many factions with Pakistan using the Tablighis to take control of the group in South Asia and use it for spreading radical preaching.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/markaz-leadership-resisted-then-nsa-ajit-doval-dropped-by-at-2-am/story-RhL243HMbRgTGBbriNIVzL.html
02-04-2020||India||Coronavirus death rate lower than estimates: Study||A new analysis of data from at least 70,000 lab-confirmed cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) from China puts the death rate at 1.38%, lower than earlier estimates ranging between 2% and 8% but higher than previous pandemics such as H1N1 influenza, which killed around 0.02% of the people infected in 2009-10.The study, published in The Lancet Infectious Diseases journal on Monday, warned that 50% to 80% of the global population could get infected with Covid-19, and without interventions such as lockdowns and social distancing, the number of sick people needing hospital treatment could overwhelm even the most advanced health care systems. It, however, said that outcomes may change as the pandemic unfolds and evolves, which would result in the data being revised.According to the study, by UK researchers from Imperial College London, Queen Mary University, London, and the University of Oxford, the death rates from confirmed Covid-19 cases came to 1.38%, and the overall death rate to 0.66% after adjusting for undiagnosed cases and population size (not included in earlier studies), according to the analysis of data from 70,117 laboratory-confirmed and clinically diagnosed cases in mainland China, combined with 689 positive cases among people evacuated from Wuhan on repatriation flights.The death rates varied substantially with age, ranging from a low 0.0016% for people up to none years old to 7.8% for people aged 80 and above. Previous studies have estimated the death rates in people over the age of 80 years to be between 8% and 36%.While previous estimates of deaths from confirmed cases of Covid-19 ranged from 2% to 8%, deaths from overall infections were estimated to be between 0.2% and 1.6%. Since the past estimates were not adjusted for the fact that only people with more severe symptoms are likely to be tested, and the people in quarantine following repatriation to other countries, the numbers did not reflect the true number of cases across populations, some experts said.“Estimated death rates of Covid-19 will vary based on how many infected people are entered into the denominator while deaths are in the numerator. While deaths are easier to verify and attribute, the number of infected cases will vary according to the numbers tested with virus specific tests or identified on clinical criteria. Even if these are very liberally applied, we still may not define the denominator precisely as asymptomatic or very mild cases may escape detection by either criterion,” said Dr Srinath K Reddy, president, Public Health Foundation of India.“The larger the denominator, the greater likelihood of including more mild cases and hence lower the mortality rate. In the initial stages of the epidemic, tests were restricted and diagnostic criteria were narrow, yielding higher mortality rates. Now the denominator is expanding with more inclusive testing and diagnostic criteria, which is showing lower mortality rates that are closer to truth,” said Dr Reddy. Death on average occurred on average 17.8 days after getting infected, and hospital discharge happened after 24·7 days, the study found. The proportion of deaths from both diagnosed cases and from milder, unconfirmed cases was strongly influenced by age.The study said that one in hundred people under 30 years of age infected with Covid-19 were likely to need hospitalisation, compared with close to 20 in hundred people who are 80 or above, with both hospitalisation and deaths increasing sharply with age.It further said that around 11.8% of infected people in their 60s, 16.6% of people in their 70s, and 18.4% of those above 80 developed symptoms severe enough for hospitalisation.“Our estimates can be applied to any country to inform decisions around the best containment policies for Covid-19,” said Professor Azra Ghani from Imperial College in a statement. “There might be outlying cases that get a lot of media attention, but our analysis very clearly shows that at aged 50 and over, hospitalisation is much more likely than in those under 50, and a greater proportion of cases are likely to be fatal.”Hospitalisation rates nearly doubled from 4.3% in 40-49-year-olds to 8.2% in 50-59-year olds, and were a low 0.04% for 10 to 19-year-olds, 1 % for people in their 20s, and 3.4% for people aged 30 to 39.“Retrospective modelling of data from China and Korea helps to identify the interventions needed to stop transmission and treat the severely ill in countries where mass testing is not being done. With many mild cases not even being tested, there is a danger of governments underestimating the nature of the pandemic, much to their peril,” said Dr Dileep Mavalankar, director, Indian Institute of Public Health, Gandhinagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/death-rate-lower-than-estimates-study/story-Fd8ItB66VPqiBGZamHU0xM.html
