03-04-2020||India||AI stops advance bookings till April 30||With the government yet to announce its lockdown exit strategy, India’s national carrier Air India on Friday decided to stop advance bookings for all its domestic and international flights till April 30. The 21-day lockdown is scheduled to end on April 14 and the Centre had earlier dismissed reports of it being extended.Private airlines, however, continue to take advance bookings beyond April 15. “Air India bookings are now closed till April 30. We are awaiting a decision post-April 14,” an Air India official said on condition of anonymity. The airline continues to accept bookings for flight from May 1. The country is currently under a 21-day lockdown imposed to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). “Air India is a commercial organisation and needs to consider scenarios with regard to advance bookings and cancellations in case the lockdown in extended. Right now, we don’t know if the lockdown will be lifted phase-wise or not. For now, we are going to wait till April 14 and in case the lockdown is not extended, bookings can begin the same day,” a senior official with the civil aviation ministry, requesting anonymity, said. He added that in case another lockdown is announced, refunds will be offered according to company policy. All modes of conveyance, including rail traffic, road and air transport, were suspended when the lockdown came into effect. Initially, international flights were suspended for a week from March 22 but later extended until April 15 coinciding with the lockdown. Domestic flights were suspended from the day the lockdown started on March 25. Cargo flight, however, still ply.The Centre had earlier dismissed the reports of the lockdown being extended. “There are rumours and media reports, claiming that the government will extend the lockdown when it expires. These reports are baseless,” Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba had said. The Air India move comes a day after Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri said India will consider resuming international flight operations on a case-by-case basis after the lockdown ends. Airlines are open to start advance bookings as per their own discretion and contingency plan, the minister had said.At present, advance booking for trains from April 15 onward are also open.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ai-stops-advance-bookings-till-april-30/story-YNh5mItaGZPh3RMsitCkNJ.html
03-04-2020||India||Power ministry to assess impact of Modi’s call to switch off lights||New Delhi: Following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call to switch off lights, on April 5, at 9 pm, for nine minutes, the union power ministry, on Friday, held a high-level review meeting to assess the impact of power fluctuation on the grid. The grid is already reeling under the stress of an unprecedented dip in demand during the lockdown period.The meeting was chaired by union power minister RK Singh and senior officials from Power Grid Corporation of India Limited (PGCIL) and grid operator POSOCO National Load Despatch Centre, according to two officials aware of the proceedings of the meeting.“ The minister discussed the issue with PGCIL and load dispatcher in the meeting. Since we are in an unprecedented situation with low demand during the lockdown, we are closely monitoring the health of the grid. They have said they are confident of managing the grid stability for the event and have been told to ensure blackout doesn’t occur.,” a senior official said requesting anonymity.With a dip of 30% in demand for power due to the absence of commercial activity in the wake of the lockdown, a sudden change in grid frequency could lead to a potential power blackout. According to power ministry data available for April 2, peak demand stood at 125.8 GW which is 25% lower than 168.3 GW for the same day last year.Experts too warned about the possibly adverse impact of millions of households switching off, and then switching on, lights on Sunday night almost simultaneously. “This is absolutely unprecedented. If this is effectively implemented, then we are looking at an impact of 10-15GW of load going down and coming back again which will have a very severe impact on the grid. I am not aware of any event before leading to such a sharp fluctuation before,” said Vinay Rustagi, managing director at renewable energy consultancy Bridge to India Energy Private Limited. This, Rustagi emphasised, will need careful management and preplanning. “They will have to judicially use hydro and gas power plants to come back and curtail risk.”But power ministry officials said they were confident of managing the situation on Sunday night. “We are making arrangements since the event is known to us in advance. The current peak load of the country stands at around 120GW; of this domestic household lighting comprises of 12-15 GW and we will need to manage and monitor this 15GW of fluctuation,” a second government official said.With the sudden dip in demand the Centre last week had announced a slew of measures to aid the power sector during the lockdown period. These measures include a three-month moratorium on the payment of already financially squeezed distribution companies (Discoms) to Generating Companies (Gencos) and no penalty on late payment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/power-ministry-to-assess-impact-of-modi-s-call-to-switch-off-lights/story-JB75ou53G56a7f4mnZhpWK.html
03-04-2020||India||UP govt slaps NSA on Jamaat members for ‘misbehaviour’||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday ordered slapping of the stringent National Security Act (NSA) on some Tablighi Jamaat members for their alleged indecent behaviour at a Ghaziabad hospital, where they were quarantined for attending a gathering at the group’s headquarters in Delhi that this week emerged as a Covid-19 hotspot. The NSA allows detention of people considered security risks without charges or trial for up to one year. “They will not obey the law. Neither will they accept the system as they are the enemies of humanity. Whatever they have done to women health workers in Ghaziabad is a heinous crime. They are being slapped with the NSA. We will not spare them,” said Adityanath in a statement.The Jamaat members, who have been accused of “moving without their pants, singing indecent songs and demanding bidi and cigarettes”, were shifted from the hospital to a temporary isolation ward at an educational institute for the alleged misbehaviour with nurses.   The men were identified and quarantined as part of a nationwide manhunt launched this week for thousands of people who had attended the gathering at the Jamaat’s headquarters in New Delhi.Officials said the government will not deploy women health workers and policewomen at hospitals where patients linked to Jamaat are admitted to across Uttar Pradesh. As many as 897 Jamaat members have been quarantined at different facilities across the state.Ghaziabad district hospital’s chief medical superintendent on Thursday wrote a letter to police complaining about the Jamaat members’ behaviour. Staff nurses of this hospital have informed vide their letter dated April 1 that coronavirus infected patients linked to the Jamaat were moving without their pants and singing indecent songs. They are demanding ‘bidi’ and cigarettes from the hospital employees and staff nurses,’’ said the letter, (a copy of which HT has seen?). “Under such a situation, their treatment is not possible in this hospital. You are requested to take effective action at your level to restrain them to ensure their medical treatment.” Ghaziabad’s senior police superintendent Kalanidhi Naithani said stringent action will be initiated against the Jamaat members and a case has been registered against them. He said an investigation is in progress.Officials said the NSA will also be slapped on people who attack police enforcing the 21-day lockdown imposed last week to prevent the spread of coronavirus pandemic.Adityanath cited an attack on doctors involved in Covid-19 contact tracing in Indore and directed authorities that such incidents should not happen in Uttar Pradesh.There have been reports of several attacks on police enforcing the lockdown in Uttar Pradesh. “The police are doing their duty by preventing people from coming out during the lockdown. There have been incidents in the state in which policemen were attacked by people. To deter such persons, it has been decided to invoke the NSA against such persons,” an Uttar Pradesh home department official told news agency Press Trust of India.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-govt-slaps-nsa-on-jamaat-members-for-misbehaviour/story-JX6hnIy1p4Q2uLPL1H48iJ.html
03-04-2020||India||Allow street vendors to sell essentials: Centre||The Centre on Friday cited the risk of livelihood loss and issued an advisory asking states and Union territories to allow street vendors to sell essential items and encourage their home deliver during the ongoing 21-day lockdown imposed to halt the spread of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemicA supply crunch of consumer items has cascaded across states, as buyers, rich and poor, scour markets for everyday needs amid the sweeping lockdown. The lockdown has also left tens of thousands of migrant workers jobless and forced many of them to leave big cities for their homes on foot.“The urban street vendors are facing the risk of losing their livelihoods during the period of lockdown. They play an important role in the supply of essential items like groceries, fruits and vegetables to the citizens at affordable prices,”  the Centre said in a letter to chief secretaries. The letter, (a copy of which HT has seen?) said authorities have been encouraged to facilitate home delivery of the essentials and minimize movement of individuals outside their homes.The Centre said the street vendors carrying valid identity cards or certificates of vending may be allowed to carry on their businesses subject to restrictions imposed. The urban local bodies have already identified the vendors as per provisions of the Street Vendor’s Act, 2014, and issued certificates of vending and ID Cards, it added.Union housing and urban affairs minister Hardeep Puri said the street vendors need to ensure the cleanliness of carts, personal hygiene, regular use of sanitisers and social distancing norms. “These operations will be subject to restrictions imposed by district authorities. However, restrictions will continue on street food vendors, as they may result in the congregation of persons and violations of lockdown.”The Union home ministry on March 29 asked the states to allow transportation of all goods, without distinction of essential and non-essential during the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allow-street-vendors-to-sell-essentials-centre/story-MLzNMy6RAeYOcZ4esVuRRP.html
03-04-2020||India||Citizens of 41 nations blacklisted for visa violations||New Delhi: Citizens of 41 countries including the United States, United Kingdom and China are among 960 overseas-based Tablighi Jamaat members who have been blacklisted by India for violating their visa conditions, according to an initial government assessment seen by Hindustan Times.Around 400 more foreigners who took part in the Tablighi Jamaat congregation held last month in the Islamic missionary group headquarters in Delhi’s NIzamuddin, which has since emerged as a hotspot of the Coronavirus disease (Covid-19), and are in quarantine are also likely to be soon blacklisted, an official in MHA said.The 960 people blacklisted include four citizens of the United States, nine of the United Kingdom and six of China.The most were from Indonesia (379), Bangladesh (110), Kyrgyzstan (77), Myanmar (63) and Thailand (65). There are 33 Sri Lankans, 75 Malaysians, 24 Iranians, 63 Myanmarese and 12 Vietnamese as well besides attendees from as far Djibouti in East Africa and Trinidad and Tobago in the Caribbean Islands.The foreign participants in the Jamaat’s congregation entered India on tourist visas but participated in a religious event, a violation that invites the revocation of their visas and blacklisting for future travel.On Thursday, the ministry of home affairs had said in a statement that 960 foreigners “present in India on tourist visas” had been blacklisted for their “involvement in activities of the Tablighi Jamaat.” As many as 4,200 foreigners have thus far been blacklisted by the home ministry’s immigration department for flouting tourist visa norms and engaging in Tablighi activities, particularly missionary work, since 2015, according to government officials familiar with the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/citizens-of-41-nations-blacklisted-for-visa-violations/story-jeDhqNEZB5JMcUvZBybk6K.html
03-04-2020||India||Covid-19 facilities being readied at 51 Army hospitals||New Delhi: Dedicated facilities are being readied for treating Covid-19 patients at 51 hospitals operated by the armed forces across the country, including in Kolkata, Visakhapatnam, Kochi, Dundigal (near Hyderabad), Bengaluru, Kanpur, Jaisalmer, Jorhat and Gorakhpur, the defence ministry said in a statement on Friday. They will have intensive care unit (ICU) beds and high dependency units (HDUs) among other things. HDUs are a scaled down versions of ICUs. The ministry said the Indian Air Force’s transport fleet has been deployed to airlift essential supplies, medicines and medical equipment. It has so far transported 60 tonnes of stores, it added. Thirty transport planes and 28 helicopters are on standby at various bases across the country to support the fight against the pandemic.The ministry said the military is running quarantine facilities at Mumbai, Jaisalmer, Jodhpur, Hindon, Manesar and Chennai where 1,737 cases have been handled. Of them, 403 people have been released. “Fifteen other facilities are on standby,” the ministry said. The 15 facilities, with a combined capacity for 7,000 people, are in cities like Babina, Jhansi, Barmer, Bhopal, Kolkata, Bhatinda, Hyderabad, Kanpur, Gorakhpur and Kochi. Over 8,500 military doctors and support staff are ready to help the government in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. As many as 9,000 hospital beds have been prepared to meet emergency requirements. Five hospitals run by the armed forces are equipped to carry out Covid-19 tests and six more would be added to the list soon, the ministry said.Six warships and five medical teams are on standby to provide assistance to neighbouring countries, the ministry said. The Defence Research and Development Organisation has also come up with solutions for sanitising metro stations, railway stations, hospitals, malls, airports, isolation areas, quarantine centres and high-risk residential areas. It said its Delhi-based Centre for Fire Explosive & Environment Safety has developed two configurations of sanitising equipment (portable and trolley mounted) that are spin-offs from technologies developed for fire suppression. “Two of these systems are being provided to the Delhi Police for immediate use. These can be made available to other agencies with the help of industry partners,” the agency said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-facilities-being-readied-at-51-army-hospitals/story-De9E9WHycjj0ZTMpoVcpTL.html
03-04-2020||India||647 cases in 14 states linked to Nizamuddin conference||New Delhi/Chennai/LucknowIndia recorded 647 confirmed cases of Covid-19 across 14 states and Union Territories linked to a religious congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin that has emerged as the infection’s biggest hot spot in the country, the Union health ministry said on Friday.The March congregation of Islamic missionary group Tablighi Jamaat at its six-storey headquarters has pushed up the infection count in Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Assam, Delhi, Himachal, Haryana, Jammu and Kashmir, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh, the government said.“There are a total 2,301 coronavirus cases reported so far in India and 56 deaths have been reported from the country, of which 12 deaths have been reported since yesterday. As many as 157 patients have recovered,” said Lav Agarwal, the joint secretary of the Union health ministry, but refused to specify the number of fatalities linked to the Jamaat event.The home ministry has already blacklisted 960 Jamaat members from abroad who attended the congregation. When asked if the government is planning to deport then, Punya Salila Srivastava, joint secretary in the Union home ministry, said, “The government is probing them under provisions of foreigners act and disaster management act. There is no deliberation of deportation at this stage.”The cluster of infections that have spread across the country have forced authorities to call in the police and anti-terror squads to search for people who attended the meeting. A number of religious organisations – the latest being the Imarat Shariah in Bihar, Orissa and Jharkhand -- appealed to all delegates to come forward for health screening.Among the worst affected is Tamil Nadu, where at least 100 of the 102 new cases on Friday were linked to the Nizamuddin event, state health minister C Vijayabaskar said. Of the 3684 samples sent for testing so far, 411 have tested positive for the virus, while 2789 were negative, he added. In Uttar Pradesh, 47 of the 51 fresh cases on Friday were Jamaat members, additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi and principal secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said in Lucknow. The police sealed the Sadar Bazaar locality in the state capital to carry out house-to house searches, Awasthi added.At the home ministry briefing, Manoj Murhekar of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said guidelines for rapid antibody diagnostics are likely to be released by on Saturday. “The modalities on which we are working on include how to deploy the test in high risk areas, low risk areas, hotspots, etc.” he said.Currently, India permits faster and cheaper antibody tests to check for Covid-19 in hot spots.The test used now -- PCR (polymerase chain reaction) -- identifies the Sars-CoV-2 virus from throat or nasal swab samples of people with symptoms or high-risk individuals who might have come in contact with a Covid-19 patient. The antibody tests are meant to identify people who have been previously infected but have developed immunity. While the PCR test results can take up to five hours, the antibody results can be available in 30 minutes.Murhekar said around 66,000 individuals had so far been tested, of which 8,000 were tested on Thursday – the highest in a single day so far.When asked if the ministry is deliberating on increasing tests, Agarwal said, “Testing has process and guidelines. Unnecessary testing for the sake of confidence building, especially when kits are limited, is not the right strategy. However, if we feel it’s needed, testing criteria can be revised. But, so far, no decision has been taken on that.”Agarwal said about three million people downloaded the AarogyaSetu app, developed as a public-private partnership project to help people assess their risk catching the coronavirus infection, within 24 hours of launch.He also called for a stop to attacks on doctors. “The Union health minister (Harsh Vardhan) has conveyed that he is concerned over attacks on health workers. Even the Prime Minister has appreciated health workers. Under such challenging circumstances, we should support them in every way possible,” Agarwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/647-cases-in-14-states-linked-to-nizamuddin-conference/story-hzanIuqA3QeyKFlsr3Qx5N.html
03-04-2020||India||Mumbai lockdown unlikely to be lifted on April 14, says Maharashtra health minister||Maharashtra government may not end the lockdown on April 14, when the nationwide restrictions announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi are set to be lifted. State health minister Rajesh Tope said the government is likely to extend the lockdown by a couple of more weeks, especially in Mumbai and other urban areas of the state.“We are expecting a fall in positive Covid-19 cases by April 15, after an initial spike. We will have to extend the lockdown period by a few more weeks… Lifting it fully in a city like Mumbai is unlikely,” said Tope, adding that imposing restrictions to contain the spread of coronavirus is a decision the state government can take. “We had imposed a complete lockdown in Maharashtra two days before it was in announced across the country. Before that, too, we had imposed restriction in urban areas and shut down public places. Containing the spread [of coronavirus] in a city like Mumbai is a herculean task, and the decision to end the lockdown will have to be taken cautiously and after due deliberation. I personally feel it will have to be extended in Mumbai,” Tope said.Modi, during his video conference with chief ministers of all states on Thursday, had hinted at lifting the lockdown in a staggered manner. He reportedly asked the state government to prepare their plan and submit suggestions to the Centre on withdrawal of the lockdown. Seniors leaders in the state government, however, feel lifting restrictions immediately after completion of 21 days would jeopardise their efforts to curb the spread of coronavirus.Tope, meanwhile, said containment of the virus in Mumbai is a “big task”, but they are not leaving any stone unturned. “Our health workers, police and municipal corporation workers have been working on the cluster containment action plan, with 292 teams working on it in Mumbai. We have more than 800 employees working as part of these teams to trace suspected cases. The number of suspected cases has increased owing to the Tablighi Jamaat programme organised in Nizamuddin last month. But we are sure that we will be able to contain it,” he said. The state government was mulling exempting auxiliary sectors, which support essential sectors in production, from the lockdown. A state government official, who did not want to be named, said manufacturing units engaged in the production of polythene or chemicals required for packaging of essential commodities are likely to be exempted from the lockdown. “The stock of material manufactured in these auxiliary sectors will last for the next eight days or so. As per the representation made to us by these sectors, they need to be exempted from the lockdown,” the official said.Tope said the exemption of such sectors was necessary to ensure the smooth supply of essential goods.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-lockdown-unlikely-to-be-lifted-on-april-14-says-maharashtra-health-minister/story-B3eQkHjRCmKBcMLTJFAnIK.html
03-04-2020||India||Indian Hotels Company opens up luxury hotels for doctors battling Covid-19 crisis||In an attempt to help the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) in its intensifying battle against Covid-19, the Indian Hotels Company (IHC), a subsidiary of the Tata Group and owner of the Taj brand of hotels, is offering rooms at five of their hotels in Mumbai to BMC doctors and paramedical staff treating coronavirus patients.With doctors working round-the-clock and no home visits allowed, the idea is to give them a place close by where they can sleep, rest and recuperate without having to worry about long commutes, housekeeping or meals.Rooms at the Taj Mahal Palace in Colaba, Taj Land’s End in Bandra, Taj Santacruz, The President at Cuffe Parade and the IHC’s Ginger hotel in Andheri are now available to doctors and medical staff from municipal-run hospitals such as Kasturba in Chinchpokli, Bhabha in Bandra and Rajawadi in Ghatkopar, among others.The Ginger hotels in Noida and Madgaon, Goa, will also be providing rooms to medical staff in those cities.“The rooms are free of cost for our medical staff and have been voluntarily offered by the Taj Group,” Vijay Patil, public relations officer with the BMC said. “The medical staff will be housed on blocked-off floors at these hotels, so they don’t have to come in contact with guests. Plus we the civic administrations along with the hotel staff are carrying out the necessary checks to carefully monitor and sanitize rooms and prioritize health and safety for all.”An IHC spokesperson added that “during these trying times, the company was keenly aware of its responsibility to its community and to the medical fraternity combating the spread of the virus.”“We deeply value the contributions of the medical community and will continue to work with them and local authorities as we navigate this crisis,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-hotels-company-opens-up-luxury-hotels-for-doctors-battling-covid-19-crisis/story-ZJfzwyqLmQKOSjIG7d6nEM.html
03-04-2020||India||Validity of CGHS cards of govt pensioner beneficiaries extended to April 30||The Union Health Ministry has decided to extend the validity of CGHS cards of government pensioner beneficiaries to April 30. The validity of the cards was to expire on March 31. “In case of CGHS pensioner beneficiaries who contribute the subscription on annual basis and whose CGHS cards are valid till March 31, the validity period may be extended till April 30 in the data base by additional directors City/HQ (in Delhi) on the basis of request received over email from such beneficiaries. “These relaxations are being made to help the CGHS beneficiaries in view of the extraordinary conditions due to COVID-19 and will not be cited as a precedence in future,” said an official order signed by the director Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS). In view of the coronavirus disease, all out efforts are being made by the government to contain its impact by instituting measures at community as well as at individual levels, it said. Guidelines for maintaining social distancing between individuals have already been issued by the government, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/validity-of-cghs-cards-of-govt-pensioner-beneficiaries-extended-to-april-30/story-gSLnUP5M7XF9qlmKjlVNXM.html
03-04-2020||India||Covid-19: India reports 62 deaths, 2,547 coronavirus cases||India’s coronavirus positive cases climbed to 2,547 on Friday, with the death toll across states rising to 62, the Union health ministry said.The number of active coronavirus cases stands at 2,322, while 162 people have either been cured or discharged and one had migrated, according to health ministry data.On Friday evening, six deaths were reported. Four deaths were from Telangana and one each from Gujarat and Punjab.Maharashtra, which has reported the highest number of cases so far in the country, has also reported the most number of deaths (26) till date, followed by Gujarat (8), Telangana (7), Madhya Pradesh (6), Punjab (5), Delhi (4), Karnataka (3), West Bengal (3), Jammu and Kashmir (2), Uttar Pradesh (2) and Kerala (2).Also Read | Not religion, the Markaz crisis is about health, and irresponsibility | OpinionTamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Bihar and Himachal Pradesh have reported one death each. The total of 2,547 cases in the country also includes 55 foreign nationals.The highest number of confirmed cases of the coronavirus infection has been reported from Maharashtra followed by Tamil Nadu and Kerala.In Delhi, out of the total 386 coronavirus cases, 259 are from the Nizamuddin Markaz, the Delhi Health Department has said. The national capital reported 91 new coronavirus positive cases in the last 24 hrs taking the total number to 386.Maharashtra’s state health department data revealed that 67 new coronavirus positive cases have been reported on Friday. The total number of Covid-19 cases in the state stands at 490. The death toll in Maharashtra has jumped to 26, according to news agency ANI.Also Read | Bookings closed for domestic, international travel till Apr 30: Air IndiaTo help states in dealing with the coronavirus pandemic, Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Friday approved the release of Rs 11,092 crore to all states under the State Disaster Risk Management Fund (SDRMF). The money will be used for setting up quarantine facilities and arranging other necessities for containing the spread of coronavirus. The Home Ministry said the fund has been approved following an assurance given by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to chief ministers during his video conference on Thursday.The Ministry of Home Affairs too contributed Rs 205 crore, drawn from one day’s salary of staff under its command, to the PM-CARES Fund to combat the health crisis in the country. The ministry has also written to state governments to take strict action against those who have been found attacking healthcare and frontline workers. Reports of healthcare workers as well as security personnel being attacked have come in from several parts of the country amid the lockdown due to the coronavirus pandemic. A number of Tablighi Jamaat members quarantined at a Ghaziabad hospital allegedly misbehaved with nurses on Friday, making lewd remarks and other obscene gestures, provoking the Uttar Pradesh government to invoke the stringent National Security Act (NSA) against them.The six Jamaat members at the district hospital were shifted to an isolation ward set up at a private educational institute after complaints received against them.They are among the thousands who attended a religious congregation at the organisation’s New Delhi headquarters in Nizamuddin, now identified as a coronavirus hotspot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-india-reports-62-deaths-2-547-positive-coronavirus-cases/story-DkWvRmMOYCcXLpPd1tBA4M.html
03-04-2020||India||Bookings closed for domestic, international travel till Apr 30: Air India||National carrier Air India on Friday stopped advance bookings for all flights till April 30 even as the lockdown is in effect till April 14. “Air India bookings are now closed till April 30. We are awaiting a decision post April 14, “ an Air India official said. To be sure, bookings for both domestic and international flights of only Air India have been stopped while private airlines continue to take advance bookings from April 15 onward. “Air India is a commercial organisation and needs to consider scenarios in case of advance books and cancellations in case the lockdown is extended. We don’t even know right now if the lockdown will be lifted phase wise or not. For now we are going to wait till April 14 and in case the lockdown is not extended bookings can begin the same day,” a senior government official said requesting anonymity. All modes of conveyance, including rail traffic, road and air transport, have been suspended after the lockdown came into effect. Initially, international flights were suspended for a week from March 22 but later extended until April 15 coinciding with the lockdown. Domestic flights were suspended from the day the lockdown started on March 25.Centre had dismissed the reports that claimed that the lockdown will be extended. This also comes a day after union civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri had said India will consider resuming international flight operations on a case-by-case basis from April 15. Airlines are open to start advance bookings as per their own discretion and contingency plan, the minister had said.“The ministry is proceeding on the understanding that the lockdown is in place till April 15. There is no directive from the ministry about the contingency planning of airlines. But, as an eternal optimist, I am hoping that on April 15, flights can at least start, if not all, then in a calibrated manner. But that is a decision that we still need to take,” Puri had said Thursday.At present advance booking for trains from April 15 onward are also open. “Certain media reports have claimed that Railways has started reservation for post-lockdown period. It is to clarify that reservation for journeys post April 14 was never stopped and is not related to any new announcement,” the ministry of railways said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bookings-closed-for-domestic-international-travel-till-apr-30-air-india/story-E8pciL23w1tphD0mqqYIiN.html
03-04-2020||India||SC seeks response from Centre on plea by activists for payment of wages to migrant workers||The Supreme Court Friday sought response from the Centre on a plea filed by two civil rights activists seeking enforcement of fundamental right to life for migrant workers and payment of wages to them as they have been left without work or food following the 21-day nationwide lockdown due to coronavirus pandemic.“A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and Deepak Gupta had issued notice to Centre and posted the matter for further hearing on April 7,” advocate Prashant Bhushan, who appeared for petitioners Harsh Mander and Anjali Bhardwaj through video conferencing said.The plea said that fundamental right to life under Article 21 of the Constitution needs to be enforced for migrant workers who are severely affected by the lockdown ordered by the government on March 24.“The order for which no prior intimation was given, created a panic across the country and led to the instantaneous loss of jobs and wages of millions of migrant workers employed in establishments across India or self-employed as street vendors, rickshaw pullers, domestic house helps, petty job workers, etc. This led to the large scale exodus of these migrant workers to their home towns,” the plea said.The petition, filed through Bhushan, said that the sudden announcement of lockdown led to migrant workers crowding in large numbers of many thousands at bus terminals, railway stations and inter-state borders to find their way home, potentially exposing them to the virus and escalating the risk of its spread.It said that as news started emerging of this large scale exodus of migrant workers and the threat it posed by disrupting public health measures of social distancing to curb the spread of the virus, the Ministry of Home Affairs issued an order dated March 29, for ‘restriction of movement of migrants’.“This order asks employer of the migrant workers to pay their wages during the lockdown and their landlords not to charge them rent for this period. It also asks the State Governments to make arrangements for food and shelter for these workers,” it said.However, the petitioner submitted: “This order is not the correct or adequate response to the large scale exodus of migrant workers.” It added that as directed in the order of MHA, it is also unrealistic to expect the small establishments employing migrant workers to pay them their wages at their place of work.“Due to the lockdown the workers cannot travel to their place of work and many of these establishments are small businesses that have been forced to shut down and hence employers will not be able to pay these wages. Besides majority of these migrant workers are self-employed. “The order ignores the harsh realities that workers have to persistently face in cities that is further compounded when a lockdown order deprives them of their job, daily wages and hence means of survival, thus violating their Article 21 rights,” the plea said.The activists said the lockdown has precipitated an unprecedented humanitarian crisis especially among the class of migrant workers and it is the central and state governments that have to take adequate measures in accordance with National and State plans drawn out under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, under the guidance of the advisory committees they are mandated to constitute, to deal with this epidemic.“The current lockdown has cast an unprecedented economic hardship on daily wage earners. It is submitted that the Central and State Authorities have the necessary power and consequential duty to direct that all daily wage earners be provided with their wages at the place where they are currently present under the lockdown. The government is mandated under various statutes to keep a record of migrant workers whether employed in establishments or self-employed,” the petition said.It added that if in violation of the necessary statutes, the governments have not maintained records of such workers, it would be necessary to immediately put in place a mechanism for workers to self-identify and self-attest based on which the government can release wages.The petition sought direction to the central and state governments to jointly and severally ensure payments of wages/ minimum wages to all the migrant workers within a week, whether employed by other establishments, contractors or self-employed, as they are unable to work and earn wages, during the period of the lockdown.It also sought direction to them to immediately activate National and State Advisory Committees of experts in the field of disaster management and public health and prepare national and state disaster management plans for dealing with the COVID-19 epidemic, taking into account all relevant aspects, mitigation measure, their possible costs and consequences as required under the Disaster Management Act, 2005.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-seeks-response-from-centre-on-plea-by-activists-for-payment-of-wages-to-migrant-workers/story-uPoiphvlflcAv6bGGoYHpM.html
03-04-2020||India||Indore’s 80% Covid-19 cases have no travel history, say officials||Around 80% of the Covid-19 positive people in Indore do not have a known travel history, the health officials said, pointing at the possible local transmission of the virus in Madhya Pradesh’s business capital. Indore recorded its first Covid-19 case on March 25, five days after the first four cases in the state were reported from Jabalpur. Four cases were reported that day, which included one each from Ranipura, Chandan Nagar and Khajrana localities in Indore, which emerged as Covid-19 clusters within a week.Till March 29, Indore reported a marginal increase in cases every day: four on the 25th, five on the 26th, four each on the 27th and the 28th and three on the 29th. The spurt began on March 30, when 19 new cases were reported, and since then 61 new positive cases have been reported from the city, taking the total figure to 82 till Thursday night. Madhya Pradesh has 107 total cases.A health department official, who was not willing to be named, said when the initial cases were reported there was not much screening of people in these densely populated localities and the complete lockdown was also not strictly enforced. “This may have caused some community spread,” the official said.Sensing trouble, the MP government on March 30, replaced then collector, Lokesh Kumar Jatav, and the then DIG police, Ruchivardhan Mishra, with Manish Singh, as the new collector, and Harinarayan Chari Mishra, as the new DIG of police. Jatav refused to comment on the alleged lapses during initial stages saying the new collector should brief the media about the Indore situation.As the days passed, the Covid-19 pandemic spread to newer localities such as Daulatganj and Azad Nagar, neighbouring the ones from where the first four cases were reported, clearly showing that lockdown was not enforced.The localities cited by the administration are Muslim-dominated localities, having a combined population of 3.5 lakh to 4 lakh, according to Muslim community leaders. A sizeable section of the population comes from the middle and lower classes.What has shocked the health officials is that there’s no travel history of 80% of the Covid-19 cases till Thursday night. Chief medical and health officer (CMHO), Indore, Dr Praveen Jadia said, “Most of the cases don’t have a travel history. We suspect that the first four cases may have got the disease from one source and may have unknowingly spread it to others.” Anwar Qadri, Muslim community leader and corporator in Indore, agreed with him and said that except a couple of them none has any travel history to the best of his knowledge. “We are also baffled as to how the virus spread so fast in these localities,” he said, that unlike other places Indore Muslims were not associated with Tablighi Jamaat, except an insignificant number. A government official, who didn’t want to be named, said direct flights between Indore and Dubai were introduced last year, they have been suspended now. “There is a possibility that people from Indore who travelled to Dubai contracted the virus there,” he said.Even three days after the spurt happened, the district administration is yet to complete contact tracking of all Covid patients. Commissioner, Indore division Akash Tripathi said, “We are trying to know as to how many persons came in contact with Covid-19 positive cases to identify and screen such people. But we are yet to know as to from whom it all started.”He admitted that social media had added to their problems as people in these localities were resisting screening because of rumours related to the disease on different platforms, including WhatsApp.A section of people believing in the rumour that persons being picked for quarantine in Indore will be injected with a ‘Corona injection’ led to attack on four health workers, after which chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan had asked officials to book the miscreants under stringent National Security Act (NSA). “Rumours were one of the reasons behind the attack,” said deputy inspector general (DIG) of police, Indore, Harinarayan Chari Mishra. Indore Shahar Qazi, Mohammed Ishrat Ali, has appealed to Muslim community not to believe rumours and cooperate with the health department team in identifying and treating coronavirus affected people.The state government health bulletin said only 9% of people affected by coronavirus in Madhya Pradesh have travel history in comparison to 25% at the national level while 40% got it through contact transmission in comparison to 46% at the national level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indore-s-80-covid-19-cases-have-no-travel-history-say-officials/story-WMFlHITBi9LbZKSn27XaSN.html
03-04-2020||India||Corona tales: Piggy bank donations for PM’s relief fund||Rakshita Sharma, a 14-year-old Delhiite, had been collecting money since almost a year to buy a Kindle, but when it came to donating to the PM CARES Fund, she didn’t think twice before picking up her piggy bank and donating all her savings, so that “lives could be saved”.  My daughter Rakshita's contribution to #PMCARES Fund. She doesn't get any pocket money but saves rickshaw fare by walking or what she gets as ashirwad on her birthdays by the elders and grand parents @narendramodi ji she has asked me to thank you for your efforts and #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/rJdSHQ1kEhYoung adults like Rakshita have been setting unprecedented examples by donating their entire pocket money for the cause and propagating compassion and generosity. “Rakshita used to save the money I used to give her to pay as the rickshaw fare when travelling to her tuition. She instead chose to walk and collected the money, which she has now donated because she heard in the news that the country needs funds during this crisis,” says Jyotsna, Rakshita’s mother.  Have been seeing thoughtful messages of young children contributing to PM-CARES. This is special because they are contributing from their piggy banks. We yet again see the large-heartedness of young India. #IndiaFightsCorona https://t.co/FbYOKeY0TEhttps://t.co/J4btTCs9dN https://t.co/vVsCT954fwRecently, Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted about 11-year-old Reveda Bhatt, from Dehradun, who has contributed all her pocket money, which she had been saving from two-three years to buy toys for herself. “Toys se zyada logon ki jaan important hai na,” says Bhatt sharing that her parents are her role model. “Mere contribution ko poor people ko dena taki woh food, clothes aur medicines lele,” requests Bhatt, who has previously met the PM, when her parents were raising money for the 2013 Kedarnath flash floods victims.  Also from Dehradun, Abhinav Sharma, a 15-year-old, has written to the PM, requesting him to ask all religious trusts in India to contribute their funds to fight the Covid-19 pandemic. “I’ve also written to various religious trusts in Maharashtra and Kerala, asking them to shell out the donations that they have collected all these years, for the relief aids. God ke paas toh sab hai, unko paise ki zaroorat nahi hai, lekin insaan ko toh hai... clothes ki, medicines ki. Manav ki seva hi ishwar ki seva hai (Serving mankind is like serving God),” says Sharma, who is hopeful that his suggestion will be noticed by the PMO. Author tweets @FizzyBuddha||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/corona-tales-piggy-bank-donations-for-pm-s-relief-fund/story-CosDrLwMHPwBMKoVJ9KckL.html
03-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Centre approves Rs 11,092 cr to support states’ fight against coronavirus and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Centre approves Rs 11,092 cr to support states’ fight against coronavirusThe government of India on Friday approved the release of Rs.11,092 crore to states under State Disaster Risk Management Fund on Friday following an assurance from prime minister Narendra Modi to augment state resources needed to fund coronavirus containment efforts. Read moreGoa man who wished Covid-19 on those dealing with Jamaat attendees in FB post, heldThe Goa Police have arrested a person who wished the deadly Covid-19 disease on those healthcare workers and security personnel allegedly harassing Tablighi Jamaat attendees. The man, in a Facebook post, said those who are currently harassing the attendees should contract the disease. Read moreCentre to states: Earmark one hemodialysis facility in every districts Union health ministry has asked states and union territories to identify and earmark at least one hemodialysis facility with adequate number of machines, trained staff and other support equipment in every district as a preparatory fixed-point dialysis unit in case of rise of COVID-19 pandemic.Read more‘Public Interest Litigation shops should be shut down’: Centre to SCThe Centre Friday strongly opposed the petitions filed by activists for payment of wages to migrant workers who have been left without work due to the 21-day nationwide lockdown in view of coronavirus pandemic saying till the country comes out of this unprecedented tragedy such “professional PIL shops” must be locked down.Read moreUK Queen to address coronavirus crisis in special TV broadcastBuckingham Palace says Queen Elizabeth II has recorded an address to the nation and the Commonwealth about the coronavirus pandemic.The palace says the message was recorded at Windsor Castle and will be broadcast on Sunday. Read more‘Gonna give my all till next World Cup, will think about formats later’ - Virat KohliIndia captain Virat Kohli on Thursday said that playing all three formats of cricket for so many years is not easy. Speaking in a candid chat with former England captain Kevin Pietersen on Instagram Live, Kohli said that he keeps taking breaks in between to maintain his schedule. Read moreTales from the Loop review: In bleak times, new Amazon show is a brighter alternative to Black MirrorIt’s rare when a show’s striking visual sense has a narrative to match it, but Amazon Prime’s latest science-fiction series, Tales from the Loop, is both breathtakingly beautiful and radically ruminative. Read morePiano, baking: Hrithik Roshan, Kartik Aaryan, Jaiveer Shergill beat the lockdown blue with new hobbiesIndia is currently on day 10 of the 21-day lockdown that was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Indian citizens all around are doing their best to stay busy during this period of social isolation and self-quarantine. Read moreAdorable girl pretends to like her mom’s pasta even as it takes her on a roller coaster of tastesKids can be picky eaters and many times parents have to jump through hoops to get their children to eat healthy or even try different things. And children can be very vocal about what they like and don’t - sometimes at the point of hurting a grownup who may have toiled to prepare something nice for them. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-centre-approves-rs-11-092-cr-to-support-states-fight-against-coronavirus-and-all-the-latest-news/story-AkGM0NmP2BATmizR94Ri5L.html
03-04-2020||India||With 71 positive cases, Pune is Maharashtra’s 2nd Covid-19 hotspot||On Friday, 25 days after Maharashtra’s first Covid-19 case was detected in Pune, the district reported 71 positive cases, which include two persons who died in Pune city and also those who were discharged after treatment in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad.A few sporadic cases of community transmission were also reported in the city where the patients had no history of foreign travel or known contact with a positive patient.The first case, reported on March 9 and identified as ‘zero patients’ for Covid19 was that of a husband-wife couple who returned from Dubai. This couple was not screened at the airport as Dubai, then, was not in the list of high-risk countries.Pune, with 71 positive cases, has recorded the second-highest number of cases in Maharashtra after Mumbai’s 278.Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said the containment plan is in place in almost all the areas of the city.“Since the first case was recorded in the city on March 9, we put in place the containment plan as prescribed by the government. Currently, almost the entire city is covered. We started containment within a one to three km radius in areas where a positive patient is found,” he said.A notification from the ministry of health & family welfare said, “The cluster containment strategy would be to contain the disease within a defined geographic area by early detection, breaking the chain of transmission and thus preventing its spread to new areas. This would include geographic quarantine, social distancing measures, enhanced active surveillance, testing all suspected cases, isolation of cases, home quarantine of contacts, social mobilization to follow preventive public health measures.”As of now, a few areas where multiple cases have been identified include, Sinhgad road where the Dubai returned couple reside, Kondhwa, where people had returned from the Tablighi event in Delhi and Ambegaon where a woman who was admitted to Bharati Hospital lives. The woman who was critical eventually recovered.Pune also saw a few possible cases of community transmission with no foreign travel history or direct contact with a positive Covid-19 case.The city recorded two deaths, the first on March 30 of a 52-year-old businessman from Thane with multiple ailments, and the second of a 50-year-old woman on Thursday at the Sassoon Government Hospital. The city also saw the miraculous recovery of a 41-year-old aanganwadi worker who was admitted to Bharati Vidyapeeth Hospital on March 16. She twice tested negative on March 31 after being on the ventilator for almost 11 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-71-positive-cases-pune-is-maharashtra-s-2nd-covid-19-hotspot/story-s6gLVfzpDN64cObfuCE8PP.html
03-04-2020||India||SC seeks govt response over payment of minimum wages to migrant workers||The Supreme Court (SC) on Friday sought the response of the Central government in a plea to ensure payments of minimum wages to all migrant workers, who are either employed by companies or contractors or self-employed, within a week.The petition filed by activists Harsh Mander and Anjali Bhardwaj pointed out that migrant workers are unable to earn their wages because of the ongoing 21-day nationwide lockdown enforced by the government since March 25 to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and Deepak Gupta posted the case for next hearing on April 7.The petitioners submitted that the lockdown order issued on March 24, for which no prior intimation was given, created a panic across the country and led to the instantaneous loss of jobs and wages of millions of migrant workers employed in establishments across the country or self-employed as street vendors, rickshaw-pullers, domestic helps, petty job workers, etc.“The (lockdown) order ignores the harsh realities that workers have to persistently face in cities that is further compounded when the order deprives them of their jobs, daily wages and as a result, means of survival, thus violating their Article 21 (Right to Life) rights,” the petition stated.Petition seeking free Covid 19 testingThe SC on Friday asked the Centre for its response a petition praying that Covid-19 test should be provided free of cost to all citizens at all private and government-run testing laboratories.At present, private laboratories are allowed to charge up to Rs 4,500 to conduct Covid-19 test.“It is urgently required that the respondents have to provide free of cost Covid-19 test to all citizens,” the petition stated.Advocate Shashank Deo Sudhi, who filed the plea, submitted that government hospitals are packed to capacity and it has become difficult for a common man to get tested in government laboratories.The public is forced to fork out up to Rs 4,500 to get Covid-19 test done at private laboratories because of lack of options. Saddling ordinary citizens with such a financial burden effectively deprive them of their accessibility to medical facilities and is violative of Right to Life guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution, the petitioner submitted.Sudhi also pointed out that there are only 114 designated centres to conduct Covid-19 test in a country that has over 1.3-billion population. He claimed that the lack of an adequate number of testing centres has prevented conducting Covid-19 test in an aggressive manner and could pose a major health hazard for the country in the coming days.He urged that testing facilities should be ramped up and pathological laboratories accredited with National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL) must conduct all Covid-19 tests.SC wants strict action on price gouging of masks and sanitisersThe SC on Friday asked the Centre to publicise measures taken by it to deal with price gouging of personal protective equipment (PPE) such as masks and hand sanitisers.A bench of justices L Nageswara Rao and Deepak Gupta said the government to take strict action against those flouting the price control notification issued by the authorities concerned. The apex court disposed of the case after the government told the SC on Friday that it would publicise helpline numbers for customers to reach out if they come across any violation of the price control notification.The plea by the non-governmental organization (NGO), Justice for Rights Foundation, had claimed that there was a growing rise in demand for masks and sanitisers due to the Covid-19 outbreak. Consequently, chemists and medical shops are taking advantage of the situation and selling such commodities at a price much higher than the maximum retail price (MRP) as well as the price prescribed by the government.The petitioner had alleged that several chemists and medicine shops, in an attempt to defraud and profit from the unprecedented outbreak, were striking out the MRP of masks and sanitisers and applying their own exorbitant price tags.The government had come out with notifications and orders declaring facemasks and hand sanitisers as essential commodities and capping their prices.“The Department of Consumer Affairs, in wake of the need and the urgency of the present condition published a notification dated March 21, fixing the prices of the mask i.e. 2 ply masks to be priced at Rs 8 and 3 ply masks to priced at Rs 10 and that a 200-millilitre bottle of sanitiser to be sold at a price of Rs 100,” the petition pointed out.The petitioner claimed that despite the notification, medicine shops were still selling masks and sanitisers at higher prices in brazen defiance of the notification.Kerala –Karnataka border: SC bats for amicable resolutionThe SC on Friday issued notice to the Centre and Kerala governments in an appeal filed by Karnataka challenging an April 1 order of Kerala high court (HC) directing the Central government to remove the road blockades erected by Karnataka on the Kerala-Karnataka border.The apex court did not stay the Kerala HC order but asked the chief secretaries of both the states and the Union health secretary to hold a meeting to arrive at an amicable solution in a bid to ensure movement of vehicles in case of medical emergencies.The case will be heard next on April 7.The Karnataka government had blocked the roads, including National Highway 66 connecting the state with Kerala’s northern districts, in its bid to tackle the spread of Covid-19 outbreak. It had erected mud mounds on the roads, preventing all vehicular traffic between the neighbouring states.Kerala has reported 286 Covid-19 positive cases in the country, and ranks third after Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu.Out of the 286 cases, 129 cases are from the state’s northern-most district, Kasaragod, which shares its borders with Karnataka.The Kerala High Court Advocates Association had moved Kerala HC against the blockades. On April 1, the HC noted that the national highway network comes under the Central government and had ordered it to remove the blockades.“We direct the Central government to intervene in the matter and ensure that the blockades erected by Karnataka on the national highways connecting the said state to Kerala, are removed forthwith, and without any further delay, so as to facilitate the free movement of vehicles carrying persons for urgent medical treatment, across the border between the two states,” the HC had directed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-seeks-govt-response-over-payment-of-minimum-wages-to-migrant-workers/story-A7q7aTTN4ZI03LaQdOITpO.html
03-04-2020||India||Centre approves Rs 11,092 cr to support states’ fight against coronavirus||The government of India on Friday approved the release of Rs.11,092 crore to states under State Disaster Risk Management Fund on Friday following an assurance from prime minister Narendra Modi to augment state resources needed to fund coronavirus containment efforts. A release from the home ministry described the funds as “advance release” of Centre’s share of first installment of SDRMF for 2020-21.States have been authorised to use SDRFM funds for testing and treatment costs among other Covid-19 containment requirements“Following the assurance given yesterday by Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi during his video conference meeting with the Chief Ministers, Union Minister for Home Affairs, Shri Amit Shah has approved the release of Rs 11,092 crores under the State Disaster Risk Management Fund (SDRMF), to all States,” a release from government’s Press Information Bureau said.The release further specifies that the Fund could be utilized for setting up quarantine facilities, sample collection, screening, setting up additional testing laboratories, cost of consumables, purchase of personal protection equipment for healthcare, municipal, police and fire authorities, purchase of thermal scanners, ventilators, air purifiers, and consumables for government hospitals.“With a view to make available additional funds to the State Governments for taking preventive and mitigation measures for containment of COVID-19, Central Government on 14.03.2020 has already made a special dispensation for utilization of State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF),” the release said referring to a previous government order. The ministry also reiterated that as a special case, the SDRF funds could also be used to make arrangements for food and shelter for homeless people and stranded migrant workers.Click Here for Latest Reports on Coronavirus“Central Government is sensitive to the need for providing food and shelter to homeless people including migrant labourers, who are stranded due to lockdown measures. Accordingly on 28.03.2020, the Central Government allowed the States Government to use SDRF for this purpose also,” the release added.The release added that the Central Government, under the leadership of the Prime Minister, is extending “all necessary support” to the States in a “timely manner” to deal with an unprecedented global crisis.Coronavirus live updates||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-approves-rs-11-092-cr-to-supportstates-in-fight-against-coronavirus/story-qNEc3tzwBONUK0N8W2qtbP.html
03-04-2020||India||Goa man who wished Covid-19 on those dealing with Jamaat attendees in FB post, held||The Goa Police have arrested a person who wished the deadly Covid-19 disease on those healthcare workers and security personnel allegedly harassing Tablighi Jamaat attendees. The man, in a Facebook post, said those who are currently harassing the attendees should contract the disease.The accused identified as Mohsin Shaikh, in a Facebook post which he has since deleted, said if the Tablighi Jamaat organisers were wrong they should not be forgiven, but those who are currently harassing them should contract the disease. Shaikh was booked and arrested under Sections 269 (spreading an infectious disease) and 188 (disobedience to a government order) of the Indian Penal Code. A total of 46 people who attended the Jamaat meet in Delhi in March have been identified in Goa. However, only nine of them are believed to have participated in the convention which contributed to the spike of Covid-19 cases in the country. All those identified had entered Goa before March 15. Their test results are awaited. So far, Goa had six confirmed cases of the coronavirus with yet another patient testing positive on Thursday night. Another patient who passed away on Thursday night while under isolation at the Goa Medical College and Hospital was found to have tested negative for coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-man-who-wished-covid-19-on-those-dealing-with-jamaat-attendees-in-fb-post-held/story-hTgoBZAQy4Tnf36UO28QjL.html
03-04-2020||India||‘Public Interest Litigation shops should be shut down’: Centre to SC||The Centre Friday strongly opposed the petitions filed by activists for payment of wages to migrant workers who have been left without work due to the 21-day nationwide lockdown in view of coronavirus pandemic saying till the country comes out of this unprecedented tragedy such “professional PIL shops” must be locked down.Preparing PILs without any ground level information or knowledge while sitting in an air-conditioned office is not ‘public service’ entitling any of them (activists) to argue public interest litigations particularly in the present global crisis, the government said.A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and Deepak Gupta, which took PILs filed by activists Harsh Mander, Anjali Bhardwaj and Swami Agnivesh on the issue of plight of migrant workers for hearing through video conferencing, was told by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta that the government has done an exemplary work in containing the spread of COVID-19 to the minimum number possible.The bench, which sought response from the Centre on the PILs, was told by Mehta that the government has taken several pro-active and timely steps at various levels to mitigate the problems faced by the citizens.Vehemently opposing the PILs, Mehta pointed out that the country is going through unprecedented crisis of fighting an unknown deadly virus and all officers are working day and night through several control rooms.He said none of the petitioners have even bothered to serve the poor and needy or the persons suffering from the virus and, therefore, can never be treated as ‘public spirited citizens’. He said that till the country and the world comes out of this unprecedented tragedy such “professional PIL shops” must be locked down as none of them have any concern about the poor and needy or thousands of patients fighting this deadly disease. Mehta asserted that genuine NGOs and bona fide public spirited citizens are tirelessly working at a grass-root level with government officials and helping the needy as also assisting the patients and doctors in whichever way they can. Filing of PILs in the midst of the government’s fight with this deadly disease is proving to be detrimental in the entire country, he added. He said he has been approached by many Advocate Generals of the States sharing their anxiety that the government officers who are working day and night are losing their precious working hours in these trying times by sitting in lawyers’ chambers and preparing replies to frivolous PILs. He emphasised that officers should better be left to discharge their duties and expressed the hope that all constitutional courts in the country would be circumspect in entertaining such petitions in these unprecedented circumstances so as not to create any hindrance in the efforts of the central state governments which are working on a war footing. PTI MNL ABA SJK SA SA||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/public-interest-litigation-shops-should-be-shut-down-centre-to-sc/story-WB5j5zp1DVkas0pQeveLmL.html
03-04-2020||India||IAS officer posted in MP tests +ve, colleagues go into self-quarantine||An Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer posted in the health department in Bhopal tested positive for coronavirus on Friday. He has been hospitalised, said officials.The swab test report of the officer led to several officers including certain IAS officers, whose number couldn’t be specified immediately, choosing self-quarantine, officials added.The infected officer attended several meetings where some top officials of the government were also present, except in the past few days, said department officials.Commissioner, Health Services, MP government Faiz Ahmad Kidwai said, “The officer whose report has come positive has been hospitalised. However, another sample has been sent for test and the report is awaited.”About others who came in his contact, the commissioner said, “All are taking precautions.”Another officer who didn’t want to be named said the infected officer was not keeping well for the past three to four days, hence he chose to quarantine himself of late and kept away from meetings during this period.“There are a good number of officers and employees who worked under his leadership and were involved in the health department’s multi-pronged action to identify and treat covid-19 positive patients and check the spread of the virus. All are being advised to take precautions and self-quarantine. The officers are having a discussion to find out ways to ensure that the work of the health department doesn’t suffer at this juncture,” the official quoted above said.Earlier, four persons including three foreigners who took part in a ‘Foreign Jamaat’ in Bhopal tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday and were hospitalised, as per an official communiqué from the district administration.Since Thursday night, as many as 20 cases of Covid-19 have come to light in Madhya Pradesh taking the tally to 127, including 95 in Indore, 9 in Bhopal, 8 in Jabalpur, 7 in Ujjain, two each in Gwalior, Shivpuri and Morena and one each in Khargone and Chhindwara. Eight patients have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-ias-officer-tests-positive-for-covid-19-his-colleagues-self-quarantine/story-2bm5SvnLSz2Sc4iyg4JiYM.html
03-04-2020||India||‘Don’t do this’: Bengal CM on resistance in setting up Covid-19 hospitals||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday urged people to strictly maintain social distancing amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.On Friday, the state government reported four new cases of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, taking the total tally to 57. Of them, 38 were described as “active cases”, as 12 have recovered and seven died. The government, however, suspects that four of the seven Covid-19 deaths were due to “co-morbidity”. “The Covid-19 infection spreads among family members. We’ve come across one case in which 10 people in a family have tested Covid-19 positive. There are other cases, including the one in which five members of a family have tested Covid-19 positive. I’m urging everybody to protect yourself in a bid to save your family members and loved ones,” Banerjee said while addressing the media on Friday.The CM also expressed concerns over incidents that some people were objecting to setting up of Covid-19 hospitals in their localities.“We’re not mixing Covid-19 cases with other patients. We’re setting up hospitals in every district exclusively for novel coronavirus. But some people are objecting to our move. Some are even objecting to the cremation of the dead. I urge you not to do this. I remind you that under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, the government is the final authority to decide on such matters,” Banerjee said.She urged people not to panic, assuring that most patients recover. “Except for those who are suffering from other bronchial or kidney ailments, most of those who test positive for Covid-19 recover,” she said.Of the total 5,110 people who have been quarantined in government-run centres, 3,218 have been released, the government said. Of the 54,965 people asked to be quarantined at home, 2,936 are released, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-covid-19-spreads-mamata-asks-bengal-residents-to-follow-social-distancing/story-cTP7GVPOmXKU6rqGfvzBcJ.html
03-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Centre asks states to allow vendors to sell essentials||The Centre on Friday has issued an advisory to states to allow authorised urban street vendors to sell essential items during the ongoing 21-day nationwide period, which has been enforced to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, in a bid to ensure their livelihood and encourage home delivery of basic commodities of daily needs. The advisory comes at a time when a massive supply crunch of consumer items has escalated across states, as buyers of all hues are scouring markets for daily needs, during the lockdown, which started on March 25 and is likely to end to April 15.“The urban street vendors are facing the risk of losing their livelihoods during the lockdown. They play an important role in the supply of essential items such as groceries, fruits and vegetables to people at affordable prices,” according to a letter written by the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs to the chief secretaries of all states and Union Territories. The letter said district authorities have been encouraged to facilitate home delivery and minimise movement of people outside their homes during the lockdown.It is advised that the street vendors carry valid identity cards or certificates of vending may be allowed to carry on their business subject to restrictions imposed by the district authorities in a bid to encourage home delivery of essential items such as groceries, fruits and vegetables, the advisory noted. Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) have identified street vendors as per provisions of the Street Vendor’s Act, 2014, and issued certificates of vending and identity cards, the ministry said. “These street vendors need to ensure cleanliness of their carts, personal hygiene, regular use of sanitiser and follow other social distancing norms. These operations will be subject to restrictions imposed by district authorities. However, restrictions will continue on street food vendors, as they may result in the congregation of people and violations of lockdown,” Union Minister for Housing and Urban Affairs Hardeep Puri said.The Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on March 29 ordered states to allow transportation of all goods during the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-centre-asks-states-to-allow-vendors-to-sell-essentials/story-8DXlRpEzwIrudyhH4a7ePO.html
03-04-2020||India||IIT Roorkee thanks corona warriors with special face shields to block Covid-19||Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Roorkee has developed a low-cost 3D printed face shield to protect medical practitioners from coronavirus infection while they are busy treating patients. The face shield has been developed by a group of three professors and staffers of the institute at its technical facility named ‘The Tinkering Laboratory’, which encourages innovations and experiments by the students, said IIT officials.Professor Akshay Dvivedi, co-ordinator, The Tinkering Laboratory, said the face shield is “based on the design of spectacles with a 3D printed frame. This protective gear could be used by the frontline health staffers who are involved in treating the patients.”“The 3D printed frame consists of a transparent sheet attached to it to protect the face which could be replaced,” said Dvivedi.He added that the gear was a “token of thanks” to the health professionals for their services in these times of crisis.The professor said the cost of developing the face shield was close to Rs 45.“Of the total cost, the transparent sheet costs Rs 5. If mass-produced, the cost of the whole product could come down to Rs 25,” he said.He added that doctors at AIIMS Dehradun were also consulted and modifications were made to the shield according to their suggestions and needs.“We will soon be sending the first batch of 100 such face shields to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Rishikesh. We have also received demand for the face shields from another state-based medical university and we will make some for them also,” he said.Lauding the effort of IIT for the face shield, AIIMS Rishikesh director, Dr Ravi Kant said, “IIT Roorkee’s product would be of great use for not only the health workers of AIIMS Rishikesh but for the whole country. It is a valuable innovation in this hour of need.”Click Here for Latest Reports on Coronavirus||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iit-roorkee-thanks-corona-warriors-with-special-face-shields-to-block-covid-19/story-4QwxUqFVPbUEBfBCiwSiuK.html
03-04-2020||India||Air India pilot unions oppose 10% cut in employees’ allowances||State-owned Air India’s pilot unions on Friday opposed the 10 per cent cut in employees’ allowances, terming the decision as “unequal” and that goes against the spirit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s appeal to the companies to ensure that the salaries of the employees are not slashed amid the coronavirus pandemic.In a joint letter to Air India chief Rajiv Bansal on Friday, the Indian Pilots Guild (IPG) and Indian Commercial Pilots Association (ICPA) said the reduction in allowance was against the labour and employment ministry’s advisory to all employers of public or private establishments not to terminate their employees or reduce their wages.The letter read: ‘By effecting a 10% cut on allowances for all employees, the category that has been affected the most are pilots. Flying related allowances of pilots’ wages, the directors and senior management executives have deviously exempted themselves from any meaningful austerity cut as their allowances are extremely small while pilots and cabin crew who are the front-line warriors flying and risking their lives, are forced to bear the maximum cut.’The airline pilots requested Bansal to advise the senior executive management to draw up fair cost cutting measures and not to manipulate the system to safeguard their salaries by burdening the front-line soldiers of the national carrier. “We are open to discussion on alternative. We hereby seek your urgent intervention,” the pilots said.“While all the other employees are paid in full, flying crew alone are made to bear the brunt with delayed flying allowance. Implementation of sham austerity measures to cut the flying allowances on top of all this would be adding insult to injury,” the pilots complained. Two days after Modi’s appeal during his televised address to the nation on imposition of a 21-day lockdown to curb spread of the coranvirus infection, Air India decided to reduce 10% of allowances paid to all employees, except cabin crew, for a period of three months to tide over the economic fallout of Covid-19. The reduction, however, did not impact the basic pay, house rent allowance and variable dearness allowance.With inputs from agencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-pilot-unions-oppose-10-cut-in-employees-allowances/story-EcDP3CW8rYpmpLV7UF8n7K.html
03-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Govt updates online farm trading platform for easier harvest sale||The Union government has updated the electronic national agriculture markets or the E-Nam, an online trading platform, with two new software updates so that farmers don’t have to travel long distance to sell their harvests, the agriculture ministry has said. Two software modules – warehouse-based trading module to facilitate trade from warehouses and farmer producer organisations’ module – are aimed at reducing the need physically move entire harvests to aggregators to contract a sale. The move has been initiated in the wake of the 21-day nationwide lockdown imposed to stop the spread of Covid-19. This essentially means farmers will be able to access buyers through the mobile software from nearest warehouses. The second update aims to allow farmer collectives to connect to the E-NAM network from their own collection centres.A chain of electronic national agricultural markets, called e-NAM, serves an online trading system. Farmers only have to bring a small sample of their produce, which is then evaluated by agricultural “assayists”. Once graded by assayists, the sample report can be accessed by any buyer in any state. Many southern states have scaled up the system. “FPO trading module in e-NAM whereby FPOs can trade their produce from their collection centre without bringing the produce to APMC,” a statement from the ministry said.An enhanced version of logistic module has been incorporated into the online trading module. Aggregators of transport logistic platform have been “on boarded” on it, which helps users to avail trackable transport facilities for transporting their produce, the ministry said.The e-NAM facility was launched on 14 April 2016 as an all-India electronic trade portal linking markets across She States. There are 585 mandis in 16 States and two Union territories that have been integrated on the e-NAM portal. Farmer collectives can upload a picture of their produce and quality parameters from their premises to help distant bidders to visualise the produce before bidding. They have the option for delivery of produce either from their premises or by bringing to mandi premise after successful bidding. This will not only decongest the mandis but also reduce the logistics cost for the farmer producer organization, the ministry added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-govt-updates-online-farm-trading-platform-for-easier-harvest-sale/story-4YyUQpK79qt5Zuf0dPsglJ.html
03-04-2020||India||Coronavirus rapid testing: All you need to know including testing criteria||India has allowed faster and cheaper antibody tests which are also being referred to as rapid tests to detect coronavirus disease in hot spots--about 20 clusters of infections in the country currently and 22 others with the potential to turn into one. This will not only increase the overall testing capacity and cut costs but will also lead to quicker response to aid containment efforts. The antibody tests or rapid tests do not require testing a throat or a nasal swab from a suspected patient and are done by testing a patients’ blood sample, serum or plasma using simpler testing kits. Here are some important facts about rapid testing. 1. The test process in use till now is called PCR or polymerase chain reaction which identifies the Sars-CoV-2 virus from the throat or nasal swab samples of suspected patients. The PCR test results can take up to five hours while the antibody test results will be available in 15-30 minutes.2. The antibody test will test blood samples of people in the hotspots to see how many have been infected including those with mild or no symptoms. This is crucial to assess the percentage of infected people who have managed to defeat the virus without significant medical intervention. Such people could also be referred to as “corona-blockers”.3. Those who test positive in rapid test or antibody test will be tested for confirmation through RT-PCR (reverse transcription-PCR) using throat or nasal swab. This means positive results will be reconfirmed using the PCR test.4. Now let’s understand how the rapid test works- The antibody test uses a blood sample to detect antibodies against coronavirus in a person’s immune system. Presence of coronavirus antibodies would establish that the person was either infected in the near past or is infected currently.5. Antibody test or the rapid tests are part of the standard testing protocol for several infections including dengue and chikungunya and the Indian testing laboratories have sufficient understanding and experience of carrying out these tests. On top of it, these testing kits can be produced on a mass scale in a relatively shorter span of time.Click Here for Latest Reports on Coronavirus6. Rapid testing kits to be used are being approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). These rapid tests are relatively simple to perform and interpret and therefore require limited test operator training. They may be intended either for use in hospital laboratories or near the point-of-care.7. There are two types of Covid-19 rapid tests currently in use globally or in development- direct SARS-CoV-2 antigen detection and indirect antibody detection tests. Antigen detection tests detect viral components present during the infection in samples like nasopharyngeal secretions but results from these tests have sometimes taken up to two days to reach the point of care, therefore, the antibody test, which detects the antibodies that later appear in serum/blood/plasma as part of the immune response against the virus, are being added to the testing mix for quicker detection and response.8. It must be noted that SARS-CoV-2 antibody detection tests have a limitation and are unable to detect Covid-19 in cases of recent infections as it can take up to 10 days or more after symptoms emerge for a detectable level of antibodies to build up in the patient. The rapid test can often be positive in a patient who has no symptoms of the disease since the antibodies stay in the blood long after the infection has cleared.9. Rapid tests are also considered to be less accurate and less sensitive than laboratory-performed diagnostic tests such as PCR, therefore, clinical validation is recommended.10. The rapid test detects IgM and IgG antibodies to SARS-CoV-2 in whole blood, serum or plasma samples that bind to the virus antigen present in the testing kit.Coronavirus live updates||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-rapid-testing-all-you-need-to-know-including-testing-criteria/story-CPFfLtx4cWMBxSPgjJa6MI.html
03-04-2020||India||Diaspora groups rally to help Indians stranded in UK||Indian high commissioner Ruchi Ghanashyam on Friday lauded the efforts of various individuals and groups across the UK helping stranded Indians with food, accommodation and advice to deal with the situation created by the coronavirus pandemic.“I am touched that a large number of individuals, help groups, associations and organisations have come forward to render help…We are actively in touch with the UK and relevant Indian authorities on the concerns of Indian citizens living in the UK”, she said.Many Indians on tourist, business, student and other categories of UK visa have been unable to travel to India due to the closure of India’s borders until April 14. The mission has cautioned people of attempts to scam and spread misinformation about flights home.Ghanashyam said in a message: “On concerns regarding travel to India, the high commission has been in touch with the Indian authorities concerned and will keep Indian citizens in the UK updated as and when new travel advisories are issued by the Government of India.”“In the meanwhile, I request all of you not to believe in the misleading and mischievous information circulated by some elements”.The Boris Johnson government has extended until May 31 the period of Indians whose visa has or is about to expire and are unable to return. Universities have allowed international students to stay in accommodation during the ongoing Easter vacations.Ghanashyam added in her message that Indians should follow the advice of British health authorities, besides practising simple yoga postures and breathing exercises “to relieve stress and anxiety and make your inner river of energy work for you”.The mission has been tweeting some yoga exercises, she said, adding: “These are also available on YouTube as ‘Yoga with Modi’”.Consular officials have uploaded on the commission’s website a growing list of individuals and organisations offering help to Indians stranded in the UK.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/diaspora-groups-rally-to-help-indians-stranded-in-uk/story-yNyYnAr7tAtzw3OQ6EEIoN.html
03-04-2020||India||‘Take strict action against those attacking healthcare workers’: MHA to states||The Union Ministry of Home Affairs has written to state governments to take strict action against those who have been found attacking healthcare and frontline workers. The ministry has also asked states to ensure security to the medical fraternity, Punya Salila Srivastava, Joint Secretary, Home Ministry said on Friday.“There are seven helpline numbers in the control room of the Union Home Ministry. Now, we have introduced two more helpline numbers - 1930 (all India toll-free number) and 1944 (dedicated to the Northeast) for such complaints,” the Home Ministry official said. Reports of healthcare workers as well as security personnel being attacked have come in from several parts of the country amid the lockdown due to the coronavirus pandemic. In Madhya Pradesh on Thursday, seven people were arrested for allegedly attacking health workers in Indore. The residents of a locality in the city pelted stones at healthcare workers who went there to screen people for Covid-19. Two female doctors reportedly sustained injuries in the incident.Also Read | ‘With full weight of law’: MHA orders FIRs against 960 foreign Jamaat workers, sponsorsIn another incident, Tablighi Jamaat members quarantined at a Ghaziabad hospital allegedly misbehaved with the nurses, making lewd remarks and other obscene gestures, provoking the Uttar Pradesh government to invoke the stringent National Security Act (NSA) against them.The six Jamaat members at the district hospital were shifted to an isolation ward set up at a private educational institute after complaints received against them.They are among the thousands who attended a religious congregation at the organisation’s New Delhi headquarters, now identified as a coronavirus hotspot.Also Read | Yogi Adityanath orders NSA against Jamaat members for alleged misbehaviourUttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has called those involved in the incident “enemies of humanity”.“They will neither accept the law nor follow arrangements. Whatever they did with women health workers is a heinous crime,” he said on Friday. “The NSA is being invoked against them. We will not let leave them,” he said, in a government statement in Lucknow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/take-strict-action-against-those-attacking-healthcare-workers-mha-to-states/story-2CqOBFVmhmuTWWTZXK50wI.html
03-04-2020||India||Covid facilities being readied at 51 armed forces hospitals: Defence ministry||Dedicated Covid-19 facilities are being readied at 51 hospitals operated by the armed forces across the country including Kolkata, Visakhapatnam, Kochi, Dundigal near Hyderabad, Bengaluru, Kanpur, Jaisalmer, Jorhat and Gorakhpur, the defence ministry said in a statement on Friday.The Covid facilities at these hospitals include intensive care unit (ICU) beds and high dependency units that are a scaled down version of an ICU.The ministry said the Indian Air Force’s transport fleet has been deployed to airlift essential supplies, medicines and medical equipment, and it has so far transported 60 tonne of stores. Thirty transport planes and 28 helicopters are on standby at various bases across the country to support the fight against the pandemic.The ministry said the military is running quarantine facilities at Mumbai, Jaisalmer, Jodhpur, Hindon, Manesar and Chennai where 1,737 cases have been handled. Of them, 403 people have been released. “Fifteen other facilities are on standby,” the ministry said.The 15 facilities, with a combined capacity of 7,000 people, are in several cities including Babina, Jhansi, Barmer, Bhopal, Kolkata, Bhatinda, Hyderabad, Kanpur, Gorakhpur and Kochi.More than 8,500 military doctors and support staff are ready to help the government in the fight against Covid-19 pandemic, apart from 9,000 hospital beds that have been prepared to meet emergency requirements. Five hospitals run by the armed forces are equipped to carry out Covid-19 tests and six more would be added to the list soon.Six warships and five medical teams are on standby to provide assistance to neighbouring countries, the ministry said.The Defence Research and Development Organisation has also come up with solutions for sanitizing areas such as metro stations, railway stations, hospitals, malls, airports, isolation areas, quarantine centres and high-risk residential areas. The DRDO said the Delhi-based Centre for Fire, Explosive and Environment Safety (CFEES), Delhi has developed two configurations of sanitizing equipment (portable and trolley mounted) that are spin-offs from technologies developed for fire suppression.“Two of these systems are being provided to Delhi Police for immediate use. These can be made available to other agencies with the help of industry partners,” an official release said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-facilities-being-readied-at-51-armed-forces-hospitals-defence-ministry/story-u7Mhr07Zt5vjam30AmDEEK.html
03-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Foreigners from at least 41 countries among those blacklisted for Nizamuddin Markaz and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Foreigners from at least 41 countries among those blacklisted for Nizamuddin MarkazForeign nationals from at least 41 countries including the US participated in the controversial Tablighi Jamaat gathering at the community’s headquarters in the Nizamuddin area of the capital in violation of their visa conditions, as per an initial official estimate seen by the Hindustan Times. Read moreCoronavirus update: Tripura CM seeks ideas from people to recover loss after Covid-19 lockdownTripura’s chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb has tapped the people of his state for suggestions to help his government tackle the economic after effects of the 21-day national lockdown, which is in place to beat the spread of coronavirus disease. Read moreCoronavirus: US embassy employee tests positive for Covid-19An employee of the US embassy in New Delhi has tested positive for Covid-19 and is being provided medical treatment, a spokesperson for the mission said on Friday. Read more More than 900 coronavirus deaths in Spain for second dayMore than 900 people died in Spain over the past 24 hours for the second day running, government figures showed on Friday, although the rate of new infections and deaths continued to slow. Read morePM Narendra Modi asks sportspersons to spread message of positivity in fight against coronavirus pandemicPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday spoke to some of the country’s top sportspersons, past and present, via video conference. During the interaction PM Modi asked the sportspersons to reach out to the masses and spread the message of positivity during these tough times of the coronavirus pandemic. Read moreGoogle report uses location data to gauge how traffic movement has changed over lockdownGoogle on Friday published the COVID-19 Community Mobility Reports for 131 countries to show how the lockdown owing to the coronavirus outbreak has affected the movement of traffic in public places. Read moreMountain range in Himachal Pradesh visible from Jalandhar in Punjab. See picsIn a hard-to-believe moment, residents of Jalandhar, Punjab woke up to an incredible sight – a mountain range peeking from behind the clouds. The only thing is that this magnificent creation of nature is not located in the land of five rivers but is over 200 kms away from the state. Read moreReady, aim, click: Up your Insta profile, here’s howInstagram has become a very different place, with no eating-out and no travel. Most views are now of drawing rooms and kitchens, as the world remains in lockdown for another week. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-foreigners-from-at-least-41-countries-among-those-blacklisted-for-nizamuddin-markaz-and-all-the-latest-news/story-2ZLISQrEtV5NHQ9fX5PvdP.html
03-04-2020||India||Coronavirus: Andhra reports first Covid-19 death, finds Jamaat event link||The samples of a 55-year-old man, who died four days ago at the government hospital in Vijayawada, tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Friday, making him the first fatality of the infection in the state.The deceased was the father of a person who attended the Tablighi Jamaat’s international congregation at Nizamuddin in Delhi held between March 13 and 15 and returned home two days later, according to an official bulletin released by the state medical and health department on Friday afternoon.“The deceased was brought to the hospital in Vijayawada at around 11.30 am on March 30. He was suffering from hypertension, diabetes and a heart condition. He died within an hour after being admitted to the hospital,” the bulletin said. The delay in identifying the reason for the death due to Covid-19 was because of the deceased’s multiple health complications, it added.The state government authorities said that it was revealed after the man’s death that his son had attended the Jamaat event. “We took his swab samples after we came to know of his son’s travel history. On Friday, it was confirmed that he had died of Covid-19,” the bulletin said.The son, who was also undergoing treatment at the hospital, tested Covid-19 positive on Tuesday. “Altogether, 29 people who got in touch with the son, have been quarantined. All of them have been tested,” it added.The flight details of the son have also been shared with the Central government, while further details about his travel history are being ascertained, the bulletin said.In a separate bulletin, the department said 12 new Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Andhra since Thursday night, taking the total tally to 161, of which three have been discharged after they fully recovered. Nellore district has recorded the highest number of cases at 32, followed by Krishna (23), Guntur (20), West Godavari (15) and Visakhapatnam (14).Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy held a review meeting with officials on Friday afternoon. At least 140 fresh Covid-19 positive cases have come to light that are all linked to the Jamaat meet, the officials said.Altogether 1,085 people from Andhra Pradesh had attended the event, but officials have identified 946 to date. Tests had been conducted on 881 people so far. While 108 of them tested Covid-19 positive, the results of 65 were still awaited and the remaining had tested negative.Besides the 946 people, who attended the Jamaat meet, another 616 were found to have got in touch with them. Among them, 32 people tested Covid-19 positive and results of another 335 were still awaited, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-reports-first-covid-19-death-links-it-to-jamaat-event/story-G78WcOmgcwMlBJRr6vtZxH.html
03-04-2020||India||PM’s address: Congress says critical questions weren’t answered||The Congress expressed disappointment with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address to the nation on Friday morning on the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, saying he had dashed the hopes of the people who were expecting answers from him on critical questions such as concrete steps being taken to contain the spread of the pandemic.Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said the PM also did not specify steps that have been taken to revive the economy and on helping all those affected due to the ongoing 21-day nationwide lockdown that started on March 25.He questioned the low testing count in the country, saying it is the first step to contain the Covid-19 outbreak.Khera said the country was expecting answers from the PM on key issues such as an acute shortage of personal protective equipment (PPE) like N95 masks and on helping the poor and migrant labourers, who are staring at an uncertain future because of the loss of their livelihood, lack of food and money.“Respected prime minister, today when you addressed the nation, we expected you to make some announcements and share some information with the country,” he told a press conference via video-conferencing.“The country was dejected today, people did not get any information they were expecting from you on critical questions,” Khera said.People will support the PM in switching off lights and lighting candles, just as they did while clapping for doctors and paramedics on March 22, but some questions need to be asked and answered, he added.“It is the responsibility of the government to provide that equipment and fixed responsibility for the delay in doing so. The poor, migrant labourers and farmers for whom you want us to light a candle also deserve to have fire in their stove. It is the responsibility of the government to ensure this,” the Congress spokesperson said.Khera said the nation expected Modi to announce that PPE have been made available for hundreds and thousands of doctors and medical staff, who are the frontline workers in this grim battle against the pandemic while risking their own lives.“Today the country expected you to declare that Rs7,500 will be deposited in Jan Dhan accounts, in PM Kisan scheme accounts and pension accounts. Job cardholders of MGNREGA (Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act) were expecting you to announce an advance payment of three months. State governments were hoping that you would announce the payment of GST (Goods and Services Tax) dues,” he said.“In a country with a population of over 130 crores we have tested less than 50,000 people. As the PM it becomes your duty to inform the country of steps being taken to increase the number of tests. Testing is the first critical step towards containing coronavirus.”Senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel also tweeted, “Our ppl are making immense sacrifices & showing tremendous resilience. However, relief measures put in place by govt aren’t reaching them. Govt must focus on last-mile delivery. Repeatedly asking ppl to engage in dramatics w/o concrete efforts will be futile in the current situation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-s-address-congress-says-critical-questions-weren-t-answered/story-ORPrMA1oxvc7Q0cemZExyL.html
03-04-2020||India||Coronavirus in Kerala: How a young IAS officer helped Pathanamthitta fight Covid-19||Pathanamthitta, a hilly district in central Travancore region in Kerala and home to the Sabarimala shrine was among the first sites in the country where coronavirus spread after a family that had returned from Italy tested positive for Covid-19 in early March. However, the district now has only 13 of the 286 positive cases in the state. By comparison, Kasargod has 121. According to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, while Kasargod remains in the hotspot list of the union health ministry, Pathanamthitta has been removed from it.One of the main persons responsible for this containment is a 2012 batch Indian Administrative Services (IAS) officer, PB Nooh, who serves as the district collector of Pathanamthitta. He raised an alarm with the state government after thousands of devotees congregated at Sabarimala to attend the monthly prayers that began March 13.This wasn’t received well by devotees and he faced much abuse on social media. “When Sabarimala temple was opened for monthly pooja in March, despite the Travancore Devaswom Board’s warning, at least 13,000 pilgrims came in four days. Milling pilgrims was not a good sign. In fact it was a recipe for tragedy. So I sent an SOS to the government to announce the closure of the temple,” Nooh told the Hindustan Times.On March 20, the state government disallowed pilgrims’ entry to the Sabarimala shrine following Nooh’s report suggesting restriction of entry in light of rising Covid-19 cases. The shrine will not reopen on March 28 as previously planned.The state saw a steady rise in the number of positive infections starting March 18, according to data provided by the state government: from 28 confirmed Covid-19 to the current 286.On March 10, the Travancore Devaswom Board president N Vasu had asked the public to not attend the monthly prayers at the temple; the state cabinet too called upon people to not hold large public gatherings, including weddings or festivals. This was barely days after local cases of Covid-19 began emerging from the state, and nearly a month after three imported cases — students who had contracted the virus at Wuhan and returned to the state — were detected.Pathanamthitta was the first district in the state to use flow charts to help trace the contacts of infected persons. The idea was to track where all the family, which had returned from Italy on February 29 and tested positive for Covid-19 on March 6, had travelled to and whom all they had met.On March 11, the administration released a flowchart titled Patient Flowchart Covid-19: P1 Cluster. It showed where all the family, comprising a middle-aged couple and their 24 year old son, had travelled to after landing at Kochi airport. By then, many relatives and friends of the family had tested positive too, prompting the administration to release the flowchart to the public. The family had visited a church, a post office, a jewellery shop and a hypermarket: many members of the public were at risk. The administration wanted to reach out to everyone whom the family had come in contact with — in all, 1300 were placed under observation. “Making the flow chart was a cumbersome process. Police, health workers, NGOs and political leaders all helped us in the process. This also raised the awareness level of the people,” Nooh said. All three members of the family and eight of their contacts, including a 95-year-old great grandfather, have recovered from Covid-19 and have been discharged from the hospital.Pathanamthitta was first to introduce a geofencing application to locate quarantine violators. This application is now being used across all the districts’ control rooms to monitor the spread of coronavirus. Once installed on a person’s phone, it alerts authorities if they step out of their house, and even tags the location they are at. “It is teamwork and many of us have spent sleepless nights. We have received full support from the government. We literally chased contacts and enforced norms ruthlessly. In such a situation we can’t go soft and now this has started showing some results,” said Nooh, who is the seventh of eight children of a couple that owned a small grocery shop in Perumbavoor in Ernakulam. One of Nooh’s older brothers, PB Salim, is an IAS officer from the West Bengal cadre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-a-young-ias-officer-helped-pathanamthitta-fight-covid-19/story-QIYoZ7TqbsU7r0jmYpbQrL.html
03-04-2020||India||Nearly one-third of Covid-19 cases in India from Jamaat cluster, says govt||The Central government on Friday pointed out that nearly one third of India’s coronavirus positive cases were from the Tablighi Jamaat cluster of individuals comprising of Nizamuddin congregation attendees and their contacts. A senior health ministry official added that the lockdown measures had otherwise ensured that there was no dramatic rise in infections.“From yesterday till today, 336 additional cases of Covid-19 have come before us. Total confirmed cases are 2301, 56 deaths have been reported,” said Lav Agarwal, Joint Secretary Health Ministry.He went on to say that close to six hundred and fifty of these positive cases were reported in the last two days from the Tablighi Jamaat cluster.“647 confirmed positive cases found in the last two days are linked to Tablighi Jamaat from 14 states. These states are Andaman & Nicobar, Assam, Delhi, Himachal, Haryana, J&K, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Uttarakhand and UP,” Agarwal added.Agarwal added that it was evident that the number of positive cases in the country was not rising (by much) due to positive results from the lockdown measures until these recent cases came up. He said now, there was a need for a renewed effort and additional care to ensure that the cases don’t spike dramatically.The home ministry official present at the daily briefing on the status of the spread of the disease and government’s containment efforts said that around 360 foreigners who had returned to their countries after attending the Jamaat at Nizamuddin will also be blacklisted.“960 foreigners have been blacklisted, the process to blacklist around 360 foreigners who attended the Jamaat meet but have now returned to their countries, has also begun,” said Punya Salila Srivastava, joint secretary, ministry of home affairs.Action against these foreign nationals was being taken under the Disaster Management Act and the Foreign Management Act. She added that any steps for deporting the blacklisted foreign nationals will be done in accordance with the necessary health protocols that are in effect due to the coronavirus pandemic outbreak.A home ministry document had earlier indicated that foreigners from at least 41 countries had attended the Nizamuddin meet in violation of their visa conditions. Most of these attendees had arrived on a Tourist visa but yet utilized their stay to attend a religious meet.In other important announcements, the home ministry official said that states have been instructed by the Centre to take strict action to ensure the safety of the medical fraternity involved in fighting coronavirus. The instruction is a fallout of incidents of attack and ill-treatment of health professionals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nearly-one-third-of-covid-19-cases-in-india-from-jamaat-cluster-says-govt/story-GFzdtf2FtRhjnhWzRj83yM.html
03-04-2020||India||‘With full weight of law’: MHA orders FIRs against 960 foreign Jamaat workers, sponsors||The Union Home Ministry has told Delhi Police Commissioner and state DGPs to start filing FIRs against the 960 Tablighi Jamaat’s foreign workers who endangered lives in the ongoing Covid-19 public health emergency.The Home Ministry communication was sent to states on Thursday evening after revoking visas of the 960 foreigners and blacklisting them from getting an Indian visa again.According to the home ministry, these foreigners had entered the country on the strength of tourist visas but engaged in Tablighi activities at its Nizamuddin headquarters that are feared to drive the outbreak despite an unprecedented lockdown.The Tablighi Jamaat’s gathering in March has been found to be responsible for hundreds of Covid-19 infections across India. In Delhi, it has been linked to 60 per cent of Delhi’s 293 Covid-19 cases confirmed till Thursday evening.Their activities, the letter noted, “have endangered many lives in the ongoing Covid-19 public health emergency” and violated India’s visa rules and the Foreigners Act.“In view of the above, it is advised that legal action against all these foreigners and Indian nationals involved in the matter must be taken under the provisions of the Foreigners Act, 1946 as well as for violation of statutory orders issued under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and for offences committed under relevant sections of IPC (Indian Penal Code) as applicable in this matter,” the letter by the home ministry’s Pratap Singh Rawat said.A senior Home Ministry official told HT that the decision to file FIRs reflected the determination of the government to come down on the Jamaat “with the full weight of law” to penalise them for their callous approach.“The government took unprecedented decisions, shut down industries, offices, grounded planes and trains. But this group’s actions have threatened to jeopardise the entire lockdown,” the official said.He clarified that the government did not intend to file cases against ordinary Tablighi workers if they stayed on the right side of the law.The idea, he explained, was to proceed against Tablighi functionaries who facilitated the visas and stay of the foreign nationals. He declined to elaborate.But a senior police officer interpreted this to imply the leadership of the Tablighi Jamaat. The Delhi Police has already registered one case against the Tablighi leadership after a large number of coronavirus cases were detected at the Markaz and evacuated.This advice to register criminal cases would not apply to another 360 Tablighi Jamaat’s workers have already left the country. But they will be blacklisted from entering the country again.A home ministry official explained the police could invoke Section 269 and 270 of the penal code that prescribes upto six months imprisonment for negligence likely to spread infection of a dangerous disease and two years jail for a malignant act that spreads a dangerous disease.Besides, the home ministry letter said the foreign nationals were also liable to face action under the Foreigners Act and Disaster Management Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-with-full-weight-of-law-mha-orders-firs-against-960-foreign-jamaat-workers-sponsors/story-IoYJSlbehSUxV84d8Zj5tJ.html
03-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Tripura CM seeks ideas from people to recover loss after Covid-19 lockdown||Tripura’s chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb has tapped the people of his state for suggestions to help his government tackle the economic after effects of the 21-day national lockdown, which is in place to beat the spread of coronavirus disease.“I am asking everyone to start thinking about the first 100 steps the government must take after the lockdown is lifted. We can’t think about what should be done after the lockdown is removed,” Deb said in a video message on Twitter.The lockdown will end on April 14.As he made the request, the chief minister gave an analogy of about parents think before choosing a school for their children. People take into account the number of teachers and facilities the school and also think about whether they can afford the fee before zeroing in, he said.“That’s why you have to suggest what should the first 100 steps that the state government must take… because we have faced losses and pushed back due to the lockdown,” he said.Also read: Tripura gives Ratan Tata a wish list to fight coronavirusThese ideas, he said, can be sent to the CM dashboard, email ID of the chief minister’s office and on WhatsApp numbers of government officials“We may receive hundred and thousands and lakhs of ideas but we will choose only the 100 best ideas,” Deb said. Deb also said the 26 people, who have returned from the Tablighi Jamaat’s event at Delhi’s Nizamuddin Markaz, have been sent to quarantine and no one has been found to be Covid-19 positive. “Though their reports came negative, we will conduct a re-test to confirm,” said Deb. The state government has quarantined 72 people, including the family members of Tablighi Jamaat.Deb has also ordered the sealing of the state’s borders with Assam to prevent the inter-state entry of anyone or transport barring those carrying essential goods. These vehicles would be screened properly before their entry into the state, he said.He also requested all religious leaders or gurus to share awareness about staying indoors in a video clip through social media for their followers. He hoped that if they do the same, many would respond to their appeal.After meeting health officials, including medical superintendent of government-run GBP Hospital, on Thursday, the chief minister said the number of patients in the hospital has come down from 1500 to 500 every day on an average amidst the lockdown.Also read:With fewer cases so far, North-east stays on maximum alert“As I asked the reason, the doctors said that people are learning to cope up with minor health-related problems from their own places,” he said. Deb added that his government has already started preparations to ensure the availability of medicines for blood pressure, dialysis, cancer, tuberculosis etc, both in shops and hospitals for the next one to two months.Officials said 165 people have been arrested and a fine of Rs 350,000 has been imposed on others for violating restrictions put in place by the state government from March 24 to March 31.The northeastern state has not reported any Covid-19 case till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-tripura-cm-seeks-ideas-from-people-to-recover-loss-after-covid-19-lockdown/story-0YNTzIvptJrSuUr64xmFfJ.html
03-04-2020||India||Coronavirus: US embassy employee tests positive for Covid-19||An employee of the US embassy in New Delhi has tested positive for Covid-19 and is being provided medical treatment, a spokesperson for the mission said on Friday.“We are aware of reports of a Covid-19 case related to an embassy New Delhi employee. We are working with Indian health authorities to ensure the employee receives proper treatment,” the spokesperson said.“Due to privacy concerns, we are not able to share additional information.”This is perhaps the first case of an employee of a foreign mission in India testing positive for the Coronavirus.All foreign missions and consulates in India had begun putting in place precautionary measures by late February and early March. The Italian embassy was among the first missions to call off planned events. Others, such as the Chinese mission, observed self-imposed quarantines for diplomats who returned to India after visits abroad.The US embassy spokesperson said the state department “has no greater responsibility than the safety and security of US citizens overseas and locally-employed staff”.“In coordination with Indian authorities, embassy New Delhi continues to implement all appropriate measures to help control the spread of Covid-19,” the spokesperson added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-embassy-employee-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-mbalYJNJujlmSzl5aINspI.html
03-04-2020||India||Covid-19 Impact: Radio sector reels under crisis; AROI seeks support from govt||The radio industry, one of the key industries to have been hit hard by the coronavirus pandemic, on Friday appealed to the government to step in to help the sector that is staring at a huge financial crisis.In a letter to Union Information and Broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar, the industry body of private FM channels Association of Radio Operators for India, or AROI, sought ‘a support package’ to help the sector “survive this crisis in the short term till the economy stabilises itself”.The association said the radio industry was already going through a tough phase with advertising revenue shrinking over the past year with a de-growth of 20%. “Further, post the lockdown the ad revenues have crashed 80%,” the AROI said.Harshad Jain, CEO – Radio and Entertainment, HT Media Ltd and Next Mediaworks. acknowledged that the government must be hard-pressed to deal with the public health emergency at hand. “But revenues are down by 80 per cent post Covid-19. Now the sector is under pressure to keep the kitchen fire burning,” he said.In a four-point SOS message to the government, the AROI asked the government for a one-year waiver on all licence fees and charges by the government and Prasar Bharti, restoration of government advertising on radio, besides clearing the long-pending payments from the Directorate of Advertising and Visual Publicity”. It also asked the government deferment of the advance regulatory payments for financial year 2021.Nisha Narayanan, Director and chief operating officer, Red FM and Magic FM said the industry was looking at government help to restore normalcy.“The radio industry is already seeing a financial slowdown that seems like it will grow quite exponentially in the months to come,” she said.Nisha Narayanan said the industry is “conscious that the government is dealing with multiple emergencies at the same time while facing this crisis”, these are “desperate times” for the industry that need support from the government.The AROI also underlined the many occasions the radio industry had risen to the occasion in times of crisis including the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. Recently, it recalled, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had, during an interaction with prominent radio jockeys, acknowledged radio as a critical media for educating the listeners, spreading awareness about Covid-19 and building positivity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-crisis-hit-radio-industry-seeks-waiver-on-licence-fees-govt-support/story-mOQ6gXqanQrpSgsxWNnhRI.html
03-04-2020||India||IMA puts riders on govt order for OPD, emergency services at private hospitals||The Bihar chapter of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) has asked the state government to ensure availability of protective equipment and security of doctors before requesting the management of private hospitals and nursing homes to keep their outdoor patient department (OPD) and emergency services functional during the lockdown. The response comes in the wake of an order by Patna civil surgeon, Dr Raj Kishore Chaudhary, asking them to keep both the services functional in public interest.In his letter, dated April 1, a copy of which is available with the Hindustan Times, Dr Chaudhary mentioned about the formation of special teams under the district magistrate and the civil surgeon to check it. This has not gone down well among doctors.“The mention of special teams in the civil surgeon’s letter was unwarranted,” IMA-Bihar secretary Dr Sunil Kumar said in an e-mailed response to the civil surgeon Thursday.Dr Kumar said compelling doctors for extending medical consultation through OPD and emergency services, without ensuring availability of protective equipment for doctors, was fraught with risk, as it could lead to a spike in Covid-19 cases. It was for this reason, he said, the state health authorities had shut OPD services at hospitals till block level.The IMA, however, said Dr Kumar, had appealed to its members to continue with limited OPD and emergency services, after keeping their safety in mind.While urging the civil surgeon to provide protective equipment, which they were willing to procure, he said the government should deploy security guards for crowd management and ensuring safety of doctors and health workers if the mob became aggressive. The IMA secretary said the government should also constitute an expert committee at the state and district level, having representation of the IMA, before issuing any such advisory in future.Patna civil surgeon Dr Choudhary said he was yet to receive any such letter. However, IMA-Bihar senior vice-president, Dr Ajay Kumar, had shared with this reporter the screenshot of e-mail the IMA had sent to the civil surgeon.“Why do they (the IMA office-bearers) not talk to me directly? I am also a life member of the IMA, and will never want to harm the interest of doctors,” the civil surgeon said.“In the absence of public transport, not many patients will visit their clinics, unless absolutely essential. So, there is no question of crowding at their respective establishments. Since there are many private hospitals and nursing homes, all we want is to facilitate medical facility to the public in their respective area so that they do not have to travel on foot or other means of transport during the lockdown,” Dr Chaudhary said.“After all, doctors are meant to serve humanity, and this is an opportunity, they should rise to the occasion,” he signed off.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ima-puts-riders-on-govt-order-for-opd-emergency-services-at-private-hospitals/story-QXGqlZiHRj36wEiJ0s9p4I.html
03-04-2020||India||Just talking and breathing can spread Covid-19, says US science panel||The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) can spread through just breathing and talking, said a high-level US scientific panel on Wednesday, suggesting that the virus that causes the disease is airborne and is spreading more easily and sustainably between people than previously believed.The scientists said the virus can be stay suspended in air in the ultrafine mist that is produced when people exhale. “While the current specific research is limited, the results of available studies are consistent with aerosolisation of virus from normal breathing,” said the letter, written by Dr Harvey Fineberg, who is the chair of National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine’s standing committee of experts to inform the US federal government on critical science and policy issues related to emerging infectious diseases and other public health threats. “This could explain why the virus is spreading so quickly, and with evidence of asymptomatic spread of the disease, complete social isolation and lockdowns become critical to contain the disease,” said a virologist, requesting anonymity.Airborne viruses and bacteria, particularly, are more contagious and worrying for highly populated countries like India, where cluster outbreaks have started in congested neighbourhoods, like Dharavi in Mumbai. Around Covid-19, 2,600 cases and 70 deaths have been reported in India so far.“From what is known, the virus that causes Covid-19 is not as infectious as measles or the tuberculosis bacterium, but more infectious than the seasonal flu,” said Dr Jacob John, professor emeritus and former head of virology at Christian Medical College, Vellore.Scientists have so far maintained that Sars-Cov2, the virus that causes Covid-19, spreads when infected people cough or sneeze and expel virus in large respiratory droplets that are about 1 mm in diameter. The viral released depends on how infective the person is.The most common symptoms of Covid-19 are fever, cough and fatigue, which progresses to difficulty in breathing.The infection spreads when these droplets are inhaled by people in a radius of two metres, or contaminated surfaces and objects, which people may touch and then infect themselves by touching their mouth, nose, or eyes, according to the World Health Organization (WHO).But a study in the New England Journal of Medicine forced a rethink when it reported the virus stay suspended and infective in aerosol droplets that are below 5 microns across for up to 3 hours.A scientific brief last week from the WHO said aerosol transmission “may be possible in specific circumstances and settings that generate aerosols,” such as when severely ill patients are intubated with a breathing tube for ventilator support, but added that an analysis of more than 75,000 coronavirus cases in China revealed no cases of airborne transmission.Another recent study from the University of Nebraska Medical Center found viral RNA on hard-to-reach surfaces and air samples more than 2 meters from the patients in isolation rooms, which indicates the virus can spread through aerosols.“Finding RNA in the environment using PCR-based tests is not a scientific way of measuring transmission as finding nucleic acid (genetic material, which includes DNA and RNA) is not indicative of virus viability. RNA by itself is not transmissible and infective. The outer wall of the virus, which is what it uses to enter human cells, gets destroyed pretty quickly,” said Dr Jacob John.If not used properly, personal protective equipment (PPE) could also be a source of airborne contamination, with a pre-print study from China showing the virus can be re-suspended in air when health workers remove their PPE or move around in infected areas.Several countries are reviewing whether everyone should wear masks in public to reduce transmission. “Of course you need protection, but basic precautions are enough. Everyone is wearing masks, but I still think social distancing and handwashing is what’s needed, unless you are around a person with Covid-19,” said Dr John.“I’m not going to wear a surgical mask, because clinicians need those. But I have a nice western-style bandana I might wear. Or I have a balaclava. I have some pretty nice options,” Dr Fineberg, former dean of the Harvard School of Public Health, told CNN.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/just-talking-and-breathing-can-spread-covid-19-says-us-panel/story-wE8v7EZiCDF1AhQ5BQBdsN.html
03-04-2020||India||Mobile disinfection station installed in Jaipur to help sanitise staff fighting Covid-19||A mobile disinfection station has been launched in Rajasthan’s capital Jaipur for quick sanitization of essential services professionals. It has been commissioned by the Jaipur city police in collaboration with homeopathic doctors and other medical experts.The first of its kind station modeled after automobile washing stations has been put up at the Bagru Bus stand in the city, officials said.Bagru police station’s station house officer (SHO) Brijbhushan Agarwal said the chamber is an important component among the array of measures implemented for containment of infectious diseases like coronavirus.“After doing a lot of research online, I was stuck with the disinfection station idea. Initially, my colleagues dismissed my idea and said that such facilities could only be tested in foreign countries. This made it a challenge for me to create a model chamber so that NGOs, local bodies, mechanics and others can also follow this,” said Agarwal.The Bagru police station called a meeting of the community liaison group (CLG) and the friends of police and shared the idea. The CLG and the friends of police group comprise of fabricators, doctors, teachers, painters, iron smith and other professionals.“All the CLG members gave a nod to implement the idea, and the chamber was created within three-days,” added Bagru SHO.The chamber is designed for easy installation and can be transported to any location after it is uninstalled. Its main component is a 360-degree fog mist sprayer that uses an anolyte solution, a powerful disinfectant against bacteria and viruses.“After consulting with doctors and medical experts, the solution to be used for the chamber/station was decided. A 100 ml solution comprises of five ml Azadirachta Indica, five ml Ocimum Tenuiflorum, five ml Calendula, 15 ml spirit and rest pure water. One needs to push the pedestal inside the chamber for activating the spraying of disinfectant,” Agarwal said.It only takes 30 seconds to complete a round of disinfection in each chamber. The cost of creating one chamber was around Rs 16,000. Due to the lockdown, at present only essential services personnel are using the station.Deputy commissioner of police (DCP), West, Kavendra Sagar lauded the disinfection chamber idea as unique and innovative. He said it would definitely help.“In future, we would try to replicate this model at multiple places in Jaipur which would be helpful for common man,” Sagar said.In March, a university in Vietnam had successfully created such a chamber for use in Covid-19 affected areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mobile-disinfection-station-installed-in-jaipur-to-help-sanitise-staff-fighting-covid-19/story-Sj3fQjgMNe6f4hWHxzpKIK.html
03-04-2020||India||How Indian missions and groups in Europe are helping stranded citizens||India’s missions across Europe have taken several steps to help thousands of citizens affected by Covid-19-related restrictions, organising medical consultations, facilitating visa extensions and conducting webinars to address the issues of students and professionals.The external affairs ministry was one of the first ministries to put in place a Covid-19 cell that works round the clock and is manned by some 75 officers, with smaller groups dedicated to specific geographical regions. At the same time, the foreign missions have taken steps to evacuate and assist stranded Indian nationals.The high commission in London has had to assist thousands of Indians, including students, professionals on short-term visas and tourists, and the main challenges were addressing concerns related to accommodation, food, health care, and visa extension, said people familiar with developments.The high commission worked with NGOs, student bodies and community support groups to assist stranded Indians with subsidised accommodation and food. Indian citizens needing medical help were given three options - telephonic consultations through local voluntary associations, consultations with the mission’s empanelled doctors or consultation with private hospitals through an app, the people said on condition of anonymity.In Germany, which is among the countries hit hardest by the pandemic with more than 67,000 infections as of March 31, the mission in Berlin and consulates in Frankfurt, Hamburg and Munich have been addressing the concerns of stranded Indians, including 22,000 students.As part of efforts to counter unverified information and rumours, the mission and consulates’ helplines have attended to more than 5,000 phone calls and 2,500 emails. “Phone calls were received from people, mostly young students, who were just feeling lonely and were wanting to talk to someone,” said a person who declined to be named.The embassy and consulates have issued regular video messages on the latest developments and instructions of the governments of India and Germany, and interactive weekly webinars hosted by the mission, with separate sessions for students and the larger Indian community, have got a good response.Around 60 Indian associations, including 30 student bodies, across Germany are supporting stranded Indians, including caring for the elderly and those requiring medical assistance.​In Switzerland, the Indian mission created a database of stranded tourists, other travellers and students so that they could be updated on health advisories and other information. Indian associations in different parts of Switzerland were activated and a network of volunteers in all major cities was created.The mission also contacted city mayors and university teachers across Switzerland to help students and others with food, accommodation and extension of visas and residence permits.The embassy in the Netherlands too has assisted stranded citizens, especially students and a group of 115 Indians that was stranded at Amsterdam airport for several days. This group was flown to India on March 22 in a special KLM flight. A woman official of the mission accompanied a pregnant woman who was part of the group for emergency medical assistance.Thirty-four Indians are currently stranded in the Netherlands, including 20 visitors on short stay visas and transiting passengers, and 14 skilled workers hired by a shipyard in Groningen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-indian-missions-and-groups-in-europe-are-helping-stranded-citizens/story-KByIEi354ZmAADKS2J3MQL.html
03-04-2020||India||Cong-NCP slam PM Modi for appeal to light lamps, say ‘event management’ not needed||Two of the ruling parties which make up the coalition government in Maharashtra—the Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) have taken a swipe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his appeal to light diyas and candles on Sunday to show solidarity for health workers. The political parties have said that when the prime minister was expected to speak about the measures being taken by the central government to fight Covid-19 effectively, he has resorted to ‘event management’. Maharashtra Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat said that the Bharatiya Janata Party is addicted to making an event out of any major issue that the country comes across. “We had expected that the prime minister will stand firm by the doctors, medical staff and police force fighting against the pandemic from the frontline. He should have unveiled a plan of providing additional testing labs, ventilators and financial assistance to states in their fight against the coronavirus. Instead of this, the PM has been engaged in event managements like clapping, banging utensils and lighting lamps,” he said.Thorat said that Modi’s appeal is unfortunately unbecoming of a leader who is the prime minister of the country. “The BJP has failed to show strong leadership which is needed during these challenging times,” he added.NCP’s spokesperson and state minorities minister Nawab Malik said that the nation expected the PM to speak about how to keep the home fires burning, but he spoke about lighting lamps. “The 9-am address by Prime Minister Narendra Modi has disappointed citizens in the country, ” he said.State housing minister and senior NCP leader Jitendra Awhad has called it ‘stupidity’. “Is this some kind of a joke? The PM is not saying a word on where the country stands in this war against coronavirus, what are the preparations, what financial aides are being given to states, what are the facilities being created to combat the virus. He should have spoken about the diagnostic centres added and the problems being faced by migrants. When other countries are engaged in production of necessary medical equipment and inventing vaccines, our prime minister is busy giving people ‘sedatives’ like lighting lamps and banging thalis,” he said. But, NCP MLA and party chief Sharad Pawar’s grandnephew Rohit Pawar has expressed contrary views to that of his party colleagues. “Prime Minister @narendramodi ji is aiming to bring the country together through lights and if so, we should welcome this thought. Likewise, as a citizen of this country I urge you to place the flag of our country as a DP of your social media accounts for a message of solidarity(sic),” Rohit has tweeted.Reacting to the allegations, Bharatiya Janata Party spokesperson Madhu Chavan said, “It is a gesture to create a feeling of unity among the people of the country. During the 1965 war, then Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri had appealed to people to observe a fast for one day in solidarity with the people who couldn’t get food to eat. The entire nation stood by him. Congress and NCP leaders are criticising the PM for not talking about the preparations by the central government. I want to ask you, what contribution has the state government made in this fight against Covid-19?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-ncp-slam-pm-modi-for-appeal-to-light-lamps-say-event-management-not-needed/story-aY65V8pPBmXtxjZO8u1C2H.html
03-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: 10 appeals PM Modi has made in fight against Covid-19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday asked people across India to hold candles, lights diyas and switch on their mobile phone flashlights at 9pm on April 5 for nine minutes in a show of solidarity “to fight the darkness” of coronavirus.The Prime Minister made the appealed through a video as India saw a rise in the number of coronavirus disease cases and entered the 10th day of the nationwide lockdown.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverage“I want nine minutes of your time on April 5 at 9pm. Switch off all the lights of your homes and stand with candles, diyas, torches or flashlights of your mobile phone for nine minutes,” Modi said in his video message.“We have to move towards the light from the darkness created by the coronavirus,” he said.This wasn’t the first time the Prime Minister has urged people to follow rules or cheer those who have been the frontline fighting the coronavirus pandemic.Here are 10 such appeals Modi has made:1. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had on March 19 asked people to follow the Janta Curfew’ from 7am till 9pm on March 22 to show individual ‘determination’ to fight the global pandemic.2. Narendra Modi has asked people to keep the ‘Covid warriors’ in mind who have been fighting the coronavirus pandemic without thinking about their own families. “While staying at home, remember and pray for people who are working while putting their lives at risk. Remember the doctors, nurses, paramedics and pathologists who are working day and night to save lives and hospital administration, ambulance drivers, ward boys, serving others in these tough times.”3. Prime Minister has stressed on the need to put off elective surgeries and non-emergency visits to hospitals to ensure the medical personnel busy fighting the coronavirus pandemic do not have to share the extra burden.4. Modi has also called upon industry leaders to continue following the work-from-home order as much as possible.5. The PM has also emphasised that “testing, tracing, isolation and quarantine” should remain the focus areas of the local administrations.6. Prime Minister Modi has time and again urged people to follow social distancing. “Experts are saying that social distancing is the only way to deal with the coronavirus crisis across the globe. There is no other way to deal with coronavirus and we need to save ourselves. And we have to break the cycle of its infection,” the Prime Minister has said.7. He has asked people to be cautious against rumours and not to fall to superstition at a time when he said hundreds of people are working to fight the coronavirus outbreak. “Friends, at such a time you should be cautious, as knowingly or unknowingly rumours spread fast. They have a tendency to travel fast. I appeal to you, do not believe in such rumours and superstitions,” he said.8. The Prime Minister has said it is very important for people to follow the instructions and advice of the medical fraternity. “Please do not take any medicine with consulting any doctor. Any such carelessness can put your life in more danger. I am sure that every citizen will follow the directions of the government and local administration,” he said.9. He has stressed on following the Lakshman Rekha as he announced the complete lockdown. “If you put even one foot out, coronavirus will enter your homes,” he has said.10. Modi has asked media owners and editors of mainstream print media to “act as a link between government and people and provide continuous feedback” on the government’s handling of the Covid-19 crisis. The Prime Minister has emphasised “it was important to tackle the spread of pessimism, negativity and rumour. Citizens need to be assured the government is committed to countering the impact of Covid-19.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-10-appeals-pm-modi-has-made-in-fight-against-covid-19/story-u1hbkf4So9SxLNOgnuw3fJ.html
03-04-2020||India||Foreigners from at least 41 countries among those blacklisted for Nizamuddin Markaz||Foreign nationals from at least 41 countries including the US participated in the controversial Tablighi Jamaat gathering at the community’s headquarters in the Nizamuddin area of the capital in violation of their visa conditions, as per an initial official estimate seen by the Hindustan Times.The government had blacklisted these foreign attendees of the Jamaat, who had entered India on tourist visas but ended up partaking in a religious event, a flagrant violation inviting revocation of their visas and blacklisting for future travel.Most of the 960 foreign nationals, who were blacklisted, were from Indonesia (379), Bangladesh (110), Kyrgyzstan (77), Myanmar (63) and Thailand (65). Several attendees from as far as Djibouti in East Africa and Trinidad and Tobago in the Caribbean Islands in North America, have also been banned. On Thursday, the Ministry of Home Affairs had said in a statement that 960 foreigners “present in India on tourist visas” had been blacklisted for their “involvement in activities of the Tablighi Jamaat.”Coronavirus live updates As many as 4,200 foreigners have thus far been blacklisted by the Home Ministry’s Immigration Department for flouting tourist visa norms and engaging in Tablighi activities, particularly missionary work, since 2015, according to government officials familiar with the matter.The Tablighi Jamaat has come into increased limelight after a gathering it organized in March was found to be responsible for hundreds of Covid-19 infections across India.At least 182 (62%) of the 293 coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in Delhi were linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation, the Delhi government said on Thursday.Click Here for Latest Reports on Coronavirus||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/foreigners-from-at-least-41-countries-among-those-blacklisted-for-nizamuddin-markaz/story-coLtMyWVqJePiya9eEbQaL.html
03-04-2020||India||Odisha to impose complete lockdown in Bhubaneswar, Bhadrak for 48 hours||Odisha Government is going to impose complete lockdown in Bhubaneswar and Bhadrak for 48 hours from 8 pm on Friday, to prevent community transmission of Covid-19, said Asit Tripathy, Odisha Chief Secretary.Informing about the decision in a press conference Tripathi said “In the larger public interest and with a view to contain the community transmission of Covid-19 virus we have decided to impose lockdown in Bhubaneswar City and Bhadrak Town for next 48 hours from 8pm today to 8pm Sunday.”“Earlier MHA order on restrictions has been revoked and new shutdown regulations are implemented by OSDMA, so anyone found outside the houses and found violating curfew rules will be put in Government quarantine facilities, so I appeal to the public to cooperate with the government, as it is in their interest,” he added.Director General of Police (DGP) Abhay said that no grocery and other essential services will be allowed to open for these 48 hrs from 8 pm tonight in both towns. Currently issued passes will not be valid for these 48 hours.“Limited medical stores decided by the local administration will remain open, while patients wanting to visit hospital will be allowed only in ambulance, for that number of the government ambulances are increased and private hospitals have asked to keep their full ambulance service ready for these 48 hrs,” he added.Meanwhile, the first Covid-19 positive case in Odisha, from Bhubaneswar, has recovered and tested negative, said State Health Department. The patient is being discharged.There are three active cases of coronavirus in the State now.The total number of Covid-19 positive cases on Friday rose to 2,301 in India, including 156 cured/discharged, 56 deaths and one migrated, according to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-to-impose-complete-lockdown-in-bhubaneswar-bhadrak-for-48-hours/story-SJw81hPMCrOTDuldwvEebM.html
03-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Women to get Rs 500 per month from today under PM Jan Dhan Yojana||At least 200 million poor women account holders under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY) can start withdrawing Rs 500 from Friday for the next three months as part of the government’s measures for those worst hit by the 21-day lockdown to break the chain of coronavirus infection.The first instalment of Rs 500 was deposited in accounts of these women beneficiaries on Wednesday under the recently announced Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana.The department of financial services, under the Union finance ministry, has issued guidelines to all banks to ensure the beneficiaries do not start lining up at the bank branches against the norms of social distancing.“In order to maintain social distancing and orderly withdrawal of money by beneficiaries, the Department of Financial Services (DFS) has directed the banks to stagger the arrival of account-holders at branches, BCs (business correspondent) and ATMs for withdrawal of money,” it said in a release.So, these women will get the remittance under the scheme between April 3 and April 9. The money will be put into their bank accounts according to the last digit of their Jan Dhan account numbers.Account numbers that end with 0 or 1 will receive money on April 3, while those with 2 or 3 as last digits will get the amount on April 4. Similarly, account holders with 4 or 5 as the last digits will get the remittance on April 7. The money will be deposited in account numbers ending with 6 or 7 on April 8. Account numbers with 8 or 9 as their last digit will receive the remittance on April 9.“After April 9, the beneficiaries may go to the branch or BC on any date as per normal banking hours. Banks may accordingly phase out the credit to beneficiary accounts,” the release said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi also told chief ministers in a video conference on Thursday to “ensure the staggered release of funds to the beneficiaries under PM Garib Kalyan Yojana to avoid crowding at banks.”The banks have been asked to publicise the dates through text messages, local channels, print media, cable operators, local radio and other channels that the beneficiaries can withdraw the money any time when required and not just when it is credited.“… may also be carried out making clear that the money credited to the accounts is available for withdraw when required and if the beneficiary needs to draw the money immediately, she may approach the bank branch or BC as per the schedule mentioned…” it said. Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had assured the payment while announcing the financial relief package of Rs 1,70,000 crore package of direct cash transfers and food for the poor to tide over the nationwide lockdown imposed from March 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-women-to-get-rs-500-per-month-from-today-under-pm-jan-dhan-yojana/story-KxAb6jZRrPqUUvA2uNSwxI.html
03-04-2020||India||‘Cremating, burying bodies of Covid-19 patients is safe’: Bengal govt||There is no chance of transmission of coronavirus in crematorium or burial area, Mamata Banerjee’s Bengal government has said in an advisory to state officials and the public.The advisory came after instances of protests and chaos by residents living in the vicinity of cremation grounds. In one case, residents had put up road blockade to stop government officials from cremating an elderly man, Bengal’s first casualty. There had been similar protests elsewhere too.Three people have been confirmed to have died in Bengal due to coronavirus, according to data released by the Union health ministry.Follow latest updates on coronavirus hereThe Bengal health department advisory quoted from the World Health Organisation guidance and the Union health ministry guidelines to underline that there was no evidence of people becoming infected from exposure to bodies of persons who die from Covid-19.The advisory noted that the main driver of transmission of Covid-19 is through droplets. There is no risk of Covid-19 infection from a dead body to health workers, family members or in the locality who follow standard precautions while handling body“Temperature generated during burning of bodies is 800-1,000 degree celsius, under which, in no condition, can the virus remain viable,” it said. It also emphasised that there was no evidence either that the smoke generated from the pyre can cause Covid-19.“Hence, it is clarified that if the protocol prescribed for transportation and disposal of dead bodies of Covid-19 positive persons is followed, there is no risk of any coronavirus infection spreading from the dead body as result of cremation,” the notice said.But Bengal isn’t the only state that has had protests, fueled by the health scare around coronavirus and rumours. There were similar protests in Delhi too when the first death was reported several days earlier. The Union health ministry had soon after issued guidelines on disposal of bodies and placed a restriction on the number of people who can be part of the last journey of the patient.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-cremation-of-bodies-of-covid-19-patients-is-safe-says-bengal-health-department/story-Md0VygVYBIS81ns1c1RoRK.html
03-04-2020||India||Third Covid-19 case linked to Dharavi sets off alarm bells in Mumbai||Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) authorities have quarantined around 300 residents in a 14-storey building in Mumbai’s Dharavi on Friday morning. This is the third case of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) linked to the densely populated area.State government officials are trying to ascertain the travel history of a 35-year-old doctor, who tested positive a day ago. All 25 high-risk contacts of the surgeon are being tested for Covid-19. The rest of the residents of the building where he lives have been asked to remain in quarantine until the test results of the high-risk contacts are available. All 48 flats and three nursing homes in the building have been sealed in a santisation drive by the authorities. Dharavi reported two other Covid-19 positive cases in the last two days, involving a 56-year-old garment shop owner and a 52-year-old BMC sweeper.The garment shop owner, a resident of Dharavi’s Dr Baliga Nagar, had no foreign travel history but tested Covid-19 positive on Wednesday after he was admitted to Sion Hospital because of chest pain. And on Thursday, the sweeper, who worked in Dharavi and lives in Worli, tested Covid-19 positive. Civic authorities are trying to find a link between all three Covid-19 positive cases linked to Dharavi, considered to be one of the largest slums in Asia. The BMC authorities said the surgeon had called one of the private laboratories to get himself tested for Covid-19.“One of the private laboratories on the suburbs had tested the patient after he called. We’re preparing a list of senior citizens and those with respiratory issues. We’ll run a check on them individually to figure out how they’ve been doing,” Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner, BMC, said.On Wednesday, around 2,500 residents of Dr Baliga Nagar were also put under home quarantine after the garment shop owner tested Covid-19 positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/third-covid-19-case-linked-to-dharavi-sets-off-alarm-bells-in-mumbai/story-yRiv9bZuifHX77d1eMo1aK.html
03-04-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: Full text of PM Modi’s address to the nation||Prime minister Narendra Modi on Friday addressed the nation, through a video as the country witnessed day 10 of nationwide lockdown as a preventive measure to combat the coronavirus outbreak. In his 9 am video address to the nation, PM Modi urged people to switch off lights of their homes at 9 pm for nine minutes on April 5 and light up lamps, candles and mobile flashlights to display the nation’s collective spirit to defeat coronavirus, which has so far claimed 56 lives in the country. The total number of Covid-19 cases in India has climbed to 2301 with 235 fresh cases being detected. Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageHere is the full text of PM Modi’s video address:My dear fellow citizens,Today marks 9 days of the nationwide lockdown against the Corona pandemic. The discipline and spirit of service you have displayed during this period is unprecedented, and embodies the true meaning of both.Government, administration and the public at large, have together made great efforts to manage the situation as best as possible.The manner in which you had expressed gratitude to all those fighting against the Coronavirus on Sunday 22nd March, has today become an example for all countries. Many are replicating it now.Whether it is people’s curfew, ringing bells, clapping hands or clanging plates;they have all made the nation realize its collective strength in these testing times. It has led to the deepening of the belief that the nation can unite as one in the battle against Corona. This collective spirit of yours, of the nation, can be seen manifesting itself during these times of lockdown.Friends, today, when crores of people of this country are confined to their homes, it will be natural for anyone to question what they can do just by themselves.Some people may also be worried about how they are going to fight such a big battle on their own. Many will be concerned about how many more days they will have to spend like this.Friends, this is certainly the time of a lockdown, and we most certainly are confined to our own homes, but none of us is alone.The collective strength of 130 crore Indians is with each one of us, it is the strength of each one of us.It is required for our countrymen, to from time to time,experience the greatness, majesty and divinity of this collective strength.Friends, in our country the citizenry is considered a manifestation of God itself. Therefore, when the nation is fighting such a huge battle, one should from time to time keep experiencing this collective superpower manifesting itself in the form of the people.This experience boosts our morale, gives us direction and clarity, a common aim as well as the energy to pursue the same.Friends, amidst the darkness spread by the Corona pandemic, we must continuously progress towards light and hope. We must continuously strive to take those of us most affected, our poor brothers and sisters, from disappointment to hope. We must end the darkness and uncertainty emanating from the crisis, by progressing towards lightand certainty. We must defeat the deep darkness of the crisis, by spreading the glory of light in all four directions.And that is why, this Sunday, on the 5th of April, we must all together, challenge the darkness spread by the corona crisis, introducing it to the power of light.On this 5th of April, we must awaken the superpower of 130 crore Indians. We must take the super resolve of 130 crore Indians to even greater heights.On the 5th of April, on Sunday, I want 9 minutes from all you, at 9PM.Listen carefully, on the 5thof April, at 9 PM, turn off all the lights in your homes, stand at your doors or in you balconies, and light candles or diyas, torches or mobile flashlights for 9 minutes.I repeat, light candles or diyas, torches or mobile flashlights, for 9 minutes at 9 PM on the 5thof April.At that time, if you have turned off all the lights of your homes, and each one of us in all directions has lit a diya; we will experience the superpower of light, clearly illuminating the common purpose we are all fighting for.In that light, in that lustre, in that radiance, let us resolve in our minds that we are not alone, that no one is alone!130 crore Indians are committed,through a common resolve!Friends, I have one more prayer in this regard, that no one must assemble or gather anywhere while participating in this program. Please do not go out on to the roads, lanes or your localities, do it at the doorstep or balconies of your own homes. One must never cross the ‘Lakshman Rekha’ of Social Distancing. Social Distancing should not be breached under any circumstances.This is the only panacea to break the chain of Corona virus.So, on the 5th of April at 9 PM.Sit in solitude for some time and reminisce about Maa Bharati, picture the faces of 130 crore Indians.Experience the collective resolve, the collective superpower of 130 crore Indians.This will give us the strength to fight, as well as the confidence to win, in this hour of crisis.It has been said here that –Utsaho Balwaan Arya,Na Asti Utsaah Param Balam |Sah Utsahasaya Lokeshu,Na Kinchit Api Durlabham ||”Meaning, there is no greater force in the world than our passion and our spirit.That there is nothing in the world that we cannot achieve on the basis of this strength.Come, let us come together and jointly defeat this Corona virus, and make India victorious.Thank you very much!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-full-text-of-pm-modi-s-address-to-the-nation/story-uHmLh3XoIgvx2txawrMlkM.html
03-04-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi asks Congress-ruled states to increase testing for Covid-19||Congress leader and Wayanad MP Rahul Gandhi has asked all party-ruled states, especially Rajasthan, to stress on increased testing for COVID-19 and added that apart from testing of suspects it should also be done on a random basis.According to sources, during the Congress Working Committee (CWC) meet over the Coronavirus pandemic, Rahul in his remarks said that the Central government has adopted the technique of low testing, but the testing of people should be increased.He gave the example of two other countries fighting a battle with COVID-19 which had emphasised on mass testing and told Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot that random testing should be done in the state as it has a high influx of tourists. He also specifically mentioned the Ajmer District, which has a huge footfall of foreigners.A senior leader present in the meeting stated, “Rahul Gandhi has emphasised on more testing because the early the virus is detected, the easier it is to curb the chances of its transmission and provide timely treatment.”The CWC had attacked the Centre through a statement which said that the government has erred in adopting a strategy of limited testing.“A lockdown or any other kind of restrictions is futile unless it is accompanied by extensive testing. It is extensive testing that has yielded results in some countries. Inexplicably, we have not put to full use even our limited testing capacity. The flawed strategy must be revised and testing must be scaled up urgently,” the statement read.The CWC said the government must simultaneously undertake massive production and procurement of personal protection equipment, Hazmat suits, body overalls, goggles, gloves, N-95 masks, ventilators, etc., and make them widely available to doctors, nurses, health workers as also hospitals and all other personnel.It said medical infrastructure should be expanded on a war-footing with more isolation wards, hospital beds, testing labs, and quarantine facilities.Chief Ministers of several Congress-ruled states were present in the CWC meeting held via video-conferencing on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-asks-congress-ruled-states-to-increase-testing-for-covid-19/story-JHevTOnONuc2HmYqg8PSnK.html
03-04-2020||India||‘Inhuman’: Shiv Sena slams Nizamuddin gathering in times of coronavirus||The Shiv Sena has criticized the Nizamuddin congregation of the Tablighi Jamaat members held in violation of the restrictions imposed on mass gatherings in view of the threat of Covid-19 community transmissions. The party which rules Maharasthra in coalition with the Congress and NCP, on Friday described the congregation, which has become a major source of infections across the country as “inhuman” act and added that no religious or national purpose was solved by holding of such an event, said news agency PTI.“What religious and national service have these people done by such a congregation in the name of Islam. In fact, it is inhuman and great disservice,” an excerpt quoted by the agency from editorial in party mouthpiece Saamana said.It also referred to the two conflicting accounts of the violation by Jamaat members and added that it was difficult to ascertain who between the Delhi police and the Jamaat officials was right in this matter.“What is truth only these two will know. But just like the police cleared the Shaheen Bagh protest area after the Delhi assembly polls, this event also could have been stopped using force,” the editorial said.Delhi police said they had warned the Jamaat members in Nizamuddin against mass prayers and gatherings but the organisers claim they had been denied permission by the police to move out, forcing them to stay inside. “This was a matter of national health and not religion. The Muslim community, too, would have supported such a move. Violating the lockdown is playing with other people’s lives,” the Saamna editorial quoted by PTI added.Central government yesterday said that over 9,000 people including the Jamaat members and other individual who they came in contact with have been identified across states and quarantined. The government said that 334 of Jamaat members had been found positive and admitted to hospitals.Sena mouthpiece highlighted the risk of transmission posed by such a huge religious gathering.“The programme saw congregation of over 5,000 people from 22 states in the country and eight foreign countries. Out of the 5,000 participants, 2,000 were foreigners, it said.Centre has begun action against the Jamaat and its leader Maulana Mohammad Saad, who has been booked under sections that punish offences that could lead to the worsening of an epidemic and for criminal conspiracy. Home minister Amit Shah said on Thursday the government has blacklisted 960 foreigners for their involvement in activities with the group while they were in India on tourist visas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/inhuman-shiv-sena-slams-nizamuddin-gathering-in-times-of-coronavirus/story-anxckzF55EkoMDdhysoFPK.html
03-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Rajasthan govt defers electricity, water bill payment till May-end||Millions of farmers, domestic consumers and industrial units in Rajasthan can now pay their electricity and water bills for March and April in May, amid the lockdown to prevent the transmission of Covid-19, chief minister Ashok Gehlot has said.A release from the chief minister’s office on Thursday night has said the decision will benefit nearly 1.3 million farmers and about 15 million domestic consumers. The government also announced a 5% discount in the next electricity bill for agriculture and domestic category consumers if they pay by May 31, 2020.For industries, the government has deferred fixed charges on electricity connections in proportion to the lockdown period till May 31, 2020, for March and April bills which will be issued in April and May. This will provide relief to about 168,000 consumers of small, medium and big industrial units.Similarly, the fixed charge of electricity bills of about 11,00,000 other home-based connections for March and April—commercial and tourism-related establishments, showrooms, shops, hotels, working hostels, etc—except state and lockdown-free establishments will be deferred till May 31, 2020.“The government will allocate Rs 650 crore to power distribution companies against this relief,” the release said.The government also said that it will suspend the recovery of the water bill for March and April for all consumers in the state. The consumer can now pay the bills in May. Also read: Maharashtra, Kerala on top; total nears 2,500This decision will postpone revenue collection of about Rs 100 crore.The state government has also said it will pay a premium of Rs 700 crore of the Prime Minister Crop Insurance Scheme by May to ensure that farmers get insurance claims without any delay for kharif year 2019.It has paid Rs 2034 crore as premium in the last one year.A decision has also been taken to increase loan for kharif crops by 25%, which will be starting from April 16, and that a loan of about Rs 8000 crore will be disbursed in during this year. About 20,00,000 farmers will get the benefit of the increased amount.Rajasthan reported 14 news cases of the coronavirus disease on Friday morning, taking the number of Covid-19 patients to 154 in the state till date.This includes seven Covid-19 patients in Jaipur and two in Bikaner, who went to the Tablighi Jamaat’s Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi. So far, 23 Tablighi members have tested positive in the state. Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and Maharashtra have also allowed for an extension in the payment of electricity bills generated during the 21-day nationwide lockdown due to the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-rajasthan-govt-defers-electricity-water-bill-payment-till-may-end/story-1dYIDjTmu83Bzk9EHXvOqI.html
03-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 1 PM: Imran Khan govt faces brickbats in Pak over Covid-19 response and all the latest news at this hour||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Coronavirus update: Imran Khan govt faces brickbats in Pak over Covid-19 responseThe Pakistan government is facing mounting criticism within the country and abroad for its delayed reaction to the Covid-19 pandemic, with the virus spreading quickly due to failures in screening and quarantining.Pakistan currently has more than 2,400 confirmed cases and Covid-19 has caused 34 deaths across the country.Read more. ‘It is a nightmare’: Why Tablighi Jamaat-linked infections have the Centre worriedFor days, hundreds of teams of police, health and bureaucrats have been out in the field across the country to track down the thousands of Tablighi Jamaat workers who may have come in contact with Covid-19 patients. By last evening, the Union home ministry counted 9,000 Tablighi Jamaat workers and their contacts who had been located and quarantined.Read more. Covid-19 Update: Scientists bat for clinical trials in poor and middle-income countriesA team of scientists, physicians, funders and policymakers from over 70 organisations globally have called for an acceleration of research on Covid-19 in poor and middle-income countries where the disease can wreak havoc.Read more. ‘Symbolism is important but...’: Chidambaram’s jibe at PM Modi’s video messageCongress leader P Chidambaram on Friday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to “listen to” people and announce measures to arrest the economic slide cause by Covid-19 outbreak. Reacting to Prime Minister’s video message, he said that symbolism is important but serious thought to measures is needed.Read more. Covid-19 statewise tally: Maharashtra, Kerala on top; total nears 2,500As India entered the tenth day of the 21-day coronavirus lockdown on Friday, the total number of cases in the country inched toward 2,500. The Covid-19 death toll in India climbed to 56 on Friday, the health ministry stated. The total number of coronavirus cases in the country now stands at 2,301 including 2,088 active cases and 156 recoveries.Read more. A July without Roger FedererA cancelled Wimbledon is bound to hurt Djokovic’s rhythm but not as much as it is bound to impact Federer’s ticking career-clock. If and when Wimbledon is held next year and if—and that’s the big if—Federer returns to play it, he will be almost 40, and playing for both lost and leftover time. But because it’s Federer at Wimbledon and that occurrence has often defied logic, his fans will still expect him to win it.Read more. Peacock displays impressive plumage, dances around in Mumbai. WatchWith humans staying inside due to lockdown, the animals are probably thinking ‘where did they all go?’ Maybe to investigate further, they are also happily wandering around. Just like these peacocks roaming around or dancing on empty Mumbai streets.Shared by many, these images and videos show how the gorgeous birds are frolicking through the deserted streets. While some are sitting on top of cars, others simply are walking around.Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1-pm-imran-khan-govt-faces-brickbats-in-pak-over-covid-19-response-and-all-the-latest-news-at-this-hour/story-8S4JGMWjPy3TIKQH46y12J.html
03-04-2020||India||Get in touch if elderly parents need help during Covid-19 lockdown: NCW||Amid concerns for the elderly during the ongoing lockdown, NCW chief Rekha Sharma has asked people to get in touch with the Commission if anyone’s old parents are staying alone and need help.She asked people to get in touch with her through email “mailto:chairperson-ncw@nic.in”chairperson-ncw@nic.in or “mailto:Sharma.rekha@gov.in”Sharma.rekha@gov.in.“If anyone’s old parents are staying alone anywhere in india and need any help Please let me know. The help will reach them. In Delhi, I personally will take care and in other parts will take help of state Chairpersons,” she said in a tweet.Several people responded to her tweets to seek help for their ailing parents.India has been under a three-week lockdown since March 24 with its 1.3 billion people instructed to stay home in view of the coronavirus outbreak, which has claimed 76 lives and infected over 2500 people in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/get-in-touch-if-elderly-parents-need-help-during-covid-19-lockdown-ncw/story-9dGwznh5X1q0wJVBEHJylL.html
03-04-2020||India||Covid-19 Update: Scientists bat for clinical trials in poor and middle-income countries||A team of scientists, physicians, funders and policymakers from over 70 organisations globally have called for an acceleration of research on Covid-19 in poor and middle-income countries where the disease can wreak havoc.The Covid-19 Clinical Research Coalition will work on accelerating clinical trials of vaccine and drugs in these countries among other interventions. The team which published a comment in The Lancet journal on Thursday, said the response of the research and science community to the pandemic has been vigorous but no so in poor countries.A review of clinical trial registries as of March 24 showed 536 relevant registered clinical trials. Of the 332 Covid-19 related clinical trials, 188 are open for recruitment and 146 trials are preparing to recruit. The distribution of these clinical trials is mostly in China and South Korea, with high-income countries in Europe and North America planning most of the forthcoming trials.The members of the coalition said research collaboration and coordination is urgently needed in African, Latin American, Eastern European, and certain Asian countries to respond to Covid-19.They also said that open science and data sharing principles need to be applied at all stages of Covid-19 including research by the private sector.“The FAIR guiding principles (Findability, Accessibility, Interoperability and Reusability) for data should be implemented, and mechanisms put in place to enable equitable use and reuse of data,” they have said.The scientists have warned that certain healthcare systems could collapse due to a surge in Covid-19 cases, as there is very low availability of personal protective equipment (PPE) in these countries.“Disruption or complete breakdown of those health-care systems would result in high direct and indirect mortality since care of all illness would be affected,” they said.The coalition added that interventions being introduced in these countries will have to be affordable and regulatory clearance for importing products for drug and vaccine trials and ethical review needs to be expedited.“The Indian Council of Medical Research is conducting trials on drugs that can be re-purposed. They have also published the protocol in Indian Journal of Medical Research. In WHO’s solidarity trial more than 80 countries are participating. Our public health research infrastructure and capacity need to expand. The West already has such research facilities. I think India will be ahead of many in terms of vaccine development because some organisations are already looking at vaccine strains and suitable candidates for trials,” said Dr Giridhar R Babu, professor and head, Lifecourse Epidemiology, Public Health Foundation of India.The idea for the coalition came from Professor Nick White from Mahidol Oxford Tropical Medicine Research Unit at The University of Oxford, Professor Philippe Guerin, from Infectious Diseases Data Observatory at The University of Oxford, and Dr Nathalie Strub Wourgaft, Director of Neglected Tropical Diseases at the Drugs for Neglected Diseases initiative (DNDi) according to the coalition’s website.Coronavirus live updates||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-scientists-bat-for-clinical-trials-in-poor-and-middle-income-countries/story-48k4aNqeZWdVQ7QaALzgpO.html
03-04-2020||India||‘It is a nightmare’: Why Tablighi Jamaat-linked infections have the Centre worried||For days, hundreds of teams of police, health and bureaucrats have been out in the field across the country to track down the thousands of Tablighi Jamaat workers who may have come in contact with Covid-19 patients. By last evening, the Union home ministry counted 9,000 Tablighi Jamaat workers and their contacts who had been located and quarantined.Top government officials who are closely associated with the mammoth exercise told Hindustan Times that they may just be looking at the tip of the iceberg.“It is a nightmare… a logistical nightmare and one that stares India right in the face,” one official said.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here It started from a seven-storeyed building in central Delhi’s Nizamuddin, the Markaz. This has been the first stop for the Jamaat’s foreign workers who arrive in India before they set out into the hinterland for their preaching tours. Some of them from countries that had been exposed to Covid-19 and had picked up the infection.And then it spread. In the Markaz and later, across the country.Officials said the first priority for the establishment had been to trace nearly 960 foreign workers.The Tablighi Jamaat did maintain a register of all the foreigners who arrived, just as they had been told. “But there were far too many cases where the names and passport numbers were wrong, or misspelt,” a senior home ministry official said.Also read: In 4 years, India put 4,200 foreigners on visa blacklist for Tablighi activitiesIn the absence of proper documentation, officials had to touch base with the Jamaat coordinators in the country’s 700-plus districts to try to track down the foreigners.But the bigger challenge, the official said, lies in tracking down the Jamaat’s Indian followers.The Jamaat, which has grown into a religious movement across continents, has no proper records.“We are still in the process of reaching out to as many people as possible, as we can,” said a top official in the security establishment.But there were lakhs of people who attended the Jamaat’s congregations that have been held in parts of the country.Also read: Markaz leadership resisted, then NSA Ajit Doval dropped by at 2 am“How do you trace them, figure out who came in contact with the suspected or confirmed cases,” the official said, hoping that the nationwide lockdown would have helped minimise any further spread of infection from the Jamaat’s followers.India isn’t the only country that is seeing a surge of cases linked to the Tablighi Jamaat. In neighbouring Pakistan, a gathering of 250,000 people at the Tablighi Jamaat’s meeting in early March has been linked to infections as far afield as Palestine and Kyrgyzstan.The Jamaat’s gatherings in Malaysia in February have been directly linked to over 600 of the country’s 3,000 odd cases.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-it-is-a-nightmare-why-tablighi-jamaat-linked-infections-have-the-centre-worried/story-43CFr0QeaPvTbCdoJsv8VI.html
03-04-2020||India||Born during coronavirus lockdown, Raipur twins named ‘Corona’ and ‘Covid’||The pandemic caused by a new virus may have brought the world to its knees, but that has not deterred a couple in Chhattisgarh to name their newborn twins as ‘Corona’ and ‘Covid’.The two words may evoke fear and devastation in minds of others, but for the Raipur-based couple they symbolise triumph over hardships as the twins - a boy and a girl - were born during the ongoing coronavirus-enforced nationwide lockdown which has disrupted normal life.The names, they said, would remind them about all the hardships they conquered amid the lockdown, ahead of a successful delivery on the intervening night of March 26-27 at a government hospital here.However, the couple said they may change their decision later and rename their kids.I was blessed with the twins - a boy and a girl - in the early hours on March 27. We have named themCovid (boy) and Corona (girl) for now,” Preeti Verma, the 27-old mother of the newborns, told PTI.“The delivery happened after facing several difficulties and therefore, me and my husband wanted to make the day memorable.“Indeed the virus is dangerous and life-threatening but its outbreak made people focus on sanitation, hygiene and inculcate other good habits. Thus, we thought about these names,” she said, giving reasons for their unusual decision.“When the hospital staff also started calling the babies as Corona and Covid, we finally decided to name them after the pandemic,” she said.The couple, originally from Uttar Pradesh, resides in a rented house in the Purani Basti area of the state capital.“On late night of March 26, I suddenly experienced severe labour pain and somehow my husband arranged an ambulance operated under 102 Mahtari Express service.“As no vehicular movement was allowed on roads due to the lockdown, we were stopped by police at various places but they let us go after noticing my condition,” Verma said.I was wondering what would happen in the hospital as it was midnight, but fortunately doctors and other staff were very cooperative,” she said.“Our relatives, who wanted to reach the hospital, could not make it as bus and train services were stopped due to the lockdown,” said Verma, who already has a two-year-old daughter.The twins were born in Dr BR Ambedkar Memorial Hospital.Public Relations Officer (PRO) of the hospital, Shubhra Singh said, the mother and the newborns were discharged recently and they were in good health.As soon as Verma reached the hospital with her husband, arrangements were made to perform a caesarean section on her as it was a complicated case, Singh said.“Within 45 minutes of their arrival, the delivery was done successfully,” the PRO said.The twins had become a centre of attraction in the hospital after the couple named them as Covid and Corona, Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/born-during-coronavirus-lockdown-raipur-twins-named-corona-and-covid/story-Rv8vyFY5jOQKcI5o6B2f6O.html
03-04-2020||India||Will listen to you, light diyas, tweets Chidambaram; then comes the jab||Congress leader P Chidambaram on Friday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to “listen to” people and announce measures to arrest the economic slide cause by Covid-19 outbreak. Reacting to Prime Minister’s video message, he said that symbolism is important but serious thought to measures is needed.“Dear @narendramodi, we will listen to you and light diyas on April 5. But, in return, please listen to us and to the wise counsel of epidemiologists and economists. Every working man and woman, from business person to daily wage earner, also expected you to announce steps to arrest the economic slide and re-start the engines of economic growth,” Chidambaram said on Twitter“The people are disappointed on both counts. Symbolism is important, but serious thought to ideas and measures is equally important,” he further said in another other tweet. The people are disappointed on both counts.Symbolism is important, but serious thought to ideas and measures is equally important.@PMOIndia @nsitharamanoffcEarlier, fellow Congress leader and Member of Parliament from Thiruvananthapuram Shashi Tharoor said the Prime Minister’s video message lacks vision of future.Watch | ‘Switch off lights, light candles at 9 pm on Sunday’: PM Modi’s message amid lockdown l Full speech||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/symbolism-is-important-but-chidambaram-s-jibe-at-pm-modi-s-video-message/story-fMpiHDTbEecubzPY3y20nI.html
03-04-2020||India||Heroes then, heroes now||A decade ago, they made India proud with their sporting achievements. Now, they are making the country proud once again, this time, with their heroics in the crusade against the Covid-19 pandemic.Joginder Sharma, who made his name in history, after he bowled the twentieth over in the final of the ICC T20 game against Pakistan in 2007, is now a DSP, with Haryana Police. He has been on duty for over two weeks, which meant he couldn’t see his family. “It’s been 15 days, and I have come home today. The place where I’m posted is about an-hour-and-a-half drive away from my house. I am out for duty by 6am,” he says.“The stress of how we will manage this is more than the tension I had when I was bowling that final over. The government and the authorities are taking every possible step to make sure that this disease stays away from the entire country. It is my duty, to help them, and make my country safer,” he says, adding that he is “happy to see” the photos of him, on duty in the uniform, on social media which have gone viral, and feels that the popularity, will only “ spread the message” further.Just like Joginder, Akhil Kumar, who represented India in the Olympics in 2008, is now an ACP with the Haryana Traffic Police, and is posted in Gurugram. Apart from doing his duty, the 38-year-old boxer is also making sure that those, “who’ve been walking on foot to get to their homes” are given food and water. Akhil, ever since the lockdown’s announcement, has also been delivering food to those “who don’t have money and have been stuck inside” their homes. “Instead of getting them packed food, we give them ration. Not only is that cheaper, but is more in quantity, as well. Every day we are able to give some 70-80 packets. Each packet contains, atta, rice and dal,” he says.Both of them insist on not being called heroes. “What’s important is that people take this seriously. Our Prime Minister has requested everyone to practise social distancing. I, as a police officer and as a citizen of this country will make sure that this country is safe,” says Joginder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heroes-then-heroes-now/story-IeLPharNSsNqIdvRFZ0jCN.html
03-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: 78-yr-old Covid-19 patient dies in Gujarat’s Vadodara||A 78-year-old man from Gujarat’s Godhra, who had contracted the coronavirus disease and was admitted at a hospital in Vadodara, died on Thursday night, news agency ANI reported on Friday.Asian News International cited Uday Tilwat, the Vadodara district chief medical officer, as saying that the man was a resident of Panchmahal area of Godhra district.The latest fatality comes a day after a 52-year-old Covid-19 patient, who had travelled to Sri Lanka, died on Thursday morning. He was admitted to SSG Hospital in Vadodara on March 19.There are 87 Covid-19 patients in Gujarat and eight people have been killed due to the coronavirus disease in the state till date.On Wednesday, 13 new Covid-19 cases were reported in the state—eight from Ahmedabad, two from Porbandar and Surat each, and one from Panchmahal district.The Union ministry of health and family welfare on Thursday said that there are 2069 Covid-19 cases in India, including 155 cured or discharged people and 53 fatalities..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elderly-man-dies-due-to-covid-19-in-gujarat-toll-rises-to-eight/story-Zp7zDdedeqmNGzq3HMEatO.html
03-04-2020||India||Covid-19 statewise tally: Maharashtra, Kerala on top; total nears 2,500||As India entered the tenth day of the 21-day coronavirus lockdown on Friday, the total number of cases in the country inched toward 2,500. The Covid-19 death toll in India climbed to 56 on Friday, the health ministry stated. The total number of coronavirus cases in the country now stands at 2,301 including 2,088 active cases and 156 recoveries.Maharashtra, Kerala and Tamil Nadu are the states with highest number of Covid-19 positive patients in the country followed by Delhi, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh.Here’s a quick look at the statewise coronavirus active cases, recoveries and fatalities.MaharashtraThe state has the highest number of Covid-19 cases with 335 patients. Maharashtra has registered 16 coronavirus deaths so far while 42 patients have recovered.KeralaWith 286 coronavirus cases, Kerala is the second most coronavirus-affected state in the country. As per the latest data by the Ministry of Health, Kerala has witnessed two deatsh due to Covid-19 while 27 people have successfully recovered.Tamil NaduThe southern state has seen a dramatic rise in the number of Covid-19 cases. The cases in the state have jumped to 309 - third highest in the country. Tamil Nadu has seen six recoveries and one Covid-19 death.DelhiDelhi closely follows with the fourth-highest number of coronavirus cases in the country. As many as 219 people have tested positive of coronavirus in the national capital. Four people have died from the infection while eight people have made a recovery, as per the health ministry’s data.Uttar Pradesh113 people have been infected from Covid-19 in the state. While 14 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, two have died from the infection here.KarnatakaThe state has recorded 124 Covid-19 cases and three deaths. 10 people have been cured and discharged.Telangana107 positive cases of coronavirus have been reported from the state so far. One person has made a recovery from the virus while three people have died from Covid-19.RajasthanThe state has 133 positive cases of coronavirus with no reported cases of fatalities. Three patients have recovered from the infection.Madhya PradeshThe state has reported 99 positive cases of coronavirus. Six people have died from Covid-19 here.Andhra PradeshThe state has witnessed a sudden spike in its Covid-19 cases. 132 positive Covid-19 patients have been reported in the state and one case of recovery. One person has died.GujaratPrime Minister Narendra Modi’s home state has registered 87 coronavirus cases and five recoveries so far. Seven people have died from the infection in the state.Jammu and KashmirThe union territory of Jammu and Kashmir has seen the number of Covid-19 patients rising to 70. Two people have died from the infection while three were cured.Haryana and PunjabThe neighbouring states have 43 and 46 Covid-19 cases respectively. While four people have died in Punjab, Haryana has seen no deaths. Twenty one people have recovered from Covid-19 in Haryana, one in Punjab.Fifty three people have been affected by the Sars-CoV-2 virues in West Bengal. There have been three deaths and three revoveries in the state. In Chandigarh, 18 people have contracted the Covid-19 disease. Andaman has recorded 10 coronavirus cases. Chhattisgarh has recorded nine cases of coronavirus, and two people have recovered. In Bihar, 24 people have tested positive for coronavirus, one has died.Uttarakhand has 10 coronavirus patients, two patients have recovered from the infection. Goa has reported six cases of Covid-19 disease. Himachal Pradesh has six cases, one patient has died and one has recovered. Odisha has five Covid-19 positive patients and Pondicherry has reported three cases.States and Union territories with just one positive Covid-19 case include Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram.India is in 21-day-long nationwide coronavirus lockdown announced by PM Modi to break the chain of Covid-19 infection in the country. The Prime Minister released a video message today in which he appreciated the dicsipline shown by the people during the lockdown.Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-statewise-tally-maharashtra-kerala-on-top-total-nears-2-500/story-D63iFYpBzQNchkjVSmVV2K.html
03-04-2020||India||With lakhs under home quarantine, Kerala employs counsellors to help quell anxiety||Kerala, one of the coronavirus pandemic hotspots in the country, has employed 950 counsellors to talk to more than 150,000 people under quarantine and 700-odd patients in hospitals to provide the much-needed support to cope with mental health issues.The counsellors work 24x7 in shifts answering to a number of calls from people with stress and anxieties and say a few of them may not need counselling but others need them desperately. The calls sometimes have patients shouting or crying and counsellors say fear is the key in most cases blended with stigma, outrage, anxiety and deprivation.They say the most frequently asked question is about safety and survival—whether they will be able to weather out the coronavirus pandemic—in the state which has reported 286 Covid-19 cases and two deaths till Tuesday. Patients and those under observation are allowed to use their mobile phones and most of them browse to know what is happening around on Covid-19 front and get nervous after reading about the situation. Also read: Over 500 new Covid-19 cases in a day in India; total number crosses 2,500So, counsellors often advise them not to read up about the respiratory illness and its after-effects and concentrate more on entertainment, sports and other sections.One of the counsellors in Kottayam answered a call by a man, who is more than 70-years-old, about a legal issue.“I have a property with crores of rupees. But I didn’t prepare a will. If I die there will chaos in my family. Will you help me prepare a will?” he asked.The counsellor said they tried their best to convince that he will come out in the best of his health. “But, initially he was not ready to buy my advice but later came around,” the counsellor said.They are not supposed to divulge the details of individual patient names or their locations.Also read: High court stops Kerala from liquor sales amid lockdown, says recipe for disaster“Some of them really need psychological counselling and some also show suicidal tendencies. People who repeatedly test positive often break down fearing they will never come out of the mess,” a psychologist, who is a part of the counselling team, said.“Our only solace is most of them have seen life and they have seen the world. So most of them understand things and come around quickly,” the psychologist said.Another psychologist said they engage them by slowly talking about general things and gradually come to their mental health. “At times some of them curse, shout, abuse or break down. But we slowly bring them back to reality and tell them it is just a passing phase they have to undergo. And some of them talk feverishly about their future plans,” the psychologist said.India’s first Covid-19 patient, a medical student who returned from the Chinese epicentre of Wuhan in China and tested positive three days later on January 30, also experienced similar emotions. “Once I broke down and showed some tantrums and health authorities soon brought my mother and lodged her in the next room. When I heard my mother’s voice after two weeks I cried a lot. Later, I recovered,” the medical student said. But she admits the number of Covid-19 patients could be counted on fingers, but not now.As the number of people under quarantine has gone up, the government is now planning to approach film stars and others to devote some time for them and many including some superstars have agreed to it.“It is an extraordinary situation. We need the help of all. We have approached many known personalities and they all pledged their help. We have to make patients and quarantined believe there is no stigma or taboo, it is a disease and anyone can get it,” KK Shailaja, the state’s health minister, said.Actor Mohanlal and Mammooty have appeared on a video stressing the need for social isolation and care. The government recently roped in former Indian football team captain IM Vijayan to talk to migrant workers.“Since I was there in West Bengal many years playing for some clubs I know Bengali and Hindi well. I know their anxiety and concern. So, when the government approached me I readily agreed to it,” said Vijayan, now an inspector with the Kerala Police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-lakhs-under-home-quarantine-kerala-employs-counsellors-to-help-quell-anxiety/story-7kWuREW4v1Spzw9PcRDqoN.html
03-04-2020||India||Two nursing officers at Delhi State Cancer Institution test positive for Covid-19||Two nurses from the Delhi State Cancer Institute (DSCI) in Dilshad Garden tested positive for Covid-19 late Thursday night, just two days after a doctor from the preventive oncology department of the hospital tested positive for the infection.The report of the two nurses—one male and one female, both in their 40s—came back positive among the samples of around 19 staff members that were sent for testing on suspicion of coming in direct contact with the doctor.The out-patient clinic, that had been shut to sanitise the premises, will remain closed to ensure patients coming in do not get the disease.“Most of the patients coming in for their check-up right now are the emergent cancer patients whose immune system is weak as it is. We cannot open the OPD even if there is a chance that they might get the infection,” said Dr BL Sherwal, medical director of the hospital.Since the lockdown started only about 100 to 150 patients visited the clinics at the hospital. Usually, the OPD attendance is between 1,000 and 1,500.After the two nurses tested positive, the hospital is looking at testing all its symptomatic staff members. “Now that two others have tested positive, we are looking at getting all other staff members who might be symptomatic tested,” said Dr Sherwal.The hospital is also monitoring the 48 patients admitted to its wards for any symptoms of Covid-19.A 35-year-old doctor from DSCI had tested positive on Tuesday and was admitted to Baba Saheb Ambedkar hospital, near his house. His wife and child were admitted to Lok Nayak hospital on suspicion of having the infection.It is, however, unclear where he got the infection from.“He has no history of foreign travel or treating any Covid-19 patients. So, the source of the infection is still a question mark. His brother and sister-in-law did travel to UK in February, but they haven’t tested positive for the infection,” said an official from Delhi government health department.This takes the number of healthcare workers affected in the city to at least ten. A doctor from the physiology department of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) and his wife, who is none-months pregnant, tested positive for the disease on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-nursing-officers-at-delhi-state-cancer-institution-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-g84zq04kZd1eJeCwsz290J.html
03-04-2020||India||Maharashtra: No fresh Covid-19 cases recorded this morning, overall tally at 423||Maharashtra did not record any fresh coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive case on Friday morning, as the overall tally of the infected people stood at 423, including 20 deaths.On Thursday, 88 new Covid-19 positive cases were recorded of which 54 were in Mumbai and 11 in Pune.The state health department authorities said that the latest tally included cases that were diagnosed by private laboratories over the past few days.The spike in cases, which has been largely attributed to the Tablighi Jamaat’s international congregation at Nizamuddin in Delhi between March 13 and 15, has forced the state government to ramp up its preventive measures. The government has urged all districts and civic authorities to identify hotspots and containment areas across the state and proactively search for the Jamaat attendees.State health minister Rajesh Tope said that up to 1,400 people have been traced, who had links to the Jamaat meet. “We have traced the Jamaat attendees in their respective districts after we received a comprehensive list from the central government. We’ve all their details, and also all those people who came in contact with them,” the minister said. In Mumbai, the civic administration has traced 105 of the 127 people, who attended the Nizamuddin event, and quarantined them. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) authorities have circulated a ward-wise list to all its ward officers to track the 127 people. A search operation is on trace the remaining 22 missing people, said a senior BMC official. The civic body has sealed 212 containment zones and put them under closed-circuit television (CCTV) surveillance, as Mumbai has emerged as the epicentre of Covid-19 outbreak in Maharashtra. In a video-conference meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi held on Thursday, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray apprised him about the decisions being taken by the state government. Modi has hinted at not extending the ongoing 21-day nationwide lockdown, which started on March 25. The PM also suggested that the lockdown can be lifted in a phased manner.Maharashtra has set up 30 new hospitals dedicated to Covid-19 patients that have a total bed capacity of 2,305 to prevent the viral outbreak.The state government also plans to start random antibody tests to ascertain the number of Covid-19 positive cases. Tope said the Centre has approved the proposal to entrust both state government and private agencies to carry out random antibody tests under the watch of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Each antibody test could cost up to Rs 400. On Friday morning, there was a surge of consumers at vegetable markets and grocery shops. Tope hinted that the government is planning to keep the markets and shops open on alternate days in a bid to reduce crowds at these places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-no-fresh-covid-19-cases-recorded-this-morning-overall-tally-at-423/story-Cnj2IumjCjH0VXzumZoU3N.html
03-04-2020||India||‘Incorrect info’: Spokesperson of Prince Charles on ayurveda treatment||Shripad Naik, the minister of state for AYUSH and Goa Lok Sabha MP, has said he has been informed that ayurvedic medicine has helped Prince Charles, heir to the British throne, recover from Covid-19 even as a spokesperson for the British royal in London denied the claim.Prince Charles, who tested positive for the disease last month, is reported to have recovered from the illness caused by the Sars-CoV-2 virus and has since tested negative.“I got a call from Dr. Isaac Mathai, who runs the Soukya Ayurveda Resort in Bengaluru. He told me that his treatment of Prince Charles through ayurveda and homeopathy has been successful,” Naik told a press conference in Goa on Thursday. In a telephone call from Bengaluru, Isaac Mathai confirmed that the British royal and his wife are his “patients”. The website of his ayurveda resort, too, carries a video message from Prince Charles prominently on its landing page. But Mathai refused to “confirm or deny” Naik’s remarks, citing “patient confidentiality”.“Since Prince Charles is a patient of mine, I won’t be able to talk about him in any public forum. He stayed here some months ago; I met him in London last month, but I cannot disclose what I prescribed to him,” Mathai said, adding that he has been prescribing the same medicine against “any viral condition with flu-like symptoms” to thousands of patients, but that he had “not treated a Covid-19 patient as of now”.Asked by HT to comment on whether Prince Charles’s recovery from Covid-19 was aided by advice from an ayurveda practitioner in Bengaluru, a spokesperson for the Prince of Wales in London said: “This information is incorrect. The Prince of Wales followed the medical advice of the National Health Service (NHS) in the UK and nothing more.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/incorrect-info-spokesperson-of-prince-charles-on-ayurveda-treatment/story-ituGiZuqhoke46HNFttWbM.html
03-04-2020||India||PM Modi recites shloka to stress on collective strength against coronavirus||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday once again used a Sanskrit shloka to urge people to display their collective resolve and strength to fight the coronavirus pandemic in the country.“Utsaho balavanarya nastyutsahat param balam | Utsaharambhamatrena jayante sarvasampadah. Meaning there is no force greater than our enthusiasm and spirt in this world. There is nothing in the world that cannot be achieved with this force. Let’s come together to defeat corona and make India victorious,” Modi said in his 10-minute video message.The Prime Minister recited the Sanskrit shloka from the Mahasubhasitasamgraha, a collection of Sanskrit aphorisms collected from various sources. Also read: Number of Covid-19 cases nears 2,500; PM Modi asks country to stay unitedModi also called people across the country to light candles, lamps or use their mobile phone’s flashlights at 9pm for nine minutes on April 5 to “raise the great power of 130 crore Indians”.“The collective strength of the nation to combat coronavirus will be experienced,” the Prime Minister said in his address.He, however, cautioned that the Lakshman Rekha of social distancing should not be crossed while showing this collective resolve as it is the only ramban or definite solution to break the chain of the infection.“We should all feel that none of us is alone and we are all united against this global pandemic. We have to move towards light and assurance for the uncertainty and gloom that coronavirus has inflicted,” he said.Friday’s video message was the Prime Minister’s third address to the nation as the country fights the coronavirus pandemic. Modi had called for a Janta Curfew or people’s curfew on March 19 and announced the 21-day lockdown on March 24 as a step to break the chain of infection.India has reported 2068 cases of the coronavirus disease, including 53 deaths, till 6pm on April 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-recites-shloka-to-stress-on-collective-strength-against-coronavirus/story-PmOGKsk9KxIBI8QxrBM26J.html
03-04-2020||India||For Sunday’s ‘light the lamp’ initiative, PM Modi sets the ground rule||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday urged people to “challenge the darkness” of the coronavirus by lighting a lamp, torch or mobile flashlight on Sunday.“This Sunday, April 5, we will challenge the darkness of coronavirus threat together. On April 5, at 9 pm, I need your nine minutes. At 9 pm, turn off all the lights in your houses and light a diya (lamp), candle, torch or flashlight for nine minutes at your doors, or balcony,” PM Modi said in a video message.The Prime Minister, however, said that social distancing should be followed and people should not form groups while lighting the lamps. He also urged people to stay indoors.He had asked people to take the measures put in place by the government seriously after violations during the Janta Curfew. Many people had come out on the roads during the self-imposed curfew on March 22.Watch | ‘Switch off lights, light candles at 9 pm on Sunday’: PM Modi’s message amid lockdown l Full speech||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/for-sunday-s-light-the-lamp-initiative-pm-modi-sets-the-ground-rule/story-yydLLACCPMDnuj8D8vnUhK.html
03-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Imran Khan govt faces brickbats in Pak over Covid-19 response. Here is why||The Pakistan government is facing mounting criticism within the country and abroad for its delayed reaction to the Covid-19 pandemic, with the virus spreading quickly due to failures in screening and quarantining.Pakistan currently has more than 2,400 confirmed cases and Covid-19 has caused 34 deaths across the country.Most of the initial cases were Shia pilgrims returning from Iran, one of the countries worst affected by the pandemic, and the virus spread rapidly after hundreds of people were kept in camps along the border with Balochistan without any screening. The camps also had no medical facilities, and this exacerbated the situation.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The Pakistan government also failed to take effective action to shut down mosques, with thousands joining Friday prayers on March 20 and March 27. Commentators within the country have criticised the government’s lack of action, pointing out that Saudi Arabia had suspended the Umrah pilgrimage and shut even the Grand Mosque in Mecca.Early in March, some 250,000 men from Pakistan and abroad gathered at Raiwind near Lahore for a five-day meeting of the Tablighi Jamaat, after the country had already reported confirmed Covid-19 cases and there were public demands for the gathering to be called off.The Tablighi Jamaat members were asked to disperse on March 12, a day after the meeting began, but the gathering has since been identified as the source of infections as far afield as Palestine and Kyrgyzstan. Some 550 Jamaat members, including nationals of Indonesia, Nigeria, Afghanistan and China, have been quarantined in Sindh after a Chinese citizen tested positive after attending the meeting in Raiwind, according to media reports.Reports suggest the Pakistan government has failed to act on such gatherings or to shut mosques because of fears of a backlash from powerful Islamic organisations. In the face of the government’s dilly-dallying approach to the pandemic, the military has taken on a greater role in controlling the spread of the Coronavirus.Pakistan’s planning minister Asad Umar, addressing a news conference on April 1, said the current lockdown in the country will continue till April 14.Foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi, planning minister Asad Umar and President Arif Ali went into self-quarantine after a recent visit to China, which was apparently aimed at obtaining financial and other support for Pakistan due to the economic impact of the Covid-19 crisis.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage While in isolation at his home, Qureshi was critical of those blaming China for the spread of the Coronavirus. “The world is blaming China [for the outbreak] whereas it is an international issue…Pakistan had expressed confidence in not repatriating students from China,” he was quoted as saying by The Express Tribune.A medical team sent by China to Pakistan has been sitting idle because of a lack of interpreters, according to media reports. The team of eight medical experts arrived in Islamabad last week and visited several health centres and quarantine facilities for Covid-19 patients.“But when the Chinese medical experts started conversing, some local medical staff appeared lost, unable to understand what was being said in Chinese,” The Express Tribune reported.Opposition PML-N lawmaker Abdul Qayyum criticised the government’s handling of the visit by the Chinese medical team, saying it should have arranged for interpreters so that their knowledge could be transferred to Pakistani doctors. “People do not know in which direction are we heading and they are asking where is the government,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-imran-khan-govt-faces-brickbats-in-pak-over-covid-19-response-here-is-why/story-qQM2bL72JFpshGlwsKASaJ.html
03-04-2020||India||3 Tablighi Jamaat attendees test positive for Covid-19 in Uttarakhand||Three members of the Tablighi Jamaat, who were at the congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin Markaz in March, tested positive for the coronavirus disease in Uttarakhand late on Thursday, officials said. With this, the number of cases of coronavirus infection in the hill state has gone up to 10.“Three people, who tested positive for the deadly virus, were among the 13 members of Tablighi Jamaat, who were caught entering Udham Singh Nagar district from Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday and booked by the police,” Ashok Kumar, director general of police (law and order), said. Also read: A peek inside the Tablighi Jamaat MarkazThey were quarantined after a health check-up at Pant Nagar Krishi Bhawan premises.On Wednesday, US Nagar police had arrested 13 Tablighi Jamaat attendees near the railway track and Nainital Road in Rudrapur. They were coming from the Moradabad and Rampur areas of Uttar Pradesh. “We were informed that some Jamaatis are passing through the railway track from Rampur side and entering Uttarakhand. Police intercepted them and took them into custody. They were nine in number. Later, four more were held from Nainital road in Rudrapur,” Devendra Pincha, US Nagar’s additional superintendent of police, said. Pincha said they were booked under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (unlawfully or negligently does any act which is, and which he knows or has reason to believe to be, likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).Also read: Amit Shah orders blacklisting of 960 foreigners who took part in Tablighi Jamaat eventsOn March 15, Uttarakhand reported the first Covid-19 case in the state. A 26-year-old trainee Indian Forest Service (IFS) officer was confirmed positive after he had returned from a tour of Finland, Russia and Spain. He was part of a group of 62 trainee IFS officers who had visited these countries for an educational tour.On March 23, an American tourist was confirmed to be the fourth Covid-19 case in Uttarakhand. On March 25, a 25-year-old man from Kotdwar in Pauri Garhwal district with recent travel history to Spain became the fifth Covid-19 patient in the state. Uttarakhand reported its sixth case of Covid-19 on March 28 when a 21-year-old boy, who had come back from Dubai, tested positive in Dehradun. The next day, a 47-year-old military official posted in the Chakrata area of Dehradun tested positive for the coronavirus disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-tablighi-jamaat-attendees-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-uttarakhand/story-f64u5iG9dmCLn6QZrNJ3xO.html
03-04-2020||India||1,000,000 cases in world and India’s supply woes: Covid-19 news today||In less than 100 days in 2020, the Sars-Cov-2 virus has infected a million people and killed 50,000, ripping through 203 countries in a rampage that will have a deep economic, social and psychological impact. India, where infections have crossed 2,000, is battling an immediate fallout of a virus-induced lockdown. Amid a supply crunch of consumer items across states, businesses blame lean inventories on panic buying and transportation curbs.One million and countingThe government may borrow about Rs 40,000 crore to compensate cash-strapped states for their revenue shortfall under the GST regime, and push its departments and public sector firms to clear their vendors’ dues , to rescue them from an acute liquidity crunch caused by the 21-day coronavirus lockdown, three officials aware of the developments said. Read morePlan staggered exit from lockdown, PM tells CMsUnderlining India’s goal of ensuring minimum loss of life and detailing the next steps in India’s strategy to deal with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday indicated that once the lockdown ends, the Centre and the states will together ensure a staggered re-emergence of the citizenry. Read moreA peek inside the Tablighi Jamaat MarkazMost nights, the main avenue of Delhi’s tony Nizamuddin East is as silent as a grave. There is no traffic except for an occasional car, a “Niz East” dweller probably returning to his or her elegant apartment. The 17th-century tomb of Abdul Rahim Khan-i-Khana remains shrouded in darkness. Read more17 companies asked to help meet 38mn unit PPE shortfallHow do you produce millions of coveralls (a key part of personal protective equipment or PPE) that health care workers need when dealing with something as infectious as the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), when, till last month, they were mostly imported ? Read moreCovid-19: What you need to know todayIs Delhi prepared?That isn’t a question designed to be alarmist. On Thursday, the number of Covid-19 cases in Delhi rose to293, driven upward by more people who attended the gathering of the Tablighi Jamaat at its HQ testing positive. Read moreTracking to testing: Control rooms at forefront of efforts to contain Covid-19 spreadWith more than 100 positive Covid-19 cases detected in at least nine states around the country -- apart from Delhi -- Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Kerala, among others, have set up control rooms to act as nodal centres to track the spread of the virus by processing real-time data from the districts, coordinating door-to-door surveillance, and testing people. Here is a look at what how these control rooms function. Read moreCovid-19 update: Hoarding, transport snags choke supply of essentialsA supply crunch of consumer items has cascaded across states, as buyers, rich and poor, scour markets for everyday needs amidst a sweeping lockdown to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Read moreICMR advises antibody testing in hot spots for faster diagnosisIndia has allowed faster and cheaper antibody tests to check for the coronavirus disease in so-called hot spots -- these show clusters of infections -- of which there are 20 in the country, the health ministry said on Thursday. Read moreCovid-19: Health workers attacked in cities, 7 held in Indore for pelting stonesThe Madhya Pradesh police arrested seven people on Thursday for allegedly attacking health workers in Indore’s Tatt Patti Bakhal area on Wednesday, as several such incidents of attacks on health workers were reported from different parts of the country. Read more‘Prepare or suffer’: CDS Gen Rawat delivers blunt message on Covid-19 battleIndia’s Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Gen Bipin Rawat believes that India must break the Covid-19 virus chain by April 14, through the lockdown and social distancing, or be prepared to weather the long-term consequences of the pandemic. Read moreIn Dharavi, cramped quarters and squalor make Covid-19 fight difficultMumbai’s overworked public health workers have a new, daunting challenge on their hands--Dharavi. After a 56-year-old garment shop owner died of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India’s largest slum on April 1, two teams of 50 officers and volunteers arrived in Dharavi to spread awareness of Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes the disease, and to quarantine 70 high-risk residents of the eight-building Slum Rehabilitation Authority complex in which the man stayed. Read more‘Isolation, social distancing will do wonders, not testing’: BS YediyurappaKarnataka chief minister B S Yediyurappa has credited his government’s proactive strategy for the relatively fewer number of coronavirus (Covid-19) cases and deaths in the state after it reported the first fatality in the pandemic in the country on March 13. Yediyurappa spoke to Sunetra Choudhury about how his government was responding to the crisis.  Read moreA July without Roger FedererOver the last fortnight, have you found yourself feeling deeply apologetic about missing live sports? Watching millionaires smack a ball with their foot, racquet or bat has always been a great way to rise above the drudgery of everyday life; but where we are now, is very far from ordinary. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-000-000-cases-in-world-and-india-s-supply-woes-covid-19-news-today/story-zs4amDKj9ZwFjCcgd3HFhO.html
03-04-2020||India||Light candles or mobile flashlights on Sunday evening to display collective spirit, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday morning appealed to the people to display their collective resolve to fight the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak by lighting a candle, lamp or even switching on the flashlight of a mobile phone on Sunday evening.In a 10-minute video address, the PM, however, cautioned that the laskshman rekha of social distancing should not be crossed while exhibiting the collective resolve.“On April 5 at 9pm, I need nine minutes from you. Switch off your lights at home. Use a candle, a diya (earthen lamp) or the flashlight of a mobile phone for nine minutes in your balcony. When everyone will light a lamp, the collective strength of the nation to combat the coronavirus will be experienced,” the PM said in his address.Also read: In PM Modi’s 11-min message to people in lockdown mode, a pep talk and a task“We should all feel that none of us is alone and we are all united against this pandemic,” he asserted. “We have to move towards light and assurance for the uncertainty and gloom that the viral outbreak has inflicted.”“Many people would be thinking about how long would this troubled period last, but all of us are together and no one is alone,” he added.Modi again urged people to maintain social distancing while implementing his new idea to fight the pandemic.“No one has to get together. It has to be done from the door or balcony. The lakshman rekha of social distancing should not be crossed. To break the chain of the coronavirus, it is the only definitive solution,” he said.Also read: For Sunday’s ‘light the lamp’ initiative, PM Modi sets the ground ruleThere is no force stronger in the world than our enthusiasm, he added.The PM also pointed out that when people came out and clapped and clanged utensils to honour health workers at 5 pm during the Janata Curfew on March 22, it displayed the collective strength of the nation. Many nations emulated what Indians did, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/light-candles-or-mobile-flashlights-on-sunday-evening-to-display-collective-spirit-says-pm-modi/story-H8l51ATpcsIwfld7UDCV2M.html
03-04-2020||India||In PM Modi’s 11-min message to people in lockdown mode, a pep talk and a task||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said that the support shown by the people of the country in making the fight against coronavirus disease a success is unprecedented. He also hailed the efforts put in by different state governments and local administration to make 21-day lockdown a success.“The lockdown completes nine days today. The discipline and service you showed during this period is unprecedented. People and administration have successfully tried to ensure this routine is followed,” PM Modi said in his 11-minute-long video message on Friday morning.Also read: For Sunday’s ‘light the lamp’ initiative, PM Modi sets the ground rule“The way you came out to thank coronavirus warriors on March 22 set an example for the world. It showed the country can fight the battle against Covid-19 together,” he added.The Prime Minister also gave a pep talk to people, urging them to keep fighting the deadly disease.Watch |‘Switch off lights, light candles at 9 pm on Sunday’: PM Modi’s message amid lockdown l Full speech||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-pm-modi-s-11-min-message-to-people-in-lockdown-mode-a-pep-talk-and-a-task/story-wVnVcLWRHxMbGvug52UhBO.html
03-04-2020||India||‘Have to move towards light from darkness created by coronavirus’: PM Modi in video message||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday people are isolated in their homes during the 21-day lockdown to stop the chain of coronavirus infection but they are not alone as he once again called them to show the spirit of togetherness.“I want nine minutes of your time on April 5 at 9pm. Switch off all the lights of your homes and stand with candles, diyas, torches or flashlights of your mobile phone for nine minutes,” he said in a video message.“We have to move towards the light from the darkness created by the coronavirus,” the Prime Minister said.The Prime Minister shared the video message on a day the country entered the 10th day of the nationwide lockdown and has seen a rise in the number of coronavirus disease cases. He tweeted about the video message on Thursday but did not specify the topic of the video.The Prime Minister has addressed the nation twice so far as the coronavirus pandemic spread throughout the country. He had called for a Janta Curfew or people’s curfew on March 19 and announced the 21-day lockdown on March 24 as a step to break the chain of infection.Also read: What you need to know todayModi has tweeted several times urging citizens to follow social distancing norms and stay at home. He has also shared a number of ideas to make the best use of the lockdown period, including a series of yoga exercises to stay fit while at home.His Mann ki Baat monthly radio programme was also about the coronavirus pandemic. The Prime Minister talked about the people who are on the frontline to fight the spread of Covid-19, those who have beaten the respiratory disease and shared how many were using their time during the lockdown.India has reported 2069 cases of the coronavirus disease, including 53 deaths, till 6pm on April 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/have-to-move-towards-light-from-darkness-created-by-coronavirus-pm-modi-in-video-message/story-FDRBh9yo3dPDRgXst3dBlO.html
03-04-2020||India||‘Won’t be scared’: Doctor pelted with stones in Indore back to screen Covid-19 patients||A team of health workers, including Dr Zakiya Sayed, was back on its job to screen people for the coronavirus disease in Madhya Pradesh’ Indore city after being attacked by residents.“We had been working on the screening of contacts for the last four days. But what we saw yesterday, we had not seen it earlier. We sustained injuries but we have to do our job and will not be scared,” Dr Zakiya Sayed said, according to news agency ANI.Dr Zakiya Sayed was a part of the team of healthcare workers who were pelted with stones by local residents on Wednesday. She was one of the woman doctors who reportedly sustained injuries in the incident.“We have been visiting the locality for the past three days for the screening of residents. We had information about a person coming in contact with a Covid-19 patient…We were talking to the person (the elderly woman) when, all of a sudden, residents got agitated and attacked us,” one of the doctors had said after the attack on Wednesday.Seven people were arrested on Thursday for the attack on the team as several such incidents were reported from different parts of the country. The Centre has asked the state police to ensure the security of health workers after these attacks.“Violent attacks being committed against doctors and paramedical staff providing healthcare by risking their lives is condemned and anyone resorting to violence against them will be liable to strict legal action,” Union minister of state for home affairs G Kishan Reddy said.Reddy also directed “all DGPs to take immediate action against culprits”.Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has assured healthcare workers their safety is his government’s responsibility.Chouhan said those involved in pelting stones at medical staff in Indore will be given strict punishment and that the accused will be booked under the National Security Act (NSA).Fourteen new Covid-19 cases were reported in Indore on Thursday, taking the number of cases to 89 in the city.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/won-t-be-scared-doctor-pelted-with-stones-in-indore-back-to-screen-covid-19-patients/story-PIlpq4w2xDZcjZ1t3vJUWP.html
03-04-2020||India||Hyderabad jail joins Covid-19 fight, sells kits made by prisoners||The prisoners in Hyderabad central jail are contributing in their own way in the battle against the deadly coronavirus disease Covid-19.For the last two weeks, around 250 prisoners at Cherlapalli central jail, on the outskirts of Hyderabad, are busy making sanitisers, face masks and soaps, which are in high demand from the people to save themselves from contracting the dreaded virus.“The prisoners are working in two shifts - starting from 9 am to 9 pm - to make these products. On an average, the prisoners are producing around 10,000 bottles of hand sanitisers alone, apart from hand washes, face masks and even sanitary cleaners,” Cherlapally jail superintendent M Sampath told Hindustan Times.The prison has a chemical unit within the premises, where prisoners are regularly given training for preparation of hand washes, floor cleaners, disinfectants etc. “We have been selling these products under ‘My Nation’ brand every year. Now that there is a huge demand for hand sanitisers and hand washes, we thought we can make the best use of the opportunity,” Sampath said.The demand is huge. “We are being flooded with orders mostly from the government departments - from state-level to the district-level - apart from hospitals, nursing homes and other such establishments. They procure directly from the prison stalls,” the jail superintendent said.Apart from these customers, the prisons department is now offering the products even to the common households, in the wake of coronavirus scare. “We are making anti-coronavirus kits, each kit costing Rs 900 and supplying the same to the consumers by order,” he said.Each kit comprises two bottles of sanitisers, each of 320 ml, 12 face masks, two bottles of hand wash, three soaps and two bottles of sanitary cleaners. The prisoners are also being trained to prepare the face masks within the jail premises.“At present, we are taking orders from customers of only Hyderabad and Secunderabad, as we cannot cope up with huge demand. We are making the door delivery of the products only for a minimum order of 15 kits,” Sampath said.He said the cost of each kit is very less compared to the market price. “For instance, a 100 ml sanitiser bottle in the market costs not less than Rs 250 to Rs 300. But we are selling the same at Rs 180 for a 320 ml bottle,” he pointed out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hyderabad-jail-joins-covid-19-fight-sells-kits-made-by-prisoners/story-opZmnhogVsKvGVwQ58iOEN.html
03-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 AM: Over 500 new Covid-19 cases in a day in India; total number crosses 2,500 and all the latest news at this hour||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 AM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Over 500 new Covid-19 cases in a day in India; total number crosses 2,500The number of people infected with coronavirus disease Covid-19 in the country rose by more than 500 to cross 2,500 - 2,507 to be precise - on Thursday, according to the health ministry. Read moreCovid-19: What you need to know todayAdministrators and health care professionals shaping India’s response to the pandemic would do well to study what is happening in New York City — what it got right and, more importantly, what it didn’t. Read moreCoronavirus: How world reached a million cases in 93 daysAt exactly 12pm IST on December 31, a 280-word report from news agency AFP made its way to newsrooms around the world. Citing local media, the report said a mystery virus was causing “viral pneumonia of unknown origin” in the city of Wuhan, where 27 people had been infected till then. Read more‘We won’t need to talk while batting’: Virat Kohli names 2 batsmen he loves batting with in Instagram live with Kevin PietersenFitness is the top-most criteria for Virat Kohli the cricketer. It was therefore, not at all a surprise when he revealed that he enjoys batting with those who can run fast between the wickets. Read moreSocial Distancing Guide: 5 ways to avoid getting bored in your relationship during lockdownDuring the current lockdown scenario amidst the coronavirus crisis, it’s easy to get into a rut and forget about having fun once you’ve been in a relationship for some time. Read moreDisney+ Hotstar launched in India: 5 Things you should know about itDisney has finally launched its video streaming service, Disney+ in India. The service was launched in the country as Disney+ Hotstar and it brings the best content from the two video streaming platforms to the Indian users. Read moreAnushka Sharma interrupts Virat Kohli’s live chat with Kevin Pietersen: ‘Chalo chalo dinner time’Actor Anushka Sharma and cricketer husband Virat Kohli may be under lockdown but she is making sure they stick to their time table. On Thursday, Virat joined former England batsman Kevin Pietersen in an Instagram Live video session where both the cricketers discussed a range of topics. However, Anushka made sure Virat ended his chat in time for dinner. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-am-over-500-new-covid-19-cases-in-a-day-in-india-total-number-crosses-2-500-and-all-the-latest-news-at-this-hour/story-vWCwwpKfEGrHNxy01LWD8M.html
03-04-2020||India||Number of Covid-19 cases nears 2,500; PM Modi asks country to stay united||The number of people infected with coronavirus disease Covid-19 in the country inched towards 2,500 on Friday. The latest figures posted by the Union health ministry today morning said the number of Covid-19 cases stand at 2301.HighlightsHealth ministry says total number of Covid-19 cases in the country are 230120 existing, 22 potential coronavirus hotspots identified by governmentPM Modi said lockdown working, urged people to keep the momentum goingThe country is in the middle of a three-week long nationwide shutdown to ensure the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak does not assume the proportions it has in countries such as Italy and the United States.Several states including Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Kerala reported significant rise in the number of Covid-19 positive cases. In Maharashtra, at least 81 more tested positive on Thursday, taking its tally to 416, while two more patients succumbed to the infection, increasing the toll to 19.More on Covid-19:• Covid-19: Your guide to staying safe• Covid-19: What you need to know today• Can Covid-19 spread after symptoms end?• How coronavirus is different from seasonal flu and common coldIn Delhi, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said there are 208 Covid-19 patients in the national capital, of which 108 were evacuated from the Nizamuddin Markaz of the Tablighi Jamaat. He said two people who had attended the congregation died due to the disease on Thursday and cautioned that the number of positive cases may shoot up in the national capital in coming days.With the Jamaat congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area last month emerging as one of the biggest hotspots of the coronavirus outbreak, authorities said nearly 9,000 people - members of the Jamaat and their primary contacts - have been identified and quarantined across the country. This includes, 1,306 foreigners associated with the group.A majority of the new cases identified on Thursday are linked to the congregation, officials said. The health ministry, however, asserted there was no evidence of community transmission and 20 existing and 22 potential hotspots have been identified across the country.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday issued a video message in which he asked countrymen to stay united in the fight against Covid-19. He also urged people to “challenge the darkness” of the coronavirus by lighting a lamp, torch or mobile flashlight on Sunday.PM Modi had interacted with chief ministers through a video conference on Thursday and told them to focus on Covid-19 containment measures - testing, tracing, isolation and quarantine - and said it was imperative to work on a war footing, identify hotspots and ensure that the infection does not spread.Hopes of the 21-day lockdown getting removed, at least partially, rose after Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said airlines are free to allow ticket booking for flights after April 14. He also said resumption of international flights will be considered on a case-by-case basis, depending on which countries they are coming from, after the lockdown ends.In less than 100 days in the year 2020 - Thursday was the 93rd day to be precise - the virus has infected one million people globally and killed 50,000, ripping through 203 countries in a rampage that will likely exact as severe an economic, social and psychological toll as the number of casualties by the time humanity can beat it. Till now, a little over 200,000 have recovered from the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-500-new-covid-19-cases-in-a-day-in-india-total-number-crosses-2-500/story-aQQqjClN2MudUgaBltmgeI.html
03-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: PM Modi to share video message at 9am today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will share a video message on Friday morning as the country enters the 10th day of the nationwide lockdown and has seen a rise in the number of coronavirus disease cases. The Prime Minister tweeted about the video message on Thursday but did not specify the topic of the video.“At 9 AM tomorrow morning, I’ll share a small video message with my fellow Indians,” he had tweeted in Hindi and English.The Prime Minister has addressed the nation twice so far as the coronavirus pandemic spread throughout the country. He had called for a Janta Curfew or people’s curfew on March 19 and announced the 21-day lockdown on March 24 as a step to break the chain of infection.Also read: What you need to know todayModi has tweeted several times urging citizens to follow social distancing norms and stay at home. He has also shared a number of ideas to make the best use of the lockdown period, including a series of yoga exercises to stay fit while at home.His Mann ki Baat monthly radio programme was also about the coronavirus pandemic. The Prime Minister talked about the people who are on the frontline to fight the spread of Covid-19, those who have beaten the respiratory disease and shared how many were using their time during the lockdown.PM Modi during his meeting with chief ministers through video conference on Thursday asked for a common plan to ensure staggered movement of people after the national lockdown ends on April 14.Dr David Nabarro, the World Health Organization’s (WHO) special envoy on the disease, has praised India’s call for the lockdown.“The lockdown in India was quite early on when there was relatively a small number of cases detected. This was really a far-sighted decision because it gave the whole country the opportunity to come to terms with the reality of this enemy,” Nabarro said in an interview with HT.The government has announced a slew of other measures, including a financial package, to deal with the coronavirus pandemic. However, the country’s biggest cluster of coronavirus infections in Delhi’s Nizamuddin has seen officials scrambling to contain the spread of Covid-19 throughout the country.Also read: A peek inside the Tablighi Jamaat MarkazThousands of people visited the Nizamuddin Markaz of the Tablighi Jamaat in March, including delegates from Muslim-majority countries Indonesia, Malaysia and Bangladesh. About 9,000 people, including hundreds of foreigners, linked to the Jamaat have been quarantined or are being sought out to be isolated.The number of Covid-19 infections in Delhi jumped on Thursday by 141, the biggest single-day increase yet, with nearly 92% or 129 of them linked to the Tablighi Jamaat.India has reported 2069 cases of the coronavirus disease, including 53 deaths, till 6pm on April 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-pm-modi-to-share-video-message-at-9am-today/story-HGSxp3sUtUDkt1TG6bsVgP.html
03-04-2020||India||Jamia PhD scholar held for ‘conspiring’ in North East Delhi riots||Delhi Police have arrested a PhD scholar from Jamia Millia Islamia in connection with a case of rioting and criminal conspiracy linked to the February riots in north-east Delhi, officers with knowledge of the development said.Joint commissioner of police (special cell) Neeraj Thakur confirmed Wednesday’s arrest of the scholar, Meeran Haider, but did not disclose details.The suspect’s alleged “involvement in the conspiracy to instigate the riots, funding the violence and the agitation against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) in Shaheen Bagh” is also being probed, the officers cited above said, requesting anonymity..At least 53 people were killed and more than 400 injured in the February 23-25 rioting in north-east Delhi that started as clashes between supporters and opponents of the CAA before acquiring a communal colour. Shaheen Bagh was the venue of an anti-CAA sit-in protest in December. A senior police officer, one of two cited in the first instance, said Haider was president of the Delhi unit of the Bihar-based Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD)’s youth wing, Chhatra RJD. Haider is being interrogated at the special cell’s Lodhi Colony office. Haider, a resident of Jamia Nagar, was served a notice on March 31, asking him to join the probe in the case that was registered by the crime branch after the riots. He Haider was asked to reach the special cell’s Lodhi Colony office at 10am on Wednesday.“We arrested Haider as we have evidence to prove the charges against him. His role in funding the riots and anti-CAA protests is being probed,” the officer said. The Jamia Coordination Committee (JCC) alleged that Haider was called for interrogation by the Delhi Police’s special cell on Wednesday. “Yesterday around 10pm, men in uniform had approached his residence enquiring about him. He was taken into custody around 10.30pm. The JCC demands that he must be released as charges against him are baseless,” the committee said.The University administration said it had not been informed about the incident by the police and declined to comment further.The JNU unit of RJD on Thursday also issued a statement demanding his release. “Delhi Police had asked Meeran Haider, the president of the young RJD, Delhi, to join the investigation and then arrested him without giving any valid reason. We demand his release,” the statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jamia-phd-scholar-held-for-conspiring-in-north-east-delhi-riots/story-8Byd6NvpPvmvnYC4LnjrlI.html
03-04-2020||India||Plea in Supreme Court to restore 4G services in J-K||Patients, doctors, and general public of Jammu & Kashmir (J&K) are unable to access latest information, guidelines, advisories and restrictions about COVID- 19 because of restrictions on mobile internet speed to 2G, a plea filed before Supreme Court by an NGO. The petitioner challenged the order issued by the J&K administration on March 26 restricting internet speed in mobile data to 2G and prayed that 4G internet services be restored in the Union Territory of J&K. Slow internet speed renders telemedicine or online video consultation impossible, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plea-in-supreme-court-to-restore-4g-services-in-j-k/story-QIkinbAL1QFQCHV85LubOO.html
03-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: India unveils rules for flights to ferry stranded foreigners, release of quarantined people||The government on Thursday announced new rules allowing flights to evacuate stranded foreign nationals and the release from quarantine of people who arrived in the country after February 15 and had tested negative for Covid-19.The new rules unveiled by the home ministry followed restrictions imposed on all international flights and rules requiring the quarantine of all people entering India at government or private facilities.The rules, which were conveyed to all states in a notification, state the external affairs ministry will examine on a “case to case” basis all requests by foreign governments to evacuate their nationals stranded in different parts of the country due to the current 21-day lockdown.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage If the evacuation requests are endorsed by the external affairs ministry, chartered flights will be arranged by the foreign governments in consultation with the civil aviation ministry.Before their departure, the foreign nationals will be screened for Covid-19 symptoms. “Only those foreign national(s) would be allowed to leave who are asymptomatic for Covid-19,” according to the standard operating procedure (SOP) for evacuation of foreigners.“In case of symptomatic person(s), the future course of treatment would be followed as per the standard health protocol,” the SOP states.Embassies will have to arrange local transport to ferry their nationals to airports and transit passes for such vehicles will be issued by state governments.The SOP for release of people quarantined after returning from abroad since February 15 state they will be released if they test negative. “However, this will not apply to a group, where even one person tests positive for Covid-19,” it states.The transit passes for people released from quarantine will be issued by state governments and they will have to undergo home quarantine for 14 days as a “measure of abundant caution” on reaching their destination.According to several estimates, countries such as the US, the UK, France, Germany, Israel and Russia are engaged in hectic efforts to evacuate more than 20,000 of their stranded nationals from different parts of the country.The Germany embassy has evacuated some 2,400 stranded travelers, including nationals of other European countries, in the past few days and flew out 600 more on two flights on Thursday.The US embassy has said it will have several evacuation flights from New Delhi and Mumbai from this weekend. The UK high commission has also asked its nationals to register for evacuation flights that expected to begin in the next few days.People familiar with developments said Air India is expected to operate flights from Mumbai and New Delhi to London between Saturday and Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-india-unveils-rules-for-flights-to-ferry-stranded-foreigners-release-of-quarantined-people/story-AhtXcrBkbp7Hni00AMLw7N.html
03-04-2020||India||A peek inside the Tablighi Jamaat Markaz||Most nights, the main avenue of Delhi’s tony Nizamuddin East is as silent as a grave. There is no traffic except for an occasional car, a “Niz East” dweller probably returning to his or her elegant apartment. The 17th-century tomb of Abdul Rahim Khan-i-Khana remains shrouded in darkness.Sometimes though, in this silence, footsteps are heard — those of men walking in small groups, each holding a bundle under their arm or on the head. They are the Jamatis, members of the Tablighi Jamaat, on their way from the Nizamuddin railway station to the Markaz, the organisation’s headquarters. It is located across Mathura Road, next to the equally upscale Nizamuddin West, in the congested and not-upscale-at-all Nizamuddin Basti.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThis village takes its name from the shrine of Sufi saint Hazrat Nizamuddin Auliya, which lies deep in the heart of the basti. The Markaz’s grey building stands near the entrance, very close to the famous Karim’s restaurant, and a few steps away from a great literary landmark: poet Mirza Ghalib’s grave. Watch | Tablighi Jamaat members accused of misbehaving with nurses in GhaziabadThe front facade of the six-storey building is studded with long arch-shaped windows that look strangely similar to traditionally built windows seen in the bylanes of distant Venice – currently ravaged by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), another thing it has in common with the Markaz building that has emerged as India’s biggest Covid-19 hot spot so far. Social activist Faisal Khan, convener of Khudai Khidtmatgar welfare organisation, spends a couple of days every year inside the Markaz, in the month of Ramzan, for “peace and meditation”. Talking on the phone from his office in south Delhi’s Ghaffar Manzil, he gives an idea of the interiors of the Markaz complex. “The entrance hall is littered with hundreds of chappals that spill far out into the street. It’s a miracle that every Jamati finds his own sandals from that great pile.”Khan says that each floor in the Markaz has the same layout — a spacious hall lined with small rooms, each being the temporary dwelling of some learned elderly person to whom younger Jamatis might go for counsel. Most residents (some might stay for a week, others for just a weekend) would, however, settle with their backpacks and beddings in the big halls, sleeping at night on the floor. Sermons will be held in the mosque at different times of the day. An average day in the Markaz, Khan says, “is about performing prayers and listening to maulanas about how to be a good Muslim”.The eating arrangement, he says, “is just like the langars held in Sikh gurdwaras.” Simple meals such as dal and chawal are prepared communally, and served in a basement hall, he reports. In the evening, the Jamatis can be seen milling around in the basti. The Tablighi centre attracts visitors from countries such as the UK, the US, Germany, the Netherlands, Malaysia, Indonesia, Nigeria, Sudan and South Africa. A mere walk in the lanes of the Basti might take you to different corners of the world, as you are likely to overhear conversations in British-accented English, Chinese, French, or Arabic. Until a few years ago, the area had a popular telephone booth advertising special call rates for places such as Yemen and Morocco.Almost all the Jamatis are men. One evening, just a few days before the lockdown, this reporter spotted a few young Jamatis huddled in a small park not far from the Markaz. Some of these boys were exercising on the fitness equipment installed in the park. One man in a loose shalwar kameez was shyly working out on the chest press machine; two were sitting at the two ends of a see-saw. The “open gym” remained crowded for a long time, and then the boys walked back towards the Markaz.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-peek-inside-the-tablighi-jamaat-markaz/story-Kmx3PPBGlTYpHxUDVGib8O.html
03-04-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Is Delhi prepared?That isn’t a question designed to be alarmist. On Thursday, the number of Covid-19 cases in Delhi rose to 293, driven upward by more people who attended the gathering of the Tablighi Jamaat at its HQ testing positive. That trend is likely to continue — in terms of both an increase in cases, and more from the Jamaat gathering testing positive. Hundreds evacuated from the Markaz Nizamuddin are in hospitals in Delhi; around 1,800 are in quarantine. Which is why this is an opportune time to ask the question.Is Delhi prepared?New York City clearly wasn’t. On Thursday, the number of Covid-19 fatalities in the city touched 1,397. On Wednesday, the New York Times listed the wishlist, in terms of critical medical equipment, of the city’s mayor Bill de Blaiso: 3.3 million N95 masks, 2.1 million surgical masks, 100,000 isolation gowns, 400 ventilators. All these are incremental numbers — requirements additional to what the city currently has.Administrators and health care professionals shaping India’s response to the pandemic would do well to study what is happening in New York City — what it got right and, more importantly, what it didn’t.It emerges that the big issue in Delhi right now is the shortage of PPE (personal protective equipment). This is a problem in other cities and states, and, indeed, in many parts of the world. Last week, the Indian government said it has placed orders with local and global manufacturers for around six million units of PPEs. Work on these to be proceeding apace, despite the hurdles posed by the lockdowns.Delhi government officials and doctors also say the city-state has enough isolation wards, ICUs, even ventilators, but many of these assessments are based on conservative estimates of the number of daily cases, in some cases, as low as 100. On April 1, New York City reported 3,144 new cases in a day. That’s the kind of number for which Delhi should be ready — and then heave a sigh of relief and celebrate when the numbers stay low.It’s also the kind of number for which Mumbai should be ready. On Wednesday, a 56-year-old man in Dharavi, Asia’s largest slum, in Mumbai, died of Covid-19. On Thursday, another person who worked in Dharavi tested positive. The prospect of the infection raging through the shanty town with a population density of 66,000 per square km is the stuff of which nightmares are made.Parts of Mumbai are already being treated as hot spots where clusters of infected people are found. There are around 13 such across India. The area around Markaz Nizamuddin is another cluster — where door-to-door surveys of people within a 3km and a 5km radius of the epicentre (in this case, the six-storey HQ) were undertaken on Thursday.Amidst all these local developments, US unemployment numbers soared to 6.6 million from 3.3 million last week — a statistic that should worry India because it shows the extent of economic havoc that can be wreaked by the pandemic.Around the world, companies are being forced to lay off people to cope — in India, apart from the few companies providing essential products and services that continue to function through a 21-day lockdown, every other business is idle, incurring costs with no revenue. The US has already announced a fiscal package amounting to roughly 10% of its GDP, with some of this amount going to businesses. France has said it will pay companies to not retrench people. India, too, needs to think in terms of a fiscal package for businesses. Even with one, the recovery will be slow and painful. Without one...||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-QkikIP1iBKtCKXMJminUCL.html
03-04-2020||India||17 companies asked to help meet 38mn unit PPE shortfall||How do you produce millions of coveralls (a key part of personal protective equipment or PPE) that health care workers need when dealing with something as infectious as the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), when, till last month, they were mostly imported ? How do you do so, and quickly, when no one had a design specification till February 27? For 17 firms that have been tasked with making the coveralls -- Hindustan Times spoke to six of them -- it is a race against time that involves dealing with raw material shortage, workers worried about their safety, and learning to quickly produce under the watchful and anxious eyes of the government.And for the only laboratory that tests them, it simply means working around the clock. It’s an experience that Tanmay Singhal, a recent graduate of OP Jindal School, didn’t anticipate in the first year of joining his father’s business. Their Haryana-based firm, Sai Synergy, was a supplier of fire protective gear that was used by oil rig workers in West Asia, till February. That’s when it received an SOS from the textile and health ministries of the Government of India. Director of Research and Development in the textiles ministry, Balram Kumar, reached out to the company to attend a meeting. Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicAt the meeting, there were a handful of other companies; all had one thing in common: they worked with or made unwoven fabric (used to make the protective clothes). The agenda of the meeting was simple: could these companies make PPEs? “We were ready but it took some time and paperwork for the manufacturing to start,’’ said Singhal. The work started two weeks ago and, on a good day, when trucks aren’t stuck at the highway because of the lockdown, the unit produces 12,000 to 15,000 of these suits. “The raw material is coming from Bangalore for us and so many times they get stranded, else we didn’t have any problems delivering our order,’’ said Singhal. Neither Singhal, nor the other firms, were willing to specify the exact orders that the government had placed with them. However, supply of raw materials is a common challenge for all of them. Nisheeth Dand of the Vadodara-based firm, Sure Safety, which is also involved in the production of these coveralls, said that the company is slowly trying to increase the pace of production but the lockdown isn’t helping. His raw materials also come from different parts of the country and their flow is proving to be a bottleneck. There is help, though -- in the form of nodal and field officers that the government has assigned to each of these firms, so that they can troubleshoot, call the local administration in the area that a particular truck is stuck in, but the delays are inevitable. Then, there are other obstacles.“I have 180 workers in my unit but right now only 44% are coming to work,’’ said Dand. “Their families won’t allow them, they are scared so the only thing I can offer them is higher pay.’’So for coming to the factory in times of lockdown, Dand says, he pays a worker who would usually get Rs 15,000 , Rs 25,000. “It’s not just labour, even the raw materials have become expensive. I know banks have been told to help us but they are totally unresponsive. They should be giving us interest-free credit.’’Despite these hurdles, Sure Safety is producing more and more kits every day. If it was 500 earlier, it is now 700 and the company hopes to be able to increase it to 1,500 soon. If it isn’t a supply problem, it’s the problem of learning to run a factory with social distancing, to take care of workers’ needs and concerns. At the Mumbai-based Venus Safety and Health Private Limited factory, which is the only one of two producers of N 95 masks in the country, this involves free food, free medical camps and upping the hygiene conditions for the 700-800 workers that work there. The company’s chief marketing officer, Ravi Shinde, said: “We have increased the space that’s occupied by individual workers and even though I am sure they have concerns, they know that this is for the country and so haven’t really objected to working.’’ Earlier the company was producing 2.5 lakh masks daily and now it is hoping to amp up their production to 3.5- 4 lakh per day.Every step of the way, the textile ministry’s officials are keeping an eye. Vijay Shankar of Shree Hari Healthcare in Chennai said that several ministry officials arrived at his unit on March 20, the day production started. “We normally wouldn’t work with the government but this was an urgent moment and we felt we had to pitch in,’’ said Shankar. He has been lucky with raw materials for his coveralls, with the ministry suggesting alternative sources when his were stuck. However, the challenge has been to take care of his workforce, majority of which are women.“We are working at a feverish pace but we can’t do so at the cost of their health,’’ he said. The company has mandatory hand wash hygiene breaks every hour and a compulsory Sunday off but the pace of production is “satisfactory”.The Kolkata-based Frontier Protective Wear has just started production of its coveralls in its Gurugram unit and will start in the Kolkata unit on Monday. “The ministry has assured us that we will continue to get all supplies that we need, so I am confident that we can deliver on time,’’ said Sweta Chaudhry Singh, one of the promoters.The one place that is stretched is Sitra, the government testing lab in Coimbatore that is receiving each of the samples from the manufacturers. “Before, we would get one sample a week,’’ said Prakash Vasudevan of Sitra. “Now we are getting 15-20 samples a day.’’ Considering that the lab has only four or five people working during the lockdown, it means that workdays go on till 2 or 3am. “We need to clear each sample that comes in daily and so we are really stretched.’’So when all 17 of these firms have fulfilled their orders and they are tested and ready to go, will this fulfil India’s protective gear deficit? Last week, Reuters reported that India needed around 38 million masks and 6.2 million pieces of PPE to take care of Covid-19 patients, quoting an internal report from Invest India. Invest India said it had contacted 730 companies for ventilators, ICU monitors, protective equipment, masks and testing kits, of which 319 firms had responded.An official of the textile ministry, which is tasked with the all important coveralls and masks, said that they are hopeful of hitting peak production by the middle of the month. Last week, the government issued a statement detailing its plans to procure 6.2 million PPEs desperately needed across the country. The three-week lockdown in India till April 14 will, if successful, flatten the curve of the disease’s spread -- giving the administration enough time to stockpile enough medical equipment, including masks. People like Singhal are at the forefront of that effort.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/17-companies-asked-to-help-meet-38mn-unit-ppe-shortfall/story-N54od3qAm7tZZzH45DIPgM.html
03-04-2020||India||Plan staggered exit from lockdown, PM tells CMs||Underlining India’s goal of ensuring minimum loss of life and detailing the next steps in India’s strategy to deal with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday indicated that once the lockdown ends, the Centre and the states will together ensure a staggered re-emergence of the citizenry.Interacting with the state chief ministers over a video conference from his residential office at 7, Lok Kalyan Marg, the PM emphasised that in the next few weeks, “testing, tracing, isolation and quarantine” should remain the focus areas of the local administrations, according to an official statement.Many CMs praised the Centre’s role in dealing with the outbreak, especially in identifying and quarantining suspect cases arising from Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi. But nearly all states demanded more financial support and help with ramping up health care infrastructure to meet the surge in the Covid-19 cases. According to an official, all states were represented in the meeting. However, only a select number of CMs spoke. West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee was the only CM who was not present at the meet, but the state was represented by its chief secretary. During the interaction, Modi spoke about formulating a “common exit strategy” to ensure “staggered re-emergence of the population” once the lockdown ended. The PM asked the state governments to brainstorm and send suggestions to the Centre on how to do this. He emphasised that even after the lockdown ends, the importance of social distancing to prevent the spread of Covid-19 must be kept in mind. This is the first hint of the government’s thinking on what happens after April 14; it suggests that while a complete lockdown will not continue, neither will there be entirely free movement of people, with restrictions in place for certain geographical clusters, demographic groups and on travel. The Prime Minister announced on Tuesday last week that a 21-day lockdown was being put in place to control the spread of Covid-19, which has infected at least a million people across the world since last December.Experts believe that this may be a sensible approach. Ravindra Mehta, chief of pulmonary and critical care medicine at Apollo Hospitals, Bengaluru, said: “Staggered re-emergence of the public is the best option at the point as continuous lockdown for a long term is not sustainable. The government will test the waters and even when people come out, the government must enforce social distancing and restrict all non-essential activities such as foreign travel. But in the next few weeks, the top priority should be accorded to beefing up health care infrastructure.”But the staggered re-emergence will have implementation challenges. Yashovardhan Azad, a retired senior Indian Police Service officer, said: “Even after the lockdown is officially lifted, the identified hot spots of the virus need to be protected. But now, the states get about 13-14 days to plan their exit routes well. And they must use it well.”The video conference with CMs took place two weeks after the first such meeting on the pandemic on March 20. Thursday’s meeting focused on the current strategies in force and the next steps in the battle against the pandemic that has killed at least 51,000 people worldwide. The PM praised different states for their “teamwork” which helped check the speed of the virus, and thanked them for supporting the lockdown, due to which, the PM suggested, India had achieved some success in limiting the spread of Covid-19. He emphasised the need for quick identification of virus hot spots and to encircle them to ensure the virus does not spread out.The PM also pointed to the need to maintain law and order across the country — law and order is a state subject. He also asked the states to make available dedicated hospital facilities for Covid-19 patients, tap into the resource pool of AYUSH doctors, organise online training and utilise paramedical staff and civil society volunteers. States could consider setting up crisis management groups at the district level, in line with groups of bureaucrats formed by the Union government, and appoint district surveillance officers, he suggested. At a time when there remains a debate about whether India is testing enough, the PM underlined that data for testing must come from accredited labs so that there is congruence in data of district, state and the Centre. The PM also asked for staggered release of funds to the beneficiaries under PM Garib Kalyan Yojana to avoid crowding at banks. A video clip of the meeting also showed PM Modi pointing out that Covid-19 has attacked people’s faith, belief, traditions and the way of life. He added that to counter the outbreak, political leaders needed to reach out to community leaders and social welfare organisations.State governments put forth their demands at the meeting. The Rajasthan government asked for a package of ₹1 lakh crore, while West Bengal sought a grant of ₹25,000 crore, over and above their dues of ₹36,000 crore. States such as Andhra Pradesh and Bihar asked for more fiscal flexibility, while Odisha demanded unemployment allowance for the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) workers. Experts believe that the crisis demands a strong Centre-state collaboration, and the former needed to be more supportive of financial needs of the states. Yamini Aiyar, president and chief executive of the Centre for Policy Research, said: “Genuine cooperative federalism is imperative. States are at the front lines and best placed to devise interventions suited to their contexts. But they are fiscally strapped. The Centre needs to devise a mechanism for support that is untied and flexible and buttresses state action rather than undermine it with central schemes. The demand for greater financial support from states is critical and the Centre must take heed.”Many CMs also sought medical equipment apart from cash to tackle the situation. Rajasthan wanted to take loans of up to 2% of the state’s GSP and asked for the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to be made the nodal office for buying personal protective equipment (PPE) and ventilators so that they are available to every state at best price and on time. It also underlined the need to focus on interstate supply chain protocol for essential items, medicines and medical equipment. West Bengal demanded more face masks, gloves, sanitisers, special suits for medical staff and also immediate release of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation and cess amount. Maharashtra, too, wanted immediate release of pending GST compensation, and permission to procure and manufacture PPE kits and N-95 masks.Speaking to the media after the interaction, Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa said: “The PM said that migrant labourers should be provided all facilities; lockdown should be implemented in full; food, medicine and other essential items should be made easily available; there should be no shortage of doctors or medical facilities; the PM Garib Kalyan package should be implemented smoothly; and states should ensure that there is no impact of lockdown on agricultural activities.”On agriculture, according to the official statement, the PM said that the Centre has provided some relaxation of rules to harvest crops but monitoring and social distancing must take place during harvesting. He also asked the states to think of other platforms for procuring grains apart from agriculture produce marketing committees, and explore the possibility of creating pooling platforms for rural areas, like that in ride-sharing apps, which can be used for this purpose.The Opposition asked the PM to be more consultative in his approach. The chief spokesperson of the Congress, Randeep Singh Surjewala, said that if the PM had consulted the CMs before announcing the nationwide lockdown, all the problems emerging now could have been avoided.“It’s better late than never. The battle against Covid-19 is not between political parties but a nation’s fight against the pandemic. Hence, the government should discuss all measures with the Opposition. The PM should take into confidence the entire Opposition and try to implement the suggestions given by the leaders of different political parties.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plan-staggered-exit-from-lockdown-pm-tells-cms/story-KpmujugToFPvsp6Ip4nZVN.html
03-04-2020||India||Jamaat accounts for lion’s share of Delhi’s Covid-19 infections||The number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infections in the national capital jumped on Thursday by 141 – the biggest single-day increase yet – with nearly 92% (129) of them linked to the Tablighi Jamaat, a religious group that is now feared to be driving the outbreak in the country despite an unprecedented lockdown that has forced people to stay indoors for three weeks.The number of fatalities rose by two – both of these patients had also been to the Nizamuddin building – and the country’s overall number of confirmed cases rose 2,520, also soaring by a record number over Wednesday’s figure of 2006. Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe national surge, too, was largely driven by Tablighi Jamaat-linked infections from states such as Tamil Nadu, where all 75 new infections reported the same origin. In all, about 9,000 members linked to the gathering in Delhi have been quarantined or are being sought out to be isolated after they attended events at the Delhi building that is believed to have turned into a hotbed of the infection this month.“The home ministry along with states and Union territories launched a massive effort and about 9,000 Tablighi Jamaat workers and their primary contacts were identified and quarantined. Among these, 1,306 people are foreigners,” said Punya Salila Srivastava, joint secretary in the Union home ministry, during a daily briefing on Thursday.Also Read: Nizamuddin markaz trail widens; coronavirus cases in India hit 2,000Srivastava said that 2,346 people were evacuated from Tablighi Jamaat’s six-storey complex in Nizamuddin since March 29. Of these, 250 were foreigners and 1,804 people were shifted to different quarantine centres, while 334 positive cases were hospitalised, the official said.Earlier in the day, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said that the number of cases linked to the Tablighi Jamaat could shoot up since the government has decided to test all of the 2,346 people linked to the building.The government has begun action at several levels against the missionary group, booking its leader Maulana Mohammad Saad under sections that punish offences that could lead to the worsening of an epidemic and for criminal conspiracy. Union home minister Amit Shah said on Thursday the government has blacklisted 960 foreigners for their involvement in activities with the group while they were in India on tourist visas. Their visas have also been cancelled. The home minister added that the state director generals of police and Delhi Police commissioner have been directed to take necessary legal action against the overseas Tablighi Jamaat members as they violated the provisions of Foreigners Act, 1946 and Disaster Management Act, 2005. On Thursday, the Delhi Police mailed 24 questions to the group’s head, the first step in launching its formal investigation. The questions are related to the gathering of over 2,000 people at the six-storey building and Saad’s alleged violation of the orders that prohibited an assembly of large groups of people. Saad’s counsel, Fuzail Ayyubi, said, “We are preparing a reply. There are about two dozen questions. The maulana is not absconding. He is in self-quarantine, as advised by doctors.”Ayyubi also said that Saad has released an audio message urging all his followers to comply with the lockdown directions and be safe. In a minute-long video released on social media groups, Saad asked his followers to remain indoors and also cooperate with the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jamaat-accounts-for-lion-s-share-of-delhi-s-infections/story-QMYpmFLB1SDORagu2tXu9I.html
03-04-2020||India||Amid lockdown, villagers attack cops, crowds flock to markets on Ram Navami in Bengal||Despite repeated warnings, violation of social distancing guidelines continued to be a common sight in Bengal with a few villagers attacking policemen on Wednesday night for trying to enforce lockdown orders. On Thursday, the festival of Ram Navami too was celebrated in certain pockets of Kolkata and the districts.As 16 more patients tested positive for Covid-19 since Wednesday night, people in most parts of Kolkata and other cities did not leave their homes on Thursday. The stark violations thus triggered sharp reactions.People thronged vegetable markets in Kolkata and the districts, with very few keeping distance from the next person. On Thursday, prayers were offered at several temples on the occasion of Ram Navami and believers thronged in groups. Village fairs were organised in Purulia, Bankura and Cooch Behar districts. In Kurseong, however, the traditional Ram Navami fair was not held. “This is not the time to play carom or engage in chitchat with your friends at street corners. These can wait. If you do not adhere to social distancing, the consequences can be severe,” chief minister Mamata Banerjee had said on Wednesday afternoon. Hours later, a police team was attacked by some young men who were found drinking by the roadside at Dharmatala village in South 24 Parganas. Some local youth also pelted stones at a police van..“Five police personnel were injured and seven villagers were arrested,” said a district police officer who did not want to be named. He said, the villagers accused the policemen of being “too strict.” In adjacent North 24 Parganas district, policemen caught some villagers gambling. Significantly, Banerjee, who allowed sweet shops to stay open from 12 to 4 pm to help dairy owners who are facing a huge drop in sales, is facing criticism. “The crowds were already there and now crowds can be seen at sweet shops. Are sweets essential items? What is the meaning of this lockdown if the government announces one relaxation after another?” political analyst Biswanath Chakraborty, a professor at Rabindra Bharati University, wrote on his social media page, posting a photograph of shoppers in a vegetable market.“Those who are running to markets and sweet shops can put hundreds of lives in danger. Instead of keeping the markets open, the government should ask vendors to carry their goods to every neighbourhood at defined hours. China did this to keep people indoors,” Suparna Roy, a homemaker in south Kolkata said. Policemen had been very strict when the lockdown began and could be seen hitting people with batons to chase them away. They said they went soft after Banerjee pulled them up and accused them of going overboard. Three policemen were taken off the streets and sent to the barracks allegedly for acting tough.“If the government thinks that violators should be dealt with softly, why should we chase people away in the interest of public safety and invite the administration’s ire?” said the officer-in-charge of a police station in north Kolkata. No senior IPS officer was willing to talk on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-lockdown-villagers-attack-cops-crowds-flock-to-markets-on-ram-navami-in-bengal/story-gZvUF6x85ipCtga5uf12YJ.html
03-04-2020||India||‘Isolation, social distancing will do wonders, not testing’: BS Yediyurappa||Karnataka chief minister B S Yediyurappa has credited his government’s proactive strategy for the relatively fewer number of coronavirus (Covid-19) cases and deaths in the state after it reported the first fatality in the pandemic in the country on March 13. Yediyurappa spoke to Sunetra Choudhury about how his government was responding to the crisis. Edited excerpts:What did Prime Minister Narendra Modi convey to chief ministers in Thursday’s video conference? The PM suggested several measures [to check spread of coronavirus] such as utilisation of AYUSH staff and doctor’s services and popularisation of AYUSH-suggested food items for strengthening the immune system. Karnataka has already implemented or is in the process of implementing most of the steps suggested by the PM. Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicWhat are you doing to trace 45 people from Karnataka who were at the headquarters of a religious organisation in Delhi where some people have been found to be Covid-19 positive?We have tracked many of them and they will be quarantined. One of the three dead in Karnataka, who hailed from Sira town in Tumkur district, is suspected to have been among the 45. The whole town is being monitored. We are tracing them. We will track them .Karnataka has fewer Covid-19 cases compared to states like Kerala. What are you doing to keep the number down?Karnataka was the first state to announce a lockdown [on March 22] much before other states did so. When we reported the first Covid-19 death, we initiated various measures to contain the pandemic spread. We created a 1,500-bed facility at the Victoria hospital [Bengaluru] for exclusive treatment of Covid-19 cases. Immediately, we summoned experts and doctors and sought their opinions on how to check the disease. We went according to their suggestions... Many private hospitals announced they will offer ventilators and other facilities. Though the first death of a religious man, who had returned from abroad, was reported from Kalaburagi, we succeeded in controlling the spread. Also Read: Government may borrow Rs 40k crore as cash-strapped states seek fundsBengaluru has reported no new cases for three days? What will you attribute it to?All the precautions taken including setting up of war room with various apps to track and monitor the movement of the quarantined and those isolated. A Geo-fencing app has proved very fruitful as it provides accurate movements of the Covid-19 patients and quarantined people. This will help in disallowing suspects from mingling or roaming freely. Are you going to increase testing like Kerala, which has introduced rapid testing? Many say that the more we test, the better it is.More you isolate and distance the people from mingling, more we will be able to control the disease.. The first case was reported in Karnataka on March 6. Today, we have only 91 positive cases and this itself indicates how effective our measures are. Karnataka, which was the third worst-hit state all these days, has slid to 5th place, indicating we are on the right path in controlling the disease.Are your five testing labs enough? We are increasing the testing facilities. We now have seven testing centres. We are buying more than one lakh rapid testing kits from abroad. Isolation, quarantining and social and physical distancing will do wonders and not the testing centres.How are you dealing with the difficult situation that migrant workers are facing because of the 21-day national lockdown imposed to check the Covid-19 spread? It is wrong to say that the migrants are harassed. Suddenly, we decided to lock down and they were taken aback. We have created all the facilities for them. We decided to serve them food . We are compensating for the losses of their livelihood. All construction workers are being given food, advance ration for two months and monthly Rs 1,000 . All this is in addition to the Centre’s relief measures.You have brought back people from places like Maharashtra. What measures have you adopted for them?All the labourers living in Karnataka, irrespective of which state they belong to, are being treated equally and given all the facilities being given to the people of the state . Even our party representatives are looking after the camps where the labourers are sheltered . We are also keeping a watch on their health.Is there a case of cluster spread at a Mysuru pharma company?In Mysuru, the disease was first detected among two workers at the pharma company. We have quarantined all the thousand-odd workers . Yesterday [Monday], six more workers tested positive. We are tracing their relatives and friends they may have mingled or been in contact with. It cannot be described as a cluster case. The pharma company had to be kept open. How is your government helping people from the northeast facing racism because of Covid-19?No incident of such discrimination has been reported from our state. People of Karnataka are known for tolerance and humanity... There are over 2 lakh people from the northeastern states and north India in Karnataka. Do not compare the situation elsewhere with Karnataka. We are peace loving.How would you react to criticism regarding breach of privacy over Karnataka’s move to publish addresses of those who have travelled internationally since March 8?It is a false news that we have published the addresses. However, we have made a list of the people, who arrived here from abroad, to keep a watch on their health. In some suspected cases, we have subjected them to quarantine. How can you say that it is violation of privacy. People coming from abroad are carriers. For instance, first Covid-19 death was from Kalaburagi and the man had come from a pilgrimage. In the larger interest of the society and to keep the disease from spreading, some measures have been initiated and there is nothing wrong.Do you think the lockdown should go beyond 21 days and how will you offset its economic impact?It is too premature to predict anything on the lockdown issue. If the disease subsides , there is no question of extending the curfew. The Centre will take the decision. Our state has a robust economy and we are going to bounce back soon. I am sure the lockdown impact on the economy will be minimal and we can overcome this economic crisis in a couple of months. A large number of people from Karnataka attended the religious congregation held in Delhi’s Nizamuddin, which has emerged as a hot spot for infection in India. Is that situation under control?We have already tracked many of them and they will be quarantined. One of the three dead, who hails from Sira town in Tumkur district, is one of these 45 suspects. Whole town has been under surveillance. Officially, they are suspecting 600 cases, of these 391 have been identified. So far, 11 have tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/isolation-social-distancing-will-do-wonders-not-testing-bs-yediyurappa/story-3yMjY2VlxyyAY7RufS7maO.html
03-04-2020||India||Gurbani singer dead, event he attended under scanner||Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa, 67, a Padma Shri awardee and a former hazoori ragi (Gurbani exponent) at Amritsar’s Golden Temple, died of a heart attack on Thursday a day after he was diagnosed with coronavirus (Covid-19).Amritsar’s civil surgeon, Dr Prabhdeep Kaur Johal, said Khalsa was put on ventilator on Wednesday night after his condition worsened due to his bronchial asthma. “He had visited England in November. A health department team visited his house on March 3 after we got the information that two guests–his uncle and aunt–from the US visited him. They were found asymptomatic. When the home quarantine period of the guests was over on March 17, they were found asymptomatic. Bhai Nirmal Singh then went to Chandigarh for a kirtan samagam [a devotional event] on March 19 where over 100 people had gathered,” Johal said.She added he tested positive for coronavirus on Wednesday. “He may have caught the infection during his trip to Chandigarh. He died of sudden cardiac arrest on Thursday.”With his death, the toll from Covid-19 in Punjab has risen to six.Khalsa was referred to the Guru Nanak Dev Hospital on March 30 after he complained of breathlessness.The Chandigarh Municipal Corporation has quarantined 84 people, who had attended the religious gathering where Khalsa performed in the city on March 19. An official said the 84 include 14 members of a family.The religious gathering was held at a house in Chandigarh’s Sector 27. After Amritsar health authorities alerted their Chandigarh counterparts about Khalsa’s condition, tracing of his contacts was started in Chandigarh.A Sector 27 resident said the gathering was held for a pre-wedding ceremony. “The next day there was a ladies Sangeet [music ceremony] and then the wedding. During three-four days, lots of functions were held and many people visited the house and roads were blocked with vehicles, “ said another neighbour.A third neighbour said after reading the news about Khalsa’s death, she called police to inform them about the event in Sector 27. “One of the former judicial officers residing in the neighbourhood had advised them to postpone the wedding, but as their children had come from abroad, they could not change the plan at the last moment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gurbani-singer-dead-event-he-attended-under-scanner/story-cRw6t5LypeZ46S1HS1BpLI.html
03-04-2020||India||In Dharavi, cramped quarters and squalor make Covid-19 fight difficult||Mumbai’s overworked public health workers have a new, daunting challenge on their hands--Dharavi. After a 56-year-old garment shop owner died of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India’s largest slum on April 1, two teams of 50 officers and volunteers arrived in Dharavi to spread awareness of Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes the disease, and to quarantine 70 high-risk residents of the eight-building Slum Rehabilitation Authority complex in which the man stayed. Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe neighbourhood also has 91 shops, all of which have been ordered shut. On Thursday, an additional 2,500 people were home-quarantined, and will probably be tested for the virus.On Thursday morning, just as the two teams plus 800 more community health volunteers were getting ready for another busy day in Dharavi, a second case emerged – a municipal conservancy worker from south Mumbai who was assigned to the area tested positive for Sars-Cov-2. Twenty of his friends and co-workers were quarantined.Neither the garment shop owner nor the conservancy worker has a recent travel history, according to information released by the city’s health department. “It is going to be an uphill task identifying asymptomatic patients in an area that has more than 850,000 people,” said Kiran Dighavkar, assistant commissioner of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation and the officer in charge of the city’s G ward, where Dharavi is situated.It is not just about Dharavi’s population. Its inhabitants live in some of the most cramped spaces in the country. In an area measuring 2.1 sq km, the slum has over 57,000 shanties, huts and small flats, almost all of them illegal. Its estimated population density – 66,000 people per square kilometre – is more than double that of Mumbai (32,303 people per square kilometre), the fifth most-densely populated city in the world, according to a United Nations Population Prospects study released in July 2019. Mumbai is also the city worst hit by Covid-19 in India, with at least 238 people having teste positive and nine deaths reported as of 6 pm on April 2. With private laboratories also testing for Covid-19, this number will only rise, health officials said.Also Read: ‘Lockdown in India was early, far-sighted and courageous’: WHO envoyMumbai’s – and Dharavi’s – population numbers make social distancing – one of the key preventive measures recommended by the World Health Organisation (WHO) – almost impossible to implement. “It is almost certain that the cases will spike in Dharavi due to overpopulation,” said Baburao Mane, a former state legislator from Dharavi. “There are, on average, 10-12 people living in thousands of 250 sq ft huts. As summer approaches and the temperature soars, it will be almost impossible to prevent home-quarantined people from coming out of their cramped spaces.”For Dharavi, BMC has put a special plan in place. It has created two teams of 25 people each that work round the clock in two shifts. These teams include a sanitary inspector, medical officers, police personnel and community volunteers. In addition, the ward officer has on board 800 community health volunteers whose primary responsibility will be to trace vulnerable residents such as senior citizens, patients with respiratory ailments and pregnant women.Also Read: Coronavirus: How world reached a million cases in 93 days“I have sought permission to convert the Rajiv Gandhi District Sports club into a quarantine facility with 300 beds,” said Dighavkar. “Once approved, we will shift high-risk people {to the facility}.”The primary concern of health officers is the people’s cooperation. “People in slums don’t cooperate. The statements given by the dead man’s wife and children have confused us. We are unable to trace his contacts. We don’t even know if he had visited his shop during the lockdown. Despite symptoms, has he roamed around the slum? The family can’t confirm his activity, and we don’t know how many people he may have infected.”Sanitation and water supply are the other issues . In line with WHO recommendations, the Maharashtra state health department has advocated regular hand-washing with water and soap to avoid any possible transmission of Sars-Cov-2. In Dharavi, this is a distant dream. Neena More, a local social activist ,said the slum averages one toilet per 500 people and most residents use the nearby Mahim creek for urinating and defecation. “Every morning, people stand in long queues to use the toilets making them susceptible to the infection,” she says.And then there is economic desperation. Almost every family in Dharavi faces the prospect of spending more than two months without wages on account of the nationwide lockdown and shutting of private business establishments. Shibani Salvi, a 26-year-old mother of two, lost her source of income in the third week of March. Prior to the lockdown, she earned Rs 20,000 a month working as a maid in five flats in the neighbourhood. “Now,” she said, “I cannot even go out of my house to collect my salary even though one of my employers called me. We have enough food to last only three more days. I don’t have money to buy even masks or sanitisers for my family.” One of Salvi’s employers is Divya Dhar, a 36-year-old designer who stays with her mother and two-year-old daughter in the affluent Shivaji Park. Even after the lockdown began, she would drive to Dharavi to fetch her maid and cook. Starting On Wednesday – the day the news broke about the first Covid-19 fatality in Dharavi – Dhar stopped the practice. “I can’t risk {the health of} my daughter, who is already an asthma patient. I will get tested. Until then, I have locked myself in a room,” Dhar said.Drinking water is another of Dharavi’s challenges. Qamruddin Sheikh, who runs a non-government organisation (NGO) named Bal Vikas Shikshan Sanstha in the area, said that in an area that has scant drinking water, it was impractical to think residents will keep washing their hands. “People are using handkerchiefs and cotton masks, both of which are of no use to stop the virus transmission. BMC should provide quarantined people with proper masks and hand sanitisers,” he said.The primary challenge for health officers will be tracing the people who were in close contact with infected patients. One health officer HT spoke to said on the condition of anonymity that “Many of the shops in Dharavi are illegal, and people do not share information openly. Getting accurate information here is the work of a full-time detective.”According to the ward officer, BMC has been providing rice, wheat and dal to those in home quarantine, but residents HT spoke to said the rations do not include essentials such as oil and vegetables. Sagar Kamble, a Dharavi resident, said: “Almost 80% of the slum-dwellers here are uneducated and do not understand the gravity of the situation. Only a few gated colonies in the area have locked their premises; the rest of the population is roaming around freely.” Mane said this was the main reason he has been asking for compulsory screening of all of Dharavi’s residents. “BMC needs to screen all the locals and if needed, send them back to their respective villages using available public transport. There is no other way to enforce social distancing or to contain the virus,” he said.But this is not possible, according to the BMC. The city’s health officers have overruled the possibility of running universal tests in Dharavi. “There are just not enough test kits,” said a health officer. “There is a shortage of masks and sanitisers in the slum, so with the help of NGOs and philanthropists, we are trying to procure protective masks for quarantined people.” He added: “There is also large-scale ignorance. When our volunteers counsel residents on the importance of sanitation and social distancing, many from the Muslim community respond by saying their immunity is high as they eat meat. It’s not going to be easy at all.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-dharavi-cramped-quarters-and-squalor-make-covid-fight-difficult/story-ikCrJedyQjQVWesUUfuqcN.html
03-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Health workers attacked in cities, 7 held in Indore for pelting stones||The Madhya Pradesh police arrested seven people on Thursday for allegedly attacking health workers in Indore’s Tatt Patti Bakhal area on Wednesday, as several such incidents of attacks on health workers were reported from different parts of the country.After the incidents, the Central government asked the state police to ensure security of health workers.The residents of a locality in Indore pelted stones at healthcare workers who went there to screen people in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak. Two female doctors reportedly sustained injuries in the incident.“We have been visiting the locality for the past three days for the screening of residents. We had information about a person coming in contact with a Covid-19 patient…We were talking to the person (the elderly woman) when, all of a sudden, residents got agitated and attacked us,” said one of the doctors.Health department officials said that the incident happened when the workers sought to take an elderly woman to hospital for her medical examination as she was said to have come in contact with a Covid-19 positive patient.The locality where this incident took place was Tatt Patti Bakhal area in Indore. In Bihar, police and medical personnel were attacked by locals in Munger town when they visited a locality to collect samples from people suspected to have contracted coronavirus. Stones were thrown at the quick response team (QRT), comprising policemen and an ambulance carrying medical personnel, when they visited the Hazratganj locality late on Wednesday, said the SHO of Qasim Bazar police station Shailesh Kumar.Relatives of a 49-year-old coronavirus patient who died at a government hospital in Hyderabad assaulted the duty doctor and the staff alleging negligence, police said. Telangana Director General of Police M Mahendar Reddy asserted that strong action will be taken against the culprits and necessary measures will be put in place to provide protection to all the doctors and paramedics treating Covid-19 patients.In Maharashtra, a man was assaulted by a group in Solapur district for allegedly informing a village official about those who attended the Tablighi gathering in Delhi. The 56-year-old man had informed the ‘gramsevak’ of Pimpri village about seven locals who attended the Tablighi meet and also insisted that they be tested for coronavirus, police said.In Bangalore, a group of ASHA (Accredited Social Health Activist) workers were allegedly assaulted at Sadiq layout near Hegdenagar on Wednesday by some youth belonging to the minority community when they had gone to collect information and create awareness about coronavirus.Krishnaveni, one of the ASHA workers apparently assaulted, said, “We were instructed to go to houses and collect data on who has cough, fever or any other symptoms. I have been in this field for five years, but inspite of explaining who we were, they heckled us, snatched our belongings and we couldn’t call anybody. We are here for their health and look how they treat us.”Some of the ASHA workers threatened that they would not continue the work if they were not provided protection, after which deputy CM Ashwath Narayan visited the house of Krishnaveni and said action would be taken against those who hinder the work of government servants. In West Bengal, there were clashes between police and locals at a few locations when the latter prevented health workers from collecting Covid-19 data. Nobody sustained major injuries.Police had a hard time enforcing social distancing norms in the wake of a large number of people coming out on the occasion of Ram Navami. Seven people were injured when police tried to enforce lockdown in North 24 Parganas district. “This is not the time to play carom or engage in chitchat with your friends at street corners. These can wait. If you do not adhere to social distancing, the consequences can be severe,” chief minister Mamata Banerjee had said on Thursday afternoon.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-health-workers-attacked-in-cities-7-held-in-indore-for-pelting-stones/story-ZlbAlxXRhH7aFQyLZb8wmN.html
03-04-2020||India||IAS officers identify hot spots, flag gaps in policy, equipment shortage||New Delhi: From the domestic production of Covid-19 testing kits and ventilators to lifting the lockdown cautiously, young civil servants across the country have offered a host of suggestions to tackle the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.In a survey, conducted by the Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances, 266 Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers submitted a host of suggestion and identified hot spots across 16 states. They flagged some crucial gaps in policy, and highlighted the shortage of medical staff, equipment and facilities such as ICU beds, ventilators, ambulances, oxygen cylinders. “PPEs (personal protective equipment) such as masks, gloves etc. for medical staff was an area of concern for several districts and across states,” said the report by the National Preparedness Survey that was released on Thursday. The survey was conducted from March 25 to March 30, with 410 district collectors and IAS officers (batches 2014-2018) who have served as assistant secretaries registering for it. Of these, 266 submitted completed reports to the DARPG.“This is the feedback we have received from across the country,” a DARPG official said. “This the situation on the ground and the gaps that we want to highlight in the fight against Covid-19. The suggestions have been noted and will be addressed appropriately.” The respondents, while highlighting that the national, state and district administration has been “effective and purposeful” in response to the pandemic, recommended that issues related to procurement, logistics and supply chain of medical equipment should be addressed on priority to bridge the demand-supply gap.They also called for more testing centres (with separate centres in rural areas) and isolation wards to be set up.“The respondents suggested increase in the fiscal spending (around 5 - 10 Lakh Crore/ around 2% of GDP) on health infrastructure, essential commodities for poor and vulnerable groups,” according to the report. Other economic relief could include partially waiving commercial rent of shops under lockdown, they suggested. Among the other recommendations were standard operating procedures and guidelines for interstate movement of people across borders in light of the migrant movement in several areas; creating relief packages for daily wagers; and lifting the lockdown in a phased manner after the 21-day period ends.The civil servants also noted that more needed to be done to increase Covid-19 awareness in backward districts and the among tribal population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ias-officers-identify-hot-spots-flag-gaps-in-policy-equipment-shortage/story-W6yIvQeLmflbsmnLO3lniP.html
03-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Odisha govt official reveals identity of patient, asks contacts to quarantine themselves||Over fears of a Covid-19 patient triggering community transmission, the Odisha government on Thursday broke its own norms of not revealing the identity of coronavirus patients as it named the fifth person in the state who tested positive.Bhubaneswar Municipal Commissioner Prem Chandra Chaudhury identified the patient who hails from the posh Surya Nagar area of the city and appealed to the people to quarantine themselves if they had come in contact with the person after March 1.“The man is mentally retarded and for last 3 months he has not gone anywhere except to some local hospitals for treatment. He is diabetic and has other co-morbidity conditions like hypertension when he was admitted to AIIMS Bhubaneswar on March 31 following problems in respiration. He has no records of travel. As there is no other known way of finding out how he contacted the virus, we have issued an appeal to people to inform us and go on quarantine,” said Chaudhury.Health and family welfare department of Odisha said the 60-year-old man first consulted a doctor in a private clinic in Bhubaneswar on March 5 and again consulted him on March 12. On March 27, he consulted a doctor in the OPD of a major private hospital after he experienced problems in breathing. The next day he went to OPD of AIIMS Bhubaneswar over same issues. As his respiratory problems persisted, he got admitted to casualty of AIIMS on March 31 where doctors suspected him to be suffering from Coronavirus.After his sample came positive on April 1, the the municipal authorities this evening sealed the area where the person lived with 13 others in his family. All his family members have been isolated. Apart from his 13 family members, 8 others the person came in contact with have been asked to go on quarantine for the next 14 days. The officials, however, allayed fears of community transmission of coronavirus beginning in Odisha as the patient had no record of travel.AIIMS Bhubaneswar acting medical superintendent, Jawahar Pillay said the patient is on ventilator.State government spokesperson on Covid-19, Subroto Bagchi also appealed people that if they have symptoms of the disease, they need not hide it. Bagchi said that many people were hiding the fact though they know that they have coronavirus symptoms.“And they are doing it out of fear. The person who avoided our phone call for 48 times did it out of fear. Tell your family and neighbours that if you feel you have coronavirus symptoms, do not hide it. Come out bold, your candidness will save you; your family, the society, the race will remain ever grateful to you,” said Bagchi.The revelation of the identity of the patient has come at a time when the state government has lodged cases against people for trying to reveal the identity of the infected persons. In Bhadrak district, police on Wednesday arrested 3 persons for revealing the identity of a 29-year-old chef working in Dubai who tested positive on March 31.Officials have identified 33 people who came in contact with the youth after he landed in Kolkata by an Emirates flight from Dubai and then took a train ride to Bhadrak on March 19. Though the man had quarantined himself after arrival at home, he is believed to have come in close contact with at least 25 people in train apart from 6 in his family and neighbourhood. Though the youth did not show any symptoms of the disease, he was tested as per government protocol of testing of all 4300 people who have returned from abroad after March 4.In a related development on Thursday, Odisha’s second coronavirus patient, a 19-year-old youth who had returned from UK and tested positive on March 20 was discharged from AIIMS Bhubaneswar. “The second Covid-19 positive case has completely recovered and tested negative for the virus,” said a health department official.Also on Thursday, two standalone Covid-19 speciality hospitals with a total capacity of 650 started functioning in Bhubaneswar and Cuttack. The first one is a 500 isolation bed facility in KIMS Bhubaneswar and the second one is at Ashwini Hospital in Cuttack with a 150 isolation beds. The State government earlier announced that patients would get free treatment along with free food and rent-free stay in these hospitals. The next Covid-19 hospital in SUM Hospital would have 500 isolation beds.While the state raced to build more isolation facilties for Covid-19 patients, Odisha has urged the centre to immediately send personal protective equipment (PPE) like Hazmat suits and masks as well as coronavirus testing kits.In a letter to Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan, Odisha health minister Naba Kishore Das said there is acute shortage of testing kits in the State which are essential for detection and treatment of the deadly virus.“Adequate ventilators, PPEs, masks, sanitisers may kindly be provided to important district headquarter hospitals including Rourkela General Hospital for better treatment of Coronavirus patients. The testing facilities may be extended to MKCG Medical College and Hospital, Berhampur and VIMSAR, Burla for testing more and more suspected patients of other parts of the State,” Das wrote in his letter on April 1. Due to lack of adequate testing kits, till April 2, Odisha has been able to test only 1113 samples.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-odisha-govt-official-reveals-identity-of-patient-asks-contacts-to-quarantine-themselves/story-DAKunawErkiOZ5jy94RA4J.html
03-04-2020||India||Sonia condemns unplanned lockdown, ‘miserly’ relief||New Delhi: Sonia Gandhi, the interim president of the Congress said on Thursday said that while the ongoing 21-day lockdown may have been required to fight the spread of the coronavirus disease, the unplanned manner in which it was implemented caused chaos and pain, provoking an immediate reaction from BJP president JP Nadda who accused the Congress of politicising the issue. Gandhi was speaking at a meeting of the Congress Working Committee, which also found fault with the relief package announced by the government. “The Financial Action Plan (FAP) I announced on March 25 was miserly, hopelessly inadequate and left out several vulnerable sections. It failed to instil confidence in the poor and, as a result, we witnessed the tragic spectacle of thousands of migrant workers desperately trying to go back to their villages by any means whatsoever, including on foot,’’ it said in a statement. Gandhi also hit out at the Centre over the exodus of migrant workers following the imposition of the three-week lockdown , saying the “tragic spectacle” of thousands of them walking back to their villages will “forever remain a blot on the Modi government”. Information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar said the comments were “unfortunate, false, and unnecessary.” Thousands of migrant workers left jobless by the lockdown began fleeing cities for their homes on foot last week in absence of public transport. The Centre last week announced an economic stimulus plan to provides direct cash transfers and food to the poor hit by the lockdown.The CWC, which is the Congress’s highest decision-making body, demanded FAP II to reassure the poor and also to provide adequate financial support to the sections left out earlier.“The NYAY [minimum income guarantee] scheme put forward by the Congress [as a pre-poll promise last year] offers a useful model that can be adapted and implemented,” said the resolution, which was passed after Gandhi chaired a CWC meeting via video conferencing.The CWC said the government has not given any thought to the deteriorating economic situation and demanded constitution of a task force of world-renowned economists to suggest three plans to deal with the crisis. “...firstly an emergency plan within one week, secondly a short to medium term plan within one month and thirdly a medium to long term plan within three months in order to protect and revive the economy.”The CWC said it is conscious that India and the world face an unprecedented crisis due to the rapid spread of Covid-19 while pledging its support to the government. The statement said the order of priorities before the government should be to contain the spread of virus, medical treatment to the infected, livelihood support to the poor and maintenance of supply of essentials and measures to deal with a sliding economy. The CWC regretted that the government has “miserably failed” to provide adequate livelihood support to the poor. The party said supply chains to crores of people, especially those living in towns, cities and remote villages have been severely disrupted by poor preparation and thoughtless orders and notifications.Gandhi said there is no alternative to constant and reliable testing to fight Covid-19 and demanded Personal Protection Equipment for doctors, nurses and health workers as also ventilators and breathing equipment, isolation beds and designated hospitals for patients. “The onus lies on governments to ensure that the spread of infection and casualties are not caused owing to lack of infrastructure or preparedness.”She urged the government to prepare a Common Minimum Relief programme, and insisted that Covid-19 does not differentiate between political ideology, religion, caste, age or gender. “The choices we make today will have a direct impact tomorrow on our family, neighbourhood, community, environment and nation. How effectively we meet this challenge, how we protect all sections of our society, especially the most vulnerable among us, will define us for generations to come. Only if we act together in solidarity, we will overcome.”Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi said the country has to fight Covid-19 with a specific strategy and consultation, and stressed the need to ensure that the most vulnerable and the poor as also aged people are protected .Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh said the Congress stands one with the nation to take on the challenge posed by the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-condemns-unplanned-lockdown-miserly-relief/story-ac62e7wK8OUHSO9ieftCcL.html
03-04-2020||India||74 of 75 new Tamil Nadu coronavirus cases linked to Jamaat||Tamil Nadu on Thursday reported 75 fresh cases of Covid-19 of which 74 had attended the Tablighi Jamaat religious conference held in Delhi in March. The 75th person had contact with Patient 30 who had travel history, but not linked to the Delhi conference.The state now has 309 positive Covid-19 cases, of which 264 are related to the religious conference, which is now being treated as the largest cluster in the country. Including Thursday’s fresh cases, the virus has now spread across 20 districts in Tamil Nadu.“There are 75 fresh cases in Tamil Nadu today of which 74 were people who took part in this Delhi Conference. One person had contact with someone who has travel history,” health secretary Dr. Beela Rajesh said.Nearly 1500 persons from Tamil Nadu are believed to have attended the religious conference held in New Delhi’s Nizamuddin. Until Wednesday, the state has traced 1103 persons. “All 1103 people have been tested but some of the results are under process. Of these 264 have tested positive,” she said. “All have been tested but results are under process.” Rajesh said that the state was increasing the testing facilities and six more labs will be added soon. Each lab can carry out 100 tests every day. Tamil Nadu was using the lockdown time to ramp up testing facilities and focus on infrastructure and equipment. “We have enough masks, Personal Protective Equipment kits, enough to give all nurses who are working in isolation wards. We have made it mandatory for all who have to see patients in isolation wards. Daily there is a 20-minute ‘mock drill’ on how to put on the PPE and remove it, how to interact with the patients, and how to maintain the distance,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-75-new-tn-cases-linked-to-jamaat/story-eaa5jvLPEDndqKgiK56KML.html
03-04-2020||India||ICMR advises antibody testing in hot spots for faster diagnosis||New Delhi: India has allowed faster and cheaper antibody tests to check for the coronavirus disease in so-called hot spots -- these show clusters of infections -- of which there are 20 in the country, the health ministry said on Thursday. An expert said the decision could be a game-changer in India’s fight against the pandemic, not just because of the time and the cost, but also because Indian companies and laboratories have experience in doing such antibody tests (which are blood tests) and can easily develop inexpensive kits for it. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) advised on Thursday, antibody tests (or blood tests) in areas that are emerging as hot spots of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), a move that will ensure faster detection of all possible cases in these clusters and help authorities buy some precious time to contain the fast-spreading pandemic. The test used now -- PCR (polymerase chain reaction) -- identifies the Sars-CoV-2 virus from throat or nasal swab samples of people with symptoms or high-risk individuals (health workers and family members) who might have come in contact with a Covid-19 patient. The antibody detection blood test will identify people who have been infected, but have mild or no symptoms, according to experts who say the move will help us know how many have been able to fight off the infection and have become what could be called a “corona-blocker”.While the results of PCR tests take up to five hours, the antibody test results will be available in 15-30 minutes.“Population in hot spot areas may be tested using rapid antibody test. And antibody positives to be confirmed by RT-PCR (reverse transcription-PCR) using throat/nasal swab, and antibody negatives to be quarantined at home,” said the interim ICMR advisory.This means positive results will be reconfirmed using the PCR test. The antibody test uses a few drops of blood to determine whether a person has antibodies against the coronavirus. Antibodies in the immune system means the person either had the disease at some point in the past, even though the person was never tested for it, and has now recovered, or has the disease now, minus the symptoms. An ICMR official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity said, the move will mean getting quicker results even if there is a large number of people.“However, to ensure there are no false positives or false negatives, we recommend confirmatory PCR-based test for all positive results,” this official said.ICMR also released a link (www.finddx.org/) having an information on all available CE-marked rapid Sars-CoV-2 antibody tests. CE-In Vitro Diagnostic approved kits can be used directly after due approval from Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) and intimation to ICMR.ICMR earlier made public an expression of interest to procure a million antibody testing kits from manufacturers across the globe. However, due to the shortage of supply, the number was revised to 500,000 testing kits. The first shipment is expected by April 5.Experts say that India’s decision to introduce anti-body testing kits could be a game-changer in the country’s fight against the pandemic.“These tests are expected to be very economical, simple and give results within 15-20 minutes. They are being used for contact-tracing in some countries. The Indian health system has lot of experience in doing such tests, like the ones for dengue and chikungunya. So it will be easy to ramp up the screening. It is also a great tool for surveillance, and building up epidemiological data. Indian companies would be able to produce them (the kits) easily and at massive scale,” Lalit Kant, a senior infectious disease expert, said.Kant has a word of caution though. “While using these tests, one has to be careful about false positives as there may be cross-reaction with other virus antigens. Antibodies take time to develop, so if the test is performed early in the phase of the infection, may not give correct results. Still, this decision is transformational.”He also pointed out that the move would ease workload off main laboratories, as sophisticated equipment or highly trained manpower would not be needed for the process. “Mass screenings can be done using these tests to give us vital information on the number of people infected who never went to the hospital. It would give us an idea of the denominator to calculate fatality ratios,” he said.On Thursday, the Union health ministry said it identified 20 existing and 22 potential hot spots in the country, and asserted that although there was no evidence of widespread community transmission, containment measures will require large human resources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-advises-antibody-testing-in-hot-spots-for-faster-diagnosis/story-ysAWd1LF4MaVRNCjyziYnK.html
03-04-2020||India||Covid-19 update: Hoarding, transport snags choke supply of essentials||A supply crunch of consumer items has cascaded across states, as buyers, rich and poor, scour markets for everyday needs amidst a sweeping lockdown to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Businesses blame their lean inventories on panic-buying of goods equivalent to two-three months of household supplies by affluent classes, as they hunkered down for an indefinite shutdown.They also blame issues with the transportation of food supplies, including grains, edible oil, fruits, vegetables, milk, even consumer products. Some stores are rationing supplies, selling limited quantities of items to discourage hoarding. Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic “The excess buying has strained back-end stocks and godowns,” said market tracker Comtrade in a note. Inventories that should have lasted two months were exhausted within a week, it said.And deliveries at the last-mile are hobbling under tight local rules of individual states. Federal instructions and orders issued by state administrations are not in tandem, first-hand reports suggest. India is one economy but many individual markets. Steering all of them in one direction, all of sudden, has been a key challenge, ground reports indicate. Part of the problem is also that modern supply chains are intricate — they span whole sectors. A bread maker typically depends on three: agriculture, biological and chemical leavening agent producers and the packaging sector, each with its own supply chain. “There have been no biscuits in any store for three days,” Alka Aggarwal, a housewife said, pointing to her neighbourhood Samachar market in east Delhi. A soaring milk demand ahead of the lockdown followed by a sharp fall now had upset supply schedules, RS Sodhi, the managing director of Amul, India’s largest dairy cooperative, said . Small milk suppliers and aggregators were under pressure but the overall availability is adequate, he added . Some states have seen milk demand drop, leading to farm losses. “Owing to regulatory measures in the wake of Covid-19, there is a decline in demand of milk and milk products, and difficulties have also arisen in interstate movement for its conversion to milk powder,” Rajesh Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary of Kerala admitted . Government may borrow Rs 40k crore as cash-strapped states seek fundsHundreds of trucks are stuck on state borders, despite the home ministry’s orders allowing movement of both essentials and non-essentials. Truckers have sought government intervention to smoothen interstate movement. “The home ministry’s orders have not percolated to the ground level even though operators want their vehicles to move. Trucks are still being stopped at various state borders in states such as Delhi, UP and Haryana for example,” Kultaran Singh Atwal, president of the lobby group All-India Motor Transport Congress said.The Food Corporation of India is ramping up supplies. “During the lockdown, the Food Corporation of India is replenishing 10 lakh (1 million) tonne of foodgrains through 352 rakes of Indian railways,” Union food minister Ram Vilas Paswan said in a tweet. But there is a problem. It only stocks cereals (rice and wheat), and limited quantities of pulses and sugar. The crisis is concentrated in a clutch of other necessary items: flour, biscuits, edible oil, soaps, handwash, some varieties of lentils, vegetables, baby food, packaged juices, medicines for a variety of conditions, even matchboxes.“Earlier, wholesalers would deliver to my shop. Now, I have to make beeline to the wholesaler, taking several hours,” general provisions store proprietor Ravindra Ghosh said from Ranchi’s Kokar locality.To resolve logistics issues, the Union government has formed a committee under the ministry of home affairs. The committee on logistics comprises secretaries to the ministries of aviation, health, drugs, textiles, consumer affairs and shipping, apart from the railway board chairman. The committee is tasked with ensuring unhindered supply of essential and medical goods.On the ground, however, broken chains of command are testing the limits of ensuring a billion people’s essential needs are met. The country went into a lockdown with less than four hours of notice. Police crackdown on agricultural activities has upended harvesting and transportation of crops. Md. Moinuddin, a vegetable wholesaler in Assam’s Kamrup rural district outlying Guwahati, said he had not been able to hire trucks to get stocks into the Assam city after police seized some trucks plying without permits.Cultivators are piling perishables in cold chains, as buyers aren’t purchasing in large quantities, unsure of transport.Farmers in Haryana’s Babain near Kurukshetra town said aggregators weren’t willing to take risks. “I have stocked about 12 quintals (100 kg each) potatoes in cold storages. No more cold storages space is available in entire Kurukshetra,” Jagtar Singh, a farmer, said. Truckers have sought extension of the due date for payment of road tax and GST to September 30. “On the 8th day of the countrywide lockdown, the government is making frantic efforts to restore supply chains. There is no clear policy on whether to run vehicles or not, especially those with non-essential goods,” Singh said.There is no staff, no labour, no traders and factories as well as workshops are shut, Singh added. Drivers have no facilities for eating or basic shelter. “Transportation services cannot work in isolation,” the truck lobby president said.Three major wholesale hubs run by state-regulated agriculture produce market committees – Lasalgaon in Maharashtra, Mullana near Haryana’s Ambala and Gollapally in Telangana’s Karimnagar -- said they were operating with 30-40% less staff.In this vacuum, Indian Railways has stepped up. A railway ministry official said issues at many terminal points, loading and unloading operations were being resolved now. There are issues of shortage of labour, he said. As many as 1,43,458 wagons of essential goods were loaded over the past three days including 7,195 wagons of food grains, 64,567 wagons of coal, 3,314 wagons of steel and 3,838 wagons of petroleum. Special focus is being given to essential commodities like foodgrains, sugar, salt, fruits & vegetables, coal, petroleum products and fertilisers. Scheduled passenger flights have also been pressed into service to supply cargo nationwide. Over the past few days, 85 flights have carried 76 tonne. All passenger flights are grounded till April 14. “We are operating flights despite significant logistical challenges in road transportation of cargo to and from airports and in the movement of aviation personnel,” a ministry of civil aviation official said.“Bulk of the air cargo comprises low-weight-high-volume products such as masks, gloves and other consumables that require more cargo space per tonnage of material. Special permission has been granted to store cargo in the passenger seating area, with due care and precautions,” the aviation ministry official added. India is also deploying private airlines for supplies. Private carriers such as IndiGo, SpiceJet and Blue Dart are also operating cargo flights on a commercial basis.“This is like a mass synchronisation game. It needs practice to get it right,” said Rahul Digmbar, a former senior manager (operations) of BlueDart.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hoarding-transport-snags-choke-supply-of-essentials/story-mO8iZLYeFj5fBz1vU68DyL.html
03-04-2020||India||Navy’s temperature guns to cost ₹1,000||The Naval Dockyard, Mumbai, has designed and developed a hand-held infrared temperature sensor, and has the capacity to scale up its production, if agencies require the instruments in large numbers to screen people for fever amid the Covid-19 outbreak, the navy said in a statement on Thursday.The navy said the instrument has been developed due to the scarcity of temperature sensors in the market, where these are being sold for a high cost. “The instrument has been manufactured for under ₹1,000 using in-house resources. The cost is a fraction of the price of the temperature guns in the market,” the statement said, adding that the country’s medical infrastructure was being tested by the surge in the count of Covid-19 cases.The dockyard’s temperature sensor has an accuracy to 0.02 degree Celsius, as per the statement.The temperature guns will be used for screening the 20,000 personnel who visit the dockyard daily. This will reduce the workload of the sentries at the gates, the navy said.“In view of Covid-19, initial screening of these personnel entering the dockyard was essential to prevent the spread of the disease within the yard and the navy’s Western Fleet. The most preliminary method to screen a probable patient is to check for body temperature by non-contact means,” the statement said.As the country prepares to handle a rising number of cases and meet its need for ventilators, which about 5% of the Covid-19 patients may require, the navy has also pitched in with an innovative ventilator design that can cater to six patients simultaneously.The Naval Dockyard, Visakhapatnam, has manufactured this portable multi-feed oxygen manifold ventilator.“To cater to the requirement of oxygen supply for multiple patients during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, personnel from Naval Dockyard, Visakhapatnam, have designed an innovative ‘Portable Multi-feed Oxygen Manifold(MOM)’ using a six-way radial header fitted to a single cylinder. This innovation will enable one oxygen bottle to supply six patients concurrently thus, enabling critical care management to a larger number of Covid patients with the existing limited resources,” the navy said in a statement earlier this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/navy-s-temperature-guns-to-cost-1-000/story-8fTu8GoemzMudiJvpo84yO.html
03-04-2020||India||Ex-servicemen being mobilised to aid fight||The defence ministry on Thursday announced that it is mobilising thousands of ex-servicemen (ESM) to assist state governments and district administrations, wherever required, to supplement the country’s efforts to fight the Covid-19 pandemic.A ministry spokesperson said the department of ex-servicemen welfare has taken the initiative to mobilise the services of veterans. “Rajya Sainik Boards, Zila Sainik Boards are playing a dynamic role in identifying and mobilising maximum ESM volunteers to assist the state and district administration in performing public outreach activities such as contact tracing, community surveillance, management of quarantine facilities or any such tasks assigned to them,” the ministry said in a statement.More than 8,500 military doctors and support staff are ready to help the government in the fight the Covid-19 pandemic. Besides, 9,000 hospital beds have been prepared to meet emergency requirements, the armed forces told the government on Wednesday.The ministry said on Thursday that it is heartening that veterans across the country have risen to the occasion, in keeping with the motto of ‘service before self’, to fight the outbreak. “ESM are disciplined, motivated and well trained to operate in adverse situations and they have pan-India presence in all the districts and villages across the country,” the statement said.It said more than 4,200 ESM are assisting in data collection from villages in Punjab, Chhattisgarh has employed veterans to help the police, district collectors in Andhra Pradesh have sought the assistance of ESM volunteers and retired medical personnel have been kept on standby in Uttar Pradesh.“In addition, Sainik rest houses are being readied in Uttarakhand to act as isolation/quarantine centres if the need arises. In Goa, a control room has been established and ESM have been asked to remain on standby for any assistance to the local administration,” the release said.The ministry also said the National Cadet Corps (NCC) has issued guidelines for temporary employment of its cadets to augment relief efforts and the functioning of various agencies involved in battling the pandemic under ‘Exercise NCC Yogdan’.“The tasks envisaged for NCC cadets include manning of helpline/call centres, distribution of relief material/medicines/ food/essential commodities, community assistance, data management and queue and traffic management,” the ministry said in another statement, adding that guidelines make it clear that cadets should not be employed in the handling of law and order situations or in active military duties, or deployed at hot spots. Only senior division volunteer cadets, over 18 years of age, will be roped in. “They should be employed in small cohesive groups of eight to 20 under the supervision of permanent instructor staff or and an associate NCC Officer,” it said. The ministry said on Wednesday that around 25,000 cadets are being mobilised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ex-servicemen-being-mobilised-to-aid-fight/story-ygG4lOrYyNz7OFNneANSiP.html
03-04-2020||India||‘Prepare or suffer’: CDS Gen Rawat delivers blunt message on Covid-19 battle||India’s Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Gen Bipin Rawat believes that India must break the Covid-19 virus chain by April 14, through the lockdown and social distancing, or be prepared to weather the long-term consequences of the pandemic.“The military dictum is ‘prepare or perish’, but in these times of Covid we have refined it to ‘prepare or suffer’. We must arrest the spread of the virus through a 100% lockdown and social distancing by April 14. With the harvesting season around the corner, India cannot afford the numbers to go up. The military is totally prepared to stand up to the demands made by government and the people,” Gen Rawat said in a phone interview.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicHe said that the army, navy and air force have moved into action by dedicating 17-18 hospitals to care for the infected, and the total bed capacity in the forces has been ramped up to 15,000 so far. “We have hospitals ready even in far-off places like Dimapur and Zakhama in Nagaland, even though the virus has not spread in North-east India. We have now two to three hospitals ready in each zone to treat, manage and control the infection,” he said.Also Read: Coronavirus: How world reached a million cases in 93 daysThe CDS said that the military and its doctors were constantly in touch with the Union health ministry, and he, as secretary of military affairs, was attending meetings with PK Mishra, principal secretary to the Prime Minister, and cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba.Gen Rawat said that one ward in each hospital, including places such as Delhi where the base hospital is normally crowded, will be dedicated for Covid-19 patients. “We have created isolation and quarantine facilities in Jaisalmer, Jodhpur and Jhansi to accommodate 500 patients each for treatment, to add to the capacity of para-military facilities, such as the one in Manesar,” he said.The single-point military advisor to the government said that since army, navy and air force schools are closed due to the lockdown, the premises can be prepared as quarantine centres. “We have three army public schools, one navy school and one air force public school in Delhi. It has been decided that these schools should be made ready to be made quarantine centres, if required. Even though the capacities of these schools is about 1,500 patients each, only 200 will be put up in each school due to proper sanitation requirements. The same model is being readied in other parts of the country if there is a requirement, or in a worst-case scenario.”Also Read: Covid-19: What you need to know todayGen Rawat also said that the defence ministry has made an important change in the procurement manual by allowing advance payments to be made to the manufacturers of medical equipment such as ventilators, masks and protection suits. “We have already placed an order of 370 ventilators with the DRDO {Defence Research and Development Organisation} and are asking ordnance factories also for manufacture of masks and PPE {personal protective equipment} suits. The power to make advance payments has been given to director generals of armed medical services, army commanders, corps commanders and brigade commanders so that there is no shortage of any medical supplies, both for troops and the public,” he said.The CDS also said that two naval medical ships were ready to help neighbouring countries in case of a medical emergency. The air force, which recently flew a 14-member team to the Maldives, is prepared to ferry medical supplies in and out of the country.Although Gen Rawat is optimistic that India can contain the virus, he is “keeping his fingers crossed” and hoping that “social distancing, lockdown, and the Indian summer heat” will end the threat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/must-break-virus-chain-gen-rawat/story-ERUFfxopfqFFkdD5r8MWVP.html
03-04-2020||India||Three suicides in UP linked to Covid; police, authorities on high alert||Meerut/Bareilly: A 35-year-old vegetable vendor was found hanging from a ceiling fan at a quarantine centre in Uttar Pradesh’s Shamli on Thursday, police said, adding that it is the latest in a spate of suicides linked to the coronavirus (Covid-19) outbreak in the state. “A ward boy spotted his body hanging from the ceiling fan and chief medical officer Sanjay Bhatnagar informed the authorities about the incident,” said Shamli’s police superintendent Vineet Jaiswal. He added the vendor’s body has been sent for a post mortem examination.The vendor allegedly committed suicide even as the result of his Covod-19 test was yet to come. He had returned to his village from Delhi on March 30 amid the 21-day lockdown imposed across the country to check the spread of the disease. He was quarantined the next day as he was feeling unwell. Another 23-year-old migrant worker allegedly committed suicide in Bareilly after escaping from a quarantine centre. Police said he had earlier escaped from the centre twice to meet his family, but was brought back on both occasions. Sub-divisional magistrate Digvijay Singh said the worker was quarantined following the government’s directions. “We told him that the isolation was a precautionary measure to ensure the safety of his family members and neighbours. The victim had fled from the camp to meet his family. When police reached the village searching for him, he escaped and was later found hanging.”Station house officer Chandrakant Singh said it appears that the victim took the extreme step as he started panicking at the quarantine centre despite repeated attempts by officials to make him understand that it was just a precautionary measure. “Authorities provided proper food and other necessary facilities at the centre. We are investigating the matter and a case will be registered based on the findings.”The 23-year-old was the youngest among six siblings and was quarantined at a school after returning from Gurugram on March 28. He was found hanging on the outskirts of his village after leaving his home upon learning that police were looking for him . Police said his body has been sent for autopsy and the district administration will provide compensation to his family. In Saharanpur, a 38-year-old clerk was also found hanging from a ceiling fan at his office on Wednesday evening, said circle officer Yatendra Singh Nagar. “A suicide note recovered from his pocket said he was committing suicide because he was afraid of getting infected,” Nagar said.Saharanpur’s senior police superintendent Dinesh Kumar P said the man committed suicide because he was suffering from depression. His body was sent for post mortem examination.A farmer suffering from fever and cold committed suicide to “save his entire village from being infected” in Mathura on Tuesday. A young man with similar symptoms hanged himself on March 24 because he feared he was suffering from Covid-19.Two men committed suicide in Hapur and Bareilly because they also believed that they were suffering from the deadly virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-suicides-in-up-linked-to-covid-police-authorities-on-high-alert/story-g9JIHtwG6CyXPndaTYXE1L.html
03-04-2020||India||‘Lockdown in India was early, far-sighted and courageous’: WHO envoy||There is no evidence to suggest that the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) will disappear, says Dr David Nabarro, the World Health Organization’s (WHO) special envoy on the disease, adding that people may have to consider new norms for the foreseeable future. Declaring a lockdown when there was relatively a small number of cases in India gave the country time to come to terms with the new virus, he tells Sanchita Sharma in an interview. Edited excerpts:Do you think Covid-19 can be stopped?If you don’t get in early and the outbreaks grow, they get very, very big very quickly and then managing them is a massive and a very taxing task. So, where you have countries with not many cases and strong, robust responses at the community level supported by governments, we are most hopeful.Everything starts at the community level, detecting people with disease and isolating them, finding their contacts and quarantining them, and maintaining, as far as possible, a ready state to respond to outbreaks very quickly, and widespread efforts to reduce opportunities of transmission through lockdowns. During a lockdown, you must build community capacity for interrupting transmission where its starts -- in local communities -- and I see it recognised in India. Also Watch | ‘Switch off lights, light candles at 9 pm on Sunday’: PM Modi amid lockdown l Full speechClick here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicHow would you rate India’s response?The lockdown in India was quite early on, when there was relatively a small number of cases detected. This was really a far-sighted decision because it gave the whole country the opportunity to come to terms with the reality of this enemy. People understood that there is a virus in our midst. It gave time to develop capacities at the local level for interrupting transmission and sorting out hospitals.Of course, there is a lot of debate and criticism, and inevitably with a lot of frustration and anger that life is being disturbed in this way. It is very, very upsetting. I think it is courageous of the government, honestly, to take this step and provoke this enormous public debate and let the frustration come out, to accept that there will be hundreds of millions of people whose lives are being disrupted. For poor people on daily wages, this is a massive sacrifice they are making. And to do it now at an early stage as opposed to waiting three or four weeks later when the virus is much more widespread, was very courageous.Unlike in Europe and the United States?Comparisons between governments are not very helpful, but I can say that there have been some countries where that kind of strong action was not taken early on and we see they now have to struggle with the most immense suffering. We are seeing health workers absolutely at the end of their tether, and getting infected because they are exhausted. We see long term lockdowns being talked about. For example, some people are talking about six weeks, eight weeks.Is lockdown for three weeks enough?That all depends on how well-organised the basic community-level public health services and hospitals are. And whether people can see it as a battle that requires solidarity right across society. I don’t make any kind of recommendation because I don’t know what is happening [on the ground].India is looking very, very carefully to make sure that when the lockdown is lifted, there won’t be a windfall, with lots and lots of cases, hospitals overwhelmed and a national crisis. I think that strategy is right.Also Read: Coronavirus: How world reached a million cases in 93 daysWhat about the people worst affected?We need to save the lives of people who are badly affected. We must be looking after our hospitals, treating our health workers like they have to be treated considering they are on the front line, protecting them as much as we can and supporting them in society so they get looked after... really making sure they are secure and safe.In imposing major lockdowns, all governments are having to juggle with the need to really get on top of outbreaks quickly and, at the same time, ensure that people through the lockdown are not experiencing extreme impoverishment or shortage of food.There is growing recognition all across the world that we have to manage lockdowns very carefully. The size of some of these lockdowns is really massive, so having an integrated policy of lockdown management that deals with the social and economic consequences is always important. As far as I know, there are 70 countries and territories where lockdown is being applied, which is somewhere around one-third or half of the world’s population. So lockdown management is a key activity to get right alongside the response to the disease.Will coronavirus go away or will it become a seasonal virus like the flu viruses?We don’t know how this virus will behave over time and whether it will become less serious and whether it will have a particular distribution pattern. The virus is four months old, to our knowledge, and we are learning over time. I don’t know what will happen in hotter weather. I’m really very eagerly awaiting information from your country which is now going into the hot season to know whether or not there is the same level of transmission, or whether it is the same level of illness that we’ve seen in temperate climate. I’m really hoping that it won’t be quite so severe and that weather will be on our side.We also don’t know how the virus will behave in communities where there is quite a lot of illness, like for example malaria or other infectious diseases.Will social distancing be the new normal?Let’s wait and see but let us plan for the virus to be with us in the world for the foreseeable future. There is no evidence to suggest it will suddenly disappear and let’s see what that means for how we organise our lives.I believe the coming reality for the world will be one where we are always defending against this enemy, like a kind of fire brigade is needed in place. And within that defence, then have the recovery of social interaction and economic activity but done in a way that keeps us all as safe as much as possible. I don’t think we have an impossible task but if we call on our collective ingenuity to establish norms that will enable society and business to get on with what they do best, which is enterprise that creates wealth and enables people to have a decent standard of life.I’m asking people to consider the new norms at the same time they are imposing lockdowns because the new norms are going to be key to exiting safely from lockdowns without exposing people to disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-in-india-was-early-this-was-far-sighted-courageous-move-who-special-envoy-on-covid-19/story-wNdCkNVOqV5gCN8Du9jJ3N.html
03-04-2020||India||Sewage could hold clue to coronavirus circulation||Testing sewage water could give authorities clues about the circulation of Covid-19 in cities, new research has found. Scientists in the Netherlands found the virus circulating in sewage water even when cases of Covid-19 were very low and the outbreak was still in its early stages in Dutch cities. In another analysis, Chinese scientists have suggested the use of paper-based devices (analytical devices for rapid diagnostics of pathogens. For instance, paper-based testing kits for malaria) to trace these pathogens early on.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicIn the Dutch study, tests were conducted from sewage water samples three weeks before the first case of Covid-19 tested positive in the Netherlands but no markers were found in wastewater. When the test was conducted again on March 4 and 5, one week after the outbreak began in the country, markers were found in wastewater. Wastewater treatment plants were selected from two large and three medium sized Dutch cities and an airport to draw samples from which ribonucleic acid (RNA) was extracted and reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT PCR) was conducted. RT PCR enables identification of pathogens by detecting their genetic material.Also Read: ‘Lockdown in India was early, far-sighted and courageous’: WHO envoyScientists, however, clarified that there is no evidence yet that sewage is a transmission mode for SARS-CoV-2. Although SARS-CoV-2 has been detected in a significant proportion of stool samples in earlier studies, just two studies reported finding infectious virus from these samples. This indicates virus doesn’t sustain in sewage water for long possibly due to treatment. Surveillance of sewage water, however, offers the opportunity to check for community prevalence of the disease.“It is important to collect information about the occurrence and fate of this new virus in sewage to understand if there is no risk to sewage work ers, but also to determine if sewage surveillance could be used to monitor the circulation of SARS-CoV-2 in our communities… sewage surveillance could also serve as early warning of the re-emergence of Covid-19 in cities, much like the sewage surveillance for poliovirus that has been used for this purpose,” authors from the KWR Water Research Institute in the Netherlands said in the study published in medRxiv.Another analysis published in the Environment Science and Technology journal by scientists from the School of Water, Energy and Environment, Cranfield University, and Chinese Academy of Sciences said paper-based devices to pick up bio-markers in sewage samples similar to those being used for HIV, Malaria, Zika virus, human papillomavirus, among others, can be useful for tracking Covid-19.Dr Zhugen Yang, lecturer at Cranfield Water Science Institute, said: “In the case of asymptomatic infections in the community or when people are not sure whether they are infected or not, real time community sewage detection through paper analytical devices could determine whether there are Covid-19 carriers in an area to enable rapid screening, quarantine and prevention.”“Sewage surveillance has been done for polio and non-polio viruses in the past. But testing sewage samples is not easy. We need RT-PCR now on a large scale for people. Swabs from sewage in cities can be extracted from the common duct in an area to test it. But I think that would be a post -pandemic response in India. We need testing kits to be available right now. That’s a priority,” said Dr Shobha Broor, former head of microbiology at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi. India is testing at only about 36% of its capacity currently, according to the Indian Council of Medical Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sewage-could-hold-clue-to-virus-circulation/story-zWrlgHh5XbcOlF4LUWMmkM.html
03-04-2020||India||62% of Delhi’s 293 Covid-19 cases now linked to Jamaat||At least 182 (62%) of the 293 coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in Delhi were linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation that took place in Nizamuddin early in March, the Delhi government said on Thursday, while maintaining that the outbreak had not entered the community transmission phase in the national capital.Between Wednesday and Thursday, Delhi reported 141 new Covid-19 cases.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, in a digital news briefing on Thursday, said the number of deaths caused by the disease in Delhi increased to four on Thursday, up from two a day earlier. The two new deaths were traced to Nizamuddin Markaz, an emerging hot spot of infections discovered late in March.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicKejriwal also announced that a one-time compensation scheme of Rs 5,000 for Delhi’s construction workers will be extended to cover those operating public service vehicles such as auto-rickshaws, taxis and e-rickshaws.“We currently have 208 active coronavirus patients in various hospitals, out of which one is still on ventilator and five are on oxygen. The remaining 202 are stable,” Kejriwal said.Out of the 2,346 people evacuated from the Tablighi Jamaat headquarters in Nizamuddin, 536 are in the hospital as they showed Covid-19 symptoms, according to the government. The remaining people have been taken to seven government quarantine centres, including one in Tughlakabad Railway colony and DDA flats in Bakkarwala, Narela and Sultanpuri.The chief minister reiterated that the number of cases could increase further as the government planned to begin testing even those Markaz evacuees who were under government quarantine.“The patients who were brought out from the Markaz are serious. So, we will conduct tests on each of the 2,346 persons evacuated from there. Some of them could be corona positive as more results arrive in a day or two. The Delhi tally will then shoot up,” Kejriwal said.He said it was vital that everyone followed the 21-day national lockdown to control the spread of the disease that has killed at 51,000 people worldwide.Kejriwal narrated a tale from Mahabharata in which Yudhishthir tells Vidur that neither the strongest nor the fastest would survive a forest fire and only those animals that live in burrows would see themselves through the fire. “This coronavirus is like a forest fire. Those who stay home will remain healthy,” Kejriwal said.Giving the latest figures of those under quarantine, he said 2,943 people were in the government’s quarantine facilities out of which 1,133 were those who came from abroad and 1,810 were cases linked to the Markaz. By late Thursday evening, the count of those in government quarantine touched 3,075.The chief minister announced that the Delhi government will give a one-time compensation of Rs 5,000 to those who have a public service vehicle (PSV) registered in Delhi. The decision is likely to benefit more than 250,000 owners of PSVs such as auto-rickshaws (nearly 95,000), e-rickshaws (around 85,000), taxis (nearly 75,000) and Gramin Sewas (over 6,100).“Many auto, e-rickshaw and taxi drivers have complained that their income has stopped as they cannot operate their vehicles due to the lockdown. My government has decided to give them Rs 5,000 each so they do not have to sleep hungry. Implementing this scheme will take about 10 days since we are still devising the system through which the money will be disbursed. We are thinking of direct bank transfers, but the problem is that we do not have the account details of many of them,” the chief minister said.On March 24, the Delhi government said it would give Rs 5,000 to all registered construction workers in the city. On Wednesday, the government released Rs 5,000 to 32,358 registered workers, while the process for 9,000 more was underway.Auto and taxi unions in the city welcomed the move and urged the government to ensure that the benefits were given to the right people. “We had been demanding for some kind of relief ever since the Delhi government announced the Capital’s lockdown on March 22. Finally, it has been addressed today. But, we request the government to ensure the money goes only to those who are in real need of it. For example, there are rich people who own multiple auto-rickshaws and give it to drivers on rent. So, I hope a system is devised where the benefit reaches the driver,” said Santosh Pandey, the president of Aapka Apna Auto Taxi Union, which is registered with the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/62-of-delhi-s-293-covid-19-cases-now-linked-to-jamaat/story-jwOw3WZfPat6AJdUMLHHNM.html
03-04-2020||India||Tracking to testing: Control rooms at forefront of efforts to contain Covid-19 spread||With more than 100 positive Covid-19 cases detected in at least nine states around the country -- apart from Delhi -- Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Kerala, among others, have set up control rooms to act as nodal centres to track the spread of the virus by processing real-time data from the districts, coordinating door-to-door surveillance, and testing people. Here is a look at what how these control rooms function.Uttar PradeshA 1,600 sq feet hall on the fourth floor of the health directorate office in Lucknow has about 20 people sitting before computer screens processing data, making calls, and coordinating with health officials in 75 districts.“We are connected to the state helpline (18001805145) to get inputs from across the state. We are also in touch with senior officials to pass on necessary inputs to districts,” said a staff member, requesting anonymity.Additional space and hardware, such as computer terminals, have been allocated in the building to expand operations. The control room has data of nearly 60,000 people with names, cell numbers and addresses. “The number of outbound calls had gone up to 2,000 a day when migrant workers were entering the state last week,” a control room official said. UP has earmarked 246 hospitals to treat Covid-19 patients. Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicTelanganaControl rooms have been set up at the state secretariat in Hyderabad, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation office, and at all three major police commissionerates in Hyderabad, Cyberabad and Rachakonda. Apart from these, each district has its own control rooms to monitor Covid-19 cases and to enforce the national lockdown. The statewide control rooms are monitored by two IAS officers, Rahul Bojja and Anil Kumar; while the state ministers of information technology, health, animal husbandry and home coordinate regularly with the chief minister’s office. The district control room interacts with the police and medical teams tracking Covid-19 suspects through door-to-door surveillance. An application, TSCop, helps geotag the houses of foreign returnees and their contacts. People under home quarantine have also been asked to take selfies and submit them online.Three hospitals in Hyderabad have been dedicated for treating Covid-19 patients. A huge facility is coming up at Gachibowli sports complex with 14,000-beds. Also Read: Govt may borrow ₹40k crore as cash-strapped states seek fundsTamil NaduThe state has a 200-person strong 24x7 control room run out of the Directorate of Public Health office in Chennai, in addition to specific control rooms in each district. “We have a portal (stopcorona.tn.gov.in) on which we put out information,” a senior official from the National Health Mission - Tamil Nadu said.Districts provide three updates to the state control room every day: one on medical supplies, and two daily reports on the number of people quarantined; their health status, how many samples have been tested, and how many have tested positive.Responsibilities have been divided at the state control room: collecting data on home quarantines; relaying information to district collectors and deans of medical colleges; an integrated disease surveillance portal desk where the acute respiratory infection details are entered; and a dedicated call centre for the public.The state control room also has doctors, statistical assistants, and computer engineers. Fourteen hospitals around the state have been earmarked to treat Covid-19 patients in the state.Also Read: Coronavirus: How world reached a million cases in 93 daysKeralaOne-hundred and twenty officials work in the central control room in three shifts. Kerala’s round-the-clock toll free helpline (1056) is monitored from this facility. The head of the control room briefs the health secretary, who in turn, briefs the health minister and chief minister at a 4pm daily meeting. The network of people on the ground (rapid response teams including primary health workers, Asha and Anganwadi workers) who survey their areas with the help of local body members and the police submit reports to district medical officers every day. These are fed to the district control room, which sends it to the state control room, where at least four people have been assigned to each district. Apart from giving instructions to the ground staff, these control rooms track people who have returned from overseas and made self-declarations at airports and police stations. Those under quarantine use a geo-tracking application that maps their movements if they step out of their homes. Information about them is tracked by locak body workers and sent to the control rooms.Kerala has six Covid-only hospitals and each of the 14 districts have Covid care homes. All district and taluk hospitals have isolation wards, according to a state health official.KarnatakaA task force under chief minister BS Yediyurappa -- it includes deputy CM Ashwath Narayan, health minister B Sriramulu, and medical education minister K Sudhakar. The central control room has at least 120 people from various government departments tasked to update district-wise numbers, track developments, field calls, and coordinate efforts across the states.Bangalore based Pro-digital labs helped the government setup the control room. While initially the tracking was through excel sheets, now a specialised app called “Quarantine Watch” has been built in-house by the government. All those under home quarantine are required to upload hourly photos/selfies. This app automatically sends location data, which is checked to ensure that those being tracked are actually at the location they claim to be. Locally, information at district level is fed by Asha workers, Anganwadi workers and village volunteers. The data is centrally collated at the war room to monitor progress and track patients. Several government and private hospitals have been set aside for Covid-19 patients.Maharashtra The state has set up a dedicated control room in state secretariat, with 14 senior bureaucrats handling different responsibilities. For instance, Manoj Saunik, additional chief secretary, finance, has been tasked with ensuring that all government departments receive the grants allotted to them, while Rajiv Jalota, additional chief secretary, has been directed to formulate measures to implement all policy decisions taken by different departments. The state has earmarked 30 government hospitals and 1000 private hospitals for free treatment of Covid-19 patients under Maharashtra Phule Jan Arogya Yojana. Andhra PradeshA control centre at Vijayawada operates round-the-clock with staff from 21 government departments working in shifts. It fields about 1,000 calls every day on a toll free number (104) for Covid-19 related questions and concerns. Two Inspector General-rank police officers are incharge of the facility.A state-level task force has been set under chief minister’s office, while each district has separate control centres. Village and ward volunteers, secretariat employees, auxiliary nurse midwives (ANMs) and Asha workers survey houses on a regular basis and record details of people who have come from abroad or other states and check for symptoms of Covid-19. Each volunteer monitors 50 households.Four major government hospitals have been designated to deal only with Covid-19 cases and each district has a specialty hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tracking-to-testing-control-rooms-at-forefront-of-efforts-to-contain-spread/story-8RqDz4U5PauG5kGQtrFw8K.html
03-04-2020||India||Government may borrow Rs 40k crore as cash-strapped states seek funds||The government may borrow about Rs 40,000 crore to compensate cash-strapped states for their revenue shortfall under the Goods and Services Tax (GST) regime, and push its departments and public sector firms to clear their vendors’ dues , to rescue them from an acute liquidity crunch caused by the 21-day coronavirus lockdown, three officials aware of the developments said. Apart from states, government departments also owe money to companies across sectors for products bought, services rendered, or such things as subsidies. Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicIn a meeting with the Prime Minister Narendra Modi though video conference on Thursday, several state chief ministers demanded that the Centre pay their GST compensation, immediately release the wages of workers enrolled under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) and sought help in Coronavirus relief efforts. The government is considering their proposals, the three officials said.The cabinet secretariat and the department of expenditure are continuously monitoring the situation so that the states do not face a funding crunch in fighting the coronavirus pandemic and companies, particularly micro, small and medium enterprise (MSME), receive their dues in time to tide over the crisis, the officials said on condition of anonymity. Several states have cited a funding crunch and announced salary cuts for their employees for March.Industry, particularly the MSME sector, has asked for the speedy release of outstanding payments by government agencies. “The expenditure secretary has told all ministries and CPSEs (central public sector enterprises) not to sit on vendors’ money and clear their dues expeditiously,” one of the officials with direct knowledge of the matter said.An official in the West Bengal government said the Centre must pay the entire compensation amount due to the states at this crucial juncture to meet their Covid-19 expenses. Punjab has asked for the release of Rs 6,752.83 crore in GST arrears immediately; the payment has been pending since October , 2019.A recent report on Covid-19 prepared by the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (Ficci) also asked the Centre provide liquidity to states by increasing the overdraft facility available to them from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and pay pending GST compensation immediately.Also Read: Hoarding, transport snags choke supply of essentials According to the Union government officials mentioned above, the total compensation payout ito the states n 2019-20 is expected to be over Rs 1.20 lakh crore while total collection from GST compensation cess was less than Rs 80,000 crore. “The government will put up a proposal to the GST Council to borrow from the market to pay compensation to states,” the second official said.The GST law assures the states a 14% increase in their revenue for five years and the Centre is committed to meeting any shortfall in revenue through the cess levied on luxury goods and sin products such as liquor, cigarettes and other tobacco products.Most of the states asked the Centre to relax their borrowing limits,and demanded an additional grant in the aftermath of Covid-19 and advance wage payments to MGNREGS workers. Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar requested the Union government to consider raising the fiscal deficit limit for the state to tide over the emergency. A similar demand also came from the Punjab and Rajasthan governments. The states’ current fiscal deficit limit stands at 3 % of Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP). West Bengal has demanded a grant of Rs 25,000 crore to fight the Coronavirus disease pandemic, besides kits to fight the virus, such as face masks, gloves, sanitizers and protective suits for medical staff. It also demanded that the Centre release Rs 36,000 crore under different accounts that had not been released earlier. “...to uphold the spirit of cooperative federalism, we need this minimum help from the central government to cope with the unprecedented impasse at this hour to fight against the Covid-19 pandemic,” chief minister Mamata Banerjee wrote to the Prime Minister on Wednesday. She did not take part in the video conference with PM Modi on Thursday.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray sought the release of GST compensation worth Rs 16,000 crore. The state government also sought help with procurement and manufacturing of personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and N-95 masks, a government statement said.Punjab also demanded payment of 15 days’ unemployment allowance per month for three months to mitigate rural distress on account of the national lockdown, suggesting a 90:10 centre-state sharing for these. It asked for a special insurance package for fronline workers such as the police and sanitary workers. Rajasthan demanded Rs 1 lakh crore from the Centre to fight Covid-19. In a statement after the video conference with the PM, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot said he had requested for a relief package and asked for an enhancement of the state’s borrowing limit. Gehlot requested an inter-state supply chain protocol for essential items, medicines and medical equipment, advance payment of wages to registered and active MNREGS workers and demanded cancellation of payment of interest to the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and other central financial institutions. Some CMs including Thackeray also demanded immediate distribution of Coronavirus safety equipment and testing kits. Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik did not present any wish-list in the video conference with PM Modi, but he wrote to him earlier this week demanding unemployment allowance to 3.61 million active MGNREGS workers in the state for the lockdown period of 21 days. He requested the Centre to allow the state government to utilise Rs 380.39 crore from the MNREGS fund to provide the unemployment allowance for 21 days.Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel in a letter to PM Modi on Wednesday demanded the allocation of a special relief package for labourers under MGNREGS. He also requested a support of Rs 750 per month to all Jan-Dhan account holders for the next three months. Under a relief package announced last week, the government will pay Rs 500 a month for three months to women who hold Jan Dhan accounts. The Union government has also received industry requests to release payments that are due to private sector units. According to an industry estimate, the outstanding payments to companies run into lakhs of crores. The Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India (Assocham) estimated payments owed by state distribution companies to power generation units at Rs 90,000 crore. In the delayed payments monitoring portal MSME Samadhaan, only 14% of the Rs 3,774.36 crore (against 11,619 claims) filed by MSMEs have been settled so far, it said.Assocham president Niranjan Hiranandani said the payment delays had created a massive liquidity crunch in two ways: “One, government is taking over all the cheap borrowing in the system (though inadequate), and two, they do not release cash flow to vendors – so the liquidity crisis has exacerbated. MSMEs struggle to cover the financial shortfall created by delayed payments, owing to the high cost of borrowing and this often creates viability issues.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-may-borrow-40k-crore-as-cash-strapped-states-seek-funds/story-nWAmkZKea4J94oCqGNXsWK.html
03-04-2020||India||Amid lockdown, 190-yr-old bridge on Pune-Mumbai expressway to be demolished||With the Pune-Mumbai expressway now deserted because of the 21-day lockdown, the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) has decided to demolish the 190-year-old historic Amrutanjan bridge near Khandala ghat on the expressway because it has become a hindrance to traffic, officials said.The MSRTC, which sought special permission from Raigad district collector and local police, will raze the bridge between April 4 and 14 using explosives. While there will not be much traffic on the expressway during the period, the Raigad police have made additional changes near Khandala ghat to ensure minimum hindrance to the demolition work.Raigad police said that the bridge built by the British in 1830 has become hindrance for traffic leading to mishaps on regular basis on the expressway. Though not in use since the MSRDC built another bridge parallel to the old one while constructing the expressway, the MSRDC had earlier decided to retain the Amrutanjan bridge.The iconic bridge which is a big draw for tourists to take photographs of the picturesque Khandala ghat, began to interrupt the traffic after the expressway was built with its pillars coming in the way of commuters. To smoothen the traffic, the MSRDC had written to Indian railways, which is the custodian of the bridge, for its demolition.“While the planning was on to demolish the Amrutanjan bridge for long, it wasn’t feasible due to otherwise heavy traffic movement on Expressway. However, with complete lockdown and deserted expressway, MSRTC after relevant permission has decided to raze h the bridge using explosive material between April 4 and 14,” said Digambar P. Pradhan, Superintendent of Police, HSP, Thane, in an order.Commuters between Pune and Mumbai often have to bear to bear the brunt of traffic congestion near the old structure. British officer Captain Hughes, responsible for developing railway tracks between Mumbai and Lonavala, built the bridge in one year. The bridge later became a vital link between the two cities of the state. It later came to be known as Amrutanjan bridge after a giant advertisement for the ointment by that name was put up near the bridge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-lockdown-190-yr-old-bridge-on-pune-mumbai-expressway-to-be-demolished/story-jsAOTjJtaGjz2gz0Hg6iEP.html
03-04-2020||India||This photoshopped image of a HT report on J&K’s new domicile law is a fake||A fake screenshot of a Hindustan Times news report on the Centre’s new domicile rules for Jammu and Kashmir is being circulated on social media.The miscreant had superimposed provocative text on the headline and the content of the news report to create the fake news. This is the link to the news report by HT.Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Omar Abdullah tweeted about the fake screenshot, pointing that it was being circulated in Kashmir.“There is a screen shot, purportedly of today’s @htTweets, doing the rounds in Kashmir at the moment. The poor English used in the “article” should be enough of an indicator that this is a badly made photoshop job by some IT cell somewhere. #FakeNewsAlert,” Abdullah tweeted. There is a screen shot, purportedly of today’s @htTweets, doing the rounds in Kashmir at the moment. The poor English used in the "article" should be enough of an indicator that this is a badly made photoshop job by some IT cell somewhere. #FakeNewsAlertFake news has been a challenge to counter in Kashmir and the rest of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/this-photoshopped-image-of-a-ht-report-on-j-k-new-domicile-law-is-a-fake/story-sS2Qbk6bjzmOx9LxEBQJ9N.html
03-04-2020||India||Aggressive tests, tracing infected people key to stopping Covid-19: South Korean envoy||South Korean ambassador Shin Bong-kil has said that aggressive testing, tracing people infected by the virus and quarantining them is key to preventing the spread of Covid-19. In an interview with HT, he also said the Indian government must take speedy steps after the end of the current lockdown to assist Korean companies that have heavily invested in the country to resume normal operations.Why has South Korea’s 3Ts (test, trace and treat) and civic participation policy been so successful?The Korean government’s Covid-19 control strategy consists of robust testing to identify confirmed cases, tracing their contacts to prevent further spread, and treating those infected at the earliest possible stage. It is also centred on actively engaging the public to participate in social distancing and other preventive measures.So we can say that robust diagnostic testing capability lies at the core of our control strategy for the Covid-19 epidemic.With our current diagnostic testing capacity of up to 15,000 tests per day, we have performed a total of over 400,000 tests so far and continue to test at near-full capacity.I think in the present situation where no Covid-19 vaccine is available, identifying, isolating the contagion and treating in the early stage can be the only viable method of fighting this invisible enemy.What is current status of the spread of Covid-19 in South Korea?The situation has been stabilised. The number of newly confirmed cases per day has been showing steady decline. Now, it fluctuates around the level of 100 per day. Patients who have fully recovered surpass that of the newly confirmed cases. Despite the encouraging trend, we continue to remain vigilant.Can the 3T policy be applied in India?In India’s case, the lockdown of the entire nation was a necessary step considering India’s sheer size and demographic. However, in order to prevent mass spread of the virus, it is important to identify those at high risk, carry out aggressive testing, then trace those infected with the virus and quarantine them.For example, Korea at the initial stage faced a mass outbreak due to a gathering of a religious congregation in one of its provinces. The Korean government acquired the list of all members of the religious organisation and aggressively proceeded to test and quarantine them. We were thus successful in controlling the spread of the virus at an early stage.How can India and South Korea collaborate to counter Covid-19?The Korean government is prepared to fully share all information and insight garnered in our ongoing fight against Covid-19 with India. President Moon Jae-in and Prime Minister Modi exchanged ideas through the virtual G20 Summit. We will partake in coordinated global responses, extend support to multilateral efforts and do our utmost to meet demands in other countries for medical equipment and supplies subject to our domestic needs and production capacity.In the long term, Korea and India, both advanced in the IT industry and the bio and pharmaceutical industry, can cooperate on R&D in the fight against virus-related diseases.What has been the impact on business of Korean companies and what steps can India take to address their concerns?As you are well aware, Korean companies such as Samsung, LG, Hyundai and Kia closed their plants due to the lockdown directive of the Indian government. Well aligned with the “Make in India” policy, our companies have invested heavily in the country and a complete shutdown incurs massive losses for them.I truly hope the shutdown situation is alleviated and India overcomes its Covid-19 crisis as soon as possible. Often, crisis leads to chance. India must not lose the opportunity to emerge as a world top manufacturing hub.Once the shutdown is lifted, new personnel will have to be dispatched for handling new equipment and installing new facilities. I hope the authorities expedite visas for engineers from Korea who wish to enter India.What is South Korea doing to evacuate its nationals, including stranded tourists?Korean residents in India have been strictly following social distancing directives of the authorities and closely watching developments.On the first weekend in April, we are preparing a special Korean Air flight to send Korean residents and tourists in India who desire to return to Korea. Further evacuation will be dependent on the future pandemic situation and the status of the shutdown, which is currently imposed till April 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aggressive-tests-tracing-infected-people-key-to-stopping-covid-19-south-korean-envoy/story-OlBt5j7VN2laukKkQMOVlI.html
03-04-2020||India||PM Modi to share video message with people at 9 am||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who announced the 21-day national lockdown in a late evening televised address to the nation on March 24, on Thursday said that he would share a video message with “fellow Indians” tomorrow morning.“At 9 AM tomorrow morning, I’ll share a small video message with my fellow Indians,” PM Modi tweeted on Thursday soon after he spoke with chief ministers via video conference.Friday will be the 10th day of the lockdown that has brought the economy to a grinding halt. The government had ordered all industrial units, offices and educational institutions to be shut for 21 days and told people to stay indoors to minimise the number of coronavirus cases in the country.India has reported just a little over 2,000 coronavirus cases and 50 deaths.In his interaction with chief ministers earlier in the day, PM Modi had underlined that the country’s common goal was to ensure minimum loss of life and asked chief ministers for suggestions how the government could stagger relaxations so that people do not come out on the streets at the same time.He, however, cautioned states that they needed to keep the supply chain moving to ensure supply of essential medical products and raw material for medicines and medical equipment.Home Minister Amit Shah, who also spoke at this conference, had emphasised to the chief ministers the necessity of ensuring the lockdown is complete, a point that PM Modi had also underlined when he spoke about the deadly disease in his monthly radio programme Mann ki Baat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-share-video-message-with-people-on-friday-at-9-am/story-c9ic3VVeEWAl9CciVmqfDK.html
03-04-2020||India||Covid-19: 3 Bangladeshis who attended Jamaat event test positive in Palwal||Three Bangladeshi men who attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area last month tested positive for coronavirus in Palwal’s Huchpuri village on Thursday, taking the count in Haryana to 33, said Palwal’s chief medical officer Dr Braham Deep Sindhu.Dr Sindhu said that they had collected samples of 12 people including 10 Bangladeshi nationals who attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Nizamuddin from March 13 to 15.“Three Bangladeshsi nationals have been confirmed positive for coronavirus pandemic ,7 of them tested negative at the Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak. Today, we had sent samples of the remaining two persons to a private laboratory in Gurugram. The three who tested positive are in their early 30’s. All of them have been kept at the civil hospital’s isolation ward,” he said.Follow coronavirus live updates here.The Tablighi Jamaat has been in the eye of a storm after a large number of its members were infected with the coronavirus from foreigners visiting its Markaz (centre) in Nizamuddin last month.The chief medical officer said that the Bangladeshi nationals had stayed in the various mosques of 5 villages - Chhainsa, Mathepur, Durenchi, Mehlka and Huchpuri in Palwal’s Hathin area.“The district administration and health teams have been pressed into service in these five villages, where the Bangladesh nationals stayed and interacted with people. A team of 5 medical officers and overall 50 health staff have been sent to five villages. To avoid community spread, we have asked the health officials and nurses to check each member of these villages. We have kept 56 people from these five villages in the isolation ward of the civil hospital, 90 in a private health centre in the district and nearly 300 people have been home quarantined,” he said. Vakil Ahmed, Sub Divisional Magistrate (SDM) of Hathin said that they have sealed the entire villages and their borders.“We have deployed the police team and health officials in these five villages. The administration has asked the people not to panic and stay inside their homes,” he added.The Bangladeshi nationals have been staying in these five villages of Palwal district since attending the religious event in Delhi on March 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-3-bangladeshis-who-attended-jamaat-event-test-positive-in-palwal/story-TWxEMN1XFQekRrqFDSRvzO.html
03-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: ‘Biggest challenge is fighting stigma’, says health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Covid-19||In the middle of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) crisis, Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan spoke to Amandeep Shukla about “flattening the curve”, the importance of the lockdown period, aggressive testing, community transmission, and the quest for a cure, among other issues. Edited excerpts: India has crossed 1,500 Covid-19 cases. When do you think the curve will flatten?All public health measures are being put into place to mitigate the rise of the epidemic curve in India. The upcoming few days are critical. Our experience from the global response tells us that even with stringent lockdowns and public health measures, the transmission dynamics of Covid-19 is such that it takes about 2-4 weeks to bend the curve.We recommended quarantine for 14 days, based on the incubation period of the infection. Incubation period is the time between acquiring the infection and manifestation of the symptoms. So, persons who acquire the infection prior to the lockdown will keep manifesting symptoms and be reported as cases in the first 10-14 days of the lockdown period. Only after this incubation period is over can we expect a change in the trajectory of the epidemic curve.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicHow important is the lockdown period?It is an important intervention, as it delays the peak of the epidemic, slows the growth of the curve, and provides the health and social systems the time to mount a response. However, despite the lockdown and all public health measures being in place, it will take some time for the caseload to reduce, because individuals exposed just prior to the lockdown may take some time to manifest symptoms. Assuming that the lockdown is effective in ensuring social distancing, it will be important to see how the epi curve looks after two weeks.It is vital that we initiate community-led interventions to ensure social distancing, quarantining, and isolation of symptomatic persons to augment the scale of the lockdown.Do you think the lockdown should be extended?The situation is still evolving. No doubt, the lockdown and quarantine has tried to contain the spread amongst clusters, still we have a long way to go till every contact of a confirmed case is rendered safe.I would like to convey to your readers through this interview that they must honour the lockdown protocol. Staying at home is the only way of staying safe.There is a lot of discussion or speculation as to whether the country has reached stage 3 or not. Have there been cases of community transmission?There is no clear globally accepted definition for community transmission. Right now, India has mostly cases related to international travel, or such contacts. There have been only a few sporadic cases, which do not indicate a wider communitywide spread of infection at the national level. There are a few clusters of cases, which are being managed through cluster containment strategies. With the information at our disposal, it appears that there is no widespread transmission of Covid-19 in the community at the moment. However, we are far from being complacent, and we are maintaining stringent adherence to social distancing measures, ensuring a tight lockdown, and motivating the communities to own the social distancing strategies.How close or far are we from finding a cure? Is a vaccine still a distant possibility?There is no definitive cure for Covid-19 at the moment, and management is mostly symptomatic and supportive. However, a lot of investigational therapeutics are being researched, and India is part of international efforts to find a cure, such as the multi-country “Solidarity Trial” of WHO. Several treatment alternatives are also under trial; however, a definitive cure is not yet on the charts. Some of the agents under investigation include remdesivir, favipiravir, hydroxychloroquine plus azithromycin, lopinavir/ritonavir, to name a few. Some of the recent trials have indicated that the last two options may not be very effective. However, new evidence is emerging every day.According to WHO landscaping, there are over 40 vaccine candidates under investigation. However, most of them are in the pre-clinical evaluation stage, and only two have progressed to Phase 1 clinical trials. The availability of the genomic details has accelerated vaccine production, but still we are unlikely to have a vaccine ready to scale up in time to staunch the current epidemic.Also Read: Genetic sequencing takes lead in Covid-19 vaccine developmentAround 100 cases have been declared as recovered? What are the lessons learnt from those cases? Are there any patterns which give us hope?Most cases of Covid-19 are mild to moderate. Around 80-85% of cases are likely to be mild. Hence, we expect a significant proportion of infected people to recover without any significant sequelae. Our focus remains on preventing deaths. The most vulnerable groups include the elderly, or those with other conditions such as lung diseases, heart diseases and other chronic diseases. It is important to protect these high-risk individuals first.What is the biggest challenge in countering this virus?The timely dissemination of critical public health information down to the last man is the challenge. The other challenge is the misinformation about Covid-19 that is spread through social media or because of certain myths. We are constantly strategising on how to meet and counter both these challenges. Central and state infrastructure is pressed into action to ensure critical information related to precautions, social distancing norms, lockdown and self-quarantine protocols is available to the common public. Official channels of information are being constantly updated and monitored.Similarly, steps are being taken to prevent spread of misinformation that can otherwise give rise of panic amongst the people. The third challenge is to get the communities to own the process of ensuring social distancing and self-enforcing these measures so that transmissibility is reduced.My biggest challenge is to ensure that affected people are treated with compassion, and not stigmatised. This is also applicable for the health care workforce, which is working hard to counter this epidemic. It is through concerted, community-owned efforts, supported by the policies put in place by the government that we can contain this disease.A lot of people feel that India is not doing sufficient testing. The example being given is of South Korea. Are we going to increase testing, especially in rural areas?India has scaled up the capacity for testing in a massive way. As of April 1, 2020 there are 124 government laboratories across the nation that have been supported by ICMR. Further, 49 private laboratory chains have also been approved for testing. In order to ensure that we have reliable and accurate results, and the laboratory staff are also not exposed to undue risks of acquiring the infection, all labs have to meet a set of minimum standards. However, we have pan-India testing capacity, and are testing more samples every day.Further, in initiating the testing work, we have to keep in mind the Indian context as well as the state of propagation of the epidemic in India. While indiscriminate testing is discouraged to ensure optimal use of resources available to us, targeted testing of higher risk groups has been the strategy to identify and contain the cases. In the near future, however, we will be scaling up testing to reach out to a wider population.When will we widen testing and make it more aggressive?India has scaled up the capacity for testing in a massive way recently. Collection centres are located in over 16,000 places across India. At present, we are utilising only 43% of our capacity to test in public laboratories. As of April 1, 2020, 8pm, we have tested a total of 53,605 persons. The figure for today alone is 5,654 persons, who have undergone testing.Further, serologic testing is also under consideration, However, presence of antibodies indicates either past or currently active infection. They appear late in the natural history of disease between 5-7 days or so. Though these tests can be used for persons under surveillance, they cannot be used for early diagnosis. These laboratories are expected to offer tests to those who are eligible to receive the test based on the Covid-19 testing guidelines. These testing guidelines are appropriate for the level of the outbreak and avoid indiscriminate testing.What is your strategy for areas where the spread is more? NCR is one such area. Kerala and Maharashtra have almost over 200 cases each.A differential strategy needs to be adopted for areas depending on the extent of infections being reported. While it is important to protect the districts where no cases have emerged, it is also important to limit the spread of infection in districts where cases have been noted. To do this, we are focusing on multiple strategies.At present, 10 states are contributing more than 80 per cent of the total number of Covid cases in India. Maharashtra and Kerala have the highest number of confirmed cases. Also, Maharashtra, Kerala and Karnataka have the fastest-growing incidences.Only 16 districts account for 80% of the cases that have occurred in the last three days. Quite obviously, we work in a very focused way to contain the further spread of infection in these districts and employ multiple strategies for doing so. The central government works in very close coordination with the states to ensure that the rate of growth of new cases is contained.Testing of eligible populations remains a focus area. Self-reporting of symptomatic persons, either through mobile apps or helplines is also being undertaken in some places. The lockdown needs to be supplemented with sustenance and relief operations through provision of food or other benefits to ensure that people are incentivised to adhere to the lockdown.COVID-19 specific healthcare facilities need to be identified at district level, starting with the COVID-19 affected districts first. These facilities should be provided with the resources needed to combat the clinical workload.How cooperative have the states been?There is perfect coordination between the Centre and the states. I have been in regular touch with the state health ministers right from the beginning of this battle. I must commend them for the excellent work done by them in helping us control the spread of this epidemic either in the form of contact tracing, enforcing lockdown, providing isolation and quarantine facilities, ensuring smooth flow of supplies of critical equipment and supplies, boosting the morale of health workers, etc.There is a continuous dialogue that I hold with the states. Just recently, I asked them to request retired doctors to volunteer proactively for battling this disease. Similarly, I requested the states to sort out issues related to health workers transportation on priority so that there is no shortage of doctors, nurses and other staff. We have asked them to issue directives that no landlord can evict doctors, nurses and other health workers. We are ironing out all difficulties together.What is your message for the medical community?This is an unprecedented crisis that is facing humanity as a whole. My heartfelt gratitude to all our health workers and support staff taking care of patients across the world. They are the ones who are leading this battle from the front. I call them “Corona Warriors”. Their selfless service at this juncture is unparalleled. The health of the nation is in their hands, they are placing the needs of the patients before their own. My request is to provide them with safe and respectful working conditions.On March 22, Hon’ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi ji told the nation to observe a day-long Janta Curfew and come out on the balconies at 5pm in large numbers to honour all the medical, nursing, paramedical, sanitary workers and other staff engaged in the hospitals. He asked the nation to stand up and in unison clap for our Corona Warriors and clang thalis. The air reverberated with the pious sounds of ‘Thali Bajao, Thali Bajao’ that evening. I felt moved by the commitment that people across the country showed, and I personally know many who cried that evening.My message to the community is simple – the nation shall never forget your sacrifice. We are grateful to not just you, but your families as well.What are the most important things to keep in mind during this crisis?I would like to reiterate the importance of remaining calm, ensuring that there is no spread of misinformation, and ensuring that there is adherence to the policies and advisories which are being provided by the government from time to time. ‘Precaution, and not panic’ is the need of the hour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/biggest-challenge-is-fighting-stigma-harsh-vardhan/story-iRCLKihLKBY3ZYuCEiuEXM.html
