04-04-2020||India||5% drop in emissions may not have permanent impact||New Delhi: For the first time in over 75 years the world is going to experience a modest decline in CO2 emissions but that is unlikely to result in any stabilisation in CO2 concentrations in the atmosphere which leads to climate change, according to Rob Jackson, Chair of Global Carbon Project, a research initiative on carbon emissions. Scientists are observing if the rate of rise in CO2 emissions record any decline but that too depends on how long lockdown conditions continue globally.The economic decline because of the Covid-19 pandemic is likely to give governments an idea of the magnitude of transformations needed in the coming decades to deal with climate change, scientists said.The impact of Covid-19 on CO2 emissions will be temporary and there is likely to be a strong rebound effect when governments try to make up for the economic slowdown once the pandemic is brought under control. With billions of people in lockdown, including in the most populous countries like China and India, CO2 emissions are likely to dip in March and April if the lockdown continues.“We will definitely see a drop this year in CO2 pollution from fossil fuel use. How much of a decline depends on how long the lockdown lasts and how quickly economies recover. We could see a massive drop in emissions of 5% or more if the virus and economic downturn linger. You’d have to go back to World War II to see anything close to that big a decline. But note that a 5% decline does not mean concentrations will drop. We would still be emitting ~35 billion metric tons fossil fuel pollution,” said Rob Jackson, chair, Global Carbon Project and Professor, Earth System Science at Stanford University over email.He cautions that the global economic crisis should worry us. “If the economy tanks, climate action may be delayed in the interest of getting people back to work. I hope we put people back to work in green energy and technology, sectors that will result in lasting change.”Many scientists have been worrying about this rebound. At Mauna Loa observatory in Hawaii, scientists are keeping a close eye on CO2 concentrations because this could be the first economic shock in several decades to slow the rise in concentrations.Ralph Keeling, Professor at the Scripps Institution of Oceanography has estimated that global fossil fuel use will have to decline by 10% for a full year to show up a decline in CO2 concentrations. It would be a difference of only about 0.5 parts per million, according to Climate Home, an independent climate news portal based on Keeling’s observations.The World Meteorological Organisation (WMO) had warned about this on March 24 saying in a statement that “any cuts in emissions as a result of the economic crisis triggered by COVID19 are not a substitute for concerted climate action”. “Past experience suggests that emission declines during economic crises are followed by a rapid upsurge. We need to change that trajectory,” WMO Secretary-General, Petteri Taalas, had said.Emissions represent what goes into the atmosphere while concentrations represent what remains in the atmosphere after the complex system of interactions between the atmosphere, biosphere, lithosphere, cryosphere and the oceans and CO2 remains in the atmosphere and oceans for centuries, WMO explained.According to the Earth System Research Laboratory of National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), the average CO2 concentrations this February is 414.11 ppm compared to 411.75 ppm last year. The average for March has not been updated yet but on March 29, 30 and 31, April 1 and 2 the concentrations ranged from 415. 60 to 415.81 ppm.An analysis by the Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air (CREA) has suggested that China’s CO2 emissions fell by around 25% over a four week period starting February 3 when travel restrictions were imposed in Wuhan and other cities. But demand slowly returned to normal levels over an extended seven-week period, bringing the reduction so far to around 250MtCO2, with emissions 18% lower than usual levels, the analysis said.“Currently, global fossil fuel consumption is contracting dramatically as electricity demand, road traffic and aviation volumes fall as a result of the measures to mitigate coronavirus outbreaks. It seems almost certain that global CO2 emissions will fall this year due to the economic fallout of the virus. The disruption to supply chains, loss of sales and lost income for many workers will affect the economy in a profound way,” said Lauri Myllyvirta, lead analyst of CREA, adding that “the longer-term impact on global emissions trends will depend on the policies that governments adapt to recover from the crisis. The best-case scenario is a green recovery that speeds up the transition to a clean energy and low-carbon future.” Lauri’s team also said India is likely to see a significant reduction in carbon emissions from the power sector this year due to the lockdown and after effects.The US has already announced that it will roll back the US auto emission standards announced by the Obama administration. Sociologists recognise that the pandemic-led slowdown could be the reset moment for tackling climate change but governments may not seize it. “Covid-19 pandemic created an unprecedented and unplanned social experiment…If the next UN negotiations fail, then all the comprehensive plans build on the last five years are going to fail… I don’t have any doubt that in the next UN negotiations, citing the Covid-19 situation, most of the big carbon emitters will request to defer the target and continue to use their existing fossil fuel resources,” said Pradip Swarnakar, Associate Professor of Sociology at IIT Kanpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-drop-in-emissions-may-not-have-permanent-impact/story-xbCfW0hmQvenTvWufs1vyM.html
04-04-2020||India||Air Asia to open bookings on April 15, if nationwide lockdown is lifted||Low cost carrier- AirAsia India will be opening its flight bookings from April 15, after the lockdown is lifted on April 14, at 23.59.Air Asia (India) sources confirmed the airline’s decision to start taking bookings from April 15, but said that they will be abiding by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) order, in case they are asked to extend the commencement of bookings and will accordingly inform their customers. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, flight operations of both- domestic and international sectors were stopped by the government until April 14. While international operations were stopped from March 22, domestic operations were announced to be halted from March 25. After the government expressed its desire to not extend the lockdown, all airlines except the national carrier has started taking bookings for flights operations from April 15 onwards.The airline’s decision comes after civil aviation secretary Pradeep Singh Kharola, on Thursday left the decision of commencing ticket bookings on the airlines.Air India, however, has closed bookings until April 30 and is set to take a decision on re-opening its bookings after April 14. While domestic flights will commence from April 15, if the lockdown is lifted, the international sector will be opened only after reviewing the situation then. However, low cost carriers GoAir and SpiceJet have announced that they will begin their international bookings from May 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-asia-to-open-bookings-on-april-15-if-nationwide-lockdown-is-lifted/story-sBAGgHbxoDBAwNnhh422qN.html
04-04-2020||India||10 infected in MP after funeral feast, hunt on for other guests||At least 10 people tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) after attending a mass feast in Morena—located about 465 kilometres north of Madhya Pradesh’s capital Bhopal—on March 20 amid fears of more likely to have been infected, district officials said.They contracted the SARS-CoV-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, from a man, who works as a waiter in Dubai, said officials in Morena.The waiter and his wife were the first to test positive for Covid-19 on Thursday after the mass feast, which was organised on March 20 because of his mother’s death. He returned home from Dubai on March 17 and organised the feast three days later, as part of the rituals of the shraddh ceremony. Up to 8,00 people are believed to have attended the feast, including his relatives, the officials said.Though he had developed Covid-19 symptoms after he returned from Dubai, he still visited his relatives and acquaintances’ houses to invite them for the feast in line with prevailing customs.On March 25, he and his wife visited the hospital but were admitted four days later after their condition worsened.Initially, the couple was quarantined and they tested Covid-19 positive on Thursday. Then, 10 others, who attended the feast, also tested positive. They include the waiter’s brother, his wife, their son and daughter-in-law and their two children—a six-month-old and a three-year-old. The other four people are from the waiter’s sister’s family.“Out of the 32 swab samples sent for Covid-19 test, 12 were found positive. All of them are undergoing treatment in hospital. We’ve put 33 people under quarantine,” said RC Bandil, chief medical and health officer (CMHO), Morena.“The number of fresh Covid-19 positive cases is likely to be much higher. We’re trying to contact each and every person who attended the feast, or those who were invited by the waiter in person but couldn’t attend the function. It’s quite difficult to trace all those who attended the feast, or those he had invited for the occasion, because many of them have returned to their respective towns/villages. Besides, people aren’t volunteering information as they’re scared of being admitted to hospital,” said an administrative officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-infected-in-mp-after-funeral-feast-hunt-on-for-other-guests/story-jUoewGmLUB3odcVbafab3O.html
04-04-2020||India||People between 21-40 worst hit by virus: Ministry data||The maximum percentage of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive cases, at about 41% in the country, have been reported among people between 21 and 40 years old, while the most deaths have occurred among people above 60, shows the government’s age profile analysis of all the positive cases being reported so far.The government on Saturday released the data of all the 2,902 Covid-19 positive cases reported till date since January 30.The age bracket hit the next hardest by infections is between 41 and 60 years at 33% of Covid-19 positive cases. While senior citizens, who are above 60 years, accounted for 17% of Covid-19 positive cases. However, most of the 68 Covid-19 deaths have been reported among people aged above 60 years because of their co-morbid conditions such as diabetes, hypertension, cardiac and renal issues, said Luv Agarwal, joint secretary, Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.The age group between 0 and 20 years is the least affected, at 9%, of Covid-19 cases in line with a similar pattern seen in studies conducted in China and some other nations worst hit by the pandemic.Out of the total 2902 cases reported, 1023 cases have been linked to the congregation of the Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi. Infections spread across 17 states, including Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, J&K, Rajasthan, Telangana, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Arunachal Pradesh, Haryana, Himachal, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Kerala, Maharashtra, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh.The technical wing of Union ministry of health and family welfare has prepared 30 training modules so far on various topics such as clinical management, ventilator support, infection prevention and control, and quarantine management to train its frontline healthcare workers.“As more cases are being reported from certain states, a detailed containment plan has been prepared that talks about measures such as perimeter control, testing scale up etc. to handle the outbreak,” said Agarwal.As cases have been rising, the government is making additional arrangements to meet the human resource requirement for managing positive patients, including various levels of health professionals, such as doctors, nurses, allied healthcare professionals and others.“As many as 9.70 lakh ASHAs, one lakh AYUSH professionals, NCC Cadets, ex-Servicemen, Red Cross/NSS/ NYK volunteers, employees from gram panchayats and urban local body employees, civil society organisations may be involved as required. A Standard Operating Protocol (SOP) for reallocation of residents/ PG students and nursing students as part of hospital management has been prepared,” said Agarwal.Additionally, more than 31,000 doctors, including retired doctors from the government, armed forces medical services, public sector undertakings, and private doctors have voluntarily signed up to join the fight against Covid-19.Under Lifeline UDAN, air cargo carriers have transported around 119 tons of material across all states, with special focus on the North Eastern regions and hilly areas. “The material includes Covid-19 related reagents, enzymes, medical equipment, testing kits, Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), masks, gloves, etc.,” said Agarwal.Close to 22,000 migrant workers are also under quarantine across the country. “Those are being monitored by the states and their food and shelter are other necessities are being taken care of,” said Punya Salila Srivastva, joint secretary, home ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/people-between-21-40-worst-hit-by-virus-ministry-data/story-HEpTOKPZ7mbnPpD6SoygjN.html
04-04-2020||India||Train resumption strategy in works||New Delhi: The national transporter is in the process of preparing plans to resume passenger and mail express train services after the 21-day lockdown period, according to documents reviewed by HT.Directions have been issued to zones to prepare restoration plans from April 15. Following the orders, chief booking supervisors, commissioner of railway safety, chief ticket inspectors and other officials have been told to deploy staff on duty, according to officials aware of the development.“Train services will have to be resumed only on specific approval of each train from Railway Board. Suggestions for phase wise planning should be given to Railway Board,” according to minutes of the review meeting held by the union railway minister Piyush Goyal and the chairman railway board.The government has officially denied any plans to extend the lockdown, but has not commented on further plans. Moreover, in an interaction with chief ministers on Friday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi told the states to formulate a “common exit strategy” to ensure “staggered re-emergence of the population” once the lockdown ended.Later in the day, the ministry of railways issued a clarification saying,” certain media reports have come on a post lockdown “restoration plan” with train details, frequency etc. It is to clarify that no such plan regarding the resumption of passenger services has been issued. All concerned would be duly informed about any further decision in this regard.”Passenger train services have been suspended since the ‘Janta Curfew’ on March 22, the Centre later extended the suspension till March 31 and further till April 15.“There may be a plan to begin operations of passenger transportation phase wise. Details are being worked out in coordination with states,” a senior government official said requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/train-resumption-strategy-in-works/story-JHGDnu0XC1iKk7vKUATs2N.html
04-04-2020||India||No AYUSH-related ads about Covid-19 cure: PCI to media||The Press Council of India has issued an advisory to media houses to stop and prevent the publicity of and advertisements regarding the treatment of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) by the Ministry of Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy’s (AYUSH).In the advisory issued on Friday, the Press Council advised print media to stop advertising the AYUSH’s claims to prevent dissemination of misleading information about AYUSH’s drugs and services given the Covid-19 outbreak in the country.This comes on the day Haridwar-based Patanjali Research Institute submitted an Ayurvedic treatment regime for Covid-19 to the union government. Their research claims that natural phytochemicals in certain herbs have the potential to combat Covid-19 and its pathogenicity. SK Tijarawala, public relations officer for Patanjali, said that the institute researched compounds of certain herbs and found that when taken in a certain ratio, they help build immunity. While the study done by the Patanjali Research Institute is currently under peer-review for publication, medical experts say that immunity (against Covid-19) cannot be boosted overnight, but rather is a long term process that can help one fight different kinds of viruses and bacteria.Meanwhile, healthcare professionals have raised concerns about arbitrary claims of cure and prevention being made online and disseminated through social media platforms.On Wednesday, the AYUSH had directed all Ayurvedic, Siddha, Unani and Homoeopathic (ASU&H) regulatory authorities concerned in states and union territories to stop and prevent the publicity and advertising of claims for Covid-19 treatment in print, television and electronic media.In its order, the ministry had called for necessary action against the persons or agencies involved in contravening the relevant legal provisions and the guidelines of the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-ayush-related-ads-about-covid-19-cure-pci-to-media/story-EF8UZIuGPpdy3CAPX9ZdeM.html
04-04-2020||India||PM Modi speaks with leaders of US, Spain and Brazil on Covid-19 pandemic||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday spoke to the leaders of the US, Spain and Brazil on the challenges posed to the global economy by the Covid-19 pandemic and how countries could work together to tackle the crisis.During the telephone conversation with US President Donald Trump, the two leaders exchanged views on pandemic’s impact on the global well-being and economy. They agreed to “deploy the full strength of the India-US partnership to resolutely and effectively combat Covid-19”, said a statement from the external affairs ministry.Modi and Trump exchanged notes on steps taken in each country to mitigate the health and economic impacts of the pandemic. They agreed their officials will remain in close touch on the global crisis.While speaking with Pedro Sanchez Perez-Castejon, President of the Spanish government (equivalent to the prime minister), Modi said India will be ready to extend support to the best of its ability.The two leaders agreed on the importance of global cooperation to fight the global crisis. Perez-Castejon agreed with Modi’s observation that the “world needed to define a new, human-centric concept of globalisation for the post-Covid era”.They also agreed their teams will remain in constant touch on the evolving Covid-19 situation and on the requirements emerging from it.Modi and Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro, during their conversation, stressed the significance of close cooperation between the two countries, bilaterally and in the multilateral institutional framework, to mitigate the grave crises caused by Covid-19.They agreed their officials will remain in touch on the situation and its emerging challenges. Modi assured Bolsonaro of all possible support in this difficult hour.Modi also conveyed his condolences to the three leaders on the loss of lives in their countries. He also raised the significance of Yoga and Ayurveda for ensuring physical and mental well-being in his conversations with Trump and Perez-Castejon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-speaks-with-leaders-of-us-spain-and-brazil-on-covid-19-pandemic/story-36CcStiDFCRLlImis4QkLN.html
04-04-2020||India||Delhi’s Tablighi Jamaat meet sparks Covid-19 fears in IAF||An Indian Air Force sergeant, who had visited Nizamuddin while the Tablighi Jamaat congregation was on last month, has been put under quarantine as a precautionary measure amid the Covid-19 pandemic, IAF spokesperson Wing Commander Indranil Nandi told Hindustan Times on Saturday.He said two other air force personnel who had come in contact with the sergeant, who is posted in Delhi, after his Nizamuddin visit have also been put under quarantine as the IAF is taking aggressive measures to check the spread of the coronavirus. Nandi said while the sergeant had visited Nizamuddin around the time when the congregation was on from March 13-15, it is not clear if he attended the event. “All three individuals in quarantine are currently asymptomatic. The matter is under investigation,” Nandi said. The IAF has not had any Covid-19 case until now. The Indian Navy too hasn’t had any case yet. However, two army soldiers, including an army doctor, tested positive for Covid-19 on March 29 at a time the force has taken steps to tackle the spread of the disease within its ranks.While one of them is a colonel-ranked officer posted at the Kolkata-based Command Hospital, the other is a junior commissioned officer posted in Dehradun.The army last week warned its personnel that non-disclosure of Covid-19-related information, including symptoms, contact history with patients or travel to coronavirus areas identified by the government, will be considered as “willful concealment” and be dealt with as breach of discipline under the Army Act 1950.Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane last month said it was important for soldiers to stay fit and remain away from coronavirus if they have to help their countrymen in these challenging times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-s-tablighi-jamaat-meet-sparks-covid-19-fears-in-iaf/story-0zHaECPQrfWX5rQHZTSvHN.html
04-04-2020||India||Passengers of two flights asked to self-isolate as travel histories of Goa’s patients emerge||The Goa health department has issued an alert to passengers who travelled by Air India flights AI661 from Mumbai to Goa on March 19 and AI883 from New Delhi to Goa on March 22 after a passenger on each of these flights was tested positive for the novel coronavirus. A passenger who arrived in Goa on March 19 from Kempton Park, South Africa via Johannesburg, Kenya and Mumbai travelled domestically via an Air India flight AI661 from Mumbai to Goa on March 19. He was found to have contracted the novel coronavirus on April 3 and was the sixth case detected in the state. Similarly, another passenger who arrived from San Francisco, USA via New Delhi to Goa was found to have contracted the coronavirus on April 4 making him the seventh case in the state. He travelled by Air India flight AI883 on March 22 before the 21-day lockdown began. Passengers who were present on these flights have been asked to “kindly isolate themselves (home quarantine) and report to helpline 104 or 0832-2421810 or 2225538 or report to the nearest Government health facility.”Goa has seven confirmed cases of the coronavirus, six of whom have travel history, having recently arrived in the state. Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant said that there is no incidence of community transmission of the virus as the source of infection can be traced in all the seven cases. Two patients who showed signs of recovery have however seen their second confirmatory test turn positive meaning they will have to wait for two consecutive negative tests within 24-hours if they are to be discharged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/passengers-of-two-flights-asked-to-self-isolate-as-travel-histories-of-goa-s-patients-emerge/story-qapiL1yMwUH4xcipgUwqxK.html
04-04-2020||India||Coronavirus testing, treatment free for Ayushman Bharat beneficiaries||As the number of coronavirus infections continue to head north, the National Health Authority (NHA) said on Saturday that testing and treatment for Covid-19 will be free for 50 crore Ayushman Bharat beneficiaries at private laboratories and empanelled hospitalsThe NHA is the apex body responsible for implementing India’s flagship public health insurance/assurance scheme called Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana. In a statement, it said this will strengthen the country’s response to the coronavirus pandemic.“Testing and treatment of Covid-19 is already available for free in public facilities. Now, more than 50 crore citizens, eligible under the health assurance scheme will be able to avail free testing through private labs and treatment for Covid-19 in empanelled hospitals,” the NHA said in the statement.The NHA said that hospitals empanelled under the Ayushman Bharat scheme can use their authorised testing facilities or tie up with an authorised testing facility. The Covid-19 tests will be carried out according to protocols of the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) and by private labs approved or registered by it, the NHA said. Treatment of Covid D-19 by private hospitals will be covered under the Ayushman Bharat scheme, it said.“In this unprecedented crisis we have to very actively involve the private sector as a key partner and stakeholder in the fight against Covid-19,” Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said according to PTI. “Making testing and treatment available under Ayushman Bharat PM-JAY will significantly expand our capacities by including private sector hospitals and labs and mitigate the adverse impact of this catastrophic illness on the poor,” he said.Ayushman Bharat PM-JAY is the world’s largest health assurance scheme which aims at providing a health cover of Rs. 5 lakhs per family per year for secondary and tertiary care hospitalization to over 10.74 crore poor and vulnerable families (approximately 50 crore beneficiaries) that form the bottom 40% of the Indian population.But many opposition ruled states have not implemented the Ayushman Bharat scheme and run their own health insurance schemes for the poor.The NHA said the decision will also help attract more private sector players for providing testing and treatment for coronavirus and that “active private sector involvement will be critical in case there is a surge in the number of Covid-19 patients that need care”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-ayushman-bharat-beneficiaries-to-get-free-treatment-at-empanelled-hospitals/story-j6lVtmFlc5n5Lf7aw8xWlN.html
04-04-2020||India||Coronavirus Update: Railways begins planning for phase-wise restoration of services post lockdown||The Indian Railways has begun preparing plans to resume passenger and mail express train services after the 21-day lockdown period, according to documents reviewed by Hindustan Times.Directions have been issued to zones to prepare restoration plans from April 15. Following the orders, chief booking supervisors, commissioner of railway safety, chief ticket inspectors and other officials have been told to deploy staff on duty, according to officials aware of the development.“Train services will have to be resumed only on specific approval of each train from Railway Board. Suggestions for phase wise planning should be given to Railway Board,” according to minutes of the review meeting held by the Union railway minister Piyush Goyal and the chairman railway board.The ministry of railways however denied the development and issued a clarification saying,” certain media reports have come on a post lockdown “restoration plan” with train details, frequency etc. It is to clarify that no such plan regarding the resumption of passenger services has been issued. All concerned would be duly informed about any further decision in this regard.”According to the plan for Northern Railways, nearly 240 trains have been planned keeping in mind all rakes will reach their primary maintenance depot before April 15.This also comes a day after national carrier Air India decided to stop flight bookings till April 30. “There may be a plan to begin operations of passenger transportation phase wise. Details are being worked out in coordination with states,” a senior government official said requesting anonymity.Passenger train services have been suspended since ‘Janta Curfew’ on March 22. The Centre later extended the suspension till March 31 and further till April 15 for the three-week country-wide lockdown.Advance booking for trains from April 15 onward is also operational on the Indian Railways’ subsidiary India Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation portal.The national carrier has however clarified that reservation for journeys post April 14 was never stopped and is not related to any new announcement.The national carrier, which operates as many as 13,523 passenger trains per day has only been operating freight and special parcel trains to ensure supply of essential commodities. Since the lockdown from March 24, the national carrier has supplied 4 lakh wagons to keep supply chain functional. “Of these, more than 2.23 lakh wagons carried essential commodities like food grains, salt, sugar, milk, edible oil, onions, fruits & vegetables, petroleum products, coal, fertilizers etc. throughout the country,” the ministry of railways said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-railways-begins-planning-for-phase-wise-restoration-of-services-post-lockdown/story-ZtTqzUzb6ugBFfDFQ6GizI.html
04-04-2020||India||CRPF DG goes into self-quarantine after force doc tests Covid-19 +ve: Report||Two days after Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) chief medical officer was tested positive for coronavirus, DG CRPF, A P Maheshwari, has gone into self quarantine as a precautionary measure, officials said. The DG didn’t directly come in contact with the CMO, but another personnel who was with the doctor had met the top officer of the force recently, the official added.The indirect contact has tested negative for Covid-19, but the DG is observing quarantine as per protocol, said DIG Dinakaran (spokesperson).Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageThe CRPF CMO, who was residing in Officers’ Mess in Saket (Delhi), was tested positive on Thursday.Around 40 personnel who came in his contact are said to have been quarantined. It was not clear how the doctor contracted the infection.The officer was attached with the Additional Director General (Medical) office of Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) also called central paramilitary forces. The ADG Medical office assists the ministry of home office in the overall supervision and monitoring of health care delivery systems and services in paramilitary forces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-crpf-dg-goes-into-self-quarantine-after-force-doctor-tests-positive/story-ihyNfPwxbzQScXdNtJovfJ.html
04-04-2020||India||‘Not fair to single out Tablighi Jamaat for Covid-19 spread’: Jagan Reddy||At a time when the Tablighi Jamaat is being suspected to be the main reason for the sudden hike in the number of Covid-19 positive cases in the country, Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy has expressed a different view.The chief minister, in a televised appeal to the people on Saturday evening, said it was not correct to pin the blame on a particular religious congregation for the spread of Covid-19 in the country, as same could happen even in any such meeting in any other religious congregation.“Some people from our State went to a religious congregation at Delhi where members from foreign countries had also come. Some of them were said to be infected and the coronavirus has spread from there. It was an unfortunate development that happened there. That does not mean the spread of the disease should be attributed to the congregation,” he said.“Religious congregations are being held elsewhere by Ravi Shankar, Jaggi Vasu Dev, Mata Amritanandamayi, Paul Dinakaran or John Wesley. There is no reason to discriminate against them (Tablighis) and attribute motives to them, as the spread was not intentional,” he said.“We should not discriminate against those people as it happened that way and was not premeditated. It is not fair to blame the spread on one particular community and single it out or see members of that community as culprits or that they have deliberately done it. No one should try to tag this spread to one community or caste,” he said.The chief minister said the people should show compassion towards those who tested positive. “We should not show any discrimination at this hour of world crisis,” he added.Jagan called upon the people to put up a united fight against Covid-19 irrespective of caste, creed or religion and asked them to join the nation in lighting a lamp at 9 PM to drive darkness away.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-fair-to-single-out-tablighi-jamaat-for-covid-19-spread-jagan-reddy/story-rY2dcM1BFpXqCIbgsZR1jM.html
04-04-2020||India||Covid-19: 11 more test positive in Bengal, number of infections go up to 68||Eleven more people tested positive for coronavirus in West Bengal since Friday, chief secretary Ravija Sinha said Saturday afternoon. “Six of these 11 people belong to the family of the woman who died in Kalimpong,” Sinha told reporters at the state secretariat.The fresh cases took the number of positive cases to 68, said Sinha. Many of those who tested positive earlier are cured and ready to go home, he added. Till Saturday evening three people died of Covid-19 in Bengal. Four others who had tested positive might have died of co-morbidity, the government said.Follow coronavirus live updates here.Ahead of the chief secretary addressing reporters, the Kolkata Port Trust (KoPT) said that a man working at Haldia port and who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi last month, tested positive for Covid-19. HT traced at least 31 other people who had gone to Delhi from Murshidabad, Malda, Alipurduar and Birbhum districts. The man found by KoPT is Bengal’s first officially confirmed Covid-19 patient among those who attended the Tablighi Jamaat conference in Delhi last month. KoPT said in a statement that on April 2 an employee of one of its contractors at Haldia port in East Midnapore district tested positive for Covid-19.The man, said KoPT, returned from Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi on March 24. “Due to the lockdown no work was done at the berth which they (the contractor) operate. However, he (the patient) might have visited the docks,” the statement said.Chief Secretary Sinha, however, did not clarify whether the new 11 cases included the man at Haldia port. “We have heard about this,” he said. Sinha also did not say how many of those who returned from Delhi have been tracked down and how many underwent tests.On April 1, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said her government had received information about 71 people who had gone to Nizamuddin and 54 of them, and their families, had been tracked down in Bengal.Asked why the data provided by the state was sometimes leading to confusion, the chief secretary said, “Nobody is reducing the figures and nobody is increasing them. We are only giving the data that is relevant.”“After the Nizamuddin episode came to light he was immediately tested by the municipality. Due to this case, contract labourers have not come to the port,” the KoPT statement said. It added that the regular port staff were working and officers who might have had any kind of contact with the patient had been quarantined.KoPT said a sanitisation drive was on and masks, gloves and sanitizers have been given to all employees.In Malda district, superintendent of police Alok Rajoria said, “Eleven people from Malda went to Delhi but none returned to the district. Ten of them are kept in quarantine in Maharashtra while one is in Jharkhand.”In Birbhum district, officials remained silent but residents of Sonatorpara in Siuri town said a youth who lives near a local Madrasa was taken away by health department officials on April 1, days after he returned home. “The family initially claimed that he did not go to Delhi and the man even ran his shop. We saw health department officials coming in two vehicles and taking him away for quarantine,” said Chandan Mukherjee who lives in the neighbourhood. In Murshidabad district, chief medical officer of health Prasanta Biswas said, “One man has been tracked down at Banipur village. He was picked up from home on Friday night and sent to institutional quarantine at Raghunathganj. Nine of his family members have been asked to stay in home isolation for 14 days.”“All of them are asymptomatic. Right now we are not sending their samples for tests,” said Biswas.Speaking on condition of anonymity, a senior officer of district health department said, “The man is 48-years-old. He attended the conference on March 17. Before the lockdown he went to Assam where he has a small business. He returned home four days ago and was living a normal life. He did not bother to share his travel history with us.”At Alipurduar district in north Bengal, two residents of Falakata who returned from Nizamuddin have tested negative, said Dr Puran Sharma, chief medical officer of health.Sharma said 16 others, who are from south Bengal districts and put in quarantine in Alipurduar, also tested negative but he did not want to name the districts these people belong to. “All of them are still in quarantine,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-11-more-test-positive-in-bengal-number-of-infections-go-up-to-68/story-BN7vtsAkBxZjWYIIJJf0WM.html
04-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 PM: India-US partnership to fight Covid-19, says PM Modi after call with Trump and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India-US partnership to fight Covid-19, says PM Modi after call with TrumpPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday had a telephonic conversation with US president Donald Trump on the Covid-19 pandemic threatening countries all over the world. Read more3 Tablighi Jamaat members among 11 new Covid-19 cases in KeralaThree Tablighi Jamaat members are among 11 who tested positive for coronavirus in Kerala on Saturday taking the total number of infections in the state to 306, health minister K K Shailaja said. Read moreMan with travel history is Goa’s 7th Covid-19 patientOne person has been found positive for the novel coronavirus in Goa taking the state’s tally to seven. In the second case to be detected in as many days after a two day lull, a person with travel history, who arrived from abroad was found to have contracted the Covid-19. Read moreMore than 60,000 deaths worldwide from coronavirusThe coronavirus pandemic has killed at least 60,000 people worldwide, nearly three quarters of them in Europe, since it emerged in China in December, according to a tally compiled by AFP at 1330 GMT Saturday from official sources. Read moreFacebook tried to buy Pegasus to monitor iPhone users: NSO GroupThe notoriously controversial Israeli security firm, the NSO Group, has released court documents that show Facebook tried to buy Pegasus, the spyware created by the group, in 2017. Read moreEmpty roads and eerie silence: Aerial view shows Kolkata during lockdown. WatchAs the entire nation is under lockdown, netizens are keeping busy by tracking surprising phenomenas taking place all over the world through videos and pictures. Read moreLiverpool deserve to be given Premier League title: BerbatovFormer Manchester United striker Dimitar Berbatov said that the 2019/20 Premier League title should be awarded to arch-rivals Liverpool if the season cannot get underway. Read moreJaved Akhtar salutes CM Uddhav Thackeray for handling Covid-19 with ‘clear directive’Lyricist and poet Javed Akhtar on Saturday congratulated Maharashtra government and Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray for handling coronavirus pandemic in the state with “clear directives”. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-india-us-partnership-to-fight-covid-19-says-pm-modi-after-call-with-trump-and-all-the-latest-news/story-4OJ8PmQs1nXKeraLl7MWOL.html
04-04-2020||India||‘We’re proud of you’, Pak ATC tells Air India||Air India recently found a rather unexpected praise from an Air Traffic Controller (ATC) of- Pakistan. Air India was operating special flights from India to Frankfurt with relief materials and evacuated European nationals, who were stranded in India as coronavirus swept across continents, perishing millions and crippling the system of passenger planes criss-crossing the world. “It was a very proud moment for me as well as the entire Air India crew when we heard from Pakistan ATC praising our special flight operations to Europe,” one of the senior captains of the special flights told exclusively to ANI. “As we entered in the Pakistan’s Flight Information Region (FIR) and the Pakistan Air Traffic Controller (ATC) greeted us ‘Assalaam Alaikum!’ This is Karachi’s control welcoming Air India for relief flights to Frankfurt,” the senior captain quoted the Pakistan ATC as saying.“Confirm are you operating relief flights for Frankfurt,” the Pak ATC further said.“AFFIRM,” said the Air India captain in Pakistan’s airspace. “You are cleared direct to exit point Kebud request estimate crossing Kebud (Exit),” came response from the ATC. Air India captain replied, saying “Cleared direct Kebud, Thank you.”At this, the Pakistan ATC showered praise on Air India. “We are proud of you that in a pandemic situation you are operating flights, Good Luck!”“Thank you so much,” responded the captain of India’s national carrier. Furthermore, when the AI captain, who commanded the special flights, asked the Pakistan ATC that he is not getting next radar for the Iran airspace, Pakistan conveyed the Indian jet’s position to the Tehran airspace and provided details of the two AI special flights.Many crew members of AI’s Boeing-777 and Boring 787 were deployed for the special evacuation flights for European and Canadian citizens from Mumbai and Delhi.Before taking off from Mumbai airport, the ATC there, besides giving permission praised the national carrier’s efforts amidst crisis, saying “we are proud of you”.The Captain also replied back stating that they were also proud of working with the ATC and all other services as a sign of mutual respect.After Pakistan airspace, the special AI flight entered Iran. As the captain told ANI, it had never happened before in his entire pilot career that the Middle East country had given a direct route of over 1000 miles.“First time in my entire career as pilot, Iran gave a direct routing for about 1000 miles a privilege guess enjoyed as special flights, in all especially in the recent tense situation in the Iranian airspace,” he saidIran has rarely given direct route to any of airlines because direct route of Iran airspace is strictly kept reserve for their defence purposes only. Before leaving Iran airspace, the ATC there also wished us ‘all the best’,” the AI captain told to ANI. After Iran, the AI special flights entered into the Turkey airspace and then Germany’s. “All ATCs from Bombay to Frankfurt welcomed the special flights of Air India and wished us very proudly,” the Captain said.The two special Air India flight flew out stranded European and Canadian citizens from Mumbai. All crew members including the pilots wore the mandatory COVID-19 coveralls for over 20 hours at a stretch (to/from and ground time at Frankfurt). They will now remain in self-quarantine for 14 days.To prevent of spread of covid-19 virus, India has announced for 21-days lockdown and many of foreign nationals are still stranded in several parts of India.(This story has been published from a wire agency feed without modifications to the text. Only the headline has been changed.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-re-proud-of-you-pak-atc-tells-air-india/story-MsPso8qOzHy2gGJ0sBonYN.html
04-04-2020||India||Man with travel history is Goa’s 7th Covid-19 patient||One person has been found positive for the novel coronavirus in Goa taking the state’s tally to seven. In the second case to be detected in as many days after a two day lull, a person with travel history, who arrived from abroad was found to have contracted the Covid-19. The patient has been shifted to the specialised Covid-19 hospital while his close family members will be quarantined and tested to check if they have contracted the disease. “Out of the 25 samples sent for testing, only one report has been tested positive. A man from St Estevam, who had returned from a foreign country. He has been shifted to Covid-19 hospital. Total active cases in the state now are seven,” Goa health minister Vishwajit Rane tweeted. While the Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant had expressed a fear that those who attended the Tableegh-e-Jamaat at Nizamuddin would take Goa “back in the danger zone”, the eight persons who had attended congregation have reported negative for #Covid19, one test report still awaited. Through sealing the borders, Goa has been able to by and large prevent the spread of Covid-19, those who arrived in the state before the lockdown began, have begun to show symptoms. Six of Goa’s seven cases are among those who have arrived from abroad four being employed on the merchant navy and cruise tourism industries. Around 7,000 to 8,000 Goans working abroad on board cruise liners and the merchant navy await repatriation to the state. “Seafarers are one of the biggest issues. I am concerned about them. There are around 7,000 to 8,000 Goan sailors abroad. I spoke to the Home Minister about how to get them back and where to quarantine (once they return),” Sawant told reporters at a press conference earlier this week.No plan has been drawn up yet, while those abroad have complained that it is only the Indians among the crew who are yet to be repatriated by the respective countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-with-travel-history-is-goa-s-7th-covid-19-patient/story-S8GPMFpUkTHY5mz5nBiZ2H.html
04-04-2020||India||India-US partnership to fight Covid-19, says PM Modi after call with Trump||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday had a telephonic conversation with US president Donald Trump on the Covid-19 pandemic threatening countries all over the world. The two leaders agreed to put the full weight of the India-US partnership to fight the deadly Covid-19 disease. “Had an extensive telephone conversation with President @realDonaldTrump. We had a good discussion, and agreed to deploy the full strength of the India-US partnership to fight Covid-19,” the prime minister said in a tweet.The discussion between the two global leaders comes at a time when both countries are in the grip of the highly contagious coronavirus.The United States, has so far confirmed 2,78,458 cases of Covid-19 and more than 7,100 deaths.India on Saturday reported 3,072 coronavirus cases and 75 deaths across its various states.On Saturday morning, the Prime Minister also chaired a joint meeting of the Empowered Groups constituted for planning and ensuring implementation of Covid-19 response activities in India.The maximum percentage of Covid-19 positive cases stands at 42% in the country and have been reported among people in the age group between 21 and 40 years, the government’s data showed on Saturday.The government also released the age profile of all the 3,072 Covid-19 positive cases reported till date since January 30.The situation in the United States is more severe. The total Covid-19 affected cases in the US has climbed to 2,78,458 so far, surpassing Italy, Spain and even China where the coronavirus originated in December 2019.On March 24, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had ordered a three-week lockdown of India’s 1.3 billion population to avert a catastrophic outbreak of infections. Some states are thinking about extending the lockdown to rein in the contagious disease as the country reported a sharp spike in positive cases on the weekend. On Saturday, 601 new Covid-19 cases were reported, the highest spike so far, and 12 deaths in the last 24 hours, with the condition of 58 coronavirus patients being critical in Kerala, Madhya Pradesh and Delhi, according to health ministry data. The state of Maharashtra, which has the highest number of Covid-19 cases in India, has 537 Covid-19 patients and 26 people have died so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-india-us-partnership-to-fight-covid-19-says-pm-modi-after-call-with-trump/story-wfG2IwgSu9z5Sm5jqMrOQL.html
04-04-2020||India||3 Tablighi Jamaat members among 11 new Covid-19 cases in Kerala||Three Tablighi Jamaat members are among 11 who tested positive for coronavirus in Kerala on Saturday taking the total number of infections in the state to 306, health minister K K Shailaja said.Among the 11 new cases, six are from north Kerala’s Kasaragod, a pandemic hotspot in the state.The total number of people under observation has risen to 1,71,355. At least 9,744 tests have been conducted and 42 Covid-19 patients have been discharged from hospitals since the outbreak began, said the minister. She said the steady fall in the number of positive cases is a testimony to the state’s efforts to flatten the coronavirus curve.Follow coronavirus live updates here.Amid growing concern over the spread of coronavirus following the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi last month, there was some good news on Saturday when 75 people in Pathanamthitta including five who returned from Nizamuddin tested negative. Reshma Mohandas, a nurse in Kottayam medical college hospital who was discharged from the hospital on Friday said she will come back to the corona ward after 14-day extended quarantine. She contracted the disease while treating a 93-year-old man and his 80-plus wife, both were discharged on Friday. Their recovery was hailed as a miracle in the medical world.“The state’s performance in containing the pandemic is appreciable but we have to realise the gravity of the situation and there is no room for any complacency. We will continue our fight with all our strength,” Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said in a statement.The fall in number of positive cases was a testimony to the state’s efforts, he said.The CM will take part in a video interaction with selected expatriates in West Asia on Sunday. The state has a strong expatriate population (28 lakh) and 70% of them are in the Persian Gulf countries.“Once we start rapid testing we will get results immediately. Volume of tests will also go up considerably. This will help us checking a possible community spread,” said the CM adding the state’s surveillance and vigil have helped it to contain the virus to an extent. He reiterated that there was no need to panic over those who participated in the Nizamuddin congregation because their numbers are not too big. The state government has so far traced 157 of them , eight of whom have been tested positive and others are under quarantine.Meanwhile the state police have decided to publish photographs and other details of persons who shoot fake messages and upload them on social media to create panic and tension. Kerala police have booked more than 500 people in this regard since the lockdown began. Last week there was a big unrest among migrant workers in Kottayam district who hit the street in large numbers seeking to return to their home in different states. Police later arrested five persons for instigating them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-tablighi-jamaat-members-among-11-new-covid-19-cases-in-kerala/story-XEnO95kUrWcbxGyKM9jjON.html
04-04-2020||India||Here’s why the Centre amended the J&K domicile order||The Centre amended its domicile order for the Union Territory of Jammu & Kashmir (J&K) late Friday evening because of resentment among youth, concerns raised by the Jammu unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and vociferous opposition by the newly formed Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party (JKAP), people familiar with the development said.In the earlier version notified on Tuesday evening, the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) had reserved only subordinate posts for the domiciled residents. For other jobs in J&K UT, which was formed on October 31, 2019, after the government on August 5 revoked the special status granted under Article 370 of the Constitution to the erstwhile state, people from any part of the country could apply.The revised order makes jobs in the UT administration out of bounds for non-residents of J&K.There has, however, not been any change to the rule that will treat people from outside the UT, who have been residents for 15 years, as domicile residents. The notification also extended domicile rights to central government employees who have served in the state for 10 years and their children.Several backchannel negotiations took place before the Centre revised its domicile order late Friday evening.JKAP chief Altaf Bukhari met both Union home minister Amit Shah and National Security Advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval on Friday to register his protest against the domicile order. He conveyed his party’s reservations to the order and demanded that all jobs should be reserved for J&K residents. He also told them that the move would deal a big blow to his efforts to help the people to look beyond Article 370.Bukhari, who launched his party in early March, had promised to work towards restoring J&K’s statehood and ensuring domicile rights of people in jobs and education.He, as the head of a 24-member JKAP delegation, had also met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Shah separately with a list of demands. The top leadership had assured the delegation that the government would take all steps to ensure economic development of J&K, concerns over demographic changes, delimitation exercise and grant of state domicile would be addressed, a JKAP leader said on condition of anonymity.The MHA’s order on Tuesday triggered howls of protests in J&K. National Conference leader Omar Abdullah said the order was an “insult heaped on injury”, referring to the scrapping of Article 370 of the Constitution.The BJP’s Jammu unit had also conveyed to the party high command the growing unrest among the youth over the domicile policy.BJP leaders from Jammu told HT that the policy of not reserving jobs for domiciled persons in Groups A and B had upset the youth, who felt there was a need to offer some protection to the residents after Article 370 was scrapped following the reorganisation of the state last August.“There were concerns that by reserving jobs only in Scale 4, the youth in both the Jammu and Kashmir regions could lose out on employment avenues. In Jammu, where job opportunities are particularly limited, the youth felt betrayed that after the abrogation of Article 370 the Union government has failed to keep its promise of ensuring development in the region,” said a senior functionary of the BJP’s Jammu unit.Ram Madhav, BJP general secretary, who has been in charge of the UT, briefed the party high command, including Shah, of the sentiment on the ground, as the chorus for amending the order grew, according to people aware of the developments.“A meeting was held, where Madhav apprised the high command of the resentment brewing among the youth. The government was forced to take a call to take corrective measures. However, there was some concern among a section of leadership over revising the order,” the functionary said.“The government has acted keeping in view the large scale unemployment problem in J&K. In the UT, thanks to decades of mismanagement by successive governments, employment avenues became limited.Once the situation improves, job opportunities will also grow. At the moment the government’s decision will help address the unemployment problem in Jammu region as well as Kashmir Valley,” Madhav said.A second party functionary also from Jammu said some leaders in the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), the ideological fount of the BJP, were also against reservation in jobs limited only to the domiciled residents. “They felt that by imposing reservation, it would mean a replay of the conditions that existed when Article 35A was in force,” the second functionary said.The second BJP functionary also said that the government will take a measured view of the domicile issue for the purpose of purchase of land. “Commercialisation of land for real estate purposes won’t be allowed. But if someone needs land for setting up of industry or for trade and commerce that can be considered.” The amended domicile policy has come as a shot in the arm for Bukhari, who has renewed his pledge to urge the Centre to review the law in its entirety to remove the remaining loopholes till it satisfies the aspirations of people of J&K.“We’ll continue to struggle till other hostile sections in the law such as mandatory tenure for non-natives to reside in J&K and cut-off dates to qualify for the domicile are not rectified as per the demands of our people,” Bukhari said.He also appealed to all the parties to rise above the partisan interests and jointly fight for the rights of the people. “We can have differences with each other on political grounds. But, this is not an appropriate time for mudslinging against each other,” Bukhari said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/here-s-why-the-centre-amended-the-j-k-domicile-order/story-ucVSK0v0QOj8YasNxQqioN.html
04-04-2020||India||Health ministry likely to include rapid antibody testing for everyone at risk||Based on data and analyses prevented by its high-level technical experts committee on coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the health ministry is likely to extend testing protocols to include rapid antibody testing for everyone at risk, including those outside hotspot areas.Once approved, these guidelines will replace the Indian Council of Medical Research’s interim advisory issued on April 2 that limited rapid antibody testing to hotspot areas.Unlike the RT-PCR test that detects the virus’ genetic material (RNA) in throat swabs to diagnose current infection, rapid antibody test indicate if a person has been infected and has immunity.The simple blood test, which takes 15-20 minutes to give results, will help identify people who were infected but never diagnosed, which will help map undetected infection and give the correct extend of the epidemic.China and Singapore have used antibody tests to scale up testing and track infection, while Germany, Italy, Britain and the US, which approve the country’s first antibody test on Friday, plan to use it to get those who are immune back to work, keep those infected quarantined, and those with no immunity locked down.“Rapid antibody testing will help us measure how widespread the infection is in the community, how long immunity works, and get the recovered back to work, which will help meet critical staff shortfalls in hospitals and end lockdowns in a phased manner to restore a semblance of normal,” said a clinician, who did not want to be named. “With infections in medical workers rising in India, it will help keep our health system intact,” he said.The Maharashtra state government and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation have already announced on Friday that all its health-workers will be tested using the rapid antibody test to detect if they have been infected and developed immunity to the virus..“Who is to be tested and the scale of testing is notified by the Health Ministry, and updated from time to time. These are to be followed,” said Dr K. Vijay Raghavan, principal scientific advisor, government of India.Antibody tests have the potential to take testing to scale, and companies are racing to meet the anticipated increase in demand. On Friday, Bangalore-based Bione launched a Covid19 home-screening test kit on Friday, and the US approved Cellex for a lab-based antibody testing. Pathologists expect the market in India to be flooded over the next few weeks following approval, which is expected next week.“Finger-prick tests are fairly simple to do but chances of false negatives are high if the test is done in the first of week of infection. Antibody tests should look for immunoglobulin M (IgM) in the second week, and for immunoglobulin G (IgG) after the third week, to deliver accurate results. It still will not indicate how strong the immune response is, and for how long it will last,” said Dr Naveen Dang, founder chairman of Dr Dang’s Labs, which is one of the ICMR-approved private labs testing for Covid-19 in India.The body responds to infection by generating two types of antibodies. IgM is generated first, at about seven days post-infection, and its levels then rises and fall by three to four weeks post-infection. The second type of antibody IgG, appears at about 10 days and can take up to three weeks to reach measurable levels. Since antibody responses vary widely with people, experts suggest that 21 days post-infection is about when most people are expected to show both IgG and IgM.“Together, these antibodies, IgG and IgM, are expected to give protective immunity for a limited time; we do not yet know if and for how long these antibodies will protect, but that data will speedily come in,” said Dr Raghavan.“A negative antibody test does not tell if the virus is present and if the body has not yet responded, but a positive does tell that the body was exposed to the virus. The antibody tests, even when used for screening, must be used with care, as with all tests, and interpreted by a professional. As of now, when so used, they can inform how groups of people have been exposed. When combined with nucleic acid tests, the antibody tests can give a complete status,” said Dr Raghavan.“There are some very exciting developments with rapid virus (antibody) tests coming on to the market. There are being examined to ensure that they have the right sensitivity, which means they pick up small virus loads as well as big one, and they have specificity, which means they are not picking up other coronaviruses beside Covid-19. As soon as we know they are okay, they are going to be very important,” said Dr David Nabarro, the World Health Organization coronavirus special envoy.RT-PCR remains the test of choice because of its accuracy and specificity at early stages infection, which is essential for containment as most people are most infective within to three days before show symptoms.“In epidemics, such as Covid-19, testing for the presence of the viral genome in swabs is the first choice and this is done by what are generically called nucleic acid tests. These use a method called RT-PCR to detect the viral RNA. RT-PCT tests detect the viral RNA one to two days before symptoms appear and detection remains up to 12 days after symptoms,” said Dr Raghavan.It is unlikely that patients who have antibodies will get reinfected so soon after recovery, say experts.”Obviously, antibody-positive persons can be declared as immune to Covid-19 and get free from social isolation. They won’t get infected or infect others,” said a public health specialist, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-ministry-likely-to-include-rapid-antibody-testing-for-everyone-at-risk/story-oBTnqoIhFpe5pH9qGYDf1L.html
04-04-2020||India||As lockdown hits dining table, Goans seek approval for traditional fishing||The countrywide lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus has left Goa’s fishermen all at sea and taken fish, a staple of the state’s diet off dining tables, leading to calls that traditional fishermen be allowed to continue operations to protect their livelihoods as well as help locals get fish on their plates. In a letter to chief minister Pramod Sawant and other authorities, a civil society group has sought that “only non-mechanised forms of fishing like rapon, mag, catai and pagel form of fishing be allowed, as these forms of fishing will help to adhere with social distancing norms and will also cater to the requirement of fish, which is a staple food and source of nutrition of many a Goan.”“There has been, a directive not to go fishing to even the traditional fishers during lockdown and on the other hand a directive for fishworkers on mechanized boats to remain on the boats and to be anchored off the shore till the end of this lockdown,” said the letter signed by more than 200 people led by activists and those involved in the fishing industry.“Not even the Government of India guidelines speak of ban on fishing. Yet, those on boats who cannot inherently maintain social distancing by the very nature of the particular fishing are left vulnerable offshore, and those who can maintain social distancing through traditional fishing have been deprived of the possibilities of fishing and being enabled to earn their livelihoods and also to provide fish to the consumers,” the letter reads. There are more than a thousand trawlers in operation from fishing jetties in Goa besides 1500 smaller motorized and non-motorized boats that are used for fishing in the state. During the lockdown, locals have tried to rely on fish and prawns harvested from fish farms and ponds or on dried salt fish that is usually reserved for use during the monsoon when fishing is banned. The Goenchea Raponkarancho Ekvott, a union of traditional fishermen too has sought that the ban on traditional fishing be lifted. “During the period of the lockdown the economic and the nutritional needs of fish worker households, and of others, will be severely affected. Fish is an important food source for coastal people. If they do not have access to it, it will affect their food availability too. Non-motorized fishing and only traditional form of fishing without a motor should be allowed like Rapon, Mag, Cantai, Pagel etc.,” Agnelo Rodrigues, the president of the Goenchea Raponkarancho Ekvott, said. More than one lakh tonne of fish are caught in Goa annually, one-third of which is exported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-lockdown-hits-dining-table-goans-seek-approval-for-traditional-fishing/story-U2sBMyj8S9oCHbVexKixwO.html
04-04-2020||India||Assam’s lone non-Markaz patient baffles officials, shows symptoms month after travel||The total number of Covid-19 positive patients in Assam rose to 25 on Saturday with five new cases being reported. Twenty four of them are connected to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi last month, but the focus is on the lone patient not linked to that meet.The 44-year-old businessman who stays in a posh apartment complex in Guwahati had returned from a trip to Delhi on March 1. But so far the source of his infection is a mystery.“We don’t think the patient got infected in Delhi because though he returned from the capital on March 1 he showed no symptoms for a month and was detected positive only on April 4,” said Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma.“If he was infected in Delhi, his symptoms should have been visible within 4 weeks and not after that. So we suspect he got the virus from someone he came in contact with in Guwahati after his return from Delhi,” he added.The government has identified 111 people (including some who had been to Kolkata and Delhi last month) who were in contact with the patient. Their samples have been taken and sent for testing.Many of those 111 people have been sent to government quarantine facilities and the rest put in home isolation. The apartment complex where the patient resides, and has over 150 families, has been sealed.“Until we get results of all 111 samples we can’t say it’s a case of local transmission. In all probability this doesn’t seem to be local transmission as the patient has confirmed that he met people who came from Delhi and Kolkata in the past month,” said Sarma.The minister said the patient might have got the virus from someone who was carrying it without showing any symptoms of Covid-19. He is at present admitted in Guwahati Medical College Hospital and his condition is stable.Till Saturday, tests were conducted on 1529 samples at five different labs in the state. Of this, while 25 tested positive, 1308 have been found negative and results are awaited for 196 samples.Of the 25 positive patients, 24 had visited the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi last month. Till Saturday, tests had been conducted on samples of 812 people from the state connected to the event—636 have tested negative and results are awaited for 152 samples.“It is unfortunate that every day we are getting fresh inputs about more and more people from the state who had visited the congregation. I appeal to the district and state level functionaries of Tablighi Jamaat in Assam to give us the entire list of attendees voluntarily,” said Sarma.“We have not got the kind of response we expected from them. If we don’t get all the information within Sunday we might be forced to ask the police to get involved in tracing them,” he added.Sarma refuted allegations that the 24 patients connected to the Tablighi Jamaat are not getting proper medical treatment or food at the hospitals where they have been admitted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-s-lone-non-markaz-patient-baffles-officials-shows-symptoms-month-after-travel/story-9likp2MxUdKT8ukWVzrM6H.html
04-04-2020||India||‘Shining torches in the sky won’t solve the problem’: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday reiterated his charge that not enough tests are being conducted in the country to contain the spread of coronavirus.He made light of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s appeal to people to light lamps and shine torches on April 5.“India is simply not testing enough to fight the Covid-19 virus. Making people clap & shining torches in the sky isn’t going to solve the problem,” Gandhi tweeted.His party colleague and spokesperson Supriya Shrinate also urged the central government to empower states in their fight against coronavirus by providing them with more finances and resources.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageThe Centre should also take state governments on board while evolving strategies to fight the deadly disease, she told a news conference held through video-conferencing.“We have talked about cooperative federalism. Time has come that we should walk the talk. The Centre should take states together with it, empower them by providing them with more finances and resources. It is only when states are capable and when the Centre has decentralised, that we can win this war against coronavirus,” she said.Shrinate said states are at the forefront of the fight against coronavirus, while implementing and executing various policies on the ground.The Congress spokesperson said the Centre should provide Rs1 lakh crore to states to fight Covid-19, besides releasing pending GST dues of Rs 42,000 crore to state governments with immediate effect.“The states at this time are facing the biggest financial crisis in fighting the virus. The central government should provide a Rs1 lakh crore package for states to fight COVID-19,” she told reporters.Despite assurances, Shrinate said the GST revenue that was to be compensated to states by the central government had not been done.She also demanded providing loans to states at 0% interest and urged the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to enable such facilities in consultation with the central government.States, unlike the central government, do not have enough capital and financial resources at their disposal, she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shining-torches-in-the-sky-won-t-solve-the-problem-rahul-gandhi/story-G24W7R1BIFzjiaWGpVvrtM.html
04-04-2020||India||Tablighi Jamaat HQ is India’s biggest Covid-19 hotspot, linked to 1,000 cases in India||One-third of the 3,000-odd Covid-19 cases reported in the country are linked to the Tablighi Jamaat in national capital Delhi that had held its annual congregation last month, the Union health ministry said on Saturday.The government had last week evacuated over 2,000 workers holed up in the central Delhi headquarters of the evangelical Muslim sect; 24 of them had then tested positive and 200 more had symptoms of the disease. There were fears that the sect’s followers could end up spreading the disease because many had already left Delhi and had been active in different parts of the country.The health ministry statement confirmed initial apprehensions that Jamaat followers, many of them foreign nationals, who spread out across the country could end up creating an explosion of cases. In all, the Tablighi-linked cases have been reported from 17 states and union territories including Andaman and Nicobar Islands.“Out of the total cases in the country, around 30 per cent are linked to one particular place,” health ministry joint secretary Lav Aggarwal told the daily briefing on Covid-19.Aggarwal sounded a word of caution when asked if the country appeared to have been successful to break the chain of transmission. It is a daily battle, he suggested, underscoring how one mistake could jeopardise the country’s preparedness to deal with the public health emergency. One mistake, and you go from being successful to unsuccessful, he said.The home ministry’s Punya Salila Srivastava told reporters that the agencies had, through a massive effort, located and placed around 22,000 Tablighi Jamaat workers and their contacts in quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tablighi-jamaat-hq-is-india-s-biggest-covid-19-hot-spot-linked-to-1-000-cases-in-india/story-ZXGBjwoSzMYQuKsW0BNyMP.html
04-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Govt says maximum cases in the age group between 21 and 40 years||The maximum percentage of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive cases at 42% in the country have been reported among people in the age group between 21 and 40 years, the government’s data showed on Saturday.The government on Saturday released the age profile of all the 2,902 Covid-19 positive cases reported to date since January 30.The next majorly-affected age bracket is between 41 and 60 years at 33% of Covid-19 positive cases. While senior citizens, who are above 60 years, accounted for 17% of Covid-19 positive cases. However, most of the 68 Covid-19 deaths have been reported among people aged above 60 years because of their co-morbid conditions such as diabetes, hypertension, cardiac and renail issues, said Luv Agarwal, joint secretary, Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.The age group between 0 and 20 years is the least affected at 9% of Covid-19 cases in line with a similar pattern seen in studies conducted in China and some other nations worst hit by the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-govt-says-maximum-cases-in-the-age-group-between-21-and-40-years/story-CKBxXQHdkBNseYsT1dPKRN.html
04-04-2020||India||Covid-19 outbreak: 18-yr-old skips birthday celebration, donates piggy bank saving to CM fund||An 18-year-old boy, belonging to East Champaran in Bihar, has donated his piggy-bank savings, which was meant for his birthday celebration, to chief minister relief fund in support of his fight against novel coronavirus.Speaking to Hindustan Times, Amol Rajan, a resident of Motihari town of East Champaran, who turned 18-year-old on April 2, justified his decision, saying the gravest worry of the time is to save mankind from the jaw of death and stand for humanity“So, my conscience did not allow me to observe the birthday. Sky will not fall, if did not celebrate the birthday this year. Moreover, it’s not a celebration time from any stretch of imagination. Let hope for the light at end of the tunnel,” said Amol, who donated Rs 15,051 to chief minister disaster relief fund.Belonging to an affluent family, decision of Amol Rajan has come in a satisfaction for his family member. “My son has certainly come of age now and has taken a judicious decision,” said Ravi Shankar Verma, father of Amol Rajan.Amol Rajan’s effort has other acknowledgement too. “Such a contribution from Amol Ranjan has all the makings to inspire us,” said Shirsat Kapil Ashok, district magistrate (DM), East Champaran.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-outbreak-motihari-boy-donates-his-piggy-bank-saving-to-cm-fund/story-Ql5YhLPYjS8cwU6gTPG9SJ.html
04-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Bengal man who returned from Nizamuddin tests positive||A Kolkata Port Trust worker who was among those who returned from the Tablighi Jamaat conference in Delhi has tested positive for coronavirus while his fellow visitors have been tracked down in Bengal in the last 48 hours even as the Mamata Banerjee government has been silent since April 1 about the people who returned.More than 640 people contracted Covid-19 in different places following the Tablighi Jamaat conference.While the Kolkata Port Trust (KoPT) said it found a patient, HT could trace at least 31 other returnees from Murshidabad, Malda, Alipurduar and Birbhum districts. Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageThe man found by KoPT is Bengal’s first officially confirmed case of Covid-19 among people who attended the conference at Delhi’s Nizamuddin Markaz. With this, the number of Covid-19 cases in Bengal touched 58 on Saturday. Till Saturday morning three people have died of Covid-19 in Bengal taking the casualties to seven. Four others who died after testing positive might have died of co-morbidity, the government said. On April 1, Banerjee said her government had received information about 71 people who went to the Tablighi Jamaat conference and 54 of them, and their families, had been tracked down in Bengal. Till Saturday afternoon her government did not make any more statement on the issue.KoPT said in a statement on Saturday that on April 2 an employee of one of its contractors tested positive for Covid-19 at Haldia port. It said the man returned from Nizamuddin on March 24.“Due to the lockdown no work was done at the berth which they (the contractor) operate. However, he (the patient) might have visited the docks,” the statement said.“After the Nizamuddin episode came to light he was immediately tested by the municipality. Due to this case, contract labourers have not come to the port,” the statement said. It added that the regular port staff were working and officers who might have had any kind of contact with the patient had been quarantined.KoPT said a sanitisation drive was on and masks, gloves and sanitizers have been given to all employees.In Malda district, superintendent of police Alok Rajoria said, “Eleven people from Malda went to Delhi but none returned to the district. Ten of them are kept in quarantine in Maharashtra while one is in Jharkhand.”In Birbhum district, officials kept silent but residents of Sonatorpara in Siuri town said a youth who lives near a local Madrasa was taken away by health department officials on April 1, days after he returned home. “The family initially claimed that he did not go to Delhi and the man even ran his shop. We saw health department officials coming in two vehicles and taking him away for quarantine,” said Chandan Mukherjee who lives in the neighbourhood. In Murshidabad district, chief medical officer of health Prasanta Biswas said, “One man has been tracked down at Banipur village. He was picked up from home on Friday night and sent to institutional quarantine at Raghunathganj. Nine of his family members have been asked to stay in home isolation for 14 days.”“All of them are asymptomatic. Right now we are not sending their samples for tests,” said Biswas.Speaking on condition of anonymity, a senior officer of district health department said, “The man is 48-years-old. He attended the conference on March 17. Before the lockdown he went to Assam where he has a small business. He returned home four days ago and was living a normal life. He did not bother to share his travel history with us.”At Alipurduar district in north Bengal, two residents of Falakata who returned from Nizamuddin have tested negative, said Dr Puran Sharma, chief medical officer of health.Sharma said 16 others, who are from south Bengal districts and put in quarantine in Alipurduar, also tested negative but he did not want to name the districts these people belong to. “All of them are still in quarantine,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-bengal-man-who-returned-from-nizamuddin-tests-positive/story-aPnNOE3KJueXqM0Rgko8OL.html
04-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: PM Modi to hold all-party meet on April 8 via video conference||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has called an all-party meeting on April 8 to discuss the situation arising out of the coronavirus.This is the first meeting of Modi with political parties on the outbreak of the deadly virus and comes days after the country has been put under a preventive lockdown.A letter from parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi said that floor leaders of the parties which has more than five members in Parliament would be invited to participate in the meeting. Keeping in mind the norms for social distancing and travel restrictions, the much-coveted meeting will be conducted through a video conference.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageMany opposition leaders have been asking for an all-party meeting with the PM on the pandemic that has shown far-reaching and devastating effects on different sections of the society and especially the country’s economy.In the meeting, government officials said that the PM will seek suggestions from different parties on the future road map to contain the deadly virus. The meeting will start at 11am with Modi’s opening remarks in which he will appraise the party leaders of the steps his government has taken so far.Also read: How PM Modi turned railway coaches into Covid-19 isolation wardsAccording to another official, the meeting will also be an opportunity to build a broad political consensus on India’s fight against Covid-19.Apart from Modi, home minister Amit Shah, defence minister Rajnath Singh, parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi and Leader of the Rajya Sabha, Thawar Chand Gehlot are also expected to be present.Modi had on March 24 declared a three-week nationwide “complete lockdown” in the world’s largest such exercise aimed at stemming the spread of coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-pm-modi-to-hold-all-party-meet-on-april-8-via-video-conference/story-IGLPg9KU2nK2LSnsdJgXsJ.html
04-04-2020||India||19 more positive cases in Andhra Pradesh in last 24 hrs, tally goes up to 180||As many as 19 fresh positive cases for Covid-19 were reported in Andhra Pradesh in the last 24 hours, including 16 cases since Friday night, taking the total number of coronavirus cases in the state to 180, health department officials said.Meanwhile, two Covid-19 patients with travel history to the UK – one from Ongole and one from Kakinada, were discharged from the hospitals after they tested negative in a series of tests, the AP medical and health department said on Saturday.With this, the total number of patients discharged till date went up to four. Including these four cases, the cumulative number of positive cases in the state is 184. The state reported its first death on Friday -- a 55-year old man from Vijayawada, who contracted the Covid-19 disease from his son who returned from Tablighi Jamaat conference held in New Delhi in the second week of March.However, the department has not made it clear whether the fresh 16 cases that were reported in the last 12 hours, had anything to do with Nizamuddin meet.Out of the total of 161 positive cases were reported in the state till Friday morning, 140 cases were related to the Tablighi Jamaat event, the officials told chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy at a review meeting on Friday.He instructed the officials to strictly implement all the guidelines keeping in view the sudden hike in cases after the return of attendants of the Tablighi Jamaat.A total of 1085 people from AP attended the Tablighi Jamaat event, of which 946 were identified and their samples were collected for testing. Out of 881 samples tested, 108 samples detected positive.About 626 members who came in contact with the Delhi meeting returnees were also tested and 32 among them were detected positive, said officials.The chief minister sought details on the house-to-house survey being conducted by ANMs, Asha workers, volunteers. For the same, the officials said that the survey was conducted in 1.28 crore households from the existing 1.45 crore households in the state. Those who have shown any of the symptoms of COVID-19 will be observed in the second phase and tests will be conducted accordingly.The officials said that two new testing centers are now functional in Guntur and Kadapa. Moreover, another testing center in Visakhapatnam would be functional from Monday. Currently, the testing labs have the capacity to conduct 700 tests every day and that will be increased to 900 per day after coordinating with private testing labs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/19-more-positive-cases-in-andhra-pradesh-in-last-24-hrs-tally-goes-up-to-180/story-QdvXmbo9gC3NbChuTF4emL.html
04-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5 PM: Uddhav Thackeray talks about communal virus, then issues a warning on Covid-19 messages and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Uddhav Thackeray talks about communal virus, then issues a warning on Covid-19 messagesAs the number of cases of coronavirus disease spiked beyond 500 in Maharashtra, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday cautioned people against ‘wrong messages’ about Covid-19 on social media platforms. Read moreGood news from Chandigarh: Three Covid-19 patients recover, discharged from hospitalsThree people were cured of Covid-19 in Chandigarh on Saturday, bringing down the coronavirus count of the Union Territory from 18 to 15.“We salute doctors of Chandigarh who are risking their lives to cure patients. Three persons walked away smiling after they were fully cured. Our figure has reduced from 18 to 15,” Union Territory adviser Manoj Parida tweeted. Read more16 coronavirus cases in Andhra Pradesh, tally jumps to 180Another 16 Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Andhra Pradesh overnight, taking the total number of infected in the state to 180. Read moreSpain’s daily coronavirus death toll falls for second day in rowSpain’s death toll from the coronavirus rose to 11,744 on Saturday from 10,935 the previous day, the Health Ministry said on Saturday, though it was the second straight second day in which the daily number of new deaths had fallen. Read more ‘It’s heartwarming,’ Yuvraj Singh applauds policemen for sharing food with needyWith the world coming to a standstill due to the coronavirus outbreak, things have gone bad for the poor and getting food is a fight they are fighting apart from trying to stay safe in these tough times. Read moreMahabharat: From Juhi Chawla being offered Draupadi’s role to Nitish Bharadwaj’s wish to play Abhimanyu, 10 facts about the showThe hit 80s show Mahabharat is back on the television screens after Doordarshan decided to rerun the show for viewers staying indoors amid 21-day coronavirus lockdown. Read moreGoogle temporarily rolls back Chrome feature that blocks cross-site trackingTo ensure essential websites do not crash at this point in time, Google is temporarily rolling back one of the features it launched with Chrome 80 last year. Read moreSocial distancing guide: Turn page after page, for freeYou’ve probably figured out a few things by now. Cooking isn’t always fun. Most crime dramas look the same. And you can only listen to so many yesteryear songs. So back to books it is, and right now a lot of them are free. Read moreDoctor dances in TikTok videos to spread cheer. WatchTimes are tough and scary as much remains unknown about the coronavirus outbreak. Amid this, one upbeat doctor is trying to make people smile with his dance moves and also spreading awareness in the process. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5-pm-uddhav-thackeray-talks-about-communal-virus-then-issues-a-warning-on-covid-19-messages-and-all-the-latest-news/story-KzV9ca7CnbGA9vVeBIN6JM.html
04-04-2020||India||Coronavirus Update: 601 new Covid-19 cases, 12 deaths reported since Friday, says health ministry||India has reported 601 new Covid-19 cases, the highest spike so far and 12 deaths in the last 24 hours, with the condition of 58 coronavirus patients being critical in Kerala, Madhya Pradesh and Delhi, a health ministry official said on Saturday.“Till now there are 2,902 Covid-19 positive cases in India. 601 positive cases have been reported since yesterday. 12 deaths also reported yesterday have taken the total number of deaths to 68. At least 183 people have recovered,” Lav Aggarwal, Joint Secretary, Health Ministry said.ALSO READ| How PM Modi turned railway coaches into Covid-19 isolation wardsThe highest number of Covid-19 cases—490 so far have been reported in Maharashtra followed by Tamil Nadu and national capital Delhi.1,023 Covid-19 positive cases with links to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation have been reported from 17 states till now, according to health ministry data. The ministry underscored that about 30 per cent of the total coronavirus cases in the country are linked to “one particular place”. Aggarwal said in the news briefing that the rate of doubling of Covid-19 cases in India is less as compared to other countries.“Rigorous contact tracing is on across 17 states which have reported cases related to Delhi’s Tablighi Jamaat congregation. Around 30 per cent of the total cases so far are linked to one particular place where we could not sort of manage it,” the health ministry official said.The Tablighi Jamaat meet was held earlier last month in south Delhi’s Nizamuddin area, and has now turned into a Covid-19 hotspot.India is increasing Covid-19 testing capacity progressively, the official said. “We are increasing our Covid-19 testing capacity progressively,” he said. The health ministry also issued fresh guidelines on certain precautions to tackle the disease and asked citizens not to recycle masks used as that could also spread the infection. Ministry officials urged people to start making masks at home if there happened to be a shortage in neighbourhood shops. “There is no need to panic but awareness is a must to fight the battle against Covid-19: the health ministry official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronaviurs-update-601-new-covid-19-cases-12-deaths-reported-since-friday-says-health-ministry/story-XK6U2O20HFhG1raQQ6fwxL.html
04-04-2020||India||Economic decline due to Covid-19 will not help govt’s tackle climate change||The world is going to experience a modest decline in carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions for the first time in 75 years but the dip is unlikely to result in any stabilisation in CO2 concentrations in the atmosphere, which leads to climate change, experts said. The economic decline because of the Covid-19 pandemic is likely to give governments an idea of the magnitude of transformations needed in the coming decades to deal with climate change, scientists said.The impact of Covid-19 on CO2 emissions will be temporary and there is likely to be a strong rebound effect when governments try to make up for the economic slowdown after the pandemic gets over. CO2 emissions are likely to dip in March and April, as billions of people are in lockdown, including in the two most populous countries such as China and India.“We’ll definitely see a drop this year in CO2 pollution from fossil fuel use. How much of a decline depends on how long the lockdown lasts and how quickly economies recover. We could see a massive drop in emissions of 5% or more if the viral outbreak and economic downturn linger. You’d have to go back to World War II to see anything close to that big a decline. But note that a 5% decline does not mean concentrations will drop. We’d still be emitting 35 billion metric tonnes of fossil fuel pollution,” said Rob Jackson, chair, Global Carbon Project and Professor, Earth System Science at Stanford University in an e-mail response. He cautioned that the global economic crisis should worry us because “if the economy tanks, climate action may be delayed in the interest of getting people back to work. I hope we put people back to work in green energy and technology, sectors that will result in lasting change”.Many scientists have been worrying about this rebound. For instance, at Mauna Loa observatory in Hawaii scientists are keeping a close watch on CO2 concentrations because this could be the first economic shock in several decades to slow the rise in concentrations.Ralph Keeling, professor at the Scripps Institution of Oceanography in La Jolla, California, has estimated that global fossil fuel use will have to decline by 10% for a full year to show up CO2 concentrations. It would be a difference of only about 0.5 parts per million according to Climate Home, an independent climate news portal based on Keeling’s observations.The World Meteorological Organization (WMO) had warned about this on March 24. “Any cuts in emissions as a result of the economic crisis triggered by Covid-19 are not a substitute for concerted climate action,” the WMO had said in a statement. “Past experience suggests that emission declines during economic crises are followed by a rapid upsurge. We need to change that trajectory,” WMO secretary-general Petteri Taalas had said.Emissions represent what goes into the atmosphere while concentrations represent what remains in the atmosphere after the complex system of interactions between the atmosphere, biosphere, lithosphere, cryosphere and the oceans and CO2 remains in the atmosphere and oceans for centuries, the WMO explained.According to the Earth System Research Laboratory of National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) the average CO2 concentrations in February were 414.11 parts per million (ppm) as compared to 411.75 ppm last year. The average for March has not been updated yet, but on March 29, 30 and 31, April 1 and 2 the concentrations ranged between 415. 60 and 415.81 ppm.An analysis by the Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air (CREA) has suggested that China’s CO2 emissions fell by around 25% over a four-week period starting February 3 when travel restrictions were imposed in Wuhan, the initial epicentre of the Covid-19 outbreak, and other cities across the country. But demand slowly returned to normal levels over an extended seven-week period, bringing the reduction so far to around 250MtCO2, with emissions 18% lower than usual levels, the analysis said.“Currently, global fossil fuel consumption is contracting dramatically as electricity demand, road traffic, and aviation volumes fall as a result of the measures to mitigate coronavirus outbreaks. It seems almost certain that global CO2 emissions will fall this year due to the economic fallout of the virus. The disruption to supply chains, loss of sales and lost income for many workers will affect the economy in a profound way,” said Lauri Myllyvirta, lead analyst at CREA.“The longer-term impact on global emissions trends will depend on the policies that governments adapt to recover from the crisis. The best-case scenario is a green recovery that speeds up the transition to clean energy and low-carbon future,” she added.Lauri’s team also said India is likely to see a significant reduction in carbon emissions from the power sector this year due to lockdown and its aftershocks.The US has already announced that it will roll back the American auto emission standards announced by the Obama administration. Sociologists recognise that the pandemic-triggered slowdown could be the reset moment for tackling climate change but governments may not seize it.“Covid-19 pandemic created an unprecedented and unplanned social experiment … If the next negotiations at the United Nationsl (UN) fail, then all the comprehensive plans build on the last five years are going to fail … I don’t have any doubt that in the next UN negotiations, citing the Covid-19 situation, most of the big carbon emitters will request to defer the target and continue to use their existing fossil fuel resources,” said Pradip Swarnakar, associate professor of sociology at Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)- Kanpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/economic-decline-due-to-covid-19-will-not-help-govt-s-tackle-climate-change/story-oxFEsrHxQd2qbU2gHIRwYN.html
04-04-2020||India||‘Lighting candles okay as there is nothing to do at home’: Raj Thackeray||Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray on Saturday said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi should have clarified matters about the lockdown to stop the spread of coronavirus instead of just asking people to light candles on Sunday night.Although Maharashtra has been trying to enforce the lockdown strictly, Thackeray said he feared that if the citizens continued to roam on the streets, the lockdown could be extended again adversely affecting the economy. “The Prime Minister should have clarified on the steps being taken on how he is going to handle the economy. This would have given hope to the country” he said at a press conference at his home. He said that lighting candles was okay as there was nothing much to do at home.“There is a fear among the daily wage earners and it is the duty of those in power to clarify things and assuage them,” he added. The MNS chief said the lockdown was playing havoc with the economy. He also came down heavily on those indulging in black marketing of essential goods and said they needed to be beaten up, filmed and the videos made viral. Prime Minister Modi in a video message on Friday, had urged citizens to switch off lights for nine minutes at 9 PM on Sunday and light a lamp or torch to “challenge the darkness of coronavirus”.The call came under fire from opposition parties. Shortly after the PM’s broadcast, Congress leader P Chidambaram urged Modi to “listen to” people and announce measures to arrest the economic slide caused by coronavirus pandemic.Chidambaram said that “symbolism is important but serious thought to ideas and measures is equally important”.Congress MP Shahshi Tharoor described the call to light candles as “just a feel-good moment curated by India’s Photo-Op Prime Minister.” Trinamool Congress MP Mahua Moitra asked the PM to “get real” and called for ensure immediate wages to construction and other labour during the lockdown as there are laws permitting this.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lighting-candles-okay-as-there-is-nothing-to-do-at-home-raj-thackeray/story-KD5x7CUvVnmWRAmqVpReqJ.html
04-04-2020||India||Coronavirus: 7 easy steps to make protective face masks at home to fight Covid-19||The government on Saturday issued an advisory on homemade masks and said that using them can help in protecting the community at large from coronavirus. In the wake of the coronavirus pandemic and the growing need for protective equipment and preventive essentials like masks, the government’s advisory on homemade face masks comes handy.The DIY guide released by the Ministry of Health and Family Affairs explains how protective masks can easily be made in the comfort of your home by simply using clean cotton fabric and a sewing machine.How to make protective masks and face covers at home:1. Any used but clean cotton fabric can be used. The fabric must be washed in boiling water and dried well. 2. The fabric must be cut in the following dimensions - 9-inch x 7-inch for adults and 7-inch x 5-inch for children.3. Cut 4 strips for tying and piping from the fabric. Take the cut fabric and attach the strip with 1.5x5 inches dimension on one end as piping.4. Create three downward facing pleats of approximately 1.5 inch each folding cloth.5. Turn the pleated cloth to the other side and repeat steps for pleating on this side as shown above. Once the pleats have been made, the height of the pleated cloth will be reduced from 9 to 5 inches.6. Secure the pleats with piping on both sides. Now begin attaching the long 40 inch strips used for tying the face cover to the top and bottom.7. Once again fold both these strips three times and stitch.Ensure that the face cover fits around your mouth and nose and there is no gap between it and your face. When wearing the face cover, the side facing you should show the pleats as facing downwards.You must never reverse the face cover for reuse. Always thoroughly wash it after every use.There’s also a guide to making a temporary mask by putting a handkerchief and elastic bands to use for those who might not have a sewing machine at home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-7-easy-steps-to-make-protective-face-masks-at-home-to-fight-covid-19/story-E0FsKtVJMmqD2hwRaG3nzO.html
04-04-2020||India||Will not lie, Covid-19 cases in state rising, says Uddhav. Then explains||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday appealed to people not to visit private doctors or hospitals if they are suffering from symptoms such as pneumonia, cough, cold and fever. Instead, he suggested that they should visit dedicated hospitals being run by the state government to treat coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients.He declared that no religious, political and sporting event will be allowed in the state till further orders. He also urged people to wear masks when they step out of their homes to buy essential commodities.The CM also warned strict action against those trying to put peoples’ lives in danger in any way.“If you’re suffering from cough, cold, fever or have symptoms of pneumonia, don’t visit private doctors or hospitals. There is a possibility that you may infect others there if in case you’re already infected with the coronavirus. The state government has started dedicated hospitals for Covid-19 patients, visit them,” Thackeray said during a live Facebook chat.The CM accepted that more people are testing Covid-19 positive in the state, as the authorities have ramped up the capacity for testing facilities. “The positive cases are increasing and I will not lie about this to you. This is because we’ve increased our capacity for testing facilities. We’re testing more people. We’re further increasing the testing capacity in Mumbai, as the city recorded has maximum cases. But we’ll overcome the crisis in the coming days, as Mumbaikars have experienced many difficulties before,” Thackeray said.On Saturday, Maharashtra’s Covid-19 positive cases reached 537 after 47 new cases were reported.The CM said that the authorities have contacted all those people who had attended Tablighi Jamaat’s international congregation at Nizamuddin in Delhi between March 13 and 15, and put them in isolation facilities. “Even if a few people could not be contacted, come forward, self declare and get tested,” he appealed.“This is a vicious game, a game of self-restraint. We’ll have to follow self-discipline and stay at home,” the CM added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/visit-dedicated-govt-hospitals-if-you-covid-19-symptoms-thackeray/story-u2e0QidbPwTEl1fNKwewxK.html
04-04-2020||India||16 coronavirus cases in Andhra Pradesh, tally jumps to 180||Another 16 Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Andhra Pradesh overnight, taking the total number of infected in the state to 180.The Medical and Health Department on Saturday said in its latest bulletin that four fresh cases were reported each in Kadapa and Krishna districts, three each in Guntur and Kurnool and one each in Chittoor and Prakasam districts.Of the 180 cases reported since March 12 in the state, the first four patients had since recovered and been discharged from hospital.A 55-year-old man, father of a Jamaat participant who too tested positive, died, making his the first and only Corona- related death in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/16-coronavirus-cases-in-andhra-pradesh-tally-jumps-to-180/story-6g0icVBZ7KBBesMwsfCaTL.html
04-04-2020||India||Govt says PM’s call to switch off lights only for residences, won’t affect the grid||The Ministry of Power on Saturday issued an advisory on PM Modi’s call to switch off lights for 9 minutes this Sunday at 9pm.The ministry in its release clarified that the apprehensions concerning instability in the power grid due to the switching off lights are “misplaced”. “The Indian electricity grid is robust and stable and adequate arrangements and protocols are in place to handle the variation in demand,” the release read.The advisory added that the call to switch off lights is a voluntary one which does not apply to street lights or appliances like computers, TVs, fans, refrigerators and ACs in the homes. “Only lights should be switched off,” the advisory stated. ‘Switch off lights, light candles at 9 pm on Sunday’: PM Modi’s message amid lockdown l Full speech It further said that the lights in hospitals and all other essential services like public utilities, municipal services, offices, police stations, manufacturing facilities, etc will remain on. The call is only applicable to residences, the ministry clarified. “All local bodies have been advised to keep the street lights on for public safety,” it stated.On Friday morning, the Prime Minister released a video message and urged all countrymen to switch off their lights for 9 minutes at 9 pm on April 5. He urged all citizens to light diyas, candles or flash the light of their phones as a sign of solidarity in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak.“I want nine minutes of your time on April 5 at 9 pm. Switch off all the lights of your homes and stand with candles, diyas, torches or flashlights of your mobile phone for nine minutes,” Modi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-government-says-pm-s-call-to-switch-off-lights-only-for-residences/story-FDRRlBL1eUf7wqcxRZygeI.html
04-04-2020||India||Current Covid-19 spread mimics H1N1 pandemic of 2009: Govt document||The current geographic distribution of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has a strikingly similar pattern with the H1N1 pandemic influenza in 2009, according to the containment plan released by the government on Saturday to prevent an upsurge of the viral outbreak across hotspots in the country.The plan suggests that even though the spread of the viral outbreak among the population could be high, it’s unlikely that it will affect all parts of the country in a uniform manner.India is experiencing a large-scale outbreak that “calls for a differential approach to different regions of the country while mounting a strong containment effort in hotspots”, said the document released by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.Also read: Govt puts curbs on exports of diagnostic kits with immediate effect“The objective of this containment plan is to stop the chain of transmission and reducing the morbidity and mortality due to Covid-19,” it said.Delhi, Karnataka, Kerala, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, and Uttar Pradesh are among the states that have reported a large number of cases to date.Clusters or hotspots that require aggressive containment strategies such as door-to-door screening, random testing and complete restriction of the movement are being carried out in states such as Kerala, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Punjab, Karnataka, Telangana, and the Union Territory of Ladakh.Covid-19 positive cases have been reported from at least 211 districts across the country and the risk of further spread is rather high, warned the document.Also read: 800-plus foreign Jamaat workers found hiding in Delhi mosques, trigger Covid-19 alarmIt was observed during the H1N1 Influenza pandemic in 2009 that big cities with a substantive population movement reported a large number of cases, but rural areas and smaller towns with low population densities and relatively poor road, rail, and air connectivity recorded much fewer cases. Large-scale measures to contain Covid-19 over large territories have been tried in China. Mathematical modeling studies have suggested that containment might be possible especially when other public health interventions are combined with an effective social distancing strategy.“The large outbreak in India is still amenable to containment. All states have put in place aggressive containment measures. Besides, we haven’t reached that stage where the outbreak is uncontrolled,” said a senior health ministry official, requesting anonymity. The technical experts dealing with containment measures have framed five specific targets such as travel-related cases, local transmission, large outbreaks amenable to containment, widespread community transmission and the country becoming endemic to Covid-19, and plan to focus on them from now on.The states are managing clusters by extensive contact tracing for Covid-19 positive cases within the containment zone, testing all suspects and their high-risk contacts, isolating all suspected and confirmed cases, providing medical care, quarantining contacts, implementing social distancing measures and intensive risk communication. Geographic quarantine strategy is being implemented with a complete ban on the movement of people to and from a relatively large defined geographic area, where a single large cluster or multiple clusters have been reported. Such containment measures have been put to use in Delhi’s Dilshad Garden and Nizamuddin areas, Rajathan’s Bhilwara, Agra, Mumbai’s Dharavi slums and Kerala’s Kasaragod and Pathanamthitta districts.“This is what’s being done on the ground from where a large number of Covid-19 positive cases have been reported. Most of these can be traced back to patients who have had an international travel history. The percentage where the contacts haven’t been traced yet to too insignificant to cause any panic,” the official added.The testing criteria, however, remains the same.All symptomatic, individuals who have undertaken international travel in the past 14 days, all symptomatic contacts of laboratory-confirmed cases, all symptomatic healthcare workers, all hospitalised patients with severe acute respiratory infections (SARI) and asymptomatic direct and high-risk contacts of a confirmed case should be tested once between day five and 14 of coming in contact. The testing will continue for 14 days from the date the last confirmed case is declared negative by a laboratory test, the document said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/current-covid-19-spread-mimics-h1n1-pandemic-of-2009-govt-document/story-2gnbiczHs1KMqbMoF5SMzL.html
04-04-2020||India||Give more financial aid to states to combat coronavirus outbreak: Cong to Centre||The Congress on Saturday appealed to the central government to empower states in their fight against coronavirus by providing them with more finances and resources.Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said the Centre should also take state governments on board while evolving strategies to fight the deadly disease. “We have talked about cooperative federalism. Time has come that we should walk the talk. The Centre should take the states together with it, empower them by providing them with more finances and resources. It is only when the states are capable and when the Centre has decentralised, that we can win this war against coronavirus,” she said. Addressing a press conference via video, she said states are at the forefront of the fight against coronavirus, while implementing and executing various policies on the ground. The Congress leader said the Centre should provide Rs one lakh crore to states to fight Covid-19, besides releasing pending GST dues of Rs 42,000 crore to state governments with immediate effect. “The states at this time are facing the biggest financial crisis in fighting the virus. The central government should provide a Rs 1 lakh crore package for states to fight Covid-19,” she told reporters. Shrinate said despite assurances, the GST revenue that was to be compensated to states by the central government had not been done. She also raised the demand for providing loans to states at zero per cent interest and urged the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to enable such facilities in consultation with the central government. The Congress spokesperson said states, unlike the central government, do not have enough capital and financial resources at their disposal. A demand to allow trucks carrying essential commodities, stranded at state borders, was also made to help maintain the supply chain in the country which is giving rise to their shortage and consequent price rise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/give-more-financial-aid-to-states-to-combat-coronavirus-outbreak-cong-to-centre/story-QLwAcZOar2S8pZquIZtF9M.html
04-04-2020||India||PM Modi reviews nationwide Covid-19 preparedness, directs authorities to ensure enough supplies||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday reviewed the countrywide preparedness toward tackling the menace of coronavirus.The Prime Minister “also directed the concerned groups and officials to ensure sufficient production, procurement and availability of all essential medical equipment such as PPEs, masks, gloves and ventilators,” the PMO tweeted on Saturday noon.Besides this, PM Modi also chaired a joint meeting of the Empowered Groups constituted to plan and ensure the implementation of Covid-19 response activities across the country.On Friday, the Prime Minister held a meeting with various Chief Ministers in the country. PM @narendramodi chaired a joint meeting of the Empowered Groups constituted for planning and ensuring implementation of COVID-19 response activities in the country.In the meeting which was done via video conferencing, PM Modi lauded the effort undertaken by states toward tackling the coronavirus challenge.“It is truly praiseworthy how all the States have worked together as a team to check the spread of the virus,” he said.The Prime Minister said that the focus for the coming weeks should be on “testing, tracing, isolation and quarantine”.On Friday morning, the Prime Minister released a video message and urged all countrymen to switch off their lights for 9 minutes at 9 pm on April 5. He urged all citizens to light diyas, candles or flash the light of their phones as a sign of solidarity in these tough times.“I want nine minutes of your time on April 5 at 9 pm. Switch off all the lights of your homes and stand with candles, diyas, torches or flashlights of your mobile phone for nine minutes,” Modi said in his video message.“We have to move towards the light from the darkness created by the coronavirus,” he said.On Saturday, the health ministry updated the number of Covid-19 cases in the country to 2,902 including 2,650 active cases, 183 patients who have recovered and 68 fatalities.India entered the eleventh of the 3-week coronavirus lockdown on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-reviews-nationwide-covid-19-preparedness-directs-authorities-to-ensure-enough-supplies/story-HOIGp2DA3lBPMMSHuocmeJ.html
04-04-2020||India||Coronavirus Update: Maharashtra lockdown extension after April 14 depends on people, says Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Saturday the decision to extend the lockdown in the state, which will end on April 14, depends on people.Uddhav Thackeray’s comment on the 21-day nationwide lockdown announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi comes after Rajesh Tope, the state’s health minister, said Maharashtra is likely to extend the lockdown beyond April 14.Rajesh Tope had said Mumbai and other urban areas could see the lockdown extension by two more weeks.Maharashtra is the country’s worst-affected state and reported 47 new cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, which has taken the number of coronavirus patients to 537.Mumbai has the highest number of Covid-19 patients in the western state, which saw its first case on March 9, and has reported at least 20 deaths.There are 28 Covid-19 patients in Mumbai, 15 in Thane district, two in Pune and one each in Amravati and Pimpri Chinchwad, officials said on Saturday.“The number of patients in the state is rising as we have strengthened our capacity and testing more people,” Thackeray said.The chief minister also asked people to limit their movement outside their houses. He said people should use a mask if they step out to buy essential commodities.Thackeray also asked those suffering with symptoms such as pneumonia, cough, cold and fever not to visit private doctor or hospital. Instead, he suggested, they could visit dedicated hospitals started by the state government to treat patients infected with Covid-19.No religious, political and sports event will be allowed in the state till further orders, he declared.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-maharashtra-lockdown-extension-after-april-14-depends-on-people-says-uddhav-thackeray/story-hvU1ytpyJBf5mklQR8CgqO.html
04-04-2020||India||How PM Modi turned railway coaches into Covid-19 isolation wards||The day India observed Janta curfew to prevent the coronavirus disease from taking hold, Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked Railways Minister Piyush Goyal to think about how India could use the railways to not just treat patients but also get them to speciality hospitals. This was on March 22. The lockdown came 2 days later. PM Modi had been thinking five steps ahead.His key concern at this discussion was how to contain the Covid-19 spread in case the virus spread to rural communities with hardly any serious hospital infrastructure to treat respiratory distress.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageThis was long before tens of thousands of migrant workers in Delhi and other cities of the country violated the national lockdown to head back home, sparking fears that they might end up spreading the unsparing Sars-CoV-2 pathogen into rural communities.PM Modi had figured it was inevitable that there would always be people who, despite the government’s best efforts, would not adhere to the lockdown. And the government should be prepared. It was at this discussion that the idea of turning railway coaches into isolation wards crystallised.These coaches, or mobile isolation wards, could be used to reach most parts of the country in case of a spurt of patients from any particular pocket. The railways has over 7,300 stations across the 700-plus districts in the country. That also means that a railway station would, on average, be closer than a locality’s district headquarters. “That is the reach of the railways that this idea seeks to leverage,” a top railways ministry official said.Also read: 800-plus foreign Jamaat workers found hiding in Delhi mosques, trigger Covid-19 alarmThe prototype of the railway isolation ward was ready in just a few days. It was innovative and easy to implement.Each carriage could hold 16 beds with some basic modifications. In phase one, the 16 zonal railways have started converting 5,000 coaches with 80,000 beds across the country. Like the Southern Railways that has been told to convert 573 coaches.In all, a total of 20,000 such coaches with 3.2 lakh beds have been identified for conversion, should the need arise.The government has also been also using the railways to carry trucks as an expansion of the existing Roll On-Roll Off (RO-RO) services to reach essential communities to remote areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-before-the-lockdown-pm-modi-had-rural-covid-19-containment-plan-ready/story-4UMGWTAKDr9dtRPRriWvQK.html
04-04-2020||India||No post lockdown resumption of passenger services announced: Railways||The Ministry of Railways on Saturday said it hasn’t yet issued any plan on the resumption of services after the 21-day coronavirus lockdown comes to an end. The ministry, in a tweet, said that all concerned would be informed about updates regarding the same.“Certain media reports have come on a post lockdown “restoration plan” with train details, frequency etc. It is to clarify that no such plan regarding the resumption of passenger services has been issued. All concerned would be duly informed about any further decision in this regard,” the tweet read. Certain media reports have come on a post lockdown "restoration plan" with train details,frequency etc. It is to clarify that no such plan regarding the resumption of passenger services has been issued.All concerned would be duly informed about any further decision in this regardThe ministry, however, started operating parcel trains to carry milk, essential commodities, fast moving consumer goods. Two such parcel trains carrying essential commodities including rice and wheat arrived in Nagpur from Uttar Pradesh on earlier this week. The railways ministry has asked Western Railway to operate parcel trains between New Delhi and Mumbai if required.Earlier in the day, the government issued an order putting curbs on export of diagnostic kits with immediate effect.“The export of diagnostic kits (diagnostic or laboratory reagents on a backing, preparation diagnostic or laboratory reagents)... is restricted with immediate effect,” the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) said in a notification.The number of coronavirus patients in the count has gone up to near the 3,000 mark. On Saturday, the Minister of Health said that there are 2,950 Covid-19 cases in the country including 2,650 active cases, 183 recovered patients and 68 fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-post-lockdown-resumption-of-passenger-services-announced-railways/story-V3FuMzQFYdVVpXzp3VRQMJ.html
04-04-2020||India||What PM Modi’s call for switching off lights means for the grid||Power grid managers have said they are gearing up for ensuring grid stability after Prime Minister Narendra Modi gave a call to citizens all across the country to switch off their lights for nine minutes at 9pm on Sunday, April 5.“Please switch off the lights of your house — and then either at the door, or in the balcony of your house, please light a candle, a diya, or flash the mobile phone light. That light will show that no one is alone,” the Prime Minister said in a video message on Friday morning.Modi also emphasised that no one should gather outside or go out on the streets and end up undermining the norm of social distancing.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageWhat’s the concern?Prime Minister’s call to switch off lights could lead to power fluctuation on the grid, which has already seen an unprecedented dip in demand during the lockdown period since March 25.A sudden change in grid frequency could lead to a potential power blackout with a dip of 30% in demand for power due to the absence of commercial activity in the wake of the 21-day lockdown across the country.The Union power ministry’s data for April 2 show that peak demand stood at 125.8 GW amid the lockdown to contain the Covid-19 outbreak or 25% lower than 168.3 GW for the same day last year.Experts have also warned about the possible adverse impact of millions of households switching off, and then switching on, lights on Sunday night almost simultaneously.“This is absolutely unprecedented. If this is effectively implemented, then we are looking at an impact of 10-15GW of load going down and coming back again which will have a very severe impact on the grid. I am not aware of any event before leading to such a sharp fluctuation before,” Vinay Rustagi, managing director at renewable energy consultancy Bridge to India Energy Private Limited, said. Rustagi said it will need careful management and replanting. “They will have to judicially use hydro and gas power plants to come back and curtail risk,” he added.What does the power ministry say?The Union power ministry has pointed out that the Prime Minister’s has appealed people to just switch off lights in their houses.The minister said apprehensions that the nine-minute exercise may cause instability in the grid and fluctuation in voltage which may harm the electrical appliances are misplaced.“The Indian electricity grid is robust and stable and adequate arrangements and protocols are in place to handle the variation in demand,” it said.Street lights or appliances like computers, televisions, fans, refrigerators and ACs in homes will run, as usual, it said.“The lights in hospitals and all other essential services like public utilities, municipal services, offices, police stations, manufacturing facilities, etc will remain on. The call given by Hon’ble PM is to just switch off lights in residences. All local bodies have been advised to keep the street lights on for public safety,” it said.What are the authorities doing?Union power ministry officials have said they are confident of managing the situation on Sunday night.Union power minister RK Singh and senior officials from Power Grid Corporation of India Limited (PGCIL) and grid operator POSOCO National Load Despatch Centre have met to thrash out a plan to deal with the situation.“The minister discussed the issue with PGCIL and load dispatcher in the meeting. Since we are in an unprecedented situation with low demand during the lockdown, we are closely monitoring the health of the grid. They have said they are confident of managing the grid stability for the event and have been told to ensure blackout doesn’t occur,” a senior official said requesting anonymity.“We are making arrangements since the event is known to us in advance. The current peak load of the country stands at around 120GW; of this domestic household lighting comprises of 12-15 GW and we will need to manage and monitor this 15GW of fluctuation,” a second government official said.Several states are also preparing to ensure there is no pressure on the grid during that nine-minute period throughout the country.Grid managers in states such as Gujarat, Maharashtra, Punjab, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh though their respective state load despatch centres (SLDCs) are preparing for sudden dip and surge in their power grids. They have issued advisories to their respective electricity boards.Reports said Uttar Pradesh’s load despatch centre has predicted that there will be a 3000MW sharp load reduction in the state starting 9pm on Sunday. It has suggested load shedding operations could be started in a staggered manner at 8pm on Sunday and keep generation at a technical minimum, according to reports.This will be ramped back up after the scheduled blackout after nine miniutes. Has this happened before?India had witnessed severe power outages due to the collapse of northern and eastern electricity transmission grid in July 2012.“This is unlike the blackout of 2012 which resulted in the failure of the grid. Since they know the exact timing, it will be easy to manage the grid,” an industry expert said, according to news agency PTI.“Moreover, only households will switch off the lights. However, other establishments and street lights will continue to draw electricity during that time,” the expert added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-call-for-switching-off-lights-what-it-really-means-for-the-grid/story-wws8XsGcyTnXzdDY2IuwbJ.html
04-04-2020||India||Mumbai: Shivaji Park resident with no travel history tests Covid-19 positive||A 60-year-old resident of Shivaji Park in Mumbai’s Dadar with no travel history tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Saturday. This is the first Covid-19 case reported from Dadar. The patient has been admitted to PD Hinduja National Hospital and Medical Research Centre. Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageThe Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) authorities are tracing the patient’s contacts. The civic authorities have sealed the building and a sanitisation drive of the premises is going on. The residents of the building have been home quarantined. They have been directed not to move out of their homes until the test results of the patient’s high-risk contacts are available. Maharashtra reported 490 Covid-19 positive cases, including 74 new ones, and 26 deaths till Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-shivaji-park-resident-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-y6XomD7lZXebu2HejU5hQM.html
04-04-2020||India||Coronavirus: Cloth, scissors, sewing machine - Govt’s DIY guide on making masks at home||The Ministry of Health and Family Affairs on Saturday issued an advisory on homemade protective covers and face mask.In an easy guide, the ministry’s manual explained who all can use the homemade protective masks and ways to easily make them at home in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak.In the advisory, the government said that the use of masks will help in protecting the community at large from coronavirus.“Certain countries have claimed benefits of homemade face cover for the general public. Such homemade face cover is a good method for maintaining personal hygiene. Such usage certainly will help in maintaining overall hygienic health conditions,” the advisory read.As per the manual, those who aren’t suffering from any medical condition or don’t have any breathing difficulty may use homemade face covers and masks, especially while stepping out. #IndiaFightsCoronavirus :The Advisory and Manual Use of Homemade Protective Cover for Face and Mask can be seen at:https://t.co/Dj8ojLRfXQ@PMOIndia @drharshvardhan @AshwiniKChoubey @PIBFactCheck @COVIDNewsByMIB @MIB_India @DDNewslive @airnewsalerts @IndiaDST @PTI_NewsThese masks and face covers are not recommended for Covid-19 patients or those involved in their care including healthcare workers and medical professionals.The government recommends making two sets of these covers and masks so that while one is in use, the other can be washed.“These face covers could be made out of clean cloth available at home, which needs to be thoroughly cleaned and washed before a face cover is stitched/made. The face cover should be prepared in such a manner that it can cover the mouth and nose completely and can be tied over the face easily,” the advisory read.The manual also lays down steps to make these face covers and masks at home using just clean strips of cloth and a sewing machine.Another annexure shows how a handkerchief and a couple of elastic bands can be used to make a temporary face cover. On Saturday, the health ministry updated the number of Covid-19 cases in the country to 2,902 including 2,650 active cases, 183 patients who have recovered and 68 fatalities. The country entered the eleventh of the 3-week coronavirus lockdown on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-cloth-scissors-sewing-machine-govt-issues-manual-on-making-masks-at-home/story-JBL5ilrO3k211NIFDb6h4O.html
04-04-2020||India||Latest coronavirus updates in Maharashtra: With 47 new cases, state now has 537 Covid-19 patients||Maharashtra’s health department on Saturday reported 47 new cases of Covid-19, including 28 from Mumbai, and said the number of coronavirus disease patients has risen to 537 in the state.Among the rest of Covid-19 patients, 15 are in Thane district, two in Pune and one each in Amravati and Pimpri Chinchwad, officials said.Mumbai has once again emerged as the worst affected by the coronavirus disease in the western state, which saw its first case on March 9, and reported at least 20 deaths.The city’s administration has deployed 474 teams across 241 containment zones and checked at least 900,000 people as part of its plan to stop the spread of the Sars-Cov-2 virus through human-to-human contact. A team, with two or three staff from Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), has to identify a containment zone, where at least one person has tested positive for Covid-19. They have to conduct door-to-door surveys and get a questionnaire answered by all residents of that zone. The Covid-19 patient’s family and the building are identified as a cluster zone and at least four to five adjoining buildings on all sides are mapped in the containment zone, depending on the area’s population density. The greater the population density, the wider the radius of containment zone, a BMC health official said on Friday.Also read: Coronavirus can spread through just breathing, talking, say scientistsAccording to BMC protocol, the family and immediate neighbours of positive patients are tested, as they are considered high risk. Other residents of the building are considered low risk and are simply asked to be in home quarantine. They are also asked to keep a tab on emerging symptoms. Residents of adjoining buildings in the containment zone are also surveyed. Entry and exit from a containment zone is restricted and severe lockdown protocols are put in place.Across all other districts in Maharashtra, however, clusters are identified only if at least three persons are found to be Covid-19 positive in the area. Following that, an area of 3 sq km is screened.Maharashtra is also tracing the members of the Tablighi Jamaat, who attended an event in Delhi’s Nizamuddin Markaz in March.The state government has been able to contact 1033 people out of 1225 who went to Nizamuddin Markaz and put 738 in government quarantine facilities.Maharashtra on Friday traced seven people—two each in Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and Ahmednagar and one in Hingoli district—who attended the Tablighi Jamaat event and have tested positive.Maharashtra government has also said it may not end the lockdown on April 14, when the nationwide restrictions announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi are set to be lifted. Rajesh Tope, the state’s health minister, has said the government is likely to extend the lockdown by a couple of more weeks, especially in Mumbai and other urban areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-47-new-covid-19-cases-maharashtra-now-has-537-coronavirus-patients/story-Qg8wzTKpWDfIz90SdPEOOP.html
04-04-2020||India||Woman dies of Covid-19 in Ahmedabad; Gujarat death toll rises to 10||A woman, who had contracted Covid-19, has died in Gujarat’s Ahmedabad, taking the death toll because of the coronavirus disease in the state to 10, reports said on Saturday.Ten more people have tested positive for Covid-19 in Gujarat, which now has 105 patients of the respiratory illness, news agency ANI said.A man from Bhavnagar, who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area, is also among the dead in the state.News agency PTI said police have traced 19 more people who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in March. Shivanand Jha, the director-general of police, said all the 19 are residents of Ahmedabad city and have been sent to quarantine facilities.Also read: What you need to know todayOf the 103 Tablighi Jamaat members identified and quarantined so far, 57 are from Ahmedabad, 20 from Bhavnagar, 12 from Mehsana, eight from Surat, four from Botad and two from Navsari. Police are searching for others from the state who might have attended the gathering at Nizamuddin Markaz last month but did not disclose it to authorities, Jha said.One of the Tablighi Jamaat participants traced in the state on Friday has already been diagnosed as coronavirus positive and admitted to a hospital in Ahmedabad, Jha said.The congregation in the Nizamuddin area of Delhi has become a hotspot of the coronavirus infection.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-dies-of-covid-19-in-ahmedabad-gujarat-death-toll-rises-to-10/story-Sb7JDr0sjPm6wxjRlXZ7jI.html
04-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Karnataka CM tells employers not to cut salaries||Karnataka Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Saturday requested employers not to cut the salaries of their employees amid the Covid-19 lockdown“I request all the employers not to cut salaries of their maids, servants, drivers etc.. who are not able to work due to social distancing,” tweeted Yediyurappa.He said such a compassionate gesture will support the poor and needy to overcome this hard time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-karnataka-cm-tells-employers-not-to-cut-salaries/story-0CEsLGDaljMRHYnSdJbfiJ.html
04-04-2020||India||At least 10 infected with Covid-19 after attending mass feast in Madhya Pradesh||At least 10 people tested coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive after attending a mass feast in Morena—located about 465 kilometres north of Madhya Pradesh’s capital Bhopal—on March 20 amid fears of more likely to have been infected, district officials said.They contracted the SARS-CoV-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, from a man, who works as a waiter in Dubai, said officials in Morena.The waiter and his wife were the first to test Covid-19 positive on Thursday after the mass feast, which was organised on March 20 because of his mother’s death. He returned home from Dubai on March 17 and organised the feast three days later, as part of the rituals of the shraddh ceremony. Up to 8,00 people are believed to have attended the feast, including his relatives, the officials said.Though he had developed Covid-19 symptoms after he returned from Dubai he still visited his relatives and acquaintances’ houses to invite them for the feast in line with prevailing customs.On March 25, he and his wife visited the hospital but were admitted four days later after their condition worsened.Initially, the couple was quarantined and they tested Covid-19 positive on Thursday. Then, 10 others, who attended the feast, also tested positive. They include the waiter’s brother, his wife, their son and daughter-in-law and their two children—a six-month-old baby and a three-year-old toddler. The other four persons are from the waiter’s sister’s family.“Out of the 32 swab samples sent for Covid-19 test, 12 were found positive. All of them are undergoing treatment in hospital. We’ve put 33 people under quarantine,” said RC Bandil, chief medical and health officer (CMHO), Morena.“The number of fresh Covid-19 positive cases is likely to be much higher. We’re trying to contact each and every person who attended the feast, or those who’re invited by the waiter in person but couldn’t attend the function. It’s quite difficult to trace all those who attended the feast, or he had invited for the occasion because many of them have returned to their respective native places. Besides, people aren’t volunteering with information as they’re scared of being admitted to hospital,” said an administrative officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-least-10-infected-with-covid-19-after-attending-mass-feast-in-madhya-pradesh/story-iscuXnh2EriZm4esc1nSrJ.html
04-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 1 pm: Covid-19 statewise tally: Tamil Nadu, Delhi outnumber coronavirus cases in Kerala and all the latest news at this hour||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19 statewise tally: Tamil Nadu, Delhi outnumber coronavirus cases in KeralaIndia on Saturday entered the eleventh of the 3-week coronavirus lockdown. On Saturday, the health ministry updated the number of Covid-19 cases in the country to 2,902 including 2,650 active cases, 183 patients who have recovered and 68 fatalities. Read more259 of 386 Covid-19 cases in national capital have Markaz link: Delhi health ministerDelhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Saturday said that as many as 386 people have been tested positive for coronavirus in Delhi of which 259 are from Markaz in Nizamuddin. Read moreOdisha CM urges Jamaat attendees to come forward and get tested for Covid-19A day after Odisha recorded a four-fold jump in COVID-19 cases, Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik on Saturday appealed to all who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Nizamuddin to come forward and get tested for coronavirus. Read moreSelf-care during quarantine is important for a healthy mind and body, here are a few tipsThese are unprecedented times. While we all battle our inner conflicts and the invisible beast that is claiming precious lives around the world, we are left with no choice to stay home and stay apart to beat the coronavirus pandemic. Read more‘He was magic’: Rohit Sharma picks best coach he has played underTeam India opener Rohit Sharma has named former Australia captain Ricky Ponting to be the best coach he has played under. In 2013, Ponting was captain of Mumbai Indians, but he stepped aside after half way through the season and this gave Rohit the opportunity to take the mantle forward. Read moreSaif Ali Khan says mom Sharmila Tagore lockdown attitude scares him: ‘She is suddenly saying she has had full life, no regrets’Actor Saif Ali Khan is in self-isolation with actor wife Kareena Kapoor Khan and their son Taimur at their Mumbai residence. He is away from his mother and veteran actor Sharmila Tagore, who lives in Delhi. Read moreThis app is helping Bengaluru locate essential supplies amid lockdownWith the 21-day Covid lockdown disrupting supply chain since March 25, a city-based techie developed an application (app) to enable the people locate essential supplies in the neighbourhood. Read moreThis sneaky doggo’s acting may remind you of your teenage years. WatchSome of you may remember being a teen and doing a few things you weren’t meant to be at those late-night hours. You may also remember how your heart would beat faster and how your palms would get clammy when that doorknob softly turned to announce the unexpected arrival of a parent. This doggo is feeling exactly that emotion and has the swiftest reaction to this intruder. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1-pm-covid-19-statewise-tally-tamil-nadu-delhi-outnumber-coronavirus-cases-in-kerala-and-all-the-latest-news-at-this-hour/story-0yk8v1VXrR9ChKCgErjMdL.html
04-04-2020||India||Coronavirus crisis: Govt puts curbs on exports of diagnostic kits with immediate effect||In the wake of the coronavirus outbreak, the government on Saturday put curbs on export of diagnostic kits with immediate effect.“The export of diagnostic kits (diagnostic or laboratory reagents on a backing, preparation diagnostic or laboratory reagents)... is restricted with immediate effect,” the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) said in a notification.The move would help in dealing with the Covid-19 crisis as these kits are required for testing of patients.This comes as the number of Covid-19 cases in the country near 3,000 with 2,650 active cases, 183 recovered patients and 68 fatalities.The government is also trying to bolster the healthcare infrastructure to manage the coronavirus crisis and increase the number of protective equipment and essentials to facilitate the fight against Covid-19.Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Saturday said that the national capital is facing a shortage of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). “We have only 7000-8000 PPE (Personal Protective Equipment) kits left in our stock which will last 2-3 days. We’ve demanded 50,000 PPE kits on an urgent basis,” the minister told news agency ANI.The national capital is now the third most affected in the country after Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu with 386 cases.Delhi health minister said that of the total number of coronavirus patients in the national capital, over 250 people have links with the Markaz in Nizamuddin.   City’s Lok Nayak Jay Prakash and GB Pant Hospital will be converted into dedicated Covid-19 management center from Monday.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-crisis-govt-puts-curbs-on-exports-of-diagnostic-kits-with-immediate-effect/story-L0a0cQ9fgj3OhLRSt6S0mJ.html
04-04-2020||India||Coronavirus lockdown: Deve Gowda appeals to PM Modi to look into issues of farmers, labourers||Former prime minister H D Deve Gowda has appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to look into the plight of farmers, labourers and the middle class people as the impact of the 21-day nationwide lockdown has been the most on them. “In such times of crisis, we should see to it that there is no disruption in farming activities by ensuring proper marketing channels to agricultural produce, especially perishables. Only then we can sustain our long battle against this pandemic,” Gowda tweeted. In another tweet, he said, “The savings of daily wage labourers and the middle class is deteriorating day by day. Some are not able to afford even essentials for their survival. I request Hon’ble PM to look into this situation with utmost urgency”. The former prime minister also drew the attention of “overcrowding” at the isolation centres. “There is an immediate need to increase ‘testing’ for #COVID19. Increased testing will avoid overcrowding of Government isolation centers,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-lockdown-deve-gowda-appeals-to-pm-modi-to-look-into-issues-of-farmers-labourers/story-W5JVJnybW1b0gS6ZhwIH2L.html
04-04-2020||India||259 of 386 Covid-19 cases in national capital have Markaz link: Delhi health minister||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Saturday said that as many as 386 people have been tested positive for coronavirus in Delhi of which 259 are from Markaz in Nizamuddin.Jain said that the administration has quarantined around 600 people associated with the Markaz in the past two days.“We are trying to trace all contacts,” the minister added.Jain also talked about the shortage of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE).“We have only 7000-8000 PPE (Personal Protective Equipment) kits left in our stock which will last 2-3 days. We’ve demanded 50,000 PPE kits on an urgent basis,” the minister told news agency ANI.Till now, there are 386 Coronavirus positive patients incl 259 from Markaz Nizamuddin; We have only 7000-8000 PPE (Personal Protective Equipment) kits left in our stock which will last 2-3 days. We've demanded 50,000 PPE kits on urgent basis: Delhi Health Minister Satyendra Jain pic.twitter.com/u82icGZh0UThe number of positive Covid-19 cases in the national capital is third highest in the country after Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu.On Saturday, the Ministry of Health updated the Covid-19 cases in the country to 2,902 including 2,650 active cases, 183 patients who have recovered and 68 fatalities. With 423 Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra has registered the highest number of coronavirus cases in the country. Tamil Nadu has the second-highest number of coronavirus cases in the country with 411 patients.The coronavirus pandemic has infected over a million people across the globe and has claimed nearly 60,000 lives.While the original epicentre, China, is slowly limping back to recovery, the virus continues to wreak havoc in Europe and in the United States. On Saturday, China mourned those in the country who lost their lives in the battle against coronavirus. The country observed a nationwide three-minute silence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/259-of-386-covid-19-cases-in-national-capital-have-markaz-link-delhi-health-minister/story-DudiEj4puqlAfXT432vXhL.html
04-04-2020||India||Delhi hospital staff come in contact with 2 Covid-19 patients,108 quarantined||More than 100 members, including doctors and nurses, of Delhi’s Sir Ganga Ram Hospital have been quarantined after they came in contact with two people, who tested positive in their second test for Covid-19. A spokesperson of the hospital said of the 108 members, 85 have been placed under home quarantine and 23 are in the hospital.The spokesperson said that two patients came to the hospital’s fever clinic, with no other symptoms, about three to four days ago.“As per hospital policy all fever cases are being referred for Covid-19 testing. After their reports returned positive for Covid-19, the hospital has quarantined everyone who came in contact with them,” the official said.“One hundred and eight staffers in all, 23 of them who were in direct contact have been quarantined in hospital, and the rest have been placed under home quarantine, as a measure of abundant precaution”.The spokesperson added that one of them had to be taken to the intensive care unit (ICU) and that a lot of staff who came in contact with the Covid-19 patients did not have personal protection equipment (PPE).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sir-ganga-ram-hospital-staff-come-in-contact-with-2-covid-19-patients-108-quarantined/story-OnA0BfcY1lSR5hOIT6jqEK.html
04-04-2020||India||Odisha CM urges Jamaat attendees to come forward and get tested for Covid-19||A day after Odisha recorded a four-fold jump in COVID-19 cases, Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik on Saturday appealed to all who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Nizamuddin to come forward and get tested for coronavirus.“Corona is currently the biggest threat to the human race and to beat it we all need to come together to beat it,” said Patnaik in a written appeal, urging those who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation to come forward for testing for Coronavirus within next 24 hours. “Only through awareness we can break the chain of coronavirus. While there is no need to panic but we do need to be careful. Your cooperation will for the betterment of your own family and the human race.”“I request all the persons from Odisha who attended the event in Nizamuddin to immediately contact toll-free number 104, consult doctors and come forward for corona test within 24 hours,” he added.The government has so far identified 68 persons from Odisha who had attended the congregation at Nizamuddin of which 28 returned while another 40 are still in quarantine in States like Bengal, Bihar, Andhra Pradesh and Gujarat. But government officials believe the numbers may be more as some of them may have clammed up fearing social ostracization. Odisha has so far had 20 confirmed Covid-19 patients of whom two have been cured and discharged from hospital. Of the 18 active cases, three had attended the Nizamuddin event. State capital Bhubaneswar accounted for 14 of the total cases, making the state capital virtually a hot spot for the disease in the state. Three cases were reported from Bhadrak district and one each from Cuttack, Jajpur and Puri, officials said.On Friday, the state government sealed the entry and exit points of Bhubaneswar, Cuttack and Bhadrak and asked people to remain indoors till Sunday night to contain the spread of the virus. The government also warned people of forced quarantine if they came out on the roads defying the shutdown orders. On Saturday, the government sealed off Brahmabarada village in Jajpur district where a world religious conference was held between February 29 and March 3.Officials said Maulana Muhammad Saad Kandhalvi, the national chief of Tablighi Jamaat (now untraceable) had visited Brahmabarada village in Jajpur district of Odisha along with 40 others from Nizamuddin between February 29 and March 3 to address a Biswa Ijtema (religious gathering). The meeting was attended by at least 50 jamaats from different states of the country.With inputs from agencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-cm-urges-jamaat-attendees-to-come-forward-and-get-tested-for-covid-19/story-Q7OHcazUty1rUajYaCHcVL.html
04-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: BMC allocates Covid-19 hospitals for elderly, vulnerable||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has earmarked several hospitals in Mumbai for the admission and treatment of people vulnerable to Covid-19, including the elderly and those with pre-existing medical conditions.Mumbai has the highest number of coronavirus disease patients in Maharashtra, which is the worst-affected state in the country. On Friday, 67 new cases were reported taking the number of Covid-19 patients in the state to 490 and deaths to 26.Among the new cases, 43 are from Mumbai, 10 from Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), 9 from Pune, 6 from Ahmednagar, and 1 each from Ratnagiri and Washim. In a standard operating procedure issued on Friday, BMC said the allotted hospitals have the “necessary manpower and infrastructure” to manage Covid-19 patients.“Symptomatic positive patients and referred patients will be shifted admitted to Covid-19 hospitals. Kasturba Hospital, St George Hospital, Seven Hills Hospital, Nanavati Hospital and Saifee Hospital,” it said in a circular on Friday.It also said that those below 60 years of age and are asymptomatic will be taken to six isolation centres. These include the Nagpada Maternity Home STD Clinic building, Maternity Home behind Lilavati Hospital, PWD Guest House in Andheri (West), Diagnostic Centre at Punjab Galli, MCGM Centre for Municipal Capacity Building and Research (MCMCR) in Powai, Urban Health Centre Shivaji Nagar and Mahatma Gandhi Hall Opposite Bandra Talav.“The isolation centres will be managed a doctor and para-medical staff… A police personnel will be available for providing security,” it said.State health minister Rajesh Tope said Maharashtra is likely to extend the lockdown beyond April 14, especially in Mumbai and other urban areas by two more weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-bmc-allocates-covid-19-hospitals-for-elderly-vulnerable/story-unC5BL6mFDxbT4FB3pDo8K.html
04-04-2020||India||Covid-19 statewise tally: Tamil Nadu, Delhi outnumber coronavirus cases in Kerala||India on Saturday entered the eleventh of the 3-week coronavirus lockdown. On Saturday, the health ministry updated the number of Covid-19 cases in the country to 2,902 including 2,650 active cases, 183 patients who have recovered and 68 fatalities. Maharashtra continues to be on the top of the coronavirus tally with over 400 active cases. The national capital saw a dramatic rise in Covid-19 cases and now stands with over 350 cases outnumbering Kerala. Here’s the statewise breakup of coronavirus cases in the country. MaharashtraWith 423 Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra has registered the highest number coronavirus cases in the country. The state has recorded 19 deaths so far while 42 patients have recovered.Tamil NaduIn a dramatic turn of events, the southern state has seen a rapid rise in the Covid-19 cases which now stand at a whopping 411 - second highest in the country. Tamil Nadu has seen six recoveries and one Covid-19 death.DelhiDelhi closely follows with the third-highest number of coronavirus cases in the country. As many as 386 people have tested positive of coronavirus in the national capital. Six people have died from the infection while eight people have made a recovery, as per the health ministry’s data.KeralaWith 295 coronavirus cases, Kerala is the fourth most coronavirus-affected state in the country. As per the latest data by the Ministry of Health, Kerala has witnessed two deaths due to Covid-19 while 41 people have successfully recovered.RajasthanThe state has 179 positive cases of coronavirus with no reported cases of fatalities. Three patients have recovered from the infection.Uttar Pradesh174 people have been infected from Covid-19 in the state. While 19 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, two have died from the infection here.Andhra PradeshThe state has witnessed a sudden spike in its Covid-19 cases. 161 positive Covid-19 patients have been reported in the state and one case of recovery. One person has died.Telangana158 positive cases of coronavirus have been reported from the state so far. One person has made a recovery from the virus while seven people have died from Covid-19.KarnatakaThe state has recorded 128 Covid-19 cases and three deaths. 12 people have been cured and discharged.Madhya PradeshThe state has reported 104 positive cases of coronavirus. Six people have died from Covid-19 here.GujaratPrime Minister Narendra Modi’s home state has registered 95 coronavirus cases and 0 recoveries so far. Nine people have died from the infection in the state.Jammu and KashmirThe union territory of Jammu and Kashmir has seen the number of Covid-19 patients rising to 75. Two people have died from the infection while three were cured.Haryana and PunjabThe neighbouring states have 49 and 53 Covid-19 cases respectively. While 5 people have died in Punjab, Haryana has seen no deaths. Twenty four people have recovered from Covid-19 in Haryana, one in Punjab.Sixty three people have been affected by the Sars-CoV-2 virus in West Bengal. There have been three deaths and three recoveries in the state. In Chandigarh, 18 people have contracted the Covid-19 disease. Andaman has recorded 10 coronavirus cases. Chhattisgarh has recorded nine cases of coronavirus, and three people have recovered. In Bihar, 29 people have tested positive for coronavirus, one has died.Uttarakhand has 16 coronavirus patients, two patients have recovered from the infection. Goa has reported six cases of Covid-19 disease. Himachal Pradesh has six cases, one patient has died and one has recovered. Odisha has five Covid-19 positive patients and Pondicherry has reported five cases, one has recovered.States and Union territories with just one positive Covid-19 case include Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram.India is under a 21-day nationwide coronavirus lockdown announced by PM Modi to break the chain of Covid-19 infection in the country. In a video message released on Friday, the Prime Minister appreciated the discipline shown by the citizens during the lockdown. The 21-day lockdown will end on April 14.Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-statewise-tally-tamil-nadu-delhi-outnumber-coronavirus-cases-in-kerala/story-0REvFXBAGiRcbCwwrpLsoJ.html
04-04-2020||India||2 days after Padma Shri awardee Bhai Nirmal Singh’s death, daughter tests positive for coronavirus||The 35-year-old daughter of Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa (67), a Padma Shri awardee and the former hazoori ragi of Harmandar Sahib, or the Golden Temple, in Amritsar, tested coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive on Saturday morning, two days after the Sikh spiritual singer died of the viral infection. She is undergoing treatment at an isolation ward in Jalandhar’s Civil Hospital.The daughter, a resident of Lohian Khas under Shahkot sub-division in Jalandhar district, came in contact with her father after he had contracted the SARS-Cov-2 virus that causes Covid-19. The Sikh spiritual singer, who tested Covid-19 positive on Wednesday and days after returning from abroad, died the following day.Punjab special chief secretary Karanbir Singh Sidhu tweeted that the late Khalsa’s daughter has tested Covid-19 positive, but the state health department is yet to make any formal announcement. Earlier on Friday, two more close contacts of the deceased spiritual singer tested Covid-19 positive, including his US-returned aunt and another ragi. The infected ragi recently accompanied Khalsa to Chandigarh for a religious congregation. Several others who recently met the late Khalsa, including reputed environmentalist Sant Balbir Singh Seechewal and 16 others, have tested Covid-19 negative. They had met Khalsa at Lohian Khas on March 12, where Seechewal and the local residents were performing desilting of the Satluj river.In Punjab’s Doaba region, which lies between Beas and Satluj rivers, 32 Covid-19 positive cases, including two deaths, have been reported so far.Punjab has reported 59 Covid-19 positive cases, including five deaths, to date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhai-nirmal-singh-s-daughter-tests-positive-for-covid-19-state-tally-touches-59/story-MNwx3AFvJOhjWzC1kBoUmN.html
04-04-2020||India||India likely to release Covid-19 rapid testing guidelines today||New Delhi: The government is likely to release detailed guidelines on the use of point-of-care rapid antibody test (blood test) to diagnose the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The experts of the task force, created by the government to review the country’s Covid-19 test criteria, have been discussing the protocol for the past three days, including how to conduct the test in high-and-low-risk areas, hotspots, etc. Dr Randeep Guleria, director, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi, is presiding over the task force meetings.“The modalities need to thought through, as conducting rapid tests has its own set of pros and cons. All the parameters need to be considered before guidelines can be issued,” said a member of the taskforce, requesting anonymity.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageThe Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the country’s apex biomedical research organisation, on Thursday, had issued an interim advisory for the use of rapid antibody test for Covid-19 in light of the growing number of hotspots across India and sought to enforce preventive containment measures on an urgent basis.“The people living in hotspot areas may be tested using a rapid antibody test. Antibody positives to be confirmed by RT-PCR (real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, one of the most accurate laboratory methods for detecting, tracking, and studying Covid-19) using throat/nasal swab and antibody negatives to be quarantined at home,” said the ICMR advisory.“It is meant for getting quicker results when a larger number of people need to be tested. It will help in knowing the exact disease burden in a short span of time. However, we recommend confirmatory PCR-based test for all positive results,” said an ICMR official, who didn’t wish to be named.Initially, the ICMR had sent out an expression of interest in procuring one million anti-body testing kits from manufacturers across the globe but later revised the figure to 0.5 million because of an acute shortage of supply. The first shipment of these kits is expected to arrive by this weekend.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-likely-to-release-covid-19-rapid-testing-guidelines-today/story-ghru6D2NR5wZg6hzgcogbN.html
04-04-2020||India||Bharat Biotech’s Covid-19 vaccine likely to begin human trials by July||Bharat Biotech, the country’s pandemic vaccine leader, is working on an intranasal vaccine against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) called “CoroFlu”.Bharat Biotech is collaborating with virologists at the University of Wisconsin–Madison and the vaccine company, FluGen, for the project.CoroFlu is in the animal testing phase in the US, and is expected to move to human trials in the next three months.“Bharat Biotech will manufacture the vaccine, conduct clinical trials, and prepare to produce almost 300 million doses of vaccine for global distribution. Under the collaboration agreement, FluGen will transfer its existing manufacturing processes to Bharat Biotech to enable the company to scale up production and produce the vaccine for clinical trials,” said Raches Ella, head, business development, Bharat Biotech.Bharat Biotech has commercialised 16 vaccines, including the one developed against the H1N1 flu that caused the 2009 pandemic.CoroFlu will build on the backbone of FluGen’s flu vaccine candidate known as M2SR, a novel live influenza vaccine that protects mice and ferrets against highly pathogenic avian influenza.Based on an invention by the University of Wisconsin­–Madison virologists and FluGen co-founders Yoshihiro Kawaoka and Gabriele Neumann, M2SR is a self-limiting version of the influenza virus that induces an immune response against the flu.Kawaoka’s lab will insert gene sequences from SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19, into M2SR so that the new vaccine will also induce immunity against the coronavirus.Refinement of the CoroFlu vaccine concept and testing in laboratory animal models at the University of Wisconsin–Madison is expected to take up to months.“Bharat Biotech in Hyderabad will then begin production scale-up for safety and efficacy testing in humans. CoroFlu could be in human clinical trials by October,” said the company in a statement.“Four Phase-I and Phase-II clinical trials involving hundreds of subjects have shown the M2SR flu vaccine to be safe and well-tolerated. This safety profile, M2SR’s ability to induce a strong immune the response, and the ability of influenza viruses to carry sequences of other viruses make M2SR an attractive option for rapidly developing CoroFlu as a safe and effective SARS-CoV-2 vaccine,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-biotech-s-covid-19-vaccine-likely-to-begin-human-trials-by-july/story-6k6ynZAe1HjmYJgoJcOXUO.html
04-04-2020||India||60-year-old Covid-19 patient dies in Bikaner, 12 new cases in Rajasthan||A 60-year-old woman who was coronavirus positive, died in Bikaner on Saturday morning even as 12 new Covid-19 cases were reported from Rajasthan, eight of them were Tablighi Jamaat members. The cumulative positive cases in Rajasthan have now reached 191.Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary, health department said the woman was admitted to the government hospital in Bikaner since the last four days and had no travel history.“The woman was handicapped and was on a ventilator. She died at 6 am today,” said Singh.Meanwhile, another eight Tablighi Jamaat members have tested positive, six in Jhunjhunu and two in Churu, said Singh.Two people tested positive in Banswara. The two were close contacts of a suspect patient who was screened positive but was now confirmed negative, Singh added.An OPD patient from the Bangar hospital in Bhilwara has also tested positive. Bangar hospital was the epicentre of the coronavirus spread in Bhilwara after two doctors who had symptoms of the Sars-Cov2 virus continued to work in the hospital for several days and, in the process, infected scores of staff and patients.The break-up of the 191 positive cases is as follows – total positive cases in the state are 121. Apart from this, two Italian nationals had tested positive, 41 Tablighi Jamaatis have tested positive and 27 evacuees from Iran, who are housed in the Army Wellness Centre in Jodhpur, have tested positive.The total samples received in the state are 8865 of which the total number of negative samples is 8390 while 311 are under process, said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/60-year-old-covid-19-patient-dies-in-bikaner-12-new-cases-in-rajasthan/story-iWbJi1G0FdbCkDaBhefx9N.html
04-04-2020||India||Tablighi Jamaat members should be booked under NSA: Uttarakhand BJP legislator||A Bharatiya Janata Party legislator from Uttarakhand, Rajkumar Thukral, said on Friday members of the Tablighi Jamaat should be booked under the National Security Act (NSA) for allegedly spitting on doctors and misbehaving with nurses.Thukral is heard saying in a video, which went viral on social media, alleged that Tablighi Jamaat members are involved in spreading the coronavirus disease and making the country hollow from inside. He was reacting to reports that some Tablighi Jamaat members misbehaved with the nurses at a hospital in Uttar Pradesh’s Ghaziabad when they taken for check-ups at city hospitals. The Uttar Pradesh government ordered booking of the offenders under the stringent National Security Act on Friday. “It is a conspiracy against our nation that Jamaatis are not only spreading the epidemic but also misbehaving with doctors and nurses in hospitals. The government should order to shoot them, they are behaving as anti-nationals. They are a big threat to our national security,” Thukral, a BJP legislator from Rudrapur area of Udham Singh Nagar, said.Opposition Congress said Thukral’s comments were an attempt of the BJP to “communalise the pandemic to hide its failures in handling it”.“Thukral’s statement is not the first one from a BJP leader. A few days ago, two of its MLAs called for social boycott of Muslims. This is clearly being done according to an agenda. They want to turn this pandemic into Hindu vs Muslim to hide the government’s failure to curb the pandemic,” Suryakant Dhasamana, Congress state vice-president, said.Thukral has been involved in many controversies over the years. In October last year, the BJP had sought an explanation from Thukral over his comments against Muslims in a video, which had surfaced on social media and gone viral. Thukral was allegedly seen in the video telling people at a public gathering in his constituency that he doesn’t need any Muslim votes and will never bow before any Muslim or a mosque. Thukral in his response had said the video was from October 2, 2011, and was shot after communal riots.In the same month, Thukral had sparked another controversy with his comments. He had called Sita ‘Meri Jaan’ on October 1 while playing the role of Ravana in a local Ramlila in Rudrapur. The video of the scene was widely circulated on social media, prompting the Uttarakhand unit of the Congress to attack the BJP and demand action against Thukral. Thukral had justified the dialogue, saying he was just playing the role of Ravana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tablighi-jamaat-members-should-be-booked-under-nsa-uttarakhand-bjp-legislator/story-BToIFRrKSITGzxCiLUuFkN.html
04-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Telangana reports 75 new Covid-19 cases, 2 more deaths||Telangana reported two more deaths and 75 new cases of Covid-19, the highest in a day, on Friday, taking the number of fatalities to 11 and that of patients of the coronavirus disease to 229 in the state.According to the bulletin released by the state medical and health department, the two deaths were reported from Shadnagar in Mahabubnagar district and from Secunderabad.“As many as 75 fresh positive cases of Covid-19 were reported in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of positive cases in the state to 229 so far. However, 32 of them, including 15 since morning, were discharged till now. As such, the actual number of Covid-19 patients presently undergoing treatment in the hospitals is 186,” the bulletin said.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The bulletin, however, did not specify whether the two deaths and the new coronavirus disease cases had any links with the meeting of Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi’s Nizamuddin.However, in her report submitted to the Centre during the video conference earlier, Telangana governor Tamilisai Soundarajan said out of the total number of positive cases recorded in the state, 79 cases were related to the Nizamuddin Markaz meeting.The department also claimed that all the 1030 people who had been identified to have attended the meeting of Tablighi Jamaat in Nizamuddin had been traced.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know today“All the participants and their family members and contacts have been kept in isolation and are being tested for coronavirus,” the health bulletin said.The governor earlier indicated that as many as 435 people who had returned from the Tablighi Jamaat event have been kept in home quarantine and 365 in government quarantine.According to the governor’s report to the Centre, 26,586 people who had a history of foreign travel and their contacts have been kept under home quarantine. Of them, 19,364 have completed their home quarantine period and 7222 are still in quarantine. Also read| Coronavirus can spread through just breathing, talking: Scientists“By April 7, all the home quarantined people would be declared safe,” the report said.The report also said at present six government labs at Gandhi Medical College, Osmania Medical College, Fever Hospital, Nizams Institute of Medical Sciences, Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) and Institute of Preventive Medicine were conducting tests in full scale.“So far, 2400 samples have been tested,” the report said.In all, 12,500 beds in 31 hospitals across the state, including 11,000 isolation beds and 1500 ICU beds have been established for clinical management of Covid-19, the report said.Click here for compete coronavirus coverage||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-telangana-reports-75-new-covid-19-cases-2-more-deaths/story-Q3gjLRl2ndmGT3qtF6AqxI.html
04-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: From boat to jungle, Bengal self isolators find unique places during lockdown||While disturbing images of people violating orders for the lockdown to stop Covid-19 and thronging shops and markets continue to emerge in West Bengal, a handful of people have drawn attention by selecting unique places to live in isolation.At Habibpur in Malda district, 65-year-old Niranjan Haldar was at a loss when he went to visit his niece on Tuesday. Her family would not let him in because of the lockdown and Haldar could not return home since there was no public transport.Local people offered Haldar a rather unique home—a small country boat anchored by a lake. “I am living in the boat since then. Though nobody allowed me to stay in their home the villagers helped me by offering the boat. They also give me food,” Haldar told a local television channel.Three migrant labourers, who returned from Odisha’s Sundargarh to Dhantala in Nadia district, have not entered their homes. Since Tuesday, the skilled carpenters are living inside a forest where they have set up a camp made out of tarpaulin and bamboo. The forest is not far from the village. The men went to Sundargarh district a month and a half ago and decided to return when the coronavirus pandemic started. They rode their bicycles for a few kilometres and then hitchhiked on a cargo vehicle. “They wanted to keep their families safe. They approached us and asked for a tarpaulin, some utensils and ration. They want to complete their 14-day mandatory isolation,” said Madhu Pal, a local villager.In Purulia district, seven young migrant labourers who returned from Chennai on March 24 made news when they decided to live on a tree.With no separate rooms in their homes to isolate themselves, they spent days and nights on a machan, wood and bamboo platform, that was already set up by residents of Bansgarh village to save themselves from wild elephants that often wander into human habitations in this region. The administration came to know of this from local media reports and the men were taken to a government facility.Non-government organisations engaged in distributing free ration are also telling people how crucial social distancing is at this juncture. But rather than putting up posters, Pallimangal, a small NGO based in the Memari area of East Burdwan district, is distributing Ludo boards and dices so that people can play the board game and stay indoors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-from-boat-to-jungle-bengal-self-isolators-find-unique-places-during-lockdown/story-xz0O2jCplQfhkJ8UqpsK0H.html
04-04-2020||India||Press Council advises against publicity, advertisement of AYUSH’s claims on Covid-19||The Press Council of India (PCI) has issued an advisory to media houses to stop and prevent the publicity and advertisement of Ayurvedic, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha, and Homeopathy (AYUSH)-related claims for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) treatment.The PCI issued the advisory on Friday, urging media houses to stop publicity and advertisement of AYUSH-related claims for Covid-19 treatment in a bid to prevent dissemination of misleading information about AYUSH drugs and services in light of the emerging nationwide threat because of the viral outbreak.Healthcare professionals have raised concerns about claims of cure and prevention being made online and disseminated via social media platforms.On Wednesday, the Union AYUSH Ministry had directed all Ayurvedic, Siddha, Unani and Homoeopathic (ASU&H) Regulatory Authorities in states and Union Territories to stop and prevent publicity and advertisement of AYUSH-related claims for Covid-19 treatment in print, television and electronic media.The ministry had called for necessary action against persons or agencies involved in contravening the relevant legal provisions and the guidelines of the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pci-asks-print-media-to-stop-publicity-advertisement-of-ayush-s-covid-19-related-claims/story-8JIQhI6q5bz3aCvqRA0UjN.html
04-04-2020||India||PM Modi, Netanyahu explore collaborative ways to fight Covid-19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday had a telephonic conversation with his Israeli counterpart Benjamin Netanyahu. The leaders talked about the prevailing coronavirus situation and ways to deal with it.“Had a telephone conversation with PM @netanyahu. We spoke about the situation arising due to COVID-19 and ways to fight the pandemic,” the Prime Minister tweeted out. The leaders talked about ways in which both countries can collaborate to fight the pandemic, “including by improving availability of pharmaceutical supplies and by innovative use of high technology,” the official release read.The leaders agreed upon maintaining a “focused channel of communication to explore such synergies”. Had a telephone conversation with PM @netanyahu. We spoke about the situation arising due to COVID-19 and ways to fight the pandemic. https://t.co/NxdEO411b9Israel’s health ministry on Thursday said that their health minister, who has had frequent contact with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, is observing self-isolation after he tested positive for coronavirus. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has urged the citizens to show solidarity in these difficult times and switch off lights for 9 minutes on April 5 at 9 pm. The Prime Minister has asked everyone to bring out and light candles, diyas and flashlights during the 9-minute blackout.“I want nine minutes of your time on April 5 at 9 pm. Switch off all the lights of your homes and stand with candles, diyas, torches or flashlights of your mobile phone for nine minutes,” Modi said in his video message.“We have to move towards the light from the darkness created by the coronavirus,” he said.Coronavirus cases in the country have seen a rapid rise this week. On Friday, the number of total Covid-19 patients climbed to 2,547 which includes 2,322 active cases, 162 patients who have recovered and 62 fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-israeli-pm-netanyahu-explore-collaborative-ways-to-fight-covid-19/story-MpC5q0njW8Mg4chmMpzmcI.html
04-04-2020||India||Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital seeks details of WhatsApp group admins to deal with fake news on Covid-19||Authorities in Delhi’s Safdarjang Hospital have asked administrators of all WhatsApp groups in the institute for their details as a measure to stop the spread of fake news about Covid-19, the coronavirus disease, on social media.The staff of the Vardhman Mahavir Medical College attached to the Safdarjang Hospital will also have to furnish the details, according to a circular dated April 3, which will be forwarded to the police.“This is required to prevent spreading of any fake news, rumor, or any other adverse comments/statements on social media and in the institution by any hospital/college staff, Therefore you are requested to submit names, mobiles numbers, email of all admin of WhatsApp groups pertaining to hospital staff in the office,” Dr Prem Kumar, additional superintendent, said in the circular. Junior doctors say the authorities took the call in the wake of rumours over pay cuts and staff members testing Covid-19 positive doing the rounds on WhatsApp.“This was done to quell fake news. There have been rumours about hospital doctors and staff testing positive, which creates panic. Also, there was another incident where a fake circular was doing the rounds about salary deduction for Covid-19,” Dr Manish Kumar, president of the resident doctors’ association, said.“We had written to the authorities in response to that and were told that the order is fake,” added.Several people have been arrested across the country for sharing Covid-19 rumours on WhatsApp groups.According to a report, two doctors in Maharashtra’s Aurangabad were booked in March for spreading false news about a Covid-19 patient through their WhatsApp group.India has reported 2322 Covid-19 cases, including 162 people who have been discharged and 62 deaths, till Friday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-s-safdarjung-hospital-seeks-details-of-whatsapp-group-admins-to-deal-with-fake-news-on-covid-19/story-wudbULLfAq0qVqb6nXILLN.html
04-04-2020||India||Virus count hits 3k, businesses seek faster payments: Covid-19 news from India||India’s Covid-19 count crossed 3,000 on Friday, primarily driven up by the detection of hundreds of patients who attended Islamic missionary group Tablighi Jamaat’s gathering in Delhi’s Nizamuddin in March. At least 647 people among the thousands who attended the congregation have been found Covid-19 positive, the government said. With the virus having a deep impact on the economy, businesses are expecting the government to roll out a fiscal package of the same magnitude as the one unveiled by the US (equivalent to around 10 per cent of GDP). They are also hoping the Centre and states, various administrative departments and companies and utilities owned by states will expedite payments owed to them.India’s Covid-19 cases go up to 3k, largely driven by Tablighi Jamaat attendeesThe jump in infections – from 2,520 on Thursday to 3,066 on Friday – is largely driven by the diagnosis of hundreds of patients who attended the congregation of the Tablighi Jamaat, a Muslim missionary group, in New Delhi’s Nizamuddin last month in a violation of several restrictions. Read more.PM Modi pushes symbolic measure to deal with Covid-19, government does substantive reviewIn a symbolic move on the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday gave a call to citizens to switch off the lights in their homes and light oil lamps, candles, and flash their mobile phone torches on April 5 at 9pm, for nine minutes. Read more.Scientists, regulators do double shifts to keep upIn February, a small team of 24 people in the R&D division of Pune-based Mylab Discovery Solutions started working 24x7 to develop a kit to test for Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes coronavirus disease (Covid-19), when it became obvious that no country would escape unscathed. Read more.Covid-19: What you need to know todayOn Friday, news reports in the US said the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) was considering asking all Americans to wear masks, even if made only of cloth, when they went out. Read more.As states struggle to distribute ration, demand for work surgesSita Kumari, 26, visits the local ration shop daily to get her family’s share of government-subsidised foodgrains under the public distribution system. Everyday she returns home empty-handed. Although the Jharkhand government has announced the distribution of subsidised rations for April and May together, her family hasn’t received theirs even for March. Read more.900k people, 241 zones: Mumbai’s mega plan to fight Covid-19The worst Covid-19-affected city in India has activated 474 teams across 241 containment zones and checked at least 900,000 people as part of its plan to stop the spread of the Sars-Cov-2 virus through human-to-human contact. Read more.Amid Covid-19 crisis, Indian firms hope for quick payments of dues by govtIndia’s businesses are expecting the government to roll out a fiscal relief and stimulus package of the same magnitude as the one unveiled by the US -- equivalent to around 10% of GDP -- but are also hoping the Centre and states, various administrative departments, state-owned companies and utilities will accelerate payments owed to them as they battle an economic crisis of never-seen-before proportions. Read more.Coronavirus-infected woman delivers healthy baby boy at AIIMS DelhiA woman diagnosed with Covid-19 on Thursday delivered a healthy baby boy at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) on Friday afternoon. She is married to a 28-year-old senior resident from the physiology department, who also tested positive for the viral infection on the same day. Read more.Lockdown does what decades of schemes couldn’t: Clean GangaThe nationwide 21-day lockdown to combat the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is doing what ambitious schemes could not do over the decades—cleaning the Ganga. Read more.Anxiety and a lot of time to study for students stuck in coaching hub KotaRashi Todani, 19, one of the around-40,000 students stranded in the coaching hub of Kota, sees a silver lining to the nationwide lockdown. Read more.Covid-19 update: How offices, malls have turned sleepy due to lockdownIndians have reduced visits to recreational and retail spots such as restaurants, malls and movie theatres by 77% following the lockdown over the Covid-19 pandemic, movement at mass transit stations has dropped 71% while movement in places of residence has increased by 22%, according to an analysis of location data published by internet search giant Google on Friday. Read more.‘Action will follow if platforms don’t act against fake news’: Ravi Shankar PrasadUnion minister Ravi Shankar Prasad has warned of strict action against those spreading fake news about the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. In an interview with Smriti Kak Ramachandran, Prasad also spoke about the 21-day lockdown imposed to halt the pandemic, delivery of essential supplies and other related issues. Read more.From Joginder Sharma to Gagan Ajit Singh: Former India athletes on COVID-19 frontlineFormer boxer Akhil Kumar was sitting in his official vehicle on the Delhi-Jaipur highway when he noticed a family of migrant workers walking with their luggage on their heads. Apart from the luggage, the man was also carrying his daughter in his arms. Read more.Centre releases Rs 17,287 crore to statesThe Union government on Friday released Rs 17,287 crore to the states a day after meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a video conference on which cash-strapped states urgently sought funds to combat the disease coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic and its aftermath. Read more.Coronavirus in Kerala: How a young IAS officer helped Pathanamthitta fight Covid-19Pathanamthitta, a hilly district in central Travancore region in Kerala and home to the Sabarimala shrine was among the first sites in the country where coronavirus spread after a family that had returned from Italy tested positive for Covid-19 in early March. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/virus-count-hits-3k-businesses-seek-faster-payments-covid-19-news-from-india/story-v4PErnV8fgOFXlgX0WyngL.html
04-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 AM: Amid Covid-19 crisis, Indian firms hope for quick payments of dues by govt and all the latest news at this hour||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 AM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Amid Covid-19 crisis, Indian firms hope for quick payments of dues by govtIndia’s businesses are expecting the government to roll out a fiscal relief and stimulus package of the same magnitude as the one unveiled by the US -- equivalent to around 10% of GDP -- but are also hoping the Centre and states, various administrative departments, state-owned companies and utilities will accelerate payments owed to them as they battle an economic crisis of never-seen-before proportions. Read more‘PM will speak his mind, can’t interfere’: Mamata on ‘light the lamp’ initiativeWest Bengal has already run into losses worth thousands of crores of rupees due to the ongoing lockdown, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Friday, but asserted that she took pride in the fact that her government still managed to credit the salaries of employees on time. Read more900k people, 241 zones: Mumbai’s mega plan to fight Covid-19The worst Covid-19-affected city in India has activated 474 teams across 241 containment zones and checked at least 900,000 people as part of its plan to stop the spread of the Sars-Cov-2 virus through human-to-human contact. As of 9 pm on April 3, Mumbai had 278 positive cases and 19 deaths – the highest for any Indian city – according to data released by Maharashtra’s nodal state health department. Read moreHappy birthday Lisa Ray: From auditioning for Bond film to beating cancer, here are 5 major revelations by the actor-writerLisa Ray, known in India as a successful model-turned-actor with films like Water and Kasoor to her credit, is celebrating her 48th birthday today. The cancer survivor is now also a writer and released her memoir, Close to the Bone, last year, spilling some of the deepest secrets about her life. Read more‘Everything revolves around my daughter right now’Even though it can get a little bit frustrating, it is important to stay at home in these troubled times. The feeling of frustration is not bigger than life. You just have to deal with it for a few days, and then we might get used to it. Read moreBinge-watching, anxiety or stress? Don’t let quarantine ruin your sleeping patternWith our daily routines and body clocks overturned and most of us watching online streaming platforms till the wee hours of the morning and then getting up to work from home, sleep has kind of evaded us. Read moreIIT Hyderabad-incubated startup’s low-cost ventilator can be controlled via a phone appIndian Institute of Technology (IIT) Hyderabad-incubated startup Aerobiosys Innovations has developed a low-cost, portable, emergency-use ventilator, the institute said on Friday. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-am-amid-covid-19-crisis-indian-firms-hope-for-quick-payments-of-dues-by-govt-and-all-the-latest-news-at-this-hour/story-8moUcfr2BXcEtOkIjmc4iN.html
04-04-2020||India||Covid-19 cases near 3000, govt blacklists people from 41 nations: 10 points||The coronavirus death toll in the country jumped to 62 on Friday. Covid-19 cases in the country are inching toward the 3,000 mark with Union Ministry of Health updating the total count to 2,547 on Friday which includes 2,322 active cases, 162 patients who have recovered and 62 fatalities. The country on Saturday entered the eleventh day on the 21-day lockdown. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday addressed the nation and urged the citizens to switch off their lights on April 5 at 9 pm for 9 minutes. The PM asked citizens to light diyas, candles or use the flashlight of their phones to express solidarity in these difficult times on Sunday.Here are the key developments:1. Saturday saw the biggest jump in Covid-19 infections – from 2,520 on Thursday to 3,066 on Friday. The jump is largely driven by the diagnosis of hundreds of patients who attended the congregation of the Tablighi Jamaat, a Muslim missionary group, in New Delhi’s Nizamuddin last month.2. Around 650 people among the thousands who gathered at the Jamaat’s headquarters, Nizamuddin Markaz, have tested positive in 14 states in the last two days, the health ministry said. 3. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said he would hold an interactive session with parents and schoolchildren on Saturday about “parenting in the time of corona.”4. Mumbai, the worst Covid-19-affected city in India has activated 474 teams across 241 containment zones and checked at least 900,000 people as part of its plan to stop the spread of the Sars-Cov-2 virus through human-to-human contact.  5. Healthcare workers risk contracting Covid-19 due to a lack of infection control in hospitals, doctors say amid complaints about substandard personal protective equipment ( PPE) and lack of basic items like N 95 masks and even sanitisers.6. Following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call to switch off lights, on April 5, at 9 pm, for nine minutes, the union power ministry, on Friday, held a high-level review meeting to assess the impact of power fluctuation on the grid. The grid is already reeling under the stress of an unprecedented dip in demand during the lockdown period.7. The government has cited the risk of livelihood loss and issued an advisory asking states and Union territories to allow street vendors to sell essential items and encourage their home delivery during the ongoing 21-day lockdown imposed to halt the spread of the coronavirus pandemic.8. The Centre on Friday released Rs 17,287 crore to the states a day after meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a video conference on which cash-strapped states urgently sought funds to combat the disease coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic and its aftermath.9. Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad has warned of strict action against those spreading fake news about the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. 10. Citizens of 41 countries including the United States, United Kingdom and China are among 960 overseas-based Tablighi Jamaat members who have been blacklisted by India for violating their visa conditions, according to an initial government assessment seen by Hindustan Times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/biggest-jump-in-covid-19-cases-govt-blacklists-people-from-41-nations-10-points/story-2iIz2WyVNghArDNRtb03BJ.html
04-04-2020||India||4 Hizbul Mujahideen terrorists killed in Kashmir’s Kulgam||Four terrorists of Hizbul Mujahideen responsible for killing several civilians were shot dead by security forces in a shoot out in Kulgam district of Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday, police said. Sources said two soldiers of the Indian Army were also injured in the encounter, which took place in Hardmand Guri village of Kulgam.“A Hizbul Mujahideen group of terrorists was killing civilians over the last 12 days. Four such killings were done by them in south Kashmir. Police were able to track them down and an operation was launched this morning by the police, security forces, army in which three of them have been neutralised,” a police spokesperson said.WATCH: 4 Hizbul Mujahideen terrorists killed in an encounter in Kulgam The spokesperson said that the house in which the terrorists were held up has been demolished. “After the clearance of debris, confirmation about the fourth terrorist’s presence will be possible… Two terrorists have been identified as locals and the identity of the third is being ascertained,” the official said.The security forces had launched a cordon and search operation in Hardmand Guri after getting intelligence inputs about the presence of terrorists in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-terrorists-killed-in-kashmir-s-kulgam/story-UKkmhHCp18L8gUNZnbQ8fJ.html
04-04-2020||India||With 15 new Covid-19 cases, Odisha sees a 3-fold jump; 3 towns shut down completely||Odisha reported 15 new Covid-19 cases, including three who attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi’s Nizamuddin, on Friday, the largest single-day increase, forcing the state government to clamp 48-hour curfew in Bhubaneswar, Cuttack and Bhadrak where the patients of the coronavirus disease are from.One person from Brahmabarada village in Jajpur district, who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat gathering in March, tested positive on Friday. And the other two are from Cuttack and Bhadrak.Maulana Saad, the head of the Nizamuddin Markaz, had visited Brahmabarada in February for a religious congregation and it was sealed by the local district administration. Officials said among the 28 people who had attended the religious congregation in Nizamuddin Markaz and returned to Odisha, 25 have tested negative.Seven others, including the immediate family members and the tenants of a 60-year-old person in Bhubaneswar, and three brothers from an apartment in the city have also contracted the coronavirus disease.Indicating that Bhubaneswar was emerging as a Covid-19 hotspot, Odisha’s chief secretary Asit Tripathy said the capital city alone has recorded 14 out of the 20 Covid-19 cases in the state so far. In Surya Nagar area of Bhubaneswar that was sealed off on Thursday following the report of the 60-year-old man testing positive, laboratory tests of the swab samples of seven members of his family including his wife, daughter and tenant also came positive for Covid-19.In Bomikhal area of Bhubaneswar, the three brothers had gone to the Capital Hospital in the city three days ago with symptoms of the coronavirus disease when their blood samples were taken. Their test reports showed they had contracted Covid-19.The state government also sealed off Bomikhal area after the brothers tested positive.In Bhadrak district, where a 29-year-old chef with travel history to Dubai was tested positive on March 28, two people who came in contact with him also tested positive. Besides, the districts of Jajpur and Puri too reported one positive case each.“As the surveillance purpose seems greatly restricted even during lockdown period, the government deemed it necessary to impose complete shutdown,” said Tripathy, explaining that the new order was more stringent than the national lockdown. Till Friday, Odisha had tested 1395 samples of which 20 have tested positive. Two have been discharged after they recovered.“The earlier lockdown restrictions in wake of Covid-19 outbreak by the ministry of home affairs are being revoked and new shutdown regulations implemented by Odisha State Disaster Management Authority will come into force during the period,” said Tripathy. “No shops except a few medicine shops and petrol pumps will be open. No one can step outside during the shutdown period and anyone found violating curfew rules will be picked up and put in quarantine facility of the government for a period of 14 days. Apart from that, cases will be registered under Epidemics Act,” he said.During the shutdown, all grocery stores will be closed and those who have to visit hospitals will be only allowed in ambulances.Officials said the 48-hour timeline would be used for aggressive contact tracing of Covid-19 suspects. Of the nine positive cases, the first two have recovered and discharged from hospitals. The contact tracing of third and fourth patients revealed that they came in contact with 129 people. The contact tracing of the other Covid-19 patients is still on.The 48-hour curfew was announced a day after the government revealed the identity of the fifth person from the state who had tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday and sealed off the area where they lived. What has baffled the experts is how the 60-year-old man with a learning disability living in a posh area of the city with no travel history for the last three months tested positive for Covid-19.“The man is mentally retarded and for the last three months, he has not gone anywhere except to some local hospitals for treatment. He is diabetic and has other co-morbidity conditions like hypertension when he was admitted to AIIMS Bhubaneswar on March 31 following problems in respiration,” Prem Chandra Chaudhury, Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation commissioner, said.“As there is no other known way of finding out how he contracted the virus, we have issued an appeal to people to inform us and go on home quarantine,” Chaudhury said.With 15 cases reported on a single day, doctors said they were apprehensive over community transmission in Odisha.“It seems we are rapidly advancing towards the community transmission phase. To know how many more have been infected, we have to test more. But we are in a Catch-22 situation. We can’t test more than 250 samples a day in three of our government testing labs as there are no rapid testing kits,” said Dr Binod Patro, professor of community medicine in AIIMS Bhubaneswar.“For positive confirmation, currently we need 6 hours. We don’t have that many testing kits to go for aggressive testing. But we need to do more testing and contain clusters from where more positive cases have been reported,” Patro said.Meanwhile, one of those who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi appealed to all the attendees of the Nizamuddin event to cooperate with the government and administration to prevent the spread of the highly-infectious virus.“I appeal to all those, who had returned from the Nizamuddin event in March, to not hide and dial 104 to register and get the test done. It will be helpful for all of us, our family, our state and as well as the country,” Mohd Moquim, one of the attendees said.“Follow the advice of doctors and the precautions recommended by the administration to fight against the virus together. Believe in Allah and do your share of contribution for the betterment of the state as well as the country,” he said.Odisha’s first and second Covid-19 patients, a 33-year-old Italy-returned researcher and a 19-year-old man studying in London were discharged in a span of two days after they recovered from the viral infection.The 33-year-old man, who was admitted to the hospital with coronavirus infection on March 15, tested negative for the disease twice in a span of 24 hours.His father said he was happy to see his son back home.“He would rest at home and wait for things to settle down before thinking of his plans of returning to Italy,” he said while speaking to HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-15-new-covid-19-cases-odisha-sees-a-3-fold-jump-3-towns-shut-down-completely/story-YQIt2KnljyKWRuIgyFu5QK.html
04-04-2020||India||NHA teams up with Uber to provide transportation to frontline healthcare workers||The National Health Authority (NHA), the apex body implementing the Ayushman Bharat health insurance scheme, on Friday announced its partnership with Uber India to provide safe, reliable and efficient transportation for India’s frontline healthcare workers engaged in the treatment of COVID-19 patients.Uber will initially facilitate the provision of 150 cars for free to support medical facilities in New Delhi, Noida, Ghaziabad, Kanpur, Lucknow, Prayagraj and Patna through its recently-launched UberMedic service, the NHA said in a statement.All UberMedic cars supplied to NHA will be equipped with roof-to-floor plastic sheeting enclosing the driver’s seat, thereby acting as a protective barrier between the rider and the driver.“The pilot scheme meets the Prime Minister’s goal of practising social distancing even within the confines of an UberMedic car,” the NHA statement said.Additionally, each UberMedic car will be disinfected after every ride to ensure the highest possible safety and hygiene standards in line with government guidelines.Dr Indu Bhushan, CEO, Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (AB-PMJAY) and NHA, said, “The partnership with Uber in this hour of need is a much-needed initiative to extend necessary support to the healthcare workers who are leading this fight against COVID-19.“Limited mobility options had made it difficult for frontline workers to travel to their workplaces. This initiative will further strengthen India’s response to contain the spread of COVID-19.” Pradeep Parameswaran, president, Uber India and South Asia, said, “Uber is proud to partner with the National Health Authority to offer free UberMedic rides to transport frontline healthcare workers in specific locations for helping to contain the spread of COVID-19.“All drivers will be specially trained in safety procedures and provided with personal protective equipment including masks, sanitisers and disinfectants to sanitise UberMedic cars after each ride. Uber salutes all our frontline healthcare workers and will continue supporting them and the government in the days and weeks ahead.” AB-PMJAY is the flagship scheme of the government that provides a cover of up to Rs 5 lakh per family per year for secondary and tertiary-care hospitalisation, benefitting over 10.74 crore poor and vulnerable families (about 53 crore beneficiaries).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nha-teams-up-with-uber-to-provide-transportation-to-frontline-healthcare-workers/story-lrb0L7xycMNYxUEAujnDdP.html
04-04-2020||India||‘PM will speak his mind, can’t interfere’: Mamata on ‘light the lamp’ initiative||West Bengal has already run into losses worth thousands of crores of rupees due to the ongoing lockdown, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Friday, but asserted that she took pride in the fact that her government still managed to credit the salaries of employees on time.She said the state government has disbursed an amount of Rs 35,10,200 towards social pension for a period of two months.“Do you have any idea how much we have lost in these few days of lockdown? Several thousand crores.... We have no earning, but only burning,” Banerjee told reporters at the state secretariat.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here “Ours is the only government which has paid salaries on the first day of the month. What will they (employees) eat otherwise?” she said.The Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo said there are many states, which do not owe a heavy debt to the Centre like West Bengal, but have emptied their treasuries during the lockdown.“There are many states that do not need to repay a debt of Rs 50,000 crore like us, yet their treasuries are empty. There are several states who could not pay the full salary to employees...a few paid only 40 per cent...I can take pride in it that we could,” she said.Also read| India’s Covid-19 cases go up to 3k, largely driven by Tablighi Jamaat attendeesOn Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging people to light lamps, candles or switch the flashlights of their mobile phones for nine minutes at 9 pm on April 5, she said those who believe in the PM’s message can follow his instructions.“The prime minister will speak his mind and I will speak mine. I cannot interfere in someone else’s matter.... If you think that the prime minister has said something good, follow it...it is a personal decision,” Banerjee said.She rubbished reports that the lockdown was being violated in Kolkata and certain rural areas of the state.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayWithout taking the name of any political party, the chief minister said there are a few who are trying to “play politics” with the distribution of rice, wheat and pulses through the Public Distribution System (PDS).“They are claiming that the Centre has provided the rice...but how can that be possible...the PDS is run by the state government,” she said. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-pm-will-speak-his-mind-i-will-speak-mine-says-bengal-cm-mamata-banerjee/story-2xJ33rGA27QMqStTjLjsxK.html
04-04-2020||India||J-K govt extends 2G mobile internet services till April 15||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Friday ordered the continuance of 2G mobile data services in the Union territory till April 15, even as the demand for restoration of high-speed 4G internet grows in view of the coronavirus outbreak. As per a previous order issued on March 26 by Principal Secretary, Home Department, Shaleen Kabra, internet speed on mobile phones in the region will be restricted to 2G only.Postpaid sim card holders shall be provided with access to internet. However, such access shall not be made available on prepaid sim cards unless verified as per the norms applicable for postpaid connections, the order said.Fixed line internet connectivity with mac-binding shall be available, it added.The order said the directions shall be effective immediately and remain in force up to April 15.Several political parties, including the National Conference, the CPI(M), the BJP and the Congress, have batted strongly for restoration of 4G mobile internet services in Jammu and Kashmir to help people to deal with the unprecedented situation that has arisen in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak. The restrictions on mobile internet has been taken in view of reports received from the intelligence and law enforcement agencies which, among other things, bring out the factum of the attempts made by the antinational elements (ANEs) to spread propaganda and ideologies through transmission of fake news and targeted messages aimed at disturbing the public order and cause disaffection and discontent as also coordinate acts of terrorism, the fresh order said.It said many instances of misuse of data services for incitement, including circulation of fake news, have been noticed which necessitated even use of teargas to disperse people in such precarious times when owing to COVID- 1 9, orders under section 144 CrPC have been enforced to regulate assembly and movement and there is enhanced public awareness regarding social distancing measures. There have also been recoveries of major cache of arms and ammunition on one hand and killings of civilians by the terrorists on the other, apart from attempts to encourage terrorism through uploading of provocative videos and material as also infiltration from across the border, it said. Further, the recent changes in the domicile law in J&K too has the potential to be exploited by those inimical to public peace and tranquillity and cause large scale violence and disturb public order, which has till now been maintained due to various pre-emptive measures, including restriction on access to internet with relaxations in a calibrated and gradual manner, after due consideration of the ground situation, Kabra said in the order.“The internet speed restrictions have, while enabling access to essential services and sites, not posed any hindrance to COVID—19 control measures or to access online educational content, but checked the unfettered misuse of social media for incitement and propagating and coordinating terror activities,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-govt-extends-2g-mobile-internet-services-till-april-15/story-g2hfbF31DDxIUKhiS92TCM.html
04-04-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||On Friday, news reports in the US said the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) was considering asking all Americans to wear masks, even if made only of cloth, when they went out. As the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the world marched past the 1-million mark, the extent to which the World Health Organization (WHO) messed up was once again brought sharply into focus. On April 1, experts from the US National Academy of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine said in a report to the White House that even breathing or talking could release tiny particles carrying the SARS-CoV-2 virus which causes Covid-19. This is very different from the earlier understanding that masks weren’t necessary. WHO said they weren’t. Many others concurred. There was even a comic strip explaining why everyone need not wear a mask which did the rounds on social media. Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicWell, guess what? Everyone was wrong. On Friday, US President Donald Trump tweeted: “We hit 3M hard today after seeing what they were doing with their masks. ‘P Act’ all the way. Big surprise to many in government as to what they were doing – will have a big price to pay.” 3M is one of the world’s biggest mask manufacturers and makes 400 million of them a year. It also exports them. Trump’s tweet came several hours after he said he was invoking the Defence Production Act to secure more masks and essential medical equipment from manufacturers. As this writer pointed out on March 22, “countries will start hoarding strategic resources at a national level. It could be oil; it could be lithium; or it could be medical equipment and drugs. Expect every country in the world to start building reserves of these, and also encouraging (and perhaps mandating) their companies to start manufacturing these – locally.”The breathing and talking bit is new, but we are learning more about the enemy with every passing day. Now, there’s also research to bear out what anecdotal trends have suggested all along – that it kills more men than women. The research, published in late March, shows that infected men in China were three times as likely to die as infected women . The research is strangely reminiscent of a late 2000s graphic novel called Y: The Last Man, by Brian K Vaughan (the Y stands for the sex-determining chromosome).If we are learning more about the virus, and also getting closer to the cure (it’s inevitable that we will find one), it’s because tens of thousands of researchers at government laboratories, private companies, and academic institutions are working on the frontiers of science. For instance, even as India is in the midst of a 21-day lockdown till April 14, there is a lot of research and development work going on behind the scenes – on everything from low-cost ventilators to repurposed drugs to vaccine candidates.If the US is mulling masks, it is because the number of cases in the country were 265,506 on Friday night (India time), of a total of 1.074 million cases worldwide. The country also accounted for a little over 6,700 of the around 57,000 deaths around the world.India ended Friday with 3,066 cases and 86 deaths. Parts of Delhi and Mumbai have been classified as clusters, with the pandemic’s spread in Mumbai, one of the most densely populated cities in the planet, causing panic in India’s commercial capital. On Friday, there were 93 new cases in Delhi, 43 in Mumbai, and a total of 546 around the country. In the past two days, 647 cases can be attributed to the March gathering of the Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi, which is threatening to undo some of the good done by the lockdown. Indeed, more countries are buying into the benefits of lockdowns, with Singapore on Friday announcing a month-long one, which its prime minister termed as a “decisive move” to “preempt escalating infections”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-mrOPk4YxoECMbnubR5leLK.html
04-04-2020||India||Domicile rule to apply to all J&K govt posts: Centre amends order after uproar||The Union home ministry on Friday evening amended the new domicile rule for Jammu and Kashmir issued this week that had triggered howls of protest in the Kashmir valley. In its final form, only domiciled residents of J&K will be eligible to apply for recruitment in the union territory.In the earlier version notified on Tuesday evening, the home ministry had reserved only subordinate posts for the domiciled residents. For other jobs under the union territory, people from any part of the country could apply.The new order issued a little before midnight makes jobs in the UT administration out of bounds for non-residents.There has, however, not been any change to the rule that will treat people from outside the union territory, who have been residents of the UT for 15 years, as domicile residents. The notification also extended domicile rights to central government employees who shall have served in the state for 10 years and their children.Tuesday’s order had elicited howls of protest from the Kashmir parties. Leading the attack was National Conference leader Omar Abdullah, saying the law was an “insult heaped on injury”, referencing the downgrading of the state into a union territory and abrogating Article 370 that provided for its special status and now this change in law.“Talk about suspect timing. At a time when all our efforts & attention should be focused on the #COVID outbreak the government slips in a new domicile law for J&K. Insult is heaped on injury when we see the law offers none of the protections that had been promised,” tweeted the former chief minister on April 1.Altaf Bukhari of the newly-floated Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party described the order as a casual attempt, cosmetic in nature, and designed to hoodwink the people of J&K. He urged home minister Amit Shah to put the notification on hold.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-howls-of-protests-govt-amends-domicile-law-for-j-k/story-25NTht6L74XVGHdwuljPFL.html
04-04-2020||India||PM Modi pushes symbolic measure to deal with Covid-19, government does substantive review||In a symbolic move on the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday gave a call to citizens to switch off the lights in their homes and light oil lamps, candles, and flash their mobile phone torches on April 5 at 9pm, for nine minutes. This, he suggested, will be a mark of the collective power of people and showcase their determination in taking the country from darkness to illumination.The government also embarked on a substantive review of the efforts to tackle both the pandemic and deal with the fallout of the nationwide lockdown, with a meeting of a Group of Ministers (GoM) led by defence minister Rajnath Singh. Key government stakeholders were represented at the meeting, where ministers felt that issues related to migrant workers had been addressed while impediments related to essential supplies were in the process of being addressed. The government also set up 10 groups of secretaries to deal with specific issues on Friday. Addressing the nation, Modi said that Friday marked the ninth day of the lockdown — and praised citizens for their discipline and service. He also said that the battle against the pandemic was not an individual one but a collective one of 1.3 billion people.Underlining that the poor had suffered the most due to the pandemic, and all efforts had to be directed to taking the country towards hope and certainty, the PM said: “This Sunday, on April 5, at 9pm, I want nine minutes of your life. Please switch off the lights of your house — and then either at the door, or in the balcony of your house, please light a candle, a diya, or flash the mobile phone light. That light will show that no one is alone.”The PM was, however, quick to emphasise that no one should congregate on the occasion or go out on the streets — in what was possibly a reference to many citizens gathering in large crowds after applauding front line workers during the “janta curfew” on March 22, and thus undermining the principle of social distancing.Opinion was divided on the PM’s address. Supporters saw it as a laudable effort to mobilise citizens in bleak times and motivate them and praised his consistent communication — this is the fourth time the PM has spoken to citizens in less than a fortnight. But the Opposition was critical of the PM for not having addressed more critical issues. Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said that the country was expecting the PM to speak on low testing, shortages of personal protective equipment (PPE) for health workers, relief for migrant workers and the poor, and the state of the economy. “People will support the PM in switching off lights and lighting candles, just as they did while clapping for doctors and paramedics, but some questions need to be asked and answered.”The PM’s statement also led to a high-level review meeting in the power ministry to ensure that the fluctuation in the grid — on Sunday — did not lead to any power interruption and blackout. The grid is already confronting a situation where demand has dipped by up to 30% due to the lockdown.For Sunday, there are concerns about the impact of the switching off, and then switching on, of lights, across millions of households, almost simultaneously, on the grid. This will first create a supply excess, and could potentially disrupt frequency. And then, once demand surges at the 10th minute, it will be a test of the supply capacity. Mishandling this process can potentially lead to extended power outage.“This is absolutely unprecedented. If this is effectively implemented, then we are looking at an impact of 10-15GW of load going down and coming back again which will have a very severe impact on the grid. I am not aware of any event before leading to such a sharp fluctuation before,” said Vinay Rustagi, managing director at renewable energy consultancy Bridge to India Energy Private Limited. This, Rustagi emphasised, will need careful management and planning. “They will have to judicially use hydro and gas power plants to come back and curtail risk.”But the power ministry is confident that it can manage the situation. An official said on condition of anonymity: “We are making arrangements since the event is known to us in advance. The current peak load of the country stands at around 120GW; of this domestic household lighting comprises of 12-15GW and we will need to manage and monitor this 15GW of fluctuation.” The fact that only lights may be off, and other electric household appliances will remain operational is also expected to ensure that the dip in demand may not be as drastic as expected. Separately, a group of ministers met at defence minister Singh’s residence. Participants included home minister Amit Shah, food minister Ram Vilas Paswan, railways minister Piyush Goyal, petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan, agriculture and rural development minister Narendra Singh Tomar, civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri, among others. This is the third meeting of the GoM since March 25.Officials familiar with the proceedings of the meeting said that the ministers deliberated on various arrangements being made to deal with the increasing number of Covid-19 cases as well as to ensure adequate supplies of medicine and essential commodities during the lockdown.“The ministers were briefed that supply of essential goods was continuing smoothly and no concerns were reported in this regard. However, at certain places, issues related to scarcity of workers for loading and unloading operations have created issues and are being addressed,” an official said on condition of anonymity.Another official indicated that the government was fully aware of the need to ensure smooth supplies for the remaining period of the lockdown and that was the focus of the meeting. “To have the support of citizens in these difficult times, we have to ensure that they are not inconvenienced. Getting food and dairy items right to the neighbourhood level is key to ensure the success of the lockdown.”On the movement of migrant workers, the GoM felt the issue has been resolved, as they are being looked after in temporary shelters set up by state governments, news agency Press Trust of India quoted an official as saying. The GoM also appreciated the contribution, dedication and the hard work of thousands of health professionals, police, paramilitary and armed forces, and those engaged in maintaining the supply chain of essential commodities across the country.Experts have suggested that India should continue to confront key challenges in handling the pandemic. The lockdown has not yet led to the flattening of the curve of infections — though, to be sure, this was always expected to take some more time. More worryingly, there has been a surge in cases in recent days, largely because of the congregation at Nizamuddin’s Tablighi Jamaat. Health workers have got infected — due to the absence of PPE.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-pushes-symbolic-measure-government-does-substantive-review/story-tnFjVWXkcuHjZw7MSbe7vO.html
04-04-2020||India||Scientists, regulators do double shifts to keep up||In February, a small team of 24 people in the R&D division of Pune-based Mylab Discovery Solutions started working 24x7 to develop a kit to test for Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes coronavirus disease (Covid-19), when it became obvious that no country would escape unscathed.“We started work six weeks ago and worked in two shifts, with a focus on creating a product that didn’t miss diagnosis even when the viral load was low,” said Hasmukh Rawal, managing director, Mylab Discovery Solutions, which was the first Indian company to get the nod for manufacturing testing kits to test for Sars-Cov-2.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicAs for the requisite government approval, it came in a matter of days, he added. The Covid-19 research consortium, under the department of biotechnology, announced it would fast-track research in early March. Since then, approvals for research, manufacturing and marketing of everything related to Covid-19, including vaccine candidates, have been approved in days. On Friday, Bharat Biotech announced its plans to develop a unique intranasal vaccine for coronavirus called ‘CoroFlu’ in partnership with the University of Wisconsin–Madison and the vaccine manufacturer, FluGen.Also Read: Lack of PPE, poor infection control put medical staff at risk of Covid-19“Anything related to Covid-19 is getting approved very quickly, “ said Krishna Ella, the founder of Bharat Biotech. “An approval that would usually take three to four months is getting approved in less than 48 hours”.In addition, the newly established Centre for Augmenting WAR with Covid-19 health crisis (CAWACH) has been given ₹56 crore to scout, evaluate and support innovations and start-ups that address Covid-19 challenges.The urgency has charged researchers and innovators, some of whom are attempting to use existing platforms to address the Covid-19 challenge . The use of a pre-approved platform can cut cost, and, most importantly, time. Even better, it will not need fresh approvals. Also Read: India’s coronavirus cases hit 3,000; two die in Delhi“Many of these innovations were in the pipeline much before the pandemic; however, Covid-19 has forced them out of the labs and into production. The government is looking for start-ups that can scale up the production of their products and with a good manufacturing partner we will be able to do it,” said Professor Renu John from the biomedical engineering department of IIT Hyderabad. John is the faculty in-charge of the Center for Healthcare Entrepreneurship, which offers lab-to-market solutions. “All state drug regulators have been issued directions that approvals should be given within three days, if all requirements are met. Anything related to Covid-19 must be cleared on a priority basis,” said a senior health ministry official, requesting anonymity.As a result, the ecosystem is abuzz with activity. Pharmaceutical major Zydus Cadila has already begun pre-clinical animal trials for two vaccine candidates, which act completely differently. “We got approvals within days. In another four to six weeks, we should have the results of the animal trials. Depending on the results of the pre-clinical trials, we will decide which to take forward and apply for approvals accordingly,” said Pankaj Patel, chairman, Zydus Cadila.Through the week, and even on weekends, DST officials review discoveries and innovations. “We have been having meetings every day and have come up with strategies to prioritise our research work. The focus has been on developing improved diagnostic kits, looking for novel molecules or repurposed drugs for the treatment of the disease, and also developing a vaccine,” said Dr Renu Swarup, secretary, department of biotechnology.The research group works under the guidance of the Science and Technology core group set up by K VijayRaghavan, principal scientific advisor to the government. His office has created a “S&T Core-team on Covid-19”, composed of experts who help define problems that need urgent and immediate solutions. They also work with academia and industry to help connect teams to solve these problems swiftly.“The focus of the consortium is on better prevention of the disease by looking at vaccine development, better diagnostics, and therapy – both in terms of ancillary treatment needed and new molecules for treatment. Basically, the health care sector is currently focusing on how to deal with Covid-19 with what we have, our job is to look at what we should have and make it happen,” says Dr Anurag Agarwal, director, Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB).Collaborations have resulted in the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) developing a biosuit to keep medical, paramedical and other personnel on the frontlines of the war against Covid-19 safe. “It has a special sealant as an alternative to seam sealing tape based on the sealant used in submarine applications. Presently, biosuits prepared using this glue for seam sealing by an industry partner has cleared test at Southern India Textile Research Association (Sitra), Coimbatore. DRDO can mass produce this glue through industry to support the seam sealing activity by suit manufacturers,” DRDO said in a statement.The implementing agency of CAWACH is the Society for Innovation and Entrepreneurship (SINE), a DST-supported technology business incubator at IIT Bombay, long considered India’s equivalent of Stanford for its ability to link academia with industry. SINE is working on boosting innovations in novel ventilators, respiratory aids, protective gears, solutions for sanitisers and disinfectants, diagnostics, therapeutics, and informatics. It will offer up to 50 potential start-ups financial assistance for innovations that can be brought to market within the next six months. Meanwhile, in the background, the Indian Council of Medical Research is providing technical support by validating diagnostic kits for accuracy and specificity, having validated five of 20 kits for Covid-19 testing in two weeks. Its apex virology laboratory at National Institute of Virology in Pune has cultured 11 virus strains of SARS-COV-2. “We got lucky that we managed to grow all 11 specimens. It will have long-term implication in vaccine and drug development,” a senior ICMR official said on condition of anonymity.ICMR is also conducting a demonstration study to know the effect of anti-malaria drug, hydroxychloroquin, as a prophylactic medicine against Covid-19. “The anti HIV/AIDS drugs that had earlier shown promise fizzled out, hydroxychloroquin is turning out to be a better option. The medicine has shown promise in bringing down the viral load, now we are analysing if it can also prevent infection in high-risk groups, like health workers,” the official said.Essentially, no avenue is being left unexplored. But research, for all the haste these agencies are displaying now, has its own pace. “ Unfortunately, science can’t move that fast, and it will take us about at least two-and-half months to three months to move from animal trials to human trials [with the vaccine],” says Bharat Biotech’s Ella. “The drug controller is personally monitoring the situation and our team faced no problems when we approached them with the request. I must say the government is really proactive in ensuring the work doesn’t get hampered at any level” said Rawal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scientists-regulators-do-double-shifts-to-keep-up/story-rEOcrwNV9FNhWv95QCeFMJ.html
04-04-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 cases go up to 3k, largely driven by Tablighi Jamaat attendees||The jump in infections – from 2,520 on Thursday to 3,066 on Friday – is largely driven by the diagnosis of hundreds of patients who attended the congregation of the Tablighi Jamaat, a Muslim missionary group, in New Delhi’s Nizamuddin last month in a violation of several restrictions.According to the Union health ministry, at least 647 people among the thousands who gathered at the Jamaat’s headquarters, Nizamuddin Markaz, have tested positive in 14 states in the last two days. “If we see the rise in cases in the last few days, it has primarily been due to an increase at a particular level,” joint secretary in the ministry Lav Agarwal said, referring to the congregation.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicHe said because of the “lockdown and our efforts to promote social distancing, cases were being reported but there was no sharp rise”.The Delhi government said 93 new cases of Covid-19 were reported in the national capital on Friday, taking the total count in the city-state to 386 – out of which 259, or 67%, were evacuated from Markaz. Around 1,800 others from the south Delhi area have been quarantined at hospitals across the city, in what has become the country’s largest virus hot spot for the highly contagious infection.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said there was no need to panic as the situation was under control and that community transmission of the virus was not taking place in the national capital. The total number of deaths in the Capital stood at six on Friday. Experts have pointed out that the impact of the lockdown – scientists say it is among the most effective means to break the chain of the contagion – could be undermined if the positive cases originating out of such clusters are not contained in time. It could be particularly challenging for a country of over 1.3 billion people, where the health care infrastructure would not be able to handle a larger outbreak despite the government’s recent efforts to prepare for such a situation.Since authorities traced a number of infections to the Tablighi gathering, state governments have scrambled to locate and identify those who attended the congregation, with at least 9,000 Jamaat workers and their contacts counted and quarantined till Thursday evening. Ramping up their efforts to contain the Covid-19 outbreak, authorities on Friday announced exclusive isolation wards and initiated rapid tests in areas identified as hot spots of the infection, with more than 8,000 samples being tested in 24 hours, according to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).ICMR, in an advisory, has recommended the use of a rapid antibody test in the country’s Covid-19 hot spots.Among the states, Maharashtra has the most number of coronavirus patients, at 490 cases, and 26 deaths.The 20-22 clusters identified or considered to be potential hot spots include Asia’s largest slum, Dharavi, in Mumbai where three positive Covid-19 cases have been detected till Friday. Although the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has said a containment plan is in place, there are concerns over the implementation of social distancing measures in the 240-hectare slum pocket of 850,000 residents. On Friday, Tamil Nadu reported a 102-count spike in the number of Covid-19 patients, making it second only to Maharashtra. Out of these, at least 100 were linked to the Jamaat congregation. “Today 102 new positive cases reported in Tamil Nadu, out of them 100 people had participated in Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi. The total number of positive cases in the state stands at 411, out of which 364 had participated in Delhi’s Jamaat event,” state health secretary Beela Rajesh said.Telangana and Uttar Pradesh, with 229 and 174 patients respectively, were among the other states to report sizeable jumps in the number of Covid-19 cases on Friday. Kerala, which until earlier this week had the second highest number of cases in the country, is now on the fourth spot after Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Delhi. It reported a single-digit increase on Friday. Earlier in the day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the nation and appealed to people to display collective resolve of the country in fighting the pandemic by lighting a candle or a lamp at 9pm on Sunday.Public health experts have mostly welcomed the Prime Minister’s suggestion of a staggered lifting of the lockdown — but only if it is accompanied with a set of safety measures. “Movement should be in select groups after they have been approved by the authorities. Let clusters move, like army convoys move, especially agriculture workers. It will also help contain the risk of infection. Prioritise [those] who should be allowed to move, and those should be screened before movement, even if it requires aggressive testing to know the extent of infection,” said CS Pandav, former president of the India Public Health Association.According to Union health ministry data, laboratories across the country have so far tested just 66,000 suspected Covid-19 patients for the disease, which has infected more than one million worldwide in just over three months. Scientists believe that mass testing, along with strict movement restrictions, could be key to breaking the chain of infection and avoid reaching the community transmission stage – a measure India is still falling short of. “Now that we have the kits, we should be more liberal with testing. I think, by nature’s design community transmission must have started -- I would be very surprised if it hasn’t -- The number of cases are likely to surge by next week,” said Dr SK Sarin, director, Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences said on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-cases-hit-3-000-two-die-in-city/story-kyMmvLTrQohA9S73KKz2QJ.html
04-04-2020||India||Covid-19 update: How offices, malls have turned sleepy due to lockdown||Indians have reduced visits to recreational and retail spots such as restaurants, malls and movie theatres by 77% following the lockdown over the Covid-19 pandemic, movement at mass transit stations has dropped 71% while movement in places of residence has increased by 22%, according to an analysis of location data published by internet search giant Google on Friday.Google’s ‘Covid-19 Community Mobility Reports’ utilises “aggregated and anonymised” data from Google Maps or other Google-based mobile devices from people who have opted to share their location history. Google said it helps the firm illustrate how busy certain types of locations are, giving an idea about the degree to which people in 131 countries are following government lockdowns.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicWith a countrywide lockdown in place since March 25, India showed massive changes in mobility trends. The report showed a 65% decline in visits to grocery and pharmacy stores, while movement at public parks, gardens and beaches reduced by 57%. In what appears to highlight the trend of people working from home, movement at workplaces across the country has dropped 47%, according to the data.Google said it hopes that the reports will help governments across the world manage the lockdowns and help fight the pandemic. “In addition to other resources public health officials might have, we hope these reports will help support decisions about how to manage the COVID-19 pandemic,” Karen DeSalvo, chief health officer of Google Health wrote in a blog post. “These Community Mobility Reports aim to provide insights into what has changed in response to policies aimed at combating COVID-19.” This information will help governments “understand changes in essential trips that can shape recommendations on business hours or inform delivery service offerings” during the lockdown enforced in various countries across the globe in light of the virus outbreak, she said.Also Read: Amid Covid-19 crisis, Indian firms hope for quick payments of dues by GovtGoogle said the report relies on a “baseline” that was determined by movement trends before the announcement of lockdowns. The first set of data published in the report is till March 29, and compares the movement to the “baseline” of corresponding days between January 3 and February 6, 2020.“We’ll show trends over several weeks, with the most recent information representing 48-to-72 hours prior. While we display a percentage point increase or decrease in visits, we do not share the absolute number of visits,” DeSalvo wrote.The company said it relies on a similar analysis in its Google Maps to show how busy certain types of places are, which in turn helps “identify when a local business tends to be the most crowded”.Meanwhile, in the United States, the country that has seen the most number of infections — over 265,000 people  -- retail and recreation trips dropped 47%, grocery and pharmacy visits dropped 22%, and workplace visits fell 38%. Interestingly, the data showed that mobility around retail and recreation in the US did not drop till as late as March 10-12. Visits to parks and beaches were also above the median till as late as March 18-19 in America. In Italy, the country that has seen the highest number of deaths -- 14,681 -- from the virus in the world, movement around retail and recreation centres dropped by 94%. Grocery and pharmacy visits were down 85%, and workplace trips fell 63%. Italy has imposed severe limits on movement and shuttered all non-essential services until April 13.There was no data available for China or Iran, where the number of total infected people, including the dead, crossed 132,000 together.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-offices-malls-have-turned-sleepy/story-sC6GbGBdsRXDSJ572AXL6O.html
04-04-2020||India||900k people, 241 zones: Mumbai’s mega plan to fight Covid-19||Mumbai: The worst Covid-19-affected city in India has activated 474 teams across 241 containment zones and checked at least 900,000 people as part of its plan to stop the spread of the Sars-Cov-2 virus through human-to-human contact. As of 9 pm on April 3, Mumbai had 278 positive cases and 19 deaths – the highest for any Indian city – according to data released by Maharashtra’s nodal state health department.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicEach team comprises two or three Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) staffers, and is mandated to identify a containment zone, conduct door-to-door surveys, and get a questionnaire answered by all residents in that zone. In Mumbai, a containment zone means at least one person from the area tested positive for Covid-19. The patient’s family and the building are identified as a cluster zone and at least four to five adjoining buildings on all sides are mapped in the containment zone, depending on the area’s population density. The greater the population density, the wider the radius of containment zone, a BMC health official explained on Friday.Also Read: BMC has a containment plan for DharaviAccording to BMC protocol, the family and immediate neighbours of positive patients are tested, as they are considered high risk. Other residents of the building are considered low risk and are simply asked to be in home quarantine. They are also asked to keep a tab on emerging symptoms. Residents of adjoining buildings in the containment zone are also surveyed. Entry and exit from a containment zone is restricted and severe lockdown protocols are put in place.“Each of these teams identifies at least 50 high risk cases per day,” a senior BMC health officer said. “These high risk persons are direct contacts and who have fever, cold, cough, breathlessness, etc. Depending on severity of the symptoms, we advise testing and visiting the closest Covid-19 hospital.”Also Read: City’s Covid-19 fight goes into high gearCity health officials said this protocol differs from the guidelines issued by the Centre for identifying clusters and containment zones on account of Mumbai’s high population density (32,303 persons per square km). A senior civic officer said: “BMC has been given permission to draw up its own guidelines.” Across all other districts in Maharashtra, however, clusters are identified only if at least three persons are found to be Covid-19 positive in the area. Following that, an area of 3 sq km is screened.Also Read: Check ‘no-go’ zones near your area on Mumbai civic body’s websiteAt present, BMC’s health officers said, 300 of the 474 teams are on the field at any given time.BMC said it is uses video analytics software on top of the live footage it receives from 5,000 installed closed circuit television (CCTV) cameras across the city to monitor human movement in a containment zone. “No one is allowed to roam around in a containment zone,” said an officer involved in executing the containment zone strategy. “If the software spots any movement in the feed, the disaster control room is alerted. We are also updated on the instances of human movement and crowding. We activate the disaster management team and they ensure that people don’t move out. If people move out regularly, we are mandated to take action against them. Food and essential items are being delivered to persons in the containment zone.”In addition to regulating movement, BMC said on Friday that it will start medical camps at the perimeter of containment zones. As no resident living in the containment zone is allowed to exit, any person showing symptoms of Covid-19 can approach the medical camp. “Patients with other illnesses can also approach the medical camp for a quick diagnosis, and referral to a hospital,” a health officer said. “This comes just days after reports of the death of a senior citizen in Kurla (in central Mumbai) due to a stroke. The senior citizen was a resident of a building sealed by BMC after a positive case of Covid-19 was reported. Residents alleged that policemen standing guard at the building did not allow the man to leave the premises for medical attention.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/900k-people-241-zones-mumbai-s-mega-plan/story-yEIInTYDaI883yDsGBB2dP.html
04-04-2020||India||Farmers to access buyers from nearest warehouses after e-NAM update||The Union government has updated the electronic national agriculture markets or the E-Nam, an online trading platform, with two new software updates so that farmers don’t have to travel long distance to sell their harvests, the agriculture ministry said on Friday.Two software modules – warehouse-based trading module to facilitate trade from warehouses and farmer producer organizations’ module – are aimed at reducing the need to physically move entire harvests to aggregators to contract a sale.This essentially means farmers will be able to access buyers through the mobile software from the nearest warehouses. The second update aims to allow farmer collectives to connect to the e-NAM network from their own collection centres.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicA chain of electronic national agricultural markets, called e-NAM, serves as an online trading system. Farmers only have to bring a small sample of their produce, which is then evaluated by agricultural “assayers”. Once graded by assayers, the sample report can be accessed by any buyer in any state. Many southern states have scaled up the system.“FPO trading module in e-NAM whereby FPOs can trade their produce from their collection centre without bringing the produce to APMC,” a statement from the ministry said. FPO stands for farmer producer organisations, which are producer groups who pool in land and other resources to bring efficiency in farming. APMC stands for agricultural produce marketing committees, which run agricultural markets around the country. An enhanced version of the logistic module has been incorporated into the online trading module. Aggregators of transport logistic platform have been “on boarded” on it, which helps users to avail trackable transport facilities for transporting their produce, the ministry said.The e-NAM facility was launched on 14 April 2016 as a pan-India electronic trade portal linking markets across states. There are 585 mandis in 16 States and two Union territories that have been integrated on the e-NAM portal.Farmer collectives can upload a picture of their produce and quality parameters from their premises to help distant bidders to visualise the produce before bidding. They have the option for delivery of produce either from their premises or by bringing to mandi premise after successful bidding. This will not only decongest the mandis but also reduce the logistics cost for the farmer producer organization, the ministry added.“These changes can help farmers already integrated into the online trading platform, but many states are yet to go fully online. Many states haven’t appointed assayers from instance,” said professor R Mani of the Tamil Nadu agricultural university.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-to-access-buyers-from-nearest-warehouses-after-e-nam-update/story-6cMFPlJ2CU2loE4GfKyvqO.html
04-04-2020||India||As states struggle to distribute ration, demand for work surges||Sita Kumari, 26, visits the local ration shop daily to get her family’s share of government-subsidised foodgrains under the public distribution system. Everyday she returns home empty-handed. Although the Jharkhand government has announced the distribution of subsidised rations for April and May together, her family hasn’t received theirs even for March. “No distribution of rations is being done in my village,” said Sita Kumari, whose husband is an out-of-work driver who has applied unsuccessfully for work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA), which has anyway been suspended for the duration of the March 25-April 14 nationwide lockdown to beat back the coronavirus disease pandemic.“We are at the mercy of our neighbours, who are providing us food,” said Sita Kumari, a resident of Sukurhuttu village in Ranchi’s Kanke block. “My husband is pleading with panchayat officers to give him work under the MGNREGA.”The MGNREGS, which promises at least 100 days of work a year to at least one member of every rural household, and the Food Security Act that is aimed at making sure no one goes hungry, are national entitlements covering 50% and 75% of rural households, respectively, intended to shield impoverished communities in difficult times such as the Covid-19 lockdown. Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThey haven’t quite served their purpose this time. Jharkhand and other states like Odisha, Chhattisgarh, Bihar, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh announced that the needy would get two months of rations during the lockdown period, but the distribution hasn’t even begun in many places yet.CAUGHT IN A BINDState officials cited supply constraints such as the non-availability of trucks to transport foodgrains from warehouses to public distribution system outlets in the villages. Until Friday, only 30-50% of the rations for March had been distributed, government officials said on condition of anonymity. In many places, distribution of rations for this month will start after April 14, when the lockdown is lifted. The problem is more acute in the tribal belts of Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Odisha, where the rations are distributed to ration shops n smaller vehicles from district warehouses. Babita Devi, 25, of the Chattarpur block in Jharkhand’s Palamu district, has lost her daily wage work at a local stone crusher, which had to close because of the lockdown. No PDS rations are available at the village shop and no public transport is available for her to visit the district headquarters and collect her quota of foodgrains.Also Read: Lack of PPE, poor infection control put medical staff at risk of Covid-19 Her husband is physically challenged. “I have four children at home. I have to take care of them. Going to Palamu would take four to five hours and there are no buses,” she said.A daily wager in Chhattisgarh’s Raipur, Sumesh Singh, said he had to wait for about five hours to get rations for two months. “There is a long queue and not enough rations,” he said. In Bhubaneswar’s biggest slum of Saliasahi, tribal resident Sal Marandi said only 100 people received their rations every day. The Odisha government is giving three months’ rations to all the poor, but in the rural areas, distribution hasn’t even started yet. Soumya Ranjan Pradhan, head of the Laxmiprasad panchayat in Nayagarh district, said distribution will start after April 14. Also Read: Centre releases Rs 17,287 crore to statesIn West Bengal too, residents of various districts said they were not getting their rations, amid reports of protests by people outside PDS outlets in Murshidabad and Darjeeling districts. “It was announced that rice and flour would be given free but this was not displayed at the local ration shop. The ration dealer is using his own discretion,” said Nimai Pal of Berhampore town. Another resident, Atanu Nag, said he had received just 2 kg of rice instead of 5 kg. UNFAIR DISTRIBUTION?A blame game is underway in some states, with PDS dealers blaming poor supply systems and the government alleging that the dealers weren’t fairly distributing rations. “The supply chain is affected due to shortage of labourers in godowns. Ration has reached to only 20% of shops by now while we had to begin distribution from April 1,” said Sanjay Kundu, general secretary of the Fair Price Dealers Association (FPDA) in Jharkhand. He said a few shops had received rations, but only enough for a month. Jharkhand’s food and public distribution director Sanjay Kumar said, “The issue of labourer has been sorted out. We are receiving reports that some dealers are not distributing rations, despite availability.” Odisha’s additional secretary of food, Mohammed Haque, said the there was indeed a shortage of labour and drivers to transport provisions to individual gram panchayats, resulting in only about 30% of rations being distributed until April 3. Odisha distributes about 170,000 tonnes of rice/wheat to the 90.4 million beneficiary families. Jharkhand’s government said it would take disciplinary action against officials and dealers obstructing the fair distribution of PDS rations. In Chhattisgarh, the police has been deployed at ration shops to ensure hassle-free distribution of the subsidised grains. “We are doing everything to ensure that 90% of the state’s population covered under NFSA (National Food Security Act) gets their quota of rations for April to June 2020,” said Taran Prakash Sinha, Chhattisgarh’s director of public relations.PLIGHT OF THE JOBLESSAs the states grapple with distribution of foodgrains, demand has increased for work under the MGNREGA, the flagship job guarantee scheme, judging from anecdotal evidence. In 2019-20, the programme received demand for work from by 50.2 million people because of an economic slowdown, a nine-year high. “There are queues outside panchayat offices in villages,” said an official of Muzzafarpur district of Bihar. An official in Odisha said people were registering for work under the MGNREGA because they believe the lockdown will continue beyond April 14 and they will not get work in the cities.The plight of MGNREGA workers was vocalized by Sukhmani Devi of Jharkhand’s Latehar district.“I have not got any job under MGNREGA this year. Now, all work under the scheme has come to a standstill due to the lockdown. I am a widow and the only bread earner for my three children. I have no money to even buy the subsidized rations,” she said.Some states such as Chhattisgarh, Odisha and West Bengal have demanded payment of an unemployment allowance to MGNREGA workers for the duration of the lockdown. The Centre is yet to take a call on the demand.(Ritesh Mishra in Raipur, Debabrata Mohanty in Bhuvaneshwar and Tanmay Chatterjee in Kolkata also contributed to this story)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-states-struggle-to-distribute-ration-demand-for-work-surges/story-tDhSTlY7mX9eqdMEg09sGM.html
04-04-2020||India||93-yr-old Kerala man, 88-yr-old wife cured of Covid-19||A 93-year-old man and his wife 88-year-old wife were discharged from the Kottayam Medical College Hospital in Kerala on Friday after being cured of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) , nursed back to health by a committed medical team. Members of the medical team were seen wiping teary eyes as the couple emerged from the Covid ward on wheelchairs.“It is a glorious moment for the medical fraternity. It was a big challenge to save their lives and we did it ,” said Dr Jose Joseph, principal of the medical college. Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicChief minister Pinarayi Vijayan congratulated the medical team, saying they had made Kerala proud. The couple were rushed to hospital after their Italy- returned son, daughter-in law and grandchild tested positive for Covid-19 last month. They both were put on ventilators. “We are really indebted to the medical team. We erred first {in exposing them to the virus} because of our ignorance. It is a miracle my grandparents were cured fully,” said their grandchild Rijo Moncy, who works in Italy.Doctors said their disciplined lifestyle, food habits and appetite for life helped them bounce back.Kerala was outraged after reports that the three Italy-based members of the family had hid their travel history and attended many functions social functions . Seven of their relatives tested positive after coming into contact with the family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/93-yr-old-kerala-man-88-yr-old-wife-cured/story-FlAwzIJq6fkLvwgv3KQKzL.html
04-04-2020||India||Lack of PPE, poor infection control put medical staff at risk of Covid-19||Healthcare workers risk contracting Covid-19 due to a lack of infection control in hospitals, doctors say amid complaints about substandard personal protective equipment ( PPE) and lack of basic items like N 95 masks and even sanitisers.Dr Indranil Khan, an oncologist in Kolkata, who was detained for complaining about sub-standard PPEs on March 29, said doctors are at risk of getting infected along with other patients.“I have friends, juniors, seniors who are working in various hospitals in Kolkata and outside like in Siliguri who will not lie. The material supplied to hospitals has been substandard and inadequate. ...fighting a disease like Covid-19 is not a joke,” said Khan. “...we were not prepared for an epidemic of this scale but government hospitals are not equipped at all which, in turn, will lead to the spread of infection not just among health workers but also among other patients.” He said doctors and sanitation workers interacting with any suspected patient need to be protected because they go to other wards as well. Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicKhan on March 29 cited a news report about substandard PPEs and tweeted to request West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee to take necessary action. “All I need is real PPE to protect frontline doctors nurses fighting COVID 19. Raincoats are not adequate...,” he tweeted. Also Read: In crisis, Indian firms hope for quick payments of dues by govtHe received a response from the government assuring him of immediate steps to address the situation. “But that evening I was picked up by cops for bringing disrepute to the government. After moving the high court, I got interim relief after the court upheld freedom of speech,” Khan said.Also Read: Delhi CM calls for calm over spike in coronavirus cases, allays fear of spreadDr Raveendra Reddy, an Intensive Care Unit consultant in Bengaluru, said anybody interacting with patients with Covid-19 like symptoms or even with asymptomatic ones will need a good two-layered fluid-resistant apron. “They will need goggles, N 95 masks, ideally a face shield, PPE gowns. China had two to three different kinds of PPEs. That is not needed. We need basic fluid-resistant gear. The load of asymptomatic patients is very high and for interactions particularly in fever clinics, this is a must. It should be a composite kit. That is not happening.”Krishna Murthy, a doctor at a private Bengulrur hospital, said let alone N95 masks, there is a shortage of surgical masks. He added some vendors are providing PPEs but its very difficult to get them and so health workers are wearing raincoat like gowns. “Even hand sanitisers are not available. We have some pneumonia patients but they have not been tested yet. N 95 masks used to cost Rs 150 but are being sold at Rs 400 now. Bodysuits cost Rs 2,000 per piece, surgical masks are being procured for Rs 20; they used to cost Rs 2. These need to be standardised very urgently.”Some doctors and nurses at Delhi’s Hindu Rao Hospital have submitted resignations allegedly due to lack of safety and protective gear, the hospital administration said on April 1. The resignations are not being accepted in view of Covid-19 pandemic. “They are resigning because of some family issues. We are getting PPEs here but they are not of appropriate quality. The matter is being taken up with authorities to procure better and safe material,” said Dr Piyush Pushkar Singh of the Hindu Rao Hospital’s Resident Doctors’ Association.Federation of Resident Doctors’ Associations president, Dr Shivaji Barman, said it is still being investigated whether the doctors, who have contracted the infection, got it in hospitals or outside. “As far as doctors and health workers quitting in some hospitals... I think those are individual decisions. The resident doctors can complain to the hospital authorities if there is a shortage.”Officials said the Union health ministry has designated public-sector undertaking (PSU), HLL Lifecare Limited, as the single window procurement agency for PPEs for hospitals and healthcare organisations. The ministry has also issued guidelines on the rational use of PPEs. An HLL executive responsible for procurement said, “I do not want to comment. We have been asked not to.”Preventive Wear Manufacturers’ Association of India chairman, Sanjiv Relhan, said they are getting frantic calls from hospitals to provide PPEs, which means there is an acute shortage. “Manufacturers are not able to comply with guidelines issued by the government. The material cannot be sent for testing to Coimbatore, as per protocol because of the lockdown. This needs to be addressed urgently,” he said.The health ministry on Saturday announced it will procure a million masks from other countries and was in talks with Indian manufacturers to supply PPEs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lack-of-ppe-poor-infection-control-put-medical-staff-at-risk-of-covid-19/story-5jmeJgwUAaFuu4wfiCu8XN.html
04-04-2020||India||800-plus foreign Jamaat workers found hiding in Delhi mosques, trigger Covid-19 alarm||Early this week when the security establishment and health workers came close to completing the evacuation of 2,300 people from the Tablighi Jamaat headquarters in central Delhi, investigations led the police to conclude that there were more foreigners staying in different mosques in the national capital. On 31 March, the Delhi Police sent an urgent message to the Delhi Government. It was to seek help to locate the remaining Jamaat workers out of the city’s mosques. The police communication listed 16 mosques.Investigators were prepared to find 187 foreigners and two dozen Indian nationals who had shifted to the mosques after attending congregation meetings at the headquarters of the religious sect in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area.It turns out they were horribly wrong.Also Read: ‘With full weight of law’: MHA orders FIRs against 960 foreign Jamaat workers, sponsorsIn four days, the combined teams of police, health workers and civil servants widened the net to cover a large number of mosques and have located over 800 foreigners linked to the Jamaat in the national capital. And they still have some more distance to cover.“The big fear is that many of them would turn out to be positive cases, and could have already infected many others,” the official said.The Jamaat workers have been placed in multiple government-run quarantine facilities across the national capital. The ones who were found hiding in mosques are yet to be tested. That process is expected to begin in a day or two.A senior official in the Delhi government’s home department confirmed the development but underlined that he couldn’t put a number on the foreigners found. “We are still in the process of getting final reports from the field,” he told Hindustan Times.But there are some ballpark numbers from some districts. About 100 foreigners had been found in mosques of north-east district, 200 in south-east district, 170 in south district and 7 in west district, a senior official in the security establishment said.Also Read: In 4 years, India put 4,200 foreigners on visa blacklist for Tablighi activitiesSecurity agencies who poured over the registers for foreigners maintained at the Markaz found 2,100 foreign nationals had touched base after landing in the country between March 1 and 18. Of them, 216 were still at the Jamaat headquarters when the crackdown took place and 824 had already left for chilla, or proselytising activities.“We believe that the remaining 900-odd foreigners are mostly hiding in mosques around the city,” he said, adding that they were keeping their fingers crossed.Officials recall that by the time they evacuated the followers from the Markaz this week, 24 people had already tested positive and nearly 200 had symptoms. The Delhi government hasn’t received all the test reports. But the Markaz-linked cases already make up for two-thirds of all coronavirus patients in Delhi.Also Read: Markaz leadership resisted, then NSA Ajit Doval dropped by at 2 amBy this evening, the Delhi government counted 386 confirmed coronavirus cases in the city. Of them, a whopping 259 are Markaz Masjid cases. Reports from different parts of the country have also indicated that quite a few people who had attended the Nizamuddin Markaz congregation had tested positive.Three of Delhi’s six deaths are also linked to the Markaz, the biggest hot spot of the Covid-19 infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-600-foreign-tablighi-jamaat-workers-found-hiding-across-delhi-and-counting/story-QyDtKl39OT5sLmlUGQJ5fK.html
04-04-2020||India||Centre releases Rs 17,287 crore to states||New Delhi: The Union government on Friday released Rs 17,287 crore to the states a day after meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a video conference on which cash-strapped states urgently sought funds to combat the disease coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic and its aftermath.The funds included a Rs 6,195 crore a revenue deficit grant to 14 states, meant to cover the gap between their revenue and expenditure. The states are Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Himachal Pradesh, Kerala, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Punjab, Sikkim, Tamil Nadu, Tripura, Uttarakhand and West Bengal, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said in a tweet.“The remaining Rs 11,092 crore is to all States as advance payment of Central share of 1st instalment of SDRMF [State Disaster Risk Management Fund],” she wrote.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic“The @FinMinIndia today released a total of Rs 17,287.08 crore to different States to enhance their financial resources during the #COVID19 crisis. This includes Rs 6,195.08 crore on account of ‘revenue deficit grant’ under 15th Finance Commission recommendations to 14 States,” she tweeted.State governments on Thursday raised the issue of paucity of funds in fighting Covid-19, an official aware of the matter, said requesting anonymity. Hindustan Times reported about states’ demand for funds in its Friday edition.An official of the West Bengal government welcomed the move, but sought the payment of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation,meant to offset a shortfall in GST collections, to states in this time of crisis. In a letter to Sitharaman, West Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra on Thursday asked the centre to immediately release Rs 2,875 crore outstanding GST compensation to the state.“You are aware that the spread of Covid-19 pandemic has created havoc to the state finances. Business activities have been hit badly, severely impacting the revenues of the state. You would appreciate that under these circumstances, non-receipt of GST compensation from the Central Government has further aggravated the already stretched State finances,” Mitra said in the letter, a copy of that has been reviewed by HT.According to the letter, the GST compensation is due for the period from October 2019 to March 2020. The total compensation payout to the states in 2019-20 is expected to be over Rs 1.20 lakh crore while total collection from GST compensation cess was less than Rs 80,000 crore, officials aware of the matter said.The GST law assures the states a 14% increase in their revenue for five years and the Centre is committed to meeting any shortfall in revenue through the cess levied on luxury goods and sin products such as liquor, cigarettes and other tobacco products.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-releases-17-287-crore-to-states/story-S4uIEiCs7f2zXhhJkth6eK.html
04-04-2020||India||SC seeks Centre’s reply on minimum wage to migrants||The Supreme Court on Friday sought the response of the Central government in a plea seeking to ensure payment of minimum wage to all migrant workers within a week, whether employed by establishments or contractors or self-employed.The petition filed by activists Harsh Mander and Anjali Bhardwaj pointed out that migrant workers are unable to work and earn wages during the 21-day nationwide lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic.A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and Deepak Gupta posted the case for next hearing on April 7.The petitioners submitted that the lockdown order issued March 24, for which no prior intimation was given, created a panic across the country and led to instantaneous loss of jobs and wages of millions of migrant workers employed in establishments and households across India or self-employed as street vendors, rickshaw pullers, petty job workers, etc.“The (lockdown) order ignores the harsh realities that workers have to persistently face in cities further compounded when a lockdown order deprives them of their job, daily wages and hence means of survival, thus violating their Article 21 (right to life) rights,” the petition stated.PETITION SEEKING FREE COVID 19 TESTINGThe SC asked the Centre for its response a petition praying that Covid-19 test should be provided free of cost to all citizens at all private and government-run testing laboratories.At present, private laboratories are allowed to charge people to test for Coronavirus, though its price is capped at Rs 4,500.“It is urgently required that the respondents have to provide free of cost testing for covid-19 to all citizens”, the petition stated.The petitioner, advocate Shashank Deo Sudhi, submitted that government hospitals are packed to capacity and it has become difficult for the common man to get himself/herself tested in government-run labs. With no alternative in sight, they are forced to pay money to get the tests done at private labs, the petition stated. Saddling ordinary citizens with such financial burden effectively deprives them of their accessibility to medical facilities and is violative of right to life guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution, the petitioner submitted.Sudhi also pointed out that there are only 114 identified testing centers for Covid-19 in a country with a population of 1.3 billion people. Due to this, he claimed that adequate testing was not happening making the situation dangerous with each passing day.He, therefore, prayed that testing facilities should be ramped up so as to ensure that adequate tests are done and all Covid-19 tests must be conducted by pathological laboratories accredited with National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL). SC WANTS STRICT ACTION ON PRICE GOUGING OF MASKS AND SANITISERS The Supreme Court on Friday asked the Central government to publicise measures taken by it to deal with price gouging of masks and hand sanitisers. A bench told the government to take strict action against those flouting the price control notification issued by the authorities concerned. The court disposed of the case after the government told the SC on Friday that it would publicise helpline numbers for customers to reach out if they come across any violation of the price control notification. The plea by NGO Justice for Rights Foundation claimed there was a rise in demand for masks and sanitisers and, consequently, chemists and medical shops were selling them at a price much higher than the maximum retail price (MRP) and the price prescribed by the government. The petitioner alleged that chemists and medical outlets, in an attempt to defraud and profit from the coronavirus outbreak, were striking out the MRP and applying their own price labels.To address this, the government had come out with notifications and orders declaring face masks and hand sanitizers as essential commodities and capping their prices. “The Department of Consumer Affairs, in wake of the need and urgency of the present condition, published a notification dated 21 March 2020, fixing the prices of the mask i.e. 2 ply masks to be priced at ₹8 and 3 ply masks to priced at ₹10 and that the sanitiser bottle of 200 ml to be sold at a price of ₹100,” the petition pointed out.The petitioner claimed that despite the notification, medical outlets were selling masks and sanitisers at higher prices. KERALA -KARNATAKA BORDER: SC BATS FOR AMICABLE RESOLUTION The SC issued notice to the Central and Kerala governments in an appeal filed by state of Karnataka challenging an April 1 order of Kerala High Court directing the Central government to remove the road blockades erected by Karnataka on the Kerala-Karnataka border. The top court did not stay the Kerala HC order, but asked the chief secretaries of both states and the Union health secretary to hold a meeting to arrive at a solution so as to ensure movement of vehicles in case of medical emergencies.The case will be heard next on April 7.In a bid to tackle coronavirus spread, the Karnataka government had blocked the roads including the National Highway 66 connecting the state with Kerala’s northern districts. It had erected mud mounds on the roads, thereby, preventing all vehicular traffic between the two states. Kerala, with 286 Covid cases, has third highest number of cases in the country after Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. Out of these, 129 cases are from state’s northern most district of Kasaragod, which shares its border with Karnataka.The Kerala High Court Advocates Association had approached the HC against the blockade. The HC had, on April 1, noted the national highway network comes under the Central government and had told the Centre to remove the blockades.“We, therefore, direct the Central government to forthwith intervene in the matter and ensure that the blockades erected by the State of Karnataka, on the National Highways connecting the said State to the State of Kerala, are removed forthwith, and without any further delay, so as to facilitate the free movement of vehicles carrying persons for urgent medical treatment, across the border between the two States”, the HC had directed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-seeks-centre-s-reply-on-minimum-wage-to-migrants/story-zivw8qf4SLjeBZwZDYrv0L.html
04-04-2020||India||MPs give Rs 365 cr from local area development fund to fight Covid-19||A week after Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu appealed to Members of Parliament (MPs) to contribute towards the government’s efforts to contain the spread of Coronavirus, about one-third of Rajya Sabha MPs and half of the sitting Lok Sabha MPs have committed contributions.As per the latest information available with the Parliament secretariat, a total of 339 MPs have contributed a total of Rs 365 crore from their MPLADS to the Central pool for measures towards tackling exigencies in India emerging from the effect of the pandemic.PPK Ramacharyulu, secretary in the Rajya Sabha secretariat, also informed that the contributions include Rs 100 crore from 74 Rajya Sabha members and Rs 265 crore from 265 Lok Sabha members.Both Naidu and Birla have been appraised about the latest status of contributions. Officials close to Naidu indicate that additional measures would be adopted to urge remaining members to send their consent letter to the Ministry of statistics and programme implementation, the nodal ministry for MPLAD.Some opposition MPs, however, have decided to spend their local area fund within their constituencies instead of committing the money to the central pool. “We also need to do our bit in our constituency to contain coronavirus. Why should we give up our fund to supplement Centre’s effort or leave it to the ministry to decide how to spend the money,” said an Opposition MP who did not wish to be named.In the last week of March, Birla and Naidu had appealed to MPs to earmark Rs 1 crore from their MPLAD to help fight coronavirus. “I appeal to all Hon’ble MPs to forward Consent Letters to Ministry of Statistics & Programme Implementation towards utilizing a sum of Rs 1 crore or more from their MPLAD Funds & supplement Govt efforts to fight the pandemic,” Birla had tweeted.The MPLAD scheme, initiated in 1994, gives Rs 5 crore per annum to an MP to spend it on development projects in his or her constituency. The scheme also allows MPs to contribute up toRs 1 crore in case the Centre attributes a calamity as a “calamity of severe nature” such as the Corona outbreak. The scheme also allows contribution of MPLAD funds to a place outside an MP’s constituency or even outside his state/union territory.Apart from their MPLAD contributions, MPs have also been urged to donate a month’s salary for the newly created PM CARES fund.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mps-give-365-cr-from-local-area-development-fund-to-fight-covid-19/story-qUIHp1Fp3TNzpgqruCbr2H.html
04-04-2020||India||‘Action will follow if platforms don’t act against fake news’: Ravi Shankar Prasad||Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad has warned of strict action against those spreading fake news about the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. In an interview with Smriti Kak Ramachandran, Prasad also spoke about the 21-day lockdown imposed to halt the pandemic, delivery of essential supplies and other related issues. Edited excerpts:Does the government have a plan to combat misinformation and fake news circulating on social media about the pandemic?The PM has shown great leadership when the pandemic has affected the world. Our country has responded in unison, except for occasional politicising (of the issue) by the Congress. A county of 1.3 billion has followed the lockdown. The PM has also shown great leadership in terms of engagement, with chief ministers, health care workers, media, sportspersons and manufacturers. He has interacted with the most of civil society. Many of us are in touch with district magistrates and police officers, which is a feedback mechanism. That way the entire country has been aroused by the PM to fight against this virus. It is in this light that religious leaders, too, need rise to the occasion. Many of them are doing it and we appreciate that. The Tabligi congregation at Nizammudin and the way its leaders behaved was irresponsible. I am happy that the central government and the state governments are working together to contain, isolate and subject them (members of the congregation) to quarantining and testing. I also appreciate the quick decision of home minister Amit Shah who cancelled the tourists visas of all foreigners (who had come to attend the congregation) who were moving around in violation of norms.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicIn this scenario, it is very important that the social media platforms are very responsible. I am a great supporter of social media; it is very empowering. We respect freedom, but during these challenging times, these platforms have to rise to the occasion and show greater sensitivity and accountability so that the common resolve is not weakened.I hope platforms such as TikTOk, WhatsApp, Twitter, Facebook and others are not abused to spread fake news or disturbing videos, or mocking the resolve to fight the virus. If they do not rise to the occasion, action will follow. I reiterate that some offensive videos are reprehensible and should be removed forthwith.How is the government addressing concerns about the internet bandwidth and the pressure on IT infrastructure with so many working from home because of the lockdown?India is an important country of back-end offices. The first thing we did was to relax the guidelines enabling people to work from home. It has been appreciated. In case of emergency, if officers need to step out, they are allowed with due permission. Yes, there is a load on the internet and we also sensitised the stakeholders to take suitable technological measures so that the load on internet, mobile phones is reduced. About 40% of the data consumption is through videos on the mobiles. We appreciate that they have taken measures to reduce the load by 15-20%. BSNL has extended the validity of the SIM cards so that at least poor people can continue to talk. Some of the private operators are also doing the same. Our postal department has also stepped up and is helping recharge the SIMs. With the interstate transport systems not functioning, will the postal department be able to step in during this crisis?I appreciate the role of the postal department and its vast network, which, apart from delivering goods, medicines through air courier services, and other urgent requirements in the fight against corona, is also assisting in food supply for those in need. The postal department is in the exempted category. Their network is huge. The cargo flights for the postal services are working and we are coordinating in every way. There been an increase in digital transactions; what does Covid-19 mean for e-commerce companies?Digital payments have risen in India. In fact, the larger narrative of digital India, the digital delivery of services to digital payment to UPI platform to Aadhar-enabled payment system to direct benefit transfer... all these are working in coordination. That is what digital India is meant for. India will be a big place for e-commerce. A large number of e-commerce corporations are being used in small towns and in the hinterland that do not have big malls. Here the postal department is emerging as a big power in the delivery of e-commerce products. I see very promising future for them... e-commerce is going to be a huge enterprise in India.There has been a problem in delivery of goods though...These are challenging times. The postal department is also helping them... As of now the main focus is the success of the lockdown and social distancing and containing the spread (of the virus).Do you think laws need to be changed to deal with such pandemics? The government had to invoke the lockdown under the Disaster Management Act, which provides limited powers to the Centre. The Act is sufficient. It is a pan India act, and gives sufficient powers, including penal. It also allows prioritising deliveries during the emergency times, what should be the exempted categories etc. But, yes this kind of pandemic happens once in 100 years. Even big countries have been brought to their knees. Therefore, with the experience of this, we will have to explore future challenges.Is there a need for a new law or an amendment to provide protection to doctors and health staff facing attacks? As of now, the health workers have been given Rs 50 lakh of additional [insurance] cover. It is important that while the law should be enforced, society too must rise to the occasion. I very strongly condemn the attacks on doctors who are doing a great service. You all need to appreciate the vision of the PM, who asked people to clap for these doctors and health care staff (on March 22). And this programme on Sunday night-- of lighting a lamp-- is also designed to ensure a lamp of hope is lit that India will overcome (this pandemic).How will the restrictions be eased post the 21-day lockdown?The decision should be left to the health care professionals, depending on the condition in the country. The PM has already briefed the chief ministers. This should not be considered in isolation; it should be left to the wisdom of the PM. He is in consultations with the stakeholders and health care professionals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/action-will-follow-if-platforms-don-t-act-against-fake-news-ravi-shankar-prasad/story-HIv1uwscYKNo6MPqHSjedP.html
04-04-2020||India||Lockdown does what decades of schemes couldn’t: Clean Ganga||The nationwide 21-day lockdown to combat the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is doing what ambitious schemes could not do over the decades—cleaning the Ganga. Since 1986, when the Ganga Action Plan was conceived, the Central government has pumped in about Rs 5000 crore to clean a river considered holy by hundreds of millions of Indians, but with little impact. Now, real time data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) shows that the water quality of the river has improved considerably during the lockdown, notably in industrial towns through which it passes.The deserted ghats also tell a whole new story as the river flows silently -- and bare, with no signs of bodies, human waste, old clothes or general garbage.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicPandit Narendra Tripathi, who attended to thronging pilgrims in Varanasi before the lockdown said: “On an average, 3000 to 4000 devotees take a dip in the river. Now they are home.” Besides, funeral pyres at the Manikarnika Ghat in Varanasi are not burning 24X7; many believe cremation here assures salvation to the dead. Gulshan Kapoor, managing trustee, Baba Mahashamshan Nath Mandir, Manikarnika Ghat said: “Earlier, on average 80 to 100 bodies reached the ghat daily for their last rites. Ever since the lock-down has been enforced, the number has gone down to 15 -20.”Experts say that if not for the presence of natural bacteria in the river, the water at this point of time is good enough to be consumed. such that it could be consumed. And after a long time, the river water has finally become fit for bathing, they add. Kalika Singh, the regional officer at Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board at Varanasi, says the water has improved in terms of both colour and quality. “The dissolved oxygen level upstream is 8.7mg per litre and it is 8.1 mg per litre downstream, which is good enough for bathing,” he says. It is widely accepted that healthy water has a dissolved oxygen level of at least 7 mg/litre, although CPCB’s bar is marginally lower. CPCB has three real time monitoring stations in Kanpur. One is upstream of the Ganga Barrage, the second, downstream of the barrage, and the third is at Shuklagunj.The CPCB monitors a range of parameters : dissolved oxygen (it should be more than 6 mg per litre), biochemical oxygen demand (BOD, less than 3 mg/ litre), ph (range between 6.5 and 8.5), ammonia (less than 1.2 mg/litre). The monitoring station located upstream reported on March 28 that the dissolved oxygen level was 8 mg/litre, BOD was 2.1 mg/litre, ph was 7.90 and ammonia, 0.49 mg/litre. At station number two downstream, dissolved oxygen level was 7.90 mg/litre, BOD, 1.21 mg/litre, ph, 7.91 and ammonia, 1.1 mg/litre. The third station reported a dissolved oxygen level of 8.51 mg/litre, BOD, 2.1 mg/litre, ph, 7.68 and ammonia, 0.79 mg/litre.The chemical oxygen demand was less than nine at all the three monitoring points. It should be less than 10 mg per litre. CPCB officials say the water quality has seen a significant improvement, particularly in industrial towns along the river, including Kanpur. The city has a cluster of industries along the river. The leather industry, with nearly 400 units, is one. The river had been reduced to a dumping ground for industrial and domestic waste. According to a CPCB survey in 2013, Kanpur was home to 475 of the 764 grossly polluting industries around the river. While 400 tanning units were assessed to be contributing 50 MLD (million litres per day) of hazardous waste in the river, seven drains, including the biggest Sisamau nullah, were carrying 140 MLD of domestic waste straight into the river.The biggest success under Namami Gange project came when the Sisamau drain was tapped and its waste flow diverted. Prime Minister Narendra Modi lauded the achievement when he held the first ever meeting of the National Ganga Council in Kanpur in December 2019. PK Mishra , a professor at the department of chemical engineering at the Indian Institute of Techonology-Banaras Hindu University, says: “30% of the total BOD load is due to industries along the river Ganga, which amounts to 130 to 150 tons per day. The total effluent dumped into the Ganga is around 6500 to 6700 MLD (in) its UP stretch and onwards. Around 10% is toxic load from industries, which is equal to approximately 700 MLD. Since all the major grossly polluting industries are closed due to the lockdown, this toxic load is not entering the river now. As a result, one-third of the pollution load has been minimised. The only load now is due to sewage from major cities.” Experts say the improvement in the Ganga’s water during the lockdown is a sign that the river can recover. Rama Rauta, former member of National Ganga River Basin Authority, says the data is encouraging. “This proves that dams and industries are the biggest enemy of the purity of the river water. If free flow of water in Ganga is restored and industrial pollution is checked, 75% of the river water will turn into “quality water” for human consumption,” she says.Santosh Nigam, 27, who lives a few metres from the river bed in Kanpur’s Parmat, one of busiest and revered ghats, is elated. “I have never seen the river looking so clean,” he says. “It is beautiful.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anxiety-more-time-to-study-for-40k-students-stranded-in-kota/story-LgCluBkrFEITG9qyX16IEI.html
04-04-2020||India||Amid Covid-19 crisis, Indian firms hope for quick payments of dues by govt||India’s businesses are expecting the government to roll out a fiscal relief and stimulus package of the same magnitude as the one unveiled by the US -- equivalent to around 10% of GDP -- but are also hoping the Centre and states, various administrative departments, state-owned companies and utilities will accelerate payments owed to them as they battle an economic crisis of never-seen-before proportions. A consolidated amount of what the government owes companies, large and small, isn’t readily available, but HT learns that it could run into a few lakh crore with the big-ticket ones being the money owed by the Centre to fertiliser companies towards subsidies and that owed by state power distribution companies to power producers. Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicFor instance, by last month, the amount owed by the Centre to fertiliser companies had touched Rs 60,000 crore, according to KS Raju, the chairman of industry body Fertiliser Association of India. This, after payment of Rs 10,000 crore last month. The money owed is on account of a fertiliser subsidy. Raju explains that for every tonne of urea made at a cost of around Rs 20,000, the selling price, fixed by the government, is just Rs 5,000. The government compensates the companies for the rest -- including a fixed rate of return -- but the payments are usually late. Also Read: Government may borrow Rs 40k crore as cash-strapped states seek fundsFertiliser minister Sadanand Gowda was unavailable for comment and his office said he is busy overseeing the lockdown in the states he has been assigned. The 21-day lockdown (ending April 14) was instituted to prevent the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic and ministers given the task of overseeing the situation in specific states. Gowda has the responsibility for Kerala and LakshadweepPower companies say they have it worse. The amount owed by state-run power distribution companies (discoms) to power generating companies (gencos) stood as high as Rs 88,426 crore until February . It is likely to have increased since, although the latest data is yet to be compiled. The ministry of power’s payment ratification and analysis portal Praapti shows the discoms, so far, have only paid Rs 10, 259 crore of the total dues pending. Power producers give 60 days to discoms for paying bills for the supply of electricity. After that, outstanding dues become overdue and generators charge penal interest in most cases.  Experts have said gencos too are in need of a fiscal stimulus. “Government may have to facilitate interest-free working capital loans for gencos. Else, this contagion will spread to fuel suppliers and sustainability of all sector entities will come under question,“ said Debashish Mishra, a partner at Deloitte India. Also Read: As states struggle to distribute ration, demand for work surgesAmong the worst affected are micro, small and medium enterprises, or MSMEs. The government in October 2017 launched a portal to facilitate payments due to small businesses by government departments and ministries. In the Union Budget 2020-21, an app-based invoice financing loans product was launched to obviate the problem of delayed payments and consequential cash flow mismatches for MSMEs.According to the ministry of micro, small and medium enterprises’ Samadhaan portal, approximately Rs 4,000 crore of payment requests had been filed by MSMEs as of April 2, ready for consideration by the MSME Facilitation Council (MSEFC) for settlement. Also Read: Centre releases Rs 17,287 crore to statesDK Aggarwal, president, PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said many state-owned companies that are loss-making had not been able to make timely payments to their vendors/MSMEs. “Further, some payments get held up due to procedural delays,” he said.“As a result of payment delays, businesses, especially MSMEs, face financial hardships and liquidity constraints which lead to severe pressure on their working capital management. This severely affects sustainability of their operations,” he added.He proposed that the central government “speed up the process of payment clearances, especially in this difficult time when the businesses, especially MSMEs, are facing problem of liquidity.” The office of Nitin Gadkari, the minister in charge of MSMEs, said the ministry was looking at the finance minister’s task force, set up to ensure the economy doesn’t suffer during this crisis, for direction. Officials in the finance ministry said there was absolutely no question of delay in making payments to vendors and contractual workers because of paucity of funds. All government expenditure is in line with the approved budget, two officials working in two different departments of the finance ministry added, requesting anonymity.“There could be two possibilities for delay in payments [to vendors]; inability of some vendors to provide bills and invoices in a particular format, and lack of manpower in certain departments to process pending bills of vendors. While vendors must follow rules, the department of expenditure has told all ministries to ensure timely payment without resorting to any excuse such as the 21-day lockdown,” one of the officials said.The department of expenditure, an arm of the finance ministry, has advised all ministries and government departments to ensure there are no procedural issues regarding government expenditure, which is necessary to keep the economy healthy, the second official said. “The instructions clearly said the expenditure system must function more quickly than normal in certain sectors to cope with emerging situations due to the Covid-19 pandemic,” he added. Delayed payments are likely to hit companies across sectors that work with the government or which provide products or services to it -- especially at a time when business-as-usual has been disrupted by the lockdown in place to combat Covid-19. Also Read: SC seeks Centre’s reply on minimum wage to migrantsThe pandemic itself has also roiled the economy, with credit rater Fitch estimating on Friday that the Indian economy would grow at a 30-year low of 2% in 2020-21. For instance, the Association of Radio Operators For India, an industry body , has sought relief from the government to cope with the crisis, and also wanted the government’s advertising arm, the Directorate of Advertising and Visual Publicity (DAVP), to clear its dues. A member of the Indian Newspaper Society (INS), who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the DAVP also owed some money to newspapers. An official at the information and broadcasting ministry, under which DAVP falls, said that the department has “paid most of the bills. I am not saying all of them but most have been cleared by us by the end of March”. The official requested anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-crisis-indian-firms-hope-for-quick-payments-of-dues-by-govt/story-SpkiBKPqPlDgo8ojYro0uI.html
04-04-2020||India||Nizamuddin dargah: Sufi central suffers ripples of Jamaat||Being the nerve centre of Sufi culture in India and the home of Hazrat Nizamuddin Auliya, after whom the area was named, congregations are a daily affair at Nizamuddin Basti. Every year, thousands gather here in the Islamic month of Rabi-ul Awwal to observe the urs (death anniversary) of the Auliya on the 17th and 18th of the month (to fall sometime in November this year, as per the Christian calendar). Besides the urs, hundreds pay obeisance at the dargah (resting place) of the Sufi saint every day at the locality which announces its existence by the blue dome, or the Neela Gumbad, on the intersection of Mathura Road and Zakir Hussain Marg.Besides its Sufi character, Nizamuddin is also a backpacker’s and gourmand’s delight with several small lodges; eateries churning out qorma, nahari, paaya and biryani; and small shops that sell attar (perfumes), skull caps, kurtas, and Islamic books. It also has one of the first branches of the famous Old Delhi Mughlai restaurant, Karim’s. Residents of nearby colonies also visit the various meat shops in the area for their daily supply.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicIt is said that Auliya’s basti never stands still. However, over the last three days, hundreds of potential Covid-19 patients were evacuated from the Markaz, the headquarters of the Tablighi Jamaat, located just a few metres away from the Dargah. A congregation of indeterminate length held last month at the Markaz has now emerged one of the biggest spreaders of the Sars-Cov-2 virus.Farid Nizami, the 48-year-old caretaker of 13th-century dargah, says he has been getting queries from across the world and from those who live in the surrounding area about the rise in Coronavirus cases caused by a religious gathering of members of the Tablighi Jamaat in mid-March.“The moment the name of Nizamuddin occurs anywhere, people immediately associate it with the dargah. I am having to explain to everyone over and again that this incident has nothing to do with the Dargah,” he said, adding that the mausoleum had for the first time in its history last month shut its doors to the thousands of pilgrims who visit it every day -- the moment the Prime Minister announced the March 22 “janta curfew” to control the spread of the virus.“The members of the Jamaat have nothing to do with the Dargah, or with sufism. Their religious traditions are different and they hardly ever even visit the dargah,” Nizami added.The spread of Covid-19 at the Tablighi Jamaat headquarters situated in the same Nizamuddin Basti, however, has caused worry among the residents of the 700-year-old settlement spread around the mausoleum of the Sufi saint.Abdur Rahmaan (56), a local resident, said: “Ever since the government began alerting us on Coronavirus cases, we have been spreading awareness among the people of this basti about social distancing. However, for the past few days we have been facing a lot of discrimination when we go out to get grocery and other essential commodities from nearby markets. People feel that we are carrying the virus and refuse to supply us with any goods we need.”The settlement around the dargah, where a thriving population of those claiming lineage to Hazrat Nizamuddin and his disciples dwells, has been at the centre of cultural activities in Delhi since the 13th century. “Every dynasty that ruled Delhi since has built in this area, because of the proximity to the saint’s grave,” said Ratish Nanda, CEO of the Aga Khan Trust for Culture, which has been carrying out development efforts in the basti for at least a decade. A large number of royal tombs came up in the vicinity, including Humayun’s tomb, which is one among the three Unesco world heritage sites in Delhi. The presence of a 16th century heritage park, Sundar Nursery, which was redeveloped three years ago, is yet another attraction for tourists.“Like every other urban village in Delhi, the Nizamuddin basti has grown organically, and has several segregated communities who came to the area at different points in time.” added Nanda.There are about 400 families in the area who trace their descent to the saint. Then there was a wave of refugees from West Punjab who came here in 1947. Nizamuddin still remains one of the first ports of call for a Muslim immigrant in Delhi. During the 1982 Asian Games, a large population of labourers came to the area and continued to stay here long after the games were over.Nizamuddin is also a cultural hub. “Many things that are deeply connected to the idea of India found their origins in Nizamuddin,” said heritage enthusiast Sohail Hashmi. “While the Chisti saint Nizamuddin Auliya decided to stay here, it is through his closest disciple, the poet, musician and scholar, Amir Khusrao, that Sufi thought is transmitted into the language of Delhi. It is he who begins the musical tradition of Qawaali, drawing in elements from folk music in Delhi and Punjab. The beginning of the langar tradition also took place in the hospice of Nizamuddin,” adds Hashmi.The Qawali tradition at the Nizamuddin Dargah continues to draw about 1,500 visitors every Thursday night. The mausoleum is visited by thousands of pilgrims from across the world on the birth and death anniversaries of Nizamuddin and Khusrao as well.Being a space of cultural significance, literary figures such as the 17th century poet Abdul Rahil Khan-i-Khana and the 19th century poet Mirza Ghalib also came to be buried there. “Thousands of people come here every year to celebrate Ghalib in seminar, mushairas, and ghazal programs,” said Aqil Ahmad, secretary of the Ghalib academy, a cultural and educational institution established in 1969 in West Nizamuddin, consisting of a research centre, art gallery, and a calligraphy training centre.In was in the 1920s that the Tablighi Jamaat was given land by the Nizamuddin Dargah to build their headquarters. Speaking about how the present controversy about the Jamaat gathering might be affecting the health and reputation of people at Nizamuddin, Nanda said “presently our only concern is the well being of the 20,000 residents of the basti and to identify anyone who will need hospitalisation”. “Thereafter much needs to be done to reiterate that the mammoth Tablighi Jamaat headquarters that now overshadows the basti, has in fact little association with pilgrims to the dargah or with the local residents,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nizamuddin-dargah-sufi-central-suffers-ripples-of-jamaat/story-4NnomWLvZkxRBFaVzxGwqM.html
04-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Maharashtra may have to extend lockdown by few weeks, says minister||Maharashtra reported 67 new cases of Covid-19 on Friday, taking the total number of cases to 490, and the total deaths reported in the state touched 26, Maharashtra health Minister Rajesh Tope said “43 of these new cases are from Mumbai, 10 from Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), 9 from Pune, 6 from Ahmednagar, and 1 each from Ratnagiri and Washim.” He also said Maharashtra is likely to extend the lockdown beyond April 14, especially in Mumbai and other urban areas by two more weeks. Maharashtra traced seven persons – two each in Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and Ahmednagar and one in Hingoli district – who attended the Tablighi Jamaat event have tested positive. The state government could contact 1033 people of the 1,225 who went to New Delhi and has put 738 in government quarantine facilities, a state official said.After Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday urged everyone to switch off their lights, and light candles, oil lamps, or flash torch or mobile lights for 9 minutes at 9pm on Sunda, Maharashtra Energy Minister Nitin Raut released a video appealing to citizens not to switch their lights off, and light candles or oil lamps with a tube light on. He said sudden decrease in demand could lead to a grid failure, owing to high frequency at power stations. It would then take between 12 and 16 hours to restore power supply. As of the last update of April 3, a total of 10873 persons were tested in government and private labs in Maharashtra, approximately 97% of which tested negative, and 3% tested positive for Covid-19. Maharashtra has 2455 flying squads to screen persons living in containment zones, and has screened 9,25,828 persons, as of April 3. Of these 292 flying squads are active in Mumbai, 140 in Thane district, 161 in Navi Mumbai, 413 in Pune, 38 in Pimpri Chinchwad, 210 in Nagpur, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-may-have-to-extend-covid-19-lockdown-minister/story-IddrBVogGepJERryDjLJhI.html
04-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Anxiety and a lot of time to study for students stuck in coaching hub Kota||Rashi Todani, 19, one of the around-40,000 students stranded in the coaching hub of Kota, sees a silver lining to the nationwide lockdown.“Though I am away from my parents, I am focusing on my studies,” says Todani, a resident of West Bengal’s Raniganj who is preparing for the National Medical Entrance Examination (NEET). Not everyone feels the same way. Manavi Soni, 17, a Madhya Pradesh resident who stays in the same paying guest (PG) accommodation as Todani, wants to return home at the earliest and be with her family “in this hour of crisis”. The responses of Todani and Soni book-end the feelings of students in this bustling Rajasthan city, which, like the entire country, has suddenly fallen silent in the wake of the 21-day lockdown to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Some are anxious, worried about the well-being of their families. Others have calmed down after the initial panic triggered by the lockdown and are using the time at their disposal to sharpen their preparation for the competitive exams that stand postponed for now.At peak season, Kota is home to 150,000 students, with private coaching centres dotting the streets that are usually teeming with engineering and medical school aspirants, according to Nidhi Prajapati, a teacher of peace studies in a private college in the city who has studied the Kota phenomenon. Currently, around 40,000 students are stuck in the city, surviving on free food packets provided by hostel owners, philanthropic organisations and the institutes, says Naveen Maheshwari, the director of a coaching centre.Students come to the city, which also finds itself in the news regularly for stress-related suicides, because the institutes here have acquired a reputation for prepping students for the Indian Institutes of Technology-Joint Entrance Examination (IIT-JEE) and NEET exams, which usually take place in April-May. This year, all exams have been indefinitely postponed.Students have the option to choose a one-year preparatory course or one that lasts two years. They typically give their school-leaving examinations also from Kota. “The coaching institutes are closed and we cannot go home. So there’s no option but to study, which is not a bad option. The JEE-Mains have been postponed and we get more time to study for it,” says Vishwendra Pratap Singh, an 18-year-old from Lucknow. “The messes and roadside eateries are closed, but the coaching institutes, hostels and social organisations provide free food,” he says.Several coaching institutes have come to the aid of those stranded, distributing food packets. “Students in Kota are following the lockdown strictly, confining themselves in their hotels and PGs. We are taking care of their needs,” adds Maheshwari. He and the people who run other coaching institutes have urged hostels not to charge rent from students till the lockdown is over.Hostels too are looking after the students and organising food for them, says Vishwanath Sharma, the former president of a body of hostel owners. The association is also regularly sanitising the hostels.“I don’t have any financial crunch. Even if someone is lacking money to buy an essential, hostel owners are helping them,” says 18-year-old Stuti Agarwal, a Patna resident preparing for NEET.Coaching institutes are making the best of the digital tools they already have, conducting online classes for students. “We have a mentorship mobile app on which we address students’ problems — academic, psychological and health-related. Our faculty and counsellors reach out to them with help,” says Maheshwari. “We have also launched a dedicated health helpline for students apart from general student helpline to resolve their health concerns,” he adds.Rakesh Sharma, the manager of another institute, is reaching out to students on WhatsApp. “We have made WhatsApp groups of students and their faculty members for academic queries. We will soon launch a mobile app for these issues,” he says.But for 18-year-old Mohammad Waseem, all these mean nothing. He wants to go back home to Uttar Pradesh’s Bareilly.“I stay in a PG. The owners went to Uttar Pradesh for a wedding and got stranded there due to the lockdown. Now, I am left to fend for myself,” he says. “Organisations are providing food to us, but I want to be with my parents.” District collector Om Kasera has advises students not to venture outside. “There are strict government instructions on compliance, in which any kind of unnecessary movement is not allowed. So students are not allowed to return to their homes,” he adds.On March 31, he sent a message to students over phone, asking them not to be depressed and also told them not to make any attempts to return to their homes during the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anxiety-and-a-lot-of-time-to-study-for-students-stuck-in-coaching-hub-kota/story-qVwAzrHh1SgIA36JXwfwXO.html
04-04-2020||India||After PM’s call for Sunday night, govt readies to monitor grid for power fluctuation||Following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call to switch off lights, on April 5, at 9 pm, for nine minutes, the Union power ministry, on Friday, held a high-level review meeting to assess the impact of power fluctuation on the grid. The grid is already reeling under the stress of an unprecedented dip in demand during the lockdown period.The meeting was chaired by Union power minister RK Singh and senior officials from Power Grid Corporation of India Limited (PGCIL) and grid operator POSOCO National Load Despatch Centre, according to two officials aware of the proceedings of the meeting.“ The minister discussed the issue with PGCIL and load dispatcher in the meeting. Since we are in an unprecedented situation with low demand during the lockdown, we are closely monitoring the health of the grid. They have said they are confident of managing the grid stability for the event and have been told to ensure blackout doesn’t occur,” a senior official said requesting anonymity.With a dip of 30% in demand for power due to the absence of commercial activity in the wake of the lockdown, a sudden change in grid frequency could lead to a potential power blackout. According to power ministry data available for April 2, peak demand stood at 125.8 GW which is 25% lower than 168.3 GW for the same day last year.Experts too warned about the possibly adverse impact of millions of households switching off, and then switching on, lights on Sunday night almost simultaneously. “This is absolutely unprecedented. If this is effectively implemented, then we are looking at an impact of 10-15GW of load going down and coming back again which will have a very severe impact on the grid. I am not aware of any event before leading to such a sharp fluctuation before,” said Vinay Rustagi, managing director at renewable energy consultancy Bridge to India Energy Private Limited. This, Rustagi emphasised, will need careful management and pre-planning. “They will have to judicially use hydro and gas power plants to come back and curtail risk.”But power ministry officials said they were confident of managing the situation on Sunday night. “We are making arrangements since the event is known to us in advance. The current peak load of the country stands at around 120GW; of this domestic household lighting comprises of 12-15 GW and we will need to manage and monitor this 15GW of fluctuation,” a second government official said.With the sudden dip in demand the Centre last week had announced a slew of measures to aid the power sector during the lockdown period. These measures include a three-month moratorium on the payment of already financially squeezed distribution companies (Discoms) to Generating Companies (Gencos) and no penalty on late payment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-prepares-to-monitor-grid-for-possible-power-fluctuation-on-sunday-night/story-q9CFuZIjUPtaiu4BXbpmTJ.html
04-04-2020||India||647 Covid-19 cases across 14 states traced to Tablighi Jamaat: Govt||India has recorded 647 confirmed cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) that can be linked to a religious gathering in Delhi’s Nizamuddin, which has emerged as a hot spot of the disease in the country, the Union health ministry said on Friday.These cases were detected in 14 states/Union Territories, namely Andaman and Nicobar Island, Assam, Delhi, Himachal, Haryana, Jammu and Kashmir, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh, the government said.A March congregation of Islamic missionary group Tablighi Jamaat at its six-storey headquarters has set the alarm bells ringing, with authorities in states launching hectic efforts to trace the footsteps of those who visited Nizamuddin for the gathering and subsequently fanned out across the country.Twelve deaths due to Covid-19 surfaced in the past 24 hours, Lav Agarwal, the joint secretary of the Union health ministry, said at a press briefing on Friday afternoon, putting the total number of fatalities in the country at 56.When asked how many of the 12 deaths were linked to the Jamaat congregation, Agarwal said: “It is difficult to ascertain at this point.”The country has registered a total of 2,301 cases, and 336 of them have been reported since Thursday, Agarwal said. He added that 157 patients have recovered from the disease caused by the fast-spreading Sars-CoV-2 virus.Agarwal added that about three million people downloaded the AarogyaSetu app, developed in public-private partnership to help people in assessing their risk of catching the coronavirus infection.He asked citizens to support health workers in the backdrop of attacks on doctors conducting door-to-door drives to screen suspected coronavirus patients.“The Union health minister (Harsh Vardhan) has conveyed that he is concerned over attacks on health workers. Even the Prime Minister has appreciated health workers. Under such challenging circumstances, we should support them in every way possible,” Agarwal said.At the same briefing, Punya Salila Srivastava, joint secretary of the Union home ministry, said the central government has asked states to take strict action against those targeting health workers. Manoj Murhekar of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said guidelines for rapid antibody diagnostics are likely to be released by Saturday.India has allowed faster and cheaper antibody tests to check for the coronavirus disease in so-called hot spots -- these show clusters of infections -- of which there are 20 in the country.Murhekar said India has conducted around 66,000 tests, of which around 8,000 were done on Thursday — the highest in a single day so far.“Testing has process and guidelines. Unnecessary testing for the sake of confidence building, especially when kits are limited, is not the right strategy. However, if we feel it’s needed, testing criteria can be revised. But, so far, no decision has been taken on that,” he said, responding to a question on whether India will ramp up testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-cases-related-to-tablighi-jamaat-reported-from-14-states-says-govt/story-hjSdFvCasQKK0iDCblBQGO.html
04-04-2020||India||Humour does what force can’t: Policemen show their fun and quirky side||Laughter is the best medicine, even in the time of corona! In order to spread awareness about the pandemic, police officers are coming up with fun and novel ideas. Putting up a funky dance performance to demonstrate how to wash hands to fight corona virus, doing an aarti of those stepping out without a reason, singing parodies – police officers across India are exhibiting their cool, quirky side.In Bilaspur, Chhattisgarh, police officers are doing the aarti of violators to stop them from stepping out without any purpose— they are putting tika on their foreheads, showering them with flowers and circulating an aarti plate with a dia around them! Lalita Mehar, the DSP we see in the viral video performing the aarti, says, “Why use lathis when aartis work better? The purpose was to make people realise how people are putting everyone’s life at risk. They were initially puzzled but they understood and pledged to stay safe.” The police officer performs these aartis across the city along with her colleague, SHO Mohammad Kalim Khan. SP Bilaspur Prashant Agarwal says this is a trying phase, and amid all the gloom, he wanted his team to do something positive. “We thought we should do something light hearted to urge people to stay at home. We were like, sab kuch toh try kar liya, dara liya, dhamka liya, pyar se samjha liya, ab kya arti utaarein aapki...and we literally did it! We got just the right reaction. People were embarrassed, they accepted their mistake and realised the efforts we are putting in to fight the pandemic.” The videos are being shared and appreciated in other countries as well. “We are getting calls from across the world,” shares the SP. Bilaspur Police has also penned a cool parody to make people aware about the precautions they must take to fight COVID-19. Officers go from one locality to another singing it soulfully, and people join in from their balconies. Bilaspur DSP Abhinav Upadhyay, who you see singing melodiously in video, says that police officers were a bit stressed, as people were posting memes mocking the police, such as ‘police waale PUBG khel rahe hain’. “Our intent is the welfare of our people. We wanted to present a counter narrative, and tell people that it will be disastrous to step out. A parody seemed perfect,” he says. While the police officer was listening to the timeless ‘Ek Pyar Ka Naghma Hai’ from Shor (1972), his wife, Shruti Upadhyay, suggested that they modify the song. “Within 20 minutes, we put it together. Mostly, she wrote the lines and I edited,” he shares. The police officer was overwhelmed with emotions when he received a call from veteran lyricist Santosh Anand, the original writer of the song. “I could hardly believe when Anand ji himself called and appreciated the parody. It was a priceless moment,” he says. Singer Daler Mehendi , who saw the videos on social media, says, “Huge respect for these officers who have taken this initiative in this critical time. It’s a great way to bring the nation and the entire human race together. Have never come across a policeman who can sing so beautifully!” “The aarti video is the coolest that I have seen on social media. Much better than hitting anyone! What a cute, fun message, ki boss, stay at home, warna aapki bhi aarti utarenge,” says actor Sonu Sood. Police officers in other states are also singing to urge people to stay at home. A video of a Pune police officer singing ‘Zindagi maut na ban jaye, sambhalo yaaro’ to make people aware of the crisis that we are facing is also being shared on social media. The Kerala police had also earlier released a video of officers dancing to demonstrate how to wash hands properly to fight coronavirus. In Chennai, the police invented a quirky way to tell people that they can’t be taking COVID-19 lightly. Police officers made violators wear coronavirus helmet (a headgear with tentacles jutting out) that resembles the virus. The police officers also made people hold placards reading “Don’t come out and go near coronavirus.” Inspector Rajesh babu himself wore one of these headgears designed by artist B. Gowtham. The police officer hoped that people get scared of the deadly virus and do not step out without a valid reason.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/humour-does-what-force-can-t/story-8kRxW8yYiwtcbMgYafptdI.html
04-04-2020||India||Coronavirus: How world reached a million cases in 93 days||At exactly 12pm IST on December 31, a 280-word report from news agency AFP made its way to newsrooms around the world. Citing local media, the report said a mystery virus was causing “viral pneumonia of unknown origin” in the city of Wuhan, where 27 people had been infected till then. The story drew little attention, as the world prepared to celebrate the beginning of a new year later that night.In less than 100 days in the new year – Thursday is the 93rd day to be precise – the virus has infected 1 million people and killed 50,000, ripping through 203 countries in a rampage that will likely exact as severe an economic, social and psychological toll as the number of casualties by the time humanity can beat it. Till now, a little over 200,000 have recovered from the disease.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicIn India, infections crossed 2,000 on Wednesday and the country was on course to add 514 more on Thursday -- the first time daily new cases crossed the 500 mark. New fatalities too logged a big jump -- 19 -- taking the total toll to 72 in the country, which is in the middle of a three-week long nationwide shutdown to ensure the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak does not assume the proportions it has in countries such as Italy and the United States.The United States is now the worst-hit region, accounting for more than a third of all daily new cases around the world. New York has lost 2,200 people and the virus was on course to surpass the 9/11 terror attacks in the next 36 hours as the deadliest tragedy in a city that is at the heart of modern day pop culture. Almost 10 million Americans filed for unemployment benefits in the last two weeks. The United States and Europe are largely being regarded as the current hot spots of the pandemic, with world leaders expecting “the roughest two or three weeks” in their country. “We’re going to lose thousands of people,” US President Donald Trump said earlier in the week, while projecting that up to 240,000 people could die.Italy, with a large ageing population that is the most vulnerable to the Sars-Cov-2 pathogen, has seen the highest number of deaths at 13,000. Spain, the United Kingdom, France and Germany together account for close to 20,000 fatalities.China, where the pathogen is believed to have mutated in either bats or pangolins to jump to humans, has recorded 3,300 deaths – with a rate of growth that slowed into single digits only after what has been a close two months of lockdown in large parts of the country.Stock markets around the world suffered historic losses in the first three months of the year. The Dow Jones Industrial Average and London’s FTSE 100 saw their biggest quarterly drops since 1987, plunging 23% and 25% respectively.In India, Bombay Stock Exchange investors lost around Rs 33.38 lakh crore (in market value) in March, the month when the coronavirus contagion spread to equities.In an age largely defined as the era of social media, Covid-19 has now introduced a new zeitgeist: social distancing. Jobs that can be done are now being done from home -- as are classes for schools and college, and even the UK parliament. As a result, digital pipelines are sagging under the load of unprecedented video streaming and conferencing. Also Read: Genetic sequencing takes lead in Covid-19 vaccine developmentIn India, authorities have now begun preparations to deal with what may be an inevitable surge in infections, and chart out strategies to allow at least some people to resume work when the lockdown ends on April 15. “It is important to formulate a common exit strategy to ensure staggered re-emergence of the population once the lockdown ends,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi told chief ministers on Thursday, asking states to send their suggestions for such an exit strategy.“It can’t be business as usual,” a government release quoted the PM as saying, perhaps summing up the reality the rest of the world will need to confront – at least for the next 12-18 months by when a viable, mass-produced vaccine is expected to be a reality. Research labs and pharmaceutical companies in the US, China and European nations are working at full tilt to develop a vaccine that can fight stem the pandemic. Trials have begun in China, United States and Germany with first participants taking shots of the first vaccine candidates. A drug used in the treatment of malaria has also held out hope, and prompted India to prescribe it as a prophylactic for medical staff dealing with the cases. Hydroxychloroquine when paired with azithromycin (an antibiotic) has been shown to clear patients of the virus at a much faster rate than seen usually.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-how-world-reached-a-million-cases-in-93-days/story-gWNlBC9XMeSNJURmCeWloN.html
04-04-2020||India||‘Insult heaped on injury’: Omar Abdullah on govt’s tweak to Kashmir domicile law||National conference leader Omar Abdullah on Monday denounced the Centre’s move to rework the domicile laws in the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir at a time when the nation is pooling all resources to stave off the coronavirus pandemic.The leader, who was until recently in detention, questioned the timing of the move as the entire nation is under lockdown to halt the spread of the Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. He called the law “hollow” and said it does not offer the protections that it had promised.According to the change in laws, anyone who has resided for 15 years in Jammu and Kashmir or has studied for seven years and appeared in Class 10 and Class 12 examinations in an educational institution located in the union territory is a domicile. Also, those registered as a migrant by the Relief and Rehabilitation Commissioner (Migrants) will also be deemed to be a domicile.“Talk about suspect timing. At a time when all our efforts & attention should be focused on the #COVID outbreak the government slips in a new domicile law for J&K. Insult is heaped on injury when we see the law offers none of the protections that had been promised,” tweeted the former chief minister. Talk about suspect timing. At a time when all our efforts & attention should be focused on the #COVID outbreak the government slips in a new domicile law for J&K. Insult is heaped on injury when we see the law offers none of the protections that had been promised.Abdullah said that the recently formed ‘Apni Party’, which he alleged was formed with the blessings of the Delhi, was critical of the changes in the law.“You can imagine how hollow the domicile law is from the fact that even the new party created with Delhi’s blessings, whose leaders were lobbying in Delhi for this law, have been forced to criticise the #JKdomicilelaw,” said the NC leader in another tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/insult-heaped-on-injury-omar-abdullah-as-govt-tweaks-kashmir-domicile-law/story-hF1irhloZi7YwbMqU2i0IM.html
