05-04-2020||India||Covid-19: 62 test positive in Telangana on Sunday, 60 in Andhra Pradesh||As many as 62 new positive cases for Covid-19 were reported in Telangana on Sunday, taking the cumulative number of positive cases in the state to 333.According to a late-night bulletin issued by the state health department, 33 patients have been discharged till date while 11 have died. Hyderabad has so far recorded the maximum number of cases – 145, followed by 23 in Warangal (urban), 19 in Nizamabad, 13 in Nalgonda, 12 in Medchal, 11 in Ranga Reddy, 10 in Adilabad and eight cases in Kamareddy.Telangana chief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao, who held a high-level official meeting till 10 pm on Sunday, reviewed the measures taken by the government in containing the spread of the virus in the state. He said all those who had the symptoms are being treated without fail and those who came in contact with them were also quarantined.He directed that the government should keep special focus on the protection of the staff of the medical and health department. “Special measures are taken for the protection of their health. As on date, for tests for those coming to offer medical help, test kits, PPEs, Masks and other medicines are available in adequate numbers. Even if there was increase in patients in future, PPEs and Masks will be procured as per the demand,” an official release quoting the chief minister said.The CM instructed the officials concerned to take all the protective measures for the medical and health employees. He wanted funds donated for the CMRF should be utilised to procure PPEs, masks and medicines for the staff. He wanted an action plan should be made ready even if there was an increase in patients in future.Meanwhile, Andhra Pradesh recorded as many as 60 positive cases for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, taking the overall number of infections in the state to 258, including five discharged and one deceased.A medical bulletin released by the state government said 36 cases were reported between Saturday night to 10 am on Sunday morning and another 24 cases till Sunday evening.Of the total number of positive cases recorded till now, only 23 patients – 11 foreign returnees, six of their contacts and another six locals, who came from the other states. All the remaining 235 patients were those who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat meeting and their direct contacts, the bulletin said.So far, the government had disclosed the details, including their age, gender and district, of as many as 190 patients who had connections with Jamaat meeting and said details of others would be disclosed in due course.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-62-test-positive-in-telangana-on-sunday-60-in-andhra-pradesh/story-HimQl66I1vbpzm4Ks6T8kO.html
05-04-2020||India||Empowered group hits ground running to contain pandemic||New Delhi A group of senior bureaucrats has held six meetings with international organisations, over 40 NGOs and several industry bodies in just six days since its formation, highlighting the sense of urgency in the Narendra Modi government to tackle the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The empowered group on “Coordinating with Private Sector, NGOs, and International Organisations for COVID-19-related Response Activities”, is chaired by NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant. It is one of the 11 panels constituted by the Centre on March 29 to monitor all aspects of the pandemic.According to an official release, the primary objective of Kant’s team (Empowered Group Number 6, or EG6) has been to seek support and technology-based solutions in specific areas, clear hurdles for private players and also coordinate with other groups as well as state governments.The group met industry associations, international organisations, and civil society organisations about “their contribution to Covid-19 response, their plans for the coming weeks, the issues they are facing, and their expectations from the government”, the release said.While all three groups of stakeholders pointed out the areas where they need support, Kant assured them of the government’s help, and also put them in touch with other empowered groups for faster and more effective response and coordination.Apart from Kant, the group comprises principal scientific officer K Vijayaraghavan; Kamal Kishore (member, National Disaster Management Authority); Sandeep Bhatnagar (member, Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs); Anil Malik of the home ministry; Vikram Doraiswami and P Harish of the foreign office; Gopal Baglay and Aishvarya Singh from the Prime Minister’s Office; and Tina Soni from the cabinet secretariat. The work of the group is serviced by Sanyukta Samaddar, adviser, Sustainable Development Goals, NITI Aayog.The group has met the United Nations (UN) Resident Coordinator for India, and the country heads of the World Health Organization (WHO), United Nations Children’s Fund (Unicef), United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA),United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), International Labour Organization (ILO), UN Women, UN-Habitat, Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), World Bank, and the Asian Development Bank. The discussions focused on providing technical support in monitoring and surveillance systems, strengthening health and nutritional services, capacity building, financial resources and critical equipment support. Following the meetings, the UN in India has built a Joint Programme Response Plan “defining their clear activities and deliverables in different sectors and States, where they are partnering with Union Ministries and State Governments”. The plan has been submitted to the Niti Aayog.Kant’s team has held detailed deliberations with over 40 prominent civil society bodies and NGOs (Non-Governmental Organisation) till April 3, apart from writing to 92,000 such bodies registered with the Niti Aayog. Kant has also appealed to these bodies to assist the government in identifying hot spots of the disease, and deputing volunteers and caregivers to deliver services to the elderly, persons with disabilities, children, transgender persons, and other vulnerable groups. The government has reached out to these groups to “create awareness about prevention, social distancing, isolation, and combating stigma and to provide shelter to the homeless, daily wage workers and urban poor families. and to set up community kitchens for migrants,” the release said .Further, Kant wrote to all states, asking them to utilise the physical and human resources made available by these NGOs and civil society groups.The committee also met private sector players and start-ups for collaboration among them to produce health equipment and PPE (personal protective equipment). “As many as 8 Start-Ups working in innovative health care solutions, 12 top industry leaders from CII (Confederation of Indian Industry), 6 CEOs from FICCI (Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry) partners, 14 CEOs of top tech-based companies from NASSCOM (a not-for-profit industry association) participated” in the discussions. The talks focused on issues including the estimation of PPE, ventilators and medical equipment requirement, retrofitting domestic production lines to meet demand, supply chain management issues, innovative technology-led solutions, issues of certification, GST, import duties on components, issues of procurement, training, and post-lockdown operating procedures.“The start-ups, namely, AgVa, Biodesign Innovation Lab, Kaeaenaat, Qure AIDrona Maps, mFine, MicroGo, Staqu, working on innovative ventilator design, testing tools, and tracking solutions have been contacted separately to understand their scale and possible contributions,” said the release.While industries appraised the group about their philanthropic and CSR (corporate social responsibility) activities related to Covid-19, they also took up several challenges on critical issues of health care intervention, pertaining to ramping up production and procurement of ventilators, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/empowered-group-hits-ground-running-to-contain-pandemic/story-TwK2Cr4wSPQ2GMr5b2vapN.html
05-04-2020||India||Individuals, NGOs, companies pour in to volunteer for govt initiative||New Delhi: Over a lakh individuals and around 4,500 corporates/non-government organisations (NGOs) have so far offered their services as part of the government’s Self4Society initiative to fight the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic, according to officials aware of the matter. They are being assigned works like supply chain management, providing food to migrant labourers, economic weaker sections, and producing IT-based solutions etc with the help of various government agencies like the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) and State Disaster Management Authorities (SDMAs).Hundreds of individuals have also donated over 5.51 lakh items like digital infrared thermometers, thermal scanners, surgical gloves, personal protective coveralls, masks, hand sanitizers, face shields etc as part of the initiative.Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched a Self4Society portal and app in October 2018 with a focus to invite electronics and IT companies to organise initiatives for social welfare. It has been now been expanded to include all kinds of corporates and NGOs. Abhishek Singh, the CEO of MyGov.in that manages Self4Society, said the NDMA wanted volunteers throughout the country for fighting the coronavirus. “We have volunteers in several categories now like community services, medical field, production of PPE [personal protection equipment] etc. Their demand aggregation is happening on the portal and this data is accessible to the states, which... assign the volunteers to work in required areas based on their expertise.”The corporates are also diverting their Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) funds to help deal with the pandemic. Abhishek Humbad, the CEO of CSR management firm Goodera, said, “We are helping corporates spend their CSR funds for projects like PPE and masks for hospitals, food kits for daily wage earners etc. Employees are volunteering virtually from their homes in activities like bringing grocery for elders, teaching kids, getting requirements from hospitals on needs etc.” He added Goodera is working with different hospitals across India to understand needs and also connecting with different suppliers to fulfil them in a time-bound manner. “All of this is being enabled through Goodera’s state of the art CSR and employee volunteering technology platform.”Humbad added that some of the big companies working with them on Covid-19 relief include Amazon, Hexaware, Lenovo, Toyota and Kirloskar Motor.Mohit Sharma, a Delhi-resident working as a volunteer, said after working from home, he assists authorities in spreading awareness at the community level on hygiene practices, benefits of social distancing and how to control the Covid-19 spread. “I am trying to do my bit.” Kamal Kishore, a member of the NDMA who is also a part of an empowered group coordinating with the private sector, NGOs and international organisations for Covid-19-related response activities, said they are coordinating closely with civil society organisations, corporates and understanding their capabilities. “Accordingly, it is decided in which area they can contribute to. We are working on other fronts as well including disseminating guidance for the general public as well as specific guidance for other target groups including public service delivery persons such as bank employees, shopkeepers... The NDMA is also in regular touch with all the SDMAs and providing them guidance on the management of Covid-19 emergency.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/individuals-ngos-companies-pour-in-to-volunteer-for-govt-initiative/story-gsIpl72k3yirnenE52iswI.html
05-04-2020||India||In Kerala, nurses inspired by Nipah warrior Lini||Thiruvananthapuram: Reeja Vishnu, a nurse, was given an option of opting out of serving at high-pressure coronavirus (Covid-19) ward of Kalamassery Medical College Hospital in Kerala’s Ernakulam since she has a two-year-old daughter to take care of. But she declined the offer saying she would not do so when her services are needed the most. Many frontline health workers like her are volunteering to combat the pandemic that apart from carrying the risk for them of contracting the disease also involves following detailed protocols, wearing heavy personal protection equipment (PPE) and living restricted lives.“I have stopped breast-feeding my 2-year-old daughter. Initially, I had some problems but once I wear my PPE, I forget all my worries,” said Vishnu, 28. “We have many diligent workers like her and they all rise to the occasion. At Ernakulam Medical College Hospital, we have 24 patients in isolation wards,” said district medical officer Dr N K Kuttappan. Reshma Mohandas, a nurse at the Kottayam Medical College Hospital, who contracted the disease while looking after Thomas Abraham, 93, and his wife, Mariyamma, 84, has sought permission to return to work after the end of her 14-day mandatory quarantine at home. She was discharged after recovering along with the elderly couple on Friday.Dr T K Jayakumar, the hospital superintendent, called Mohandas, a committed worker. “People like her nursed back the aged couple. It is a big achievement for the country. We will take a call on her request at an appropriate time.”Mohandas recalled that the aged couple, which contracted the disease after some of their family members returned from Italy last month, were like small kids and were treated like that. “At times, they were stubborn and cranky. We had to pat and prod them quite often. Since one of them had some hearing problems, I had to go very close. It was my duty,” she said. Mohandas, (30), was isolated when she developed fever four days after the couple was admitted to the hospital. “I took it [infection] in my stride,” she said. Taking care of Covid-19 patients is a challenging job for frontline health workers like Vishnu and Mohandas. They say a person in PPE cannot work more than four hours, which often feels like 40. Wearing and removing PPE alone takes more than one hour. Another hour is usually spent on following the post-duty protocols.“We need another person’s help. First, we wear shoes and put on the PPE overalls. Then we cover our heads and wear masks and goggles. At times, we have to wear two or three layers of masks and then put on gloves; one large and another small over it. Since we cannot go to washrooms after putting on PPE, we usually avoid water,” a nurse said on condition of anonymity.She said after putting on PPE, there is a 10-minute check to find out whether a person is comfortable and can move around quickly. “Post-duty protocols are more cumbersome. We have to spray disinfectants on our clothes before removing them. Each apparel has different bins. During baths, we have to wash all our personal clothes and disinfect them again. We are not allowed to wear those clothes at least for a month. Then we move to our hostels and dormitories. We are not allowed to interact with others. We have to inform our superiors about our health twice a day,” she said. Many hospitals in Kerala, which is among the worst-hit states with 306 cases and reported the first Covid-19 case in the country in January, have arranged accommodations for their staffers treating Covid-19 patients.Nurses in Kerala say Lini Puthussery, a 28-year-old nurse who died fighting the Nipah virus outbreak in north Kerala in 2018, is their inspiration. A movie based on her life, ‘Virus’, was a big hit. “After fighting the Nipah virus, which was more dangerous, our health workers are stronger now. It is time to stand with them,” said Lini’s widower, Sajeesh. Lini left behind two children, then aged six and two. Sajeesh, who worked in West Asia, was later offered a job in the health department in Kerala.Nurses from Kerala are most sought around the country and the world. Around 20,000 nurses of them work abroad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-kerala-nurses-inspired-by-nipah-warrior-lini/story-mlJYblMpN735JHqdvKwI0I.html
05-04-2020||India||Cases doubling in 4.1 days, up since Jamaat event: Govt||The government on Sunday said that the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) doubling rate in India is currently at 4.1 days and attributed the rapid increase to Tablighi Jamaat congregation that took place in Delhi between March 10 and 15.Addressing a media briefing on Sunday, Union health ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal said, “If it were not for the congregation, India’s rate of doubling would have been at 7.4 days.India has reported a total of 3,374 coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases till Sunday, and 77 deaths across 274 districts.All states have been asked to put in place a district-specific containment strategy based on the detailed large outbreak containment plan issued by the health ministry on Saturday.“Surveillance and contact tracing has been our main focus, and we will continue to put emphasis on that,” said Agarwal. The health secretaries and chief secretaries of all states and Union territories have been directed by the centre to make frontline healthcare workers aware of the government-sponsored health insurance scheme that has been announced for them.The centre has also relaxed lockdown norms for people in the agriculture sector, tea industry etc. so that crop harvesting and sowing is smooth.“As per the guidelines states will be asked to start these rapid tests. The objective behind introducing the rapid testing mechanism was more effective monitoring, keeping in mind areas from where a large number of cases are being reported, areas where mass gatherings have been held and also at the evacuee centres that require mass samples to be tested in a short span of time. Also, to monitor influenza like illness cases,” said Agarwal.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Saturday had issued detailed guidelines on rapid testing (blood test), and where all it can be deployed.The rapid testing kits are expected by Wednesday, and that’s when these will be deployed in the field.For migrant workers quarantined across India, a total of about 28,000 relief camps have been set up.“Of all the camps providing relief and shelter, 23,924 camps have been set by the government and 3,737 are being run by the NGOs. Food camps are 19,460, of which 9,951 are government-run, and 9,509 are run by NGOs. About 12.5 lakh people are housed in these shelter camps across the country, and at least 75 lakh people have been provided with food. As per our information, 13.6 lakh people are being given shelter and food by their employers and industry,” said Punya Salila Srivastava, joint secretary, home ministry. “Smooth inter-state movement is being ensured for people involved dealing with the supply of all essential services and goods including drugs, pharmaceuticals, medical devices, their raw material and packaging material. In some pockets, there was an issue but states have been directed to look into it. The Railways have run close to 2.5 lakh coal wagons for transportation of supplies,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cases-doubling-in-4-1-days-up-since-jamaat-event-govt/story-uobYz3j8kViaPNh2i6D8TK.html
05-04-2020||India||Modi calls former Presidents, PMs, Sonia Gandhi to discuss Covid crisis||New Delhi: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday called former presidents Pranab Mukherjee and Pratibha Patil, two former PMs Manmohan Singh and HD Deve Gowda apart from heads of different parties, including Congress chief Sonia Gandhi, to discuss the situation in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak and the steps taken by the Centre to contain the pandemic.The Prime Minister’s outreach came two days ahead of his meeting with the floor leaders of different political parties. Wednesday’s meeting will be held thorough video-conferencing.The PM also spoke to West Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee, Biju Janata Dal president and Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik, Telangana chief minister and Telangana Rashtra Samithi leader K Chandrasekhar Rao, Samajwadi Party leaders Mulayam Singh and Akhilesh Yadav, Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam chief MK Stalin and Shiromani Akali Dal leader Parkash Singh Badal.The PM informed the leaders of the steps taken by his government to contain the pandemic, people familiar with the matter said. He also stressed on the need to put up a united front in the fight against coronavirus and also sought suggestions from the leaders. For her part, Gandhi pointed out that there is a health pandemic and an economic pandemic and both needs to be fought aggressively, a Congress functionary said on the condition of anonymity.The Congress has been demanding adequate personal protection equipment (PPE) for doctors, nurses and other health workers apart from aggressive testing to fight the coronavirus.She again wrote to the Prime Minister on April 1, seeking advance payment of 21 days’ wages to 80 million rural workers to help them tide over the crisis due to the lockdown.The Congress has been demanding adequate personal protection equipment (PPE) for doctors, nurses and other health workers apart from aggressive testing to fight the coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-calls-former-presidents-pms-sonia-gandhi-to-discuss-covid-crisis/story-SKLkTh0ec1GSHFmOcxJy1H.html
05-04-2020||India||School closures may raise obesity among kids: Experts||New Delhi: School closures due to the Covid-19 outbreak could exacerbate childhood obesity, according to epidemiologists from the New York Academy of Medicine and others published in Obesity journal. Increase in obesity among schoolchildren during the summer recess has already been documented by US public health experts. Surplus weight usually accrues every summer and obesity experienced at as young as five years of age has been shown to be associated with a higher BMI (body mass index) at an older age, even up to 50 years.More than 30 million children receive subsidised school lunches and food insecurity rates are higher for such families during summer months when there is a break in schooling. Only three days of school closures could result in 405,000 missed meals among schoolchildren in the US, according to the authors of the study cited above. Along with the impact of calorie-dense foods that can be stocked up during lockdowns, children in urban areas don’t have much physical activity due to a social distancing intervention. The authors cite data to show that online video game usage is already soaring.In India, 115.9 million children are enrolled in the midday meal scheme. But due to the lockdown and disruptions associated with the Covid-19 outbreak, many states are not able to give children these meals. The human resource development ministry on March 20 asked state governments to provide either hot cooked midday meals or a food security allowance for the children’s families to buy food.“As the country is passing through the difficult times of the Novel Covid-19 (Corona) outbreak The State Governments and Union Territories are advised to provide hot cooked Mid Day Meal or Food Security Allowance, whichever is feasible, to all eligible children till such time their schools are closed due to Novel COVID-l9 (Corona) Virus. The modalities for this purpose may be decided by the respective States…the regular Mid Day Meal shall resume as soon as the schools reopen,” the letter to the states reads. Kerala was among the first to start delivering meals to schoolchildren at home. The state serves 2,584,156 children in 12,327 schools. The menu includes a banana, an egg and milk along with vegetables, pulses and rice.“It’s very difficult to say what health impact the children here are going to face because the school closure may not be long-term. More worrying is the long-term impact on the socioeconomic condition of the parents. The government should deliver midday meals to children wherever they are,” said Dr Anand Krishnan, professor, Centre for Community Medicine at All India Institute Of Medical Sciences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/school-closures-may-raise-obesity-among-kids-experts/story-0WojeXk0uo9NONSNIyLlWI.html
05-04-2020||India||Spike in Covid cases in J&K due to intensified contact tracing, testing: GC Murmu||Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) has seen a spike in coronavirus cases recently with 106 positive cases. Lieutenant Governor Girish Chandra Murmu, however, says this is because of an aggressive testing and tracing strategy. In an interview to Aurangzeb Naqshbandi, he outlined the steps taken by the government to contain the pandemic: Coronavirus cases in Jammu and Kashmir have risen in the past few days. Is contract tracing emerging as a big challenge for you, especially as many people have come from outside the country?Screening of all individuals coming from outside was initiated on March 4. Till now, nearly 33,503 travellers and persons in contact with the suspected and positive cases with travel history abroad have been put under surveillance. Out of these, 10,981 are in home quarantine, 100 in hospital isolation, 619 in hospital quarantine, 16,237 in home surveillance and 5566 with travel history abroad have completed their 28 days surveillance period. Till date, 1551 samples have been sent for testing of which 1429 tested negative, 106 positive with the number of deaths at 2.  The government has undertaken an aggressive contact tracing and testing campaign — that is why there is surge in the number of confirmed positive casesHave you sought the assistance of army and paramilitary forces in controlling the situation?No direct assistance of army and paramilitary forces has been currently sought to control the situation, though the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) is deployed with the local police to assist in maintaining the restrictions during the lockdown. We have isolation and quarantine facilities in army hospitals across the UT. We have requested the army to provide additional isolation facilities of 500 beds each in J&K.You have also started declaring Red zones in some parts of the UT? How alarming is the situation in those areas?To take precautions and contain the spread of Covid-19, 38 villages across J&K have been declared as Red Zones, where complete restrictions have been enforced for movement of people. All essential commodities are being provided to the residents of these zones. The situation in these areas is not alarming but extra precaution is being taken. Around 900 people of the UT are suspected to have participated in the Tablighi Jamaat conference in New Delhi from March 14 to March 21. Of these, 550 have been identified and quarantined and the survey and verifications for the remaining is on. We have intensified contact tracing campaign of the people who had this congregation at Delhi and are conducting 100% testing of such people and their contacts.Videos are in circulation in social media showing police using force on residents, doctors, and even government officials to enforce a strict lockdown. Have you advised the police to refrain from such acts?J&K police is directly assisting the administration. People are exhibiting restraint and discipline during the current situation. Police is strictly controlling the situation as well as providing all necessary help and co-ordination, including distribution of ration to the needy.Given the pandemic, is there any plan to restore 4G internet services for better connectivity and information dissemination?Currently, 3G facility by certain identified telecom providers with adequate precautions is available. The administration ensured that people did not suffer due to the internet blockade by making available internet facilities in the office of district magistrates.There have also been demands to release prisoners on humanitarian grounds. Have you arrived at any decision in this regard?A committee has been constituted headed by chairman, state legal authority, to consider the release of prisoners on parole or interim bail depending upon the nature of the offence. Jammu and Kashmir Temporary Suspension of Sentence, Rules, 2020, have been notified, and the Director General of Police, Prisons, has been empowered to grant parole or furlough to specific category of prisoners on the recommendations of jail superintendents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spike-in-covid-cases-in-j-k-due-to-intensified-contact-tracing-testing-gc-murmu/story-eNND7K9i0PFYu0sIjzhogN.html
05-04-2020||India||Gearing up for upcoming financial challenges: Dushyant Chautala||Chandigarh: Haryana’s deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala, who holds several key portfolios including excise and taxation, food, civil supplies and consumer affairs, revenue, and labour, spoke to Hitender Rao about the Covid-19 impact on farmers and the state economy, the health care preparedness, and migration, among other issues. Edited excerpts:What impact will the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak have on Haryana?The biggest concern at the moment is to save lives. Our effort is on containing the spread of virus and the only way is lockdown and social distancing. Haryana has done well so far.What will the impact of the lockdown be on Haryana’s economy? As the excise and taxation minister, how do you plan to make up for the revenue loss?The impact on the economy is nationwide. In fact, it is global. We are gearing up for the upcoming financial challenges. Our economic parameters have been decent. I am quite confident that the hard working people of the state will overpower this adverse phase and we will be a vibrant economy.Which sector of the economy will be affected the most ?Whichever sector gets hit, it will be the duty of the state government to revive it.What is your estimate about the quantum of revenue loss, if the lockdown is eased or lifted on April 15?The new financial year started from April 1 and the lockdown will end on April 14. Hopefully normalcy will be restored within 15 days after the lockdown ends. Revenue collections for April should be viewed along with the savings the state has done during the lockdown period.How well is the state geared in terms of medical infrastructure and manpower if there is a sudden spurt?We’ve already asked for more ventilators and made provisions for dedicated Covid-19 hospitals across the state. We’re geared up in terms of safety equipment for health staff and medics. The state government is also providing support to Delhi, Chandigarh and other states in terms of medical safety equipment.How do you plan to tackle the food grain procurement, which is already deferred due to the lockdown? Are non-availability of labour and the rush of farmers carrying grains in grain markets a concern?The state government has deferred the procurement dates for mustard (April 15) and wheat (April 20). We are now working towards staggering the purchase process because wheat comes in large quantity in less number of days.While we are requesting migrant labourers to stay back, we have also asked the central government to include manual farm work like harvesting as a permissible activity under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MNREGS). The scheme provides at least 100 days of guaranteed wage employment in a financial year to every rural household. If we get the Centre’s approval in the next 5-10 days, it will be a boost to economy including the agriculture sector.The migration of farm labourers involved in harvesting crops in Haryana is a worry. How will the state address this challenge?We have faced worse times. We faced the plague; we’ve been through the Kargil war. I think each one of us become a farmer during such crisis. We have been getting reports through deputy commissioners that farmers are going to fields and started harvesting on their own sensing non-availability of labour.The state is seeking financial support from the Centre for incentivising farmers who opt for staggered procurement. What is the status?We have sent a proposal to the central government to provide bonus to farmers as we are encouraging them to bring their harvest to mandis in phases. The state government has proposed a bonus of up to Rs 125 per quintal to encourage staggered procurement. We are waiting for a go-ahead from the Centre. However, if the Centre does not accede to our request, the state government will find a solution.What is you take on the large number of people identified and quarantined in Haryana after attending the Tablighi Jaamat gathering in Delhi?We’ve traced all those who attended it. More than 1,300 people who attended the Tablighi Jamaat from Haryana have been quarantined. Some who didn’t return to Haryana after attending the event are being tracked by the police. We are also coordinating with neighbouring states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gearing-up-for-upcoming-financial-challenges-dushyant-chautala/story-SdS6yHTvxiAceueoZr099H.html
05-04-2020||India||US and UK set to evacuate their nationals from India||London/New Delhi: The UK and the US are set to join a list of countries that have been evacuating their stranded nationals from India, with the Boris Johnson government on Sunday announcing the first wave of seven charter flights for some 20,000 Britons in different states.The UK government has said it will provide £75 million for special charter flights, where commercial routes do not exist, to bring home thousands of Britons stranded in various countries. The flights from India will depart from Goa on April 8, 10 and 12, from Mumbai on April 9 and 11, and from New Delhi on April 9 and 11.The flights cost each adult £681 from Goa, £600 from Mumbai and £581 from Delhi, and infants under the age of two will travel free.The UK’s acting high commissioner to India, Jan Thompson, said: “We know how worrying the past few weeks have been for British nationals in India. I hope this announcement will bring relief, especially to those in greatest need.“Due to the large numbers of British travellers involved, the scale of this operation is huge. The UK government continues to work hard with our Indian counterparts in New Delhi and London to arrange a safe journey back for as many people as possible.”Officials said the charter flights are for British travellers who normally reside in the UK and their direct dependants. A number of seats will be reserved for those deemed vulnerable. On Saturday, 113 of the most vulnerable British nationals left Goa on an Irish flight.An estimated 35,000 British nationals are currently in India but only some 20,000 have expressed a desire to return.The US, which flew out some 200 citizens from India on March 31, is set to operate a steady flow of flights from Delhi and Mumbai this week. People familiar with developments said several thousand Americans, most of them stranded tourists and travellers, will be evacuated by these flights.The US embassy announced on Sunday there will be flights from New Delhi to San Francisco (April 6, 7 and 8) and from Mumbai to Atlanta (April 7 and 10).“We do not know for how long US government-organised flights returning to the United States will continue after this week. We urge US citizens who want to return to the United States to take advantage of the current opportunities,” the embassy said in an alert posted on its website.The embassy said it will also facilitate transportation to Delhi from some cities in northern and eastern India, including flights from Dehradun, Amritsar and Chandigarh, and bus services from Ludhiana and Dharamsala. It will also arrange flights from Chennai and Hyderabad to Mumbai.A total of 22 countries evacuated almost 14,000 people from India till late last week, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity.Germany has flown out some 3,000 citizens in about 10 flights from different Indian cities, Japan about 2,300 in some 10 flights, Malaysia about 2,100 citizens in 13 flights, Israel about 1,600 citizens in eight flights, and Russia almost 1,100 citizens in four flights.France, which has so far evacuated 400 nationals in one flights, has plans to evacuate almost 1,600 more stranded tourists and travellers.Special arrangements have also been made by the countries to arrange “movement permits” in view of domestic travel restrictions currently in force across India. These permits call on Indian authorities to allow passage, without delay or detention, to the foreign nationals.The people cited above said there are currently no plans to arrange flights to bring back Indians stranded abroad. The government recently advised stranded Indians to “stay put” and Indian missions have been tasked to help them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-and-uk-set-to-evacuate-their-nationals-from-india/story-OeEtMnTuxWCvXb2XgtDhvL.html
05-04-2020||India||Holding diya in hand, PM’s mother responds to lights-out call||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s nonagenarian mother responded to the lights-out call given by her son, by holding a diya in her hand at her house in Gujarat on Sunday night.In a video that went viral in a short span of time, the PM’s mother, Hiraba, is seen sitting on a chair holding a metal diya in hand for nine minutes after the lights were switched off.The video showed her sitting on the porch of her house in Raysan, located on the outskirts of Gandhinagar.The prime minister had on Friday urged people to switch off the lights at their homes and light up lamps, candles or mobile phone torches for nine minutes at 9 pm on Sunday to display the country’s “collective resolve” to defeat coronavirus.Gujarat has so far recorded 128 cases of COVID-19, while 11 people have died due to the deadly virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/holding-diya-in-hand-pm-s-mother-responds-to-lights-out-call/story-MrzbNHViZVjduQZT6TSFbK.html
05-04-2020||India||PM Modi joins country, lights lamp to mark fight against coronavirus||Prime Minister Narendra Modi lit a lamp after turning off all lights at his residence on Sunday night, joining the country in the drive to mark the fights against coronavirus.India switched off all the lights for 9 minutes at 9 PM today and lit candles, ‘diyas’, or flashlight, to mark the country’s fight against Coronavirus as appealed by the Prime Minister.PM tweeted a Sanskrit shloka, along side photos of himself, which means: “Salutations to the Light of the Lamp which Brings auspiciousness, health and prosperity, which Destroys Inimical Feelings; Salutations to the Light of the Lamp.”  शुभं करोति कल्याणमारोग्यं धनसंपदा ।शत्रुबुद्धिविनाशाय दीपज्योतिर्नमोऽस्तुते ॥ pic.twitter.com/4DeiMsCN11Modi shared four photos in which he is dressed in a blue half-sleeved kurta and lungi and is lighting a big metal lamp using a smaller one.Also Read: Govt gets more than expected participation for PM’s call as power demand dipped 32 GWSeveral of the Prime Minister’s colleagues from the Union Cabinet participated in the drive.“Two diyas - one for me and the other for my 88 year old mother who could not be at the door. Joining an expression of mass solidarity. India stands united as never before. Jai Hind #9pm9minute,” External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar tweeted along with a picture where he is seen holding two diyas. Two diyas - one for me and the other for my 88 year old mother who could not be at the door.Joining an expression of mass solidarity. India stands united as never before. Jai Hind#9pm9minute pic.twitter.com/Ul7YjMpHNkAlso Read: Holding diya in hand, PM’s mother responds to lights-out callUnion Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad too lit candles in his house as did Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman.“At home, 9 pm: lighting diyas for some moments of mindfulness and thinking of our community, even as we work day and night as one nation,” Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman tweeted.  At home, 9pm: lighting diyas for some moments of mindfulness and thinking of our community, even as we work day and night as one nation. #IndiaFightsCoronavirus pic.twitter.com/o9gZvNXTfEThe number of positive cases of coronavirus in the country continue to surge. As per the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, the total number of confirmed COVID-19 cases is 3,577 including 83 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-joins-country-lights-lamp-to-mark-fight-against-coronavirus/story-tVCqrKaYhDJXLWQNoc7IqJ.html
05-04-2020||India||In J-K’s Kathua district, locals turn angels for 7,000 hungry labourers||Around 300 good Samaritans from Sikh, Hindu, Muslim and other communities in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kathua district have joined hands to feed daily wage earners rendered jobless by the lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus.While the nomadic Gujjar community has been providing milk for 250 children of daily wage earners, Hindus, Sikhs and members of other communities have been feeding 7,000 people twice a day.Besides, aged and ailing citizens are being provided medicines at their doorsteps.The exercise had begun on March 23 but gained momentum from March 27 onwards. The police facilitated the operation to ensure that lockdown norms are not violated by those in need of food.Kathua’s Senior Superintendent of Police, Shailendra Kumar Mishra said, “They are a team of 300 volunteers, who came under the banner ‘United Kathua JKP’. They operate through a helpline number 9540501414 for which a central control room has been set up at my office in Kathua.”Navdeep Kumar, one of the volunteers, said, “We get calls from the people in distress on our helpline number. Subsequently, we enter such calls in our database and then trace its location before sending one of our volunteers on a bike with the relief material”.People need medicines, ration and then there are migrant labourers, who need cooked meals, he said. “In case of medicines, we take the actual amount from those who can pay but we don’t take any money from those who can’t afford,” he said.United Kathua volunteers work from 10 am to 8 pm every day and they reach out to the people in distress delivering them medicines and essential supplies at their doorsteps.“The delivery is free of cost. They also feed around 7000 daily wage earners, mainly migrant labourers living in slums throughout the district with cooked meals twice a day for which nine community kitchens have been set up. Of course, hygiene and social distancing are indispensable,” Mishra said.The United Kathua is self-financed and works without any government funding.All volunteers are locals, who have bikes and wear white T-shirts, printed with “United Kathua JKP” logo to be easily identified by the people and security personnel for hassle free working.“The bikers pay for their own fuel. They received and resolved over 700 calls in the first four days of the initiative. They are being guided and controlled by Kathua Police and the district administration,” said Mishra.The SSP informed that amid total lockdown the volunteers have been successful in feeding hungry migrant labourers in Kathua district.They also ensure medicines at the doorsteps of the people, especially the ones, which are not available in the local market.“Medicines are provided free of cost to those who cannot afford. Medicines unavailable locally are procured from Punjab with the help of truckers entering Jammu and Kashmir with essential supplies,” said Mishra.Since this initiative was launched, United Kathua got around Rs 4.50 lakh in donations, out of which Rs 3 lakh has been spent so far in providing meals and medicines to the needy, he added.Drones were also being used by the police to make announcements and to locate migrant labourers.Kathua, an industrial district, roughly has more than 12,000 labourers. While 5,000 who are industry pay rolls are being taken care of by their employers, 7,0000 were left to fend for themselves amid the sudden lockdown.Another volunteer, Sardar Gaganpreet Singh, said, “We have roped in 15 load carriers that we use to take cooked meals to migrant labourers across the district. These meals that are being provided at 11 am and 6 pm every day are cooked at nine different community kitchens”.Anis-ul-Rehman, another volunteer said, “Serving these migrant labourers and their children with food and milk gives them a sense of satisfaction. After all humanity teaches us love and compassion.”Dev Mati, a migrant woman, in one of the slums, said, “We had nothing to eat and we would have died of starvation but God sent these men with food and milk”.Nandini, another migrant labourer, said that she neither had money nor ration in her shanty for two days and then these young men arrived with food at their cluster.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-j-k-s-kathua-district-locals-turn-angels-for-7-000-hungry-labourers/story-xl16e3LSnhfG0sBBfZwOVI.html
05-04-2020||India||‘Speculation’, says aviation minister on report of resumption of flights after lockdown||Civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Sunday dismissed a news agency report that the government is likely to allow domestic and international flights in a staggered manner after the 21-day lockdown ends on April 14.“News about resumption of passenger flights in a staggered manner from 15 April is mere speculation. The correct position is spelt out in my tweet of 2nd April 2020,” Puri tweeted.On April 2, Puri had tweeted that a decision to restart flights after this period (lockdown) remains to be taken. “If required, we will have to assess the situation on a case-by-case basis,” he had said.On Friday, India’s national carrier Air India stopped advance bookings for all flights till April 30.Currently only cargo flights carrying essential supplies are being operated on priority to the northeastern region and other remote places including Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh.On March 22, India announced suspending international flights for a week. It was later extended until April 15 coinciding with the lockdown to break the chain of transmission of coronavirus that ha snow infected almost 4,000 people in the country. Earlier that month, India had suspended most visas for foreigners and stopped flights to a clutch of countries.Domestic flights stopped as the lockdown came into force but even before that many airlines had cancelled flights or stopped services due to low traffic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/speculation-says-aviation-minister-on-report-of-resumption-of-flights-after-lockdown/story-XwjjkWb5IUIw6SkRto1MLO.html
05-04-2020||India||How Delhi answered PM Modi’s call to fight ‘coronavirus darkness’||Delhiites on Sunday night responded to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s clarion call to turn off lights and light candles or diyas at 9 pm for nine minutes to collectively fight the Covid-19 health crisis.In a symbolic gesture of solidarity, residents of the national capital and adjoining areas started appearing on balconies and terraces with their mobile phones and candles. Street lights too were turned off and small specks of light started appearing from every house in almost all localities. Much before the designated time of 9 pm, people switched off lights at their residences and began lighting lamps, earthen diyas and candles.Fireworks, a few claps, crackers and whistles were also heard.In South Delhi, at some places, devotional songs, mantras, shlokas and the national anthem were also played on mobile phones from terraces.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in a video message on Friday, had asked the people of the country to use the light of lamps or candles to “challenge the darkness of coronavirus”. He had urged people to switch off the lights in their homes and light lamps, candles or mobile phone torches for nine minutes at 9 pm on April 5, to display the country’s “collective resolve” to defeat the Covid-19 pandemic.The exercise was a ‘voluntary’ one with no pressure on people to follow the call given by the PM, but it evoked overwhelming response from people in the national capital.In a video message of over 11 minutes on Friday, the PM had also asked people to maintain the “lakshman rekha” of social distancing by staying indoors and not gathering together in groups during the exercise of showing solidarity.Coronavirus cases in Delhi on Sunday climbed to 503 with 58 fresh cases, according to Delhi government officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-delhi-answered-pm-modi-s-call-to-fight-coronavirus-darkness/story-HuoM4gSb9sqrybQg4cADoM.html
05-04-2020||India||Uttarakhand cops fight coronavirus on streets, wives at home, making masks||While about 8,000 personnel of Uttarakhand police are fighting the Covid-19 pandemic on the ground by ensuring the lockdown, wives of some personnel are providing support by making face masks to be used by their husbands and also the public at large.Housewives of some policemen in the state have been making masks at their home and supplying them to the respective district police departments to be used by the men in Khaki and others who can’t afford them.The women involved in the initiative say they are proud to be able to contribute in whatever way they can.Thirty-five-year old Kiran Chandra, wife of a constable in US Nagar district says, “I feel extremely happy and proud that at least we are also able to contribute in this fight against the deadly virus like so many others”Kiran said she has to take out time for the noble cause while taking care of her 2-year-old son.“I have a son and I have to make sure that he sleeps when I make the masks during the daytime. It becomes somewhat difficult but I manage as the cause is to serve humanity at this crucial time,” said Kiran whose husband serves his lockdown duty for almost 10 hours daily.She says that the raw material for the masks including the cloth and elastic bands are provided by the district police department’s women welfare centre.“We bring the raw material home and then make the masks as per the specifications of the WHO” said Kiran, adding “I make around 15 masks every day in two hours.”“I feel very grateful to God that both my husband and I could contribute in this fight, though it’s a very small contribution,” she said.Sharing a similar story, 26-year-old Sunita Devi, wife of a constable in Champawat district said, “While my husband is serving the nation from morning 7 to evening 7, I am making sure that I do my part in this fight by making masks.”Mother of a 2-year-old boy, Sunita says it sometimes becomes difficult to manage with a small child at home all alone.Unlike Sunita and Kiran, 35-year-old Upasna Rana is both a policewoman and a housewife, and despite that she takes out time for making the face masks.“My husband and I are both police constables in Champawat. While I serve my duty in the morning from 6 to 1 pm, my husband serves his night shift duty in the local area. I also have to take care of my children and household chores but I spare time to make the masks,” said Upasna, mother to two children aged 8 and 1.Director general (law & order) Uttarakhand Police Ashok Kumar said the efforts put in by the housewives of the policemen was really commendable.”“We can only win this pandemic if we fight it together while sharing responsibilities” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-cops-fight-coronavirus-on-streets-wives-at-home-making-masks/story-c92gK8r07VGlgJGUuXBrCO.html
05-04-2020||India||Millions join PM Modi’s ‘9pm-9min’ call, light lamps to show solidarity in fight against Covid-19||Millions of people across the country switched off the lights of their houses in a show of solidarity in fight against the coronavirus pandemic.Lamps were lit, torches were switched on and mobile lights were flashed from the balconies by countrymen who answered the call given by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.The Prime Minister, in a video message on Friday, had asked people to use the lights of lamps or candles to “challenge the darkness of coronavirus”. The act, he said, will send a powerful message to the world that has been widely affected by the deadly SARS-CoV-2 virus.Many users posted the pictures of themselves taking part in the ‘9pm-9min’ initiative. They were seen following the norms of social distancing too while doing so. #9pm9minute pic.twitter.com/9VudCGDQYo #9pm9minute #9pm9minuteGo corona Go pic.twitter.com/RRxoSp3hw0 #9pm9minute pic.twitter.com/DCQlld0swv #9बजे9मिनट Its like Diwali across India.. Surreal goosebumps feeling.. hats of to @narendramodi ji for uniting Indians like never before.. We will Defeat Corona.. #9PM9minute #9बजे9मिनट pic.twitter.com/bYLddpNrRW#9pm9minute @narendramodi @PMOIndia pic.twitter.com/YkPGdNZn1bCovid-19, the disease caused by coronavirus, has affected more than 3000 people across the country and left close to 100 dead. India is under a 21-day lockdown announced by PM Modi in his address to the nation on March 24.The lockdown, which has impacted the economy, is important to break the cycle of infection, the Prime Minister has said in his address. He also apologised to the people for the trouble, but said he knows they will forgive him because this is the right thing to do.The virus which started from China in December last year, spread rapidly across the world and in just 93 days, infected more than a million people. Over 200 countries are under its grip; United States is the worst hit now where the virus has spread in the community and President Donald Trump has said the recovery will take weeks and weeks.In India, the government has so far maintained that there is no community spread and has launched an aggressive containment strategy to check the spread of the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/millions-join-pm-modi-s-9pm-9min-call-light-lamps-to-fight-covid-19/story-ttWA0qUDabYWuV2RHg2SxJ.html
05-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Railway employee becomes second person to die in north Bengal||A 55-year-old railway employee who tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday and was admitted at North Bengal Medical College and Hospital here died on Sunday, marking the second death in the region and eighth in the pandemic in state.North Bengal region’s first victim, a woman who lived in Kalimpong, was admitted in the same hospital and died on March 30. Till Saturday night, the Bengal government officially maintained that three people have died of Covid-19 while four others who also tested positive might have died of co-morbidity. Follow coronavirus live updates here.The state government did not issue any statement on Sunday’s death till the evening but HT accessed an emergency notice in which the divisional railway manager said that all those who came in contact with the patient at work or in the railway colony in Siliguri where he lived must be sent to quarantine.The Bengal government said that till Saturday night said 68 people have tested positive so far out of whom, 49 are active cases.Sunday’s patient was the second railway employee to die in Bengal. The first was a resident of Dum Dum in the North 24 Parganas. He was also the state’s first victim.A senior doctor who spoke to HT on condition of anonymity said, “The man was first admitted at the railway hospital in New Jalpaiguri and later shifted to a private nursing home. Since his symptoms pointed at the infection he was brought to NBMCH on March 26, the day the woman from Kalimpong was admitted.”The doctor said that the man tested negative twice but tested positive on Saturday. Members of his family were sent to quarantine after the man died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-railway-employee-becomes-second-person-to-die-in-north-bengal/story-XGAE6HjYOKMyLBlyDKciYJ.html
05-04-2020||India||Foreign Tablighi workers stopped from leaving at airports; cops say action begins||The special team of Delhi Police on Sunday headed back to the headquarters of the Tablighi Jamaat that has emerged as the single-biggest source of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infections in the country and seized documents including a crucial register that contains details of foreign Tablighi workers in the country.“We have started the probe,” a top Delhi Police officer told Hindustan Times after a team of the Crime Branch seized the register. Police in the national capital had registered the first case against the Tablighi workers (FIR number 63) and its leadership for multiple offences.Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla had this week ordered other states to start filing criminal cases against the foreign Tablighi workers as well. A Home Ministry official said they had started receiving confirmation from states that police stations across the country had started registering cases under the penal provisions against these workers..Faced with the legal proceedings against them, the foreign nationals attempted to escape India in special flights for evacuating Malyasian and Indonesian nationals.But they were stopped from boarding the evacuation flights at Delhi and Chennai airports under instructions from the home ministry. Among those stopped was a group of 8 Malaysians who had boarded the flight to Kuala Lumpur but were stopped by immigration officials minutes before take off.The religious congregation at Tablighi Jamaat’s Nizamuddin headquarters has been linked to a third of coronavirus infections in India. In the national capital, according to a Delhi government document seen by HT, 320 out of the city’s total of 503 cases are linked to the Tablighi Jamaat.The number of Covid-19 infection cases are expected to go up as foreigners later picked up from various mosques in Delhi and other parts of the country are being tested for the virus.Also Read: Markaz leadership resisted, then NSA Ajit Doval dropped by at 2 amOfficials recall how the Tablighi Jamaat leadership resisted efforts to get them to vacate the premises when health authorities sounded an alarm at scores of people showing symptoms of the disease. On March 28, National Security Advisor Ajit Doval had to test his relationship with Darul-Uloom, Jamiat-e-Ulema Hind and Al-Hadees leadership to convince Markaz emir to ask his supporters to vacate the Banglewali Masjid.It was only then that the Jamaat workers came out and boarded the buses lined up for them. By then, 24 of them had already tested positive and 200 showed symptoms of having contracted the infection.The discovery of the hot spot had triggered alarm in several circles of the government and triggered a nation-wide search for foreigners and Indians alike who had been to the Markaz, or come in contact with someone who did.The Home Ministry said 21,200 Tablighi Jamaat workers and their contacts had been placed under quarantine. At his daily briefing on Sunday, health ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal underlined how the Jamaat-linked cases across 17 states had fuelled the spike in Covid-19 cases in India.India’s Covid-19 cases have doubled in 4.1 days due to the Tablighi Jamaat cases, he said.“If it were not for the congregation, India’s rate of doubling— that is the number of days the cases double — would have been at 7.4 days,” Agarwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/foreign-tablighi-workers-stopped-from-leaving-at-airports-cops-say-action-begins/story-FP3rAEDNs2ZrxG4NbFcyNO.html
05-04-2020||India||India gears up to switch off lights at 9 pm to ‘challenge Covid-19 darkness’||People all across India are preparing to switch off the lights of their homes at 9 pm on Sunday in an effort to show solidarity with each other as well as for several frontline workers---all in their own way fighting the Covid-19 pandemic. They will also light candles, small earthen diyas and switch on the torch option of their mobile phones.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in a video message on Friday, had asked the people of the country to use the light of lamps or candles to “challenge the darkness of coronavirus”. He had urged people to switch off the lights in their homes and light lamps, candles or mobile phone torches for nine minutes at 9 pm on April 5, to display the country’s “collective resolve” to defeat the Covid-19 pandemic.The exercise will be ca ‘voluntary’ one with no pressure on anybody to follow the call given by the PM.Also Read| What to switch off, what stays on: All you need to know about PM Modi’s ‘lights off’ callIn a televised address, PM Modi had underlined that this will symbolise the collective power of India’s population and showcase their determination to tackle the deadly disease. This was the prime minister’s third address to the nation in the last two weeks as states across India grapple with rising numbers of Covid-19 patients.The total number of Covid-19 cases in India currently stands at 3,577. Eighty-three people have died across various states after being infected with coronavirus, according to Health Ministry data.Watch: ‘Switch off lights, light candles at 9 pm on Sunday’: PM Modi’s message amid lockdown l Full speechThe maximum percentage of Covid-19 positive cases is 42% in the country and have been reported among people in the age group between 21 and 40 years, the government’s data had indicated on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-gears-up-to-switch-off-lights-at-9-pm-to-challenge-covid-19-darkness/story-Np2P3NDGk9NzqNQqwvQVkK.html
05-04-2020||India||India switches off lights at 9 pm to ‘challenge Covid-19 darkness’||People all across India are preparing to switch off the lights of their homes at 9 pm on Sunday in an effort to show solidarity with each other as well as for several frontline workers---all in their own way fighting the Covid-19 pandemic. They will also light candles, small earthen diyas and switch on the torch option of their mobile phones.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in a video message on Friday, had asked the people of the country to use the light of lamps or candles to “challenge the darkness of coronavirus”. He had urged people to switch off the lights in their homes and light lamps, candles or mobile phone torches for nine minutes at 9 pm on April 5, to display the country’s “collective resolve” to defeat the Covid-19 pandemic.Also read| What to switch off, what stays on: All you need to know about PM Modi’s ‘lights off’ callThe exercise will be a ‘voluntary’ one with no pressure on anybody to follow the call given by the PM.In a televised address, PM Modi had underlined that this will symbolise the collective power of India’s population and showcase their determination to tackle the deadly disease. This was the prime minister’s third address to the nation in the last two weeks as states across India grapple with rising numbers of Covid-19 patients.Watch: ‘Switch off lights, light candles at 9 pm on Sunday’: PM Modi’s message amid lockdown l Full speech The total number of Covid-19 cases in India currently stands at 3,374. Seventy-seven people have died across various states after being infected with coronavirus, according to Health Ministry data.The maximum percentage of Covid-19 positive cases is 42% in the country and have been reported among people in the age group between 21 and 40 years, the government’s data had indicated on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-gears-up-to-switch-off-lights-at-9-pm-to-challenge-covid-19-darkness/story-FjJNNtgNAiCGFH81YweggO.html
05-04-2020||India||Covid-19: India unable to take full advantage of drop in oil prices||India, the world’s third-biggest oil consumer, is unable to take full advantage of a slump in global crude prices because of a steep drop in the sale of petrol and diesel in the aftermath of the nationwide lockdown for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) that has squeezed dealers’ margins and put at risk the jobs of some of the 500,000 people employed at fuel stations.Sales of automobile fuels have slumped by around 80% in the cities and 60% in rural areas since March 25, when the lockdown went underway, taking public transport and private vehicles off the roads, according to dealers HT spoke to. “The spread of the coronavirus and the lockdown have affected everyone. If demand does not pick up this month, we would face difficulties in paying salaries to staff,” a Noida-based dealer said, requesting anonymity. A Mumbai-based dealer said he had been forced to shut his petrol pump in the heart of the city for the time being because of both lack of demand and absence of staff to serve any customers who turn up amid the lockdown.“My other retail outlet at Ulhasnagar [on the outskirts of Mumbai] is open, but sales are a minuscule 500 litres a day compared to from 450 KL [kilolitres] earlier,” the dealer said requesting anonymity. 1 KL is equal to 1,000 litres.“I have taken Rs 50 lakh credit from bank. I have fuels in tanks worth Rs 50 lakh. Unless I can sell fuels, I would not be able to service my debt,” he said.Crude oil prices have gone down because of deepening concerns over the Covid-19 pandemic and an oil price war between Saudi Arabia and Russia. After US President Donald Trump tweeted on Thursday that he had brokered a deal that would see the two countries cut output by 10 million barrels per day, or about 10% of global supplies, Brent crude, a benchmark in oil pricing, soared 47% on Thursday. In early trading on Friday, it was trading at $33. 6 per barrel, a 12.3% gain over the previous day, but still half its level at the start of 2020.The steep drop in oil prices meant a windfall for India given that it is dependent on imports to meet around 80% of demand, but the sharp drop in sales of auto fuels has offset the gains to some extent. An Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) spokesperson estimated the overall drop in fuel sales at 65-67% since the lockdown began.At stake in the battle to overcome the coronavirus disease and get India back to normalcy are the jobs of 500,000 people employed at fuel pumps as attendants, salespeople and so on. There are over 62,000 retail outlets with about 500,000 employees. Each outlet has eight staffers on an average. “In certain parts of the country sales have dropped by over 95%. Some dealers have stocks of 100,000 litres, but sales are less than 1,000 litres [per week]. We will assess the situation after the 21-day lockdown is over and take a decision. Currently, on humanitarian grounds, dealers are paying salaries to their employees,” said Ajay Bansal, president of the All India Petroleum Dealers Association (AIPDA).Cities away from metros are marginally better placed. A Meerut-based dealer said on condition of anonymity that sales at his pump had gone down by 60% since the lockdown began from 60 KL, but liquidity was a major issue because most sales are on credit and customers, mainly transporters, are not in a position to pay on time, “Most of the pump owners will not be able to service debts, hence banks should extend the duration of credit period to 90 days,” said Hemant Sirohi, a member of the Empowering Petroleum Dealers Foundation (EPDF). Petroleum dealers receive 15 days’ credit under an Electronic Dealer Finance System eDFS, an application that aims to automate the loan disbursal and interest recovery process and provides a repayment model through internet banking. The Tamil Nadu Petroleum Dealers Association has sought relief from state-run oil marketing companies (OMCs) – Indian Oil Corporation (IOC), Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL) and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation ltd (HPCL). In a letter to senior executives of oil companies, the association asked OMCs to advise banks to waive interest for the 21-day lockdown period.Email queries sent to IOC, BPCL, HPCL and the oil ministry on the subject did not elicit any responses.Consumption of fuel is an indicator of economic activity, and with the nationwide lockdown, demand for fuels has dropped, Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India (Assocham) secretary general Deepak Sood said. “The benefit of reduced fuel prices can’t be garnered in such a scenario by the industry or consumers,” he said“As part of its economic measures, the government should look at supporting retail pumps catering to cities and rural areas, ensuring employment and working capital requirements are met during these troubled times,” he said.Deepak Mahurkar, partner and leader of the oil and gas practice at PwC India, said global oil demand had become subdued about one-and-a-half months ago because of the impact of the coronavirus and the ripples have now reached India. “Demand will start picking up after the lockdown is removed, but it will be slow as consumers will be cautious,” he said.Mahurkar said global oil prices will have to eventually bounce back to the level of $60 a barrel because current levels are not sustainable. He described the volatility in international oil market on Thursday and Friday as an attempt by oil producers to boost oil prices. “Even the US would like prices to go up to help its oil and gas sector,” he said. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-india-unable-to-take-full-advantage-of-drop-in-oil-prices/story-jgKM2Vq4UBVhgQroIfHNqI.html
05-04-2020||India||Covid-19 outbreak: US, UK set to evacuate their nationals from India||The UK and the US are set to join a list of countries that have been evacuating their stranded nationals from India, with the Boris Johnson government on Sunday announcing the first wave of seven charter flights for some 20,000 Britons in different states.The UK government has said it will provide £75 million for special charter flights, where commercial routes do not exist, to bring home thousands of Britons stranded in various countries. The flights from India will depart from Goa on April 8, 10 and 12, from Mumbai on April 9 and 11, and from New Delhi on April 9 and 11.The flights cost each adult £681 from Goa, £600 from Mumbai and £581 from Delhi, and infants under the age of two will travel free.The UK’s acting high commissioner to India, Jan Thompson, said: “We know how worrying the past few weeks have been for British nationals in India. I hope this announcement will bring relief, especially to those in greatest need.“Due to the large numbers of British travellers involved, the scale of this operation is huge. The UK government continues to work hard with our Indian counterparts in New Delhi and London to arrange a safe journey back for as many people as possible.”Officials said the charter flights are for British travellers who normally reside in the UK and their direct dependants. A number of seats will be reserved for those deemed vulnerable. On Saturday, 113 of the most vulnerable British nationals left Goa on an Irish flight.An estimated 35,000 British nationals are currently in India but only some 20,000 have expressed a desire to return.The US, which flew out some 200 citizens from India on March 31, is set to operate a steady flow of flights from Delhi and Mumbai this week. People familiar with developments said several thousand Americans, most of them stranded tourists and travellers, will be evacuated by these flights.The US embassy announced on Sunday there will be flights from New Delhi to San Francisco (April 6, 7 and 8) and from Mumbai to Atlanta (April 7 and 10).“We do not know for how long US government-organised flights returning to the United States will continue after this week. We urge US citizens who want to return to the United States to take advantage of the current opportunities,” the embassy said in an alert posted on its website.The embassy said it will also facilitate transportation to Delhi from some cities in northern and eastern India, including flights from Dehradun, Amritsar and Chandigarh, and bus services from Ludhiana and Dharamsala. It will also arrange flights from Chennai and Hyderabad to Mumbai.A total of 22 countries evacuated almost 14,000 people from India till late last week, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity.Germany has flown out some 3,000 citizens in about 10 flights from different Indian cities, Japan about 2,300 in some 10 flights, Malaysia about 2,100 citizens in 13 flights, Israel about 1,600 citizens in eight flights, and Russia almost 1,100 citizens in four flights.France, which has so far evacuated 400 nationals in one flights, has plans to evacuate almost 1,600 more stranded tourists and travellers.Special arrangements have also been made by the countries to arrange “movement permits” in view of domestic travel restrictions currently in force across India. These permits call on Indian authorities to allow passage, without delay or detention, to the foreign nationals.The people cited above said there are currently no plans to arrange flights to bring back Indians stranded abroad. The government recently advised stranded Indians to “stay put” and Indian missions have been tasked to help them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-outbreak-us-uk-set-to-evacuate-their-nationals-from-india/story-n4bFJfR6TJWgEoxZw25WkM.html
05-04-2020||India||US, UK to begin evacuating stranded nationals from India||The UK and the US are set to join a list of countries that have been evacuating their stranded nationals from India, with the Boris Johnson government on Sunday announcing the first wave of seven charter flights for some 20,000 Britons in different states.The UK government has said it will provide £75 million for special charter flights, where commercial routes do not exist, to bring home thousands of Britons stranded in different countries. The flights from India will depart from Goa on April 8, 10 and 12, from Mumbai on April 9 and 11, and from New Delhi on April 9 and 11.The flights cost each adult £681 from Goa, £600 from Mumbai and £581 from Delhi, and infants under the age of two will travel free.The UK’s acting high commissioner to India, Jan Thompson, said: “We know how worrying the past few weeks have been for British nationals in India. I hope this announcement will bring relief, especially to those in greatest need.“Due to the large numbers of British travellers involved, the scale of this operation is huge. The UK government continues to work hard with our Indian counterparts in New Delhi and London to arrange a safe journey back for as many people as possible.”Officials said the charter flights are for British travellers who normally reside in the UK and their direct dependants. A number of seats will be reserved for those deemed vulnerable. On Saturday, 113 of the most vulnerable British nationals left Goa on an Irish flight.An estimated 35,000 British nationals are currently in India but only some 20,000 have expressed a desire to return.The US, which flew out some 200 citizens from India on March 31, is set to operate a steady flow of flights from Delhi and Mumbai this week. People familiar with developments said several thousand Americans, most of them stranded tourists and travellers, will be evacuated by these flights.The US embassy announced on Sunday there will be flights from New Delhi to San Francisco (April 6, 7 and 8) and from Mumbai to Atlanta (April 7 and 10).“We do not know for how long US government-organised flights returning to the United States will continue after this week. We urge US citizens who want to return to the United States to take advantage of the current opportunities,” the embassy said in an alert posted on its website.The embassy said it will also facilitate transportation to Delhi from some cities in northern and eastern India, including flights from Dehradun, Amritsar and Chandigarh, and bus services from Ludhiana and Dharamshala. It will also arrange flights from Chennai and Hyderabad to Mumbai.A total of 22 countries evacuated almost 14,000 people from India till late last week, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity.Germany has flown out some 3,000 citizens in about 10 flights from different Indian cities, Japan about 2,300 in some 10 flights, Malaysia about 2,100 citizens in 13 flights, Israel about 1,600 citizens in eight flights, and Russia almost 1,100 citizens in four flights.France, which has so far evacuated 400 nationals in one flights, has plans to evacuate almost 1,600 more stranded tourists and travellers.Special arrangements have also been made by the countries to arrange “movement permits” in view of domestic travel restrictions currently in force across India. These permits call on Indian authorities to allow passage, without delay or detention, to the foreign nationals.The people cited above said there are currently no plans to arrange flights to bring back Indians stranded abroad. The government recently advised stranded Indians to “stay put” and Indian missions have been tasked to help them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-uk-to-begin-evacuating-stranded-nationals-from-india/story-XmSDldfAKH7hZl7QjQHrDP.html
05-04-2020||India||Uttarakhand villagers seal their villages to check spread of Covid-19||With the rise in cases of coronavirus infection, many villages in Uttarakhand have started sealing their villages to ensure no outsider enters their village nor any local person leaves, particularly when lockdown norms are relaxed in the morning.Five km from Haridwar, Ajeeptur is one such village where villagers barricaded the entry. The initiative in this regard was taken by some youths led by village panchayat member Arun Kashyap who underlined the need for villagers to isolate themselves and ban the movement of people to and from the village.Follow coronavirus live updates here.“Only in case of emergency service, we allow movement otherwise neither local residents nor outsiders villagers are allowed exit and entry respectively during easing of lockdown restriction from 7 am to 1 pm. Nearby residents also keep tab on villagers movement beyond this time till night. We need to set an example and adhere to the lockdown as per government and administrative guidelines. With masks, soap and sanitizers put up at various points we are also generating awareness among villagers,” said Arun Kashyap, village panchayat member.Village head Maya Ram Kashyap and deputy head Avdesh Chauhan lauding the youth’s initiative pointed that about 1700 odd villagers are duly adhering this self-imposed restriction during non-restrictive hours too barring any emergency or very important work.Uttarakhand reported 26 new cases of coronavirus on Sunday.In Roorkee too, villagers of Matlabpur have conveyed to nearby villages that no person from their area will be allowed to enter till April 14. All the routes and entry points to Matlabpur village have been closed after the consent of the hundred-odd villagers.Nine other villages that fall in the Pathri area of Haridwar district have also sealed themselves.“Taking into consideration the rise in the number of positive cases which are primarily due to people coming from other states or countries, we decided to seal our villages to keep Covid-19 out of our areas. Even if vegetable vendors arrive we stop them outside the village and procure vegetables keeping social distance and washing hands of both the vendor and the buyers,” said Tikaula village chief Naveen Chauhan.In bordering villages with Uttar Pradesh, though state police and Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) personnel have been deployed as the state border has been sealed till April 14, some villages on Uttarakhand side are also keeping a tab on any human movement from Bijnore district side.The village head of Bishanpur Kund Savita Devi said that villagers are also keeping vigil at Ganga riverside area as outsiders can enter by crossing the river to escape from the border police post checking.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-villagers-seal-their-villages-to-check-spread-of-covid-19/story-HMXmbpB8H4BiiVZzABsUyI.html
05-04-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown could exacerbate childhood obesity: Epidemiologists||School closures due to the Covid-19 outbreak could exacerbate childhood obesity, according to a study by epidemiologists from the New York Academy of Medicine and others published in Obesity journal. Increase in obesity among schoolchildren during the summer recess has already been documented by US public health experts. Surplus weight usually accrues every summer and obesity experienced at as young as five years of age has been shown to be associated with a higher BMI (body mass index) at an older age, even up to 50 years.More than 30 million children receive subsidised school lunches and food insecurity rates are higher for such families during summer months when there is a break in schooling. Only three days of school closures could result in 405,000 missed meals among schoolchildren in the US, according to the authors of the study cited above. Along with the impact of calorie-dense foods that can be stocked up during lockdowns, children in urban areas don’t have much physical activity due to a social distancing intervention. The authors cite data to show that online video game usage is already soaring.In India, 115.9 million children are enrolled in the midday meal scheme. But due to the lockdown and disruptions associated with the Covid-19 outbreak, many states are not able to give children these meals. The human resource development ministry on March 20 asked state governments to provide either hot cooked midday meals or a food security allowance for the children’s families to buy food.“As the country is passing through the difficult times of the Novel Covid-19 (Corona) outbreak The State Governments and Union Territories are advised to provide hot cooked Mid Day Meal or Food Security Allowance, whichever is feasible, to all eligible children till such time their schools are closed due to Novel COVID-l9 (Corona) Virus. The modalities for this purpose may be decided by the respective States…the regular Mid Day Meal shall resume as soon as the schools reopen,” the letter to the states reads. Kerala was among the first to start delivering meals to schoolchildren at home. The state serves 2,584,156 children in 12,327 schools. The menu includes a banana, an egg and milk along with vegetables, pulses and rice.“It’s very difficult to say what health impact the children here are going to face because the school closure may not be long-term. More worrying is the long-term impact on the socioeconomic condition of the parents. The government should deliver midday meals to children wherever they are,” said Dr Anand Krishnan, professor, Centre for Community Medicine at All India Institute Of Medical Sciences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-could-exacerbate-childhood-obesity-epidemiologists/story-HymeYxxRMGqBZsvRIIuXFI.html
05-04-2020||India||What to switch off, what stays on: All you need to know about PM Modi’s ‘lights off’ call||The people of India are all set to join the call given by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to switch off the lights of their houses and light lamps and candles to show solidarity in fight against coronavirus disease Covid-19.The government has clarified that common area places, hospitals and other essential services do not have to switch off their lights. “Only domestic home lights in the houses have to be put off as appealed by the PM,” the Union power ministry said on Sunday evening.It also clarified that the exercise is “voluntary”.“There is no call to switch off appliances like computers, TVs, fans, refrigerators and ACs in the homes,” the ministry further said.PM Modi had urged all countrymen to switch off their lights for 9 minutes at 9 pm on Sunday and asked them to light diyas, candles or use the flashlight of their mobile phones as a sign of solidarity in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic.The Prime Minister made the appeal in a video address on Friday - his third in two weeks.“On April 5, on Sunday, I want 9 minutes from all you, at 9 pm. Listen carefully, on April 5, at 9 pm, turn off all the lights in your homes, stand at your doors or in your balconies, and light candles or diyas, torches or mobile flashlights for 9 minutes. I repeat, light candles or diyas, torches or mobile flashlights, for 9 minutes at 9pm on the April 5,” PM Modi had said on April 3.The Prime Minister said that the exercise will help people experience the superpower of light “clearly illuminating the common purpose we are all fighting for”.PM Modi had earlier called on people to go on a self-imposed Janta Curfew and stay inside their homes and avoid going outside between 7 am to 9 pm on March 22. He had also asked people to come to their doorways, balconies and windows to clap or ring bells at 5 pm to thank those working toward essential services.Hundreds of thousands across the country had responded to the Prime Minister’s appeal to cheer doctors, nurses, police officials and others who are working to fight the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-to-switch-off-what-stays-on-all-you-need-to-know-about-pm-modi-s-lights-off-call/story-spGdJEF6Z6OOPDuvVVXykI.html
05-04-2020||India||Fever FM’s support to nine-minutes campaign wins PM Modi’s approval||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has retweeted a post by Fever FM in support of his appeal to light diyas, candles, lamps or torches while putting out the electric lights for nine-minutes at 9 pm on Sunday and added that the country stood united in the fight against coronavirus.Fever FM had posted a minute-long recording of responses from its listeners from different walks of lives and regions as they pledged their support to the campaign initiated by the prime minister while encouraging others to do the same.Fever FM had broadcast PM’s message delivered on Friday which said India needed to spread light to fight the darkness spread by coronavirus pandemic. He also said that we needed to resolve in the light spread out by our collective effort that we were not alone at this moment.The clip posted by Fever FM carried messages from a female teacher from Delhi, a police constable from Haryana, a farmer from Bihar, and an engineer from Mumbai.All the callers pledged to light a candle to support the PM’s initiative. We are in this together. India united at #9pm9minute. https://t.co/au0tfBzE70In a tweet on Saturday, Fever FM had asked its listeners to participate in the call given by the prime minister.“As Honorable PM @narendramodi ji calls on us, on the 5th of April at 9 PM let’s switch off to connect with the nation to carry on the fight against Corona with renewed courage and hope. Let’s switch off and light up,” its tweet said.Prime minister has responded individually to several messages of support from common citizens and celebrities on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fever-fm-s-support-to-nine-minutes-campaign-wins-pm-modi-s-approval/story-jc009AQMBDQ4KGMkS2ssgM.html
05-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Odisha denies any community transmission as state count climbs to 23||With the state reporting two more Covid-19 positive cases on Sunday, the Odisha government allayed earlier fears of community transmission of the coronavirus but asked people to adhere to the lockdown till April 14.Two new coronavirus cases were reported from Bhubaneswar taking the total count in the state to 23. The first was a 29-year-old man from Bomikhal area of Bhubaneswar, where three brothers living in an apartment tested positive on Friday. The person who tested positive on Sunday is another brother. A 70-year-old man in the city who had returned to Bhubaneswar on March 22 from Australia also tested positive.Earlier in the day, Odisha chief secretary Asit Tripathy made it clear that community transmission of the disease is yet to happen in Odisha due to the lockdown and social distancing measures undertaken. “As the travel history of the fifth Covid-19 positive patient, a 60-year-old man with co-morbidity conditions was not found initially, we were scared of seeing more positive cases due to community spread. But, we contained it by sealing the area and enforcing a shutdown in Bhubaneswar, Cuttack and Jajpur. We have actively contained the Covid-19 hotspots during the 48-hour shutdown and hope to continue the same in the near future. The local administration has been empowered to implement the closure of possible infection hotspots for containment of the deadly virus,” he said.Though the 60-year-old man from Bhubaneswar had no travel history, yesterday it emerged that his daughter had travelled to Kolkata and stayed there for four days. On Friday, 4 members of the man’s family and 3 members of his tenant’s family tested positive.The chief secretary said the 48-hour shutdown in Bhubaneswar, Cuttack and Jajpur would come to an end on 8 pm Sunday, but advised people against going out en masse afterwards.“Even after shutdown, people are requested to abide by the lockdown rules and avoid gatherings. Social distancing is the only weapon for containment to fight the deadly virus. You might be out to buy vegetables or grocery but will be coming back with the disease,” said Tripathy.He further warned that the state would seal small areas if any positive cases were found anywhere in the state.Meanwhile, a team of police in Cuttack was pelted with stones while they were undertaking regular patrolling during the 48-hour shutdown in place this morning. The attack occurred in Kesharpur area. As many as 15 people were arrested over their involvement in the incident.Meanwhile, 400 women self-help groups in Odisha have manufactured over one million masks for distribution among people. The SHGs - under the Odisha government’s Mission Shakti programme - made around 50,000 masks every day, as part of its efforts to help the state government in its fight against the coronavirus.Some of the SHG groups have been visiting villages across the state to generate awareness about the disease and are distributing cooked food among the poor, amid the 21-day nationwide lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-odisha-denies-any-community-transmission-as-state-count-climbs-to-23/story-QL4G1XbKKVwebkAILNOC2J.html
05-04-2020||India||Religious gurus, celebrities, commoners tweet support to 9-minute lights-out call, PM Modi thanks them||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has individually thanked several citizens including celebrities for extending support to his call for a nine-minute lights out call at 9 pm on Sunday to state India’s united resolve against coronavirus on day 11 of the 21-day long nationwide lockdown.He thanked an elderly citizen Dadi Chandro Tomar who said her entire village including her family was with the prime minister’s campaign to stress the power of unity. सहयोग के लिए धन्यवाद। #9pm9minute https://t.co/jkHso4FlfLModi also thanked Bollywood actor Anil Kapoor and filmmaker Karan Johar who tweeted their support for “bringing back the light of positivity and hope into people’s lives.” Thank you for the support @karanjohar. #9pm9minute https://t.co/m4Muv9qPcd Stay home, spread brightness and further the spirit of unity. #9pm9minute https://t.co/92XkvH6rpyWhile the government has clarified that the nine-minute blackout on Sunday was a symbolic gesture to reenergize and unite people for a common cause as the nationwide lockdown enters a crucial phase, several people including religious figures have suggested that the action implied much more than just symbolism.“If each person lights a small lamp, the strength of the light multiplies and everything can be illuminated. In the same way this action should help us illuminate the light within each of our hearts,” tweeted religious preacher Mata Amritanandmayi. PM said the thought was “excellently” articulated.Prime minister also responded to a rendition by singer Kailash Kher in support of PM’s call and said it was bound to encourage all.Responding to a video message by actor Mammootty, prime minister thanked him and said a “heartfelt call for unity and brotherhood like yours is what our nation needs in the fight against Covid-19. Thank you, @mammukka. A heartfelt call for unity and brotherhood like yours is what our nation needs in the fight against COVID-19. #9pm9minute https://t.co/hjGjAwPvsZAmong the messages retweeted by PM Modi, there was also a video message by Yoga guru Ramdev asking citizens to support the corona warriors, a reference to providers of medical care and other essential services, by lighting a lamp at 9 pm on Sunday.  कोरोना के खिलाफ यही संकल्प शक्ति देशवासियों के लिए बड़ा संबल बनेगी।#9pm9minute https://t.co/eZUEvptXqRPM Modi has also urged people to maintain social distancing and not gather on streets or in residential areas while lighting an earthen lamp or flashing a torch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/religious-gurus-celebrities-commoners-tweet-support-to-9-minute-blackout-call-pm-modi-thanks-them/story-YuNg2qWgFKOdE2R8b7tUQO.html
05-04-2020||India||SRK, Bengal actors contribute to Mamata Banerjee’s kitty to fight Covid-19 as state goes for austerity||Star power that helped Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee either win Lok Sabha and Assembly seats or project the state’s image has now come to her aid in the fight against Covid-19 days after her government announced austerity measures amid soaring expenditure.Bollywood superstar Shahrukh Khan, who is also Bengal’s brand ambassador and owner of the IPL franchise Kolkata Knight Riders (KKR), made a generous donation to the chief minister’s emergency relief fund on Thursday. He also announced that KKR and his NGO, Meer Foundation, will give 50,000 personal protection kits for health workers to Bengal and Maharashtra. Using Bengali script Khan, on Friday, tweeted, “Didi I want to extend my arm to help you in your selfless and humanitarian work” and quoted a line from a poem by Rabindranath Tagore.Follow coronavirus live updates here.On Saturday, Banerjee thanked Khan in a tweet for the undisclosed amount the star contributed. “Thank you @iamsrk, your contribution will help assist a lot of distressed people during these challenging times. Such humane benefaction will keep inspiring millions in this country who look up to you as their role model with respect and reverence,” she wrote.Three people have so far died of coronavirus in Bengal. Four others who had tested positive also lost their lives but the government says they might have died of co-morbidity. The seven dead were among a total of 68 people infected by the virus.In Kolkata’s film industry, commonly referred to as Tollywood since most of the old studios are located at Tollygunje in south Kolkata, people aware of the developments said contributions have also been made by popular actress Rituparna Sengupta and her husband, a businessman, and actors Rudranil Ghosh and Sohini Sarkar.Bengal’s superstar Prasenjit Chatterjee, director Arindam Sil and music director Jit Ganguly have also contributed to a fund for film technicians since all studios are closed due to the lockdown. Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar whose acrimonious relation with the state government has been in news for months, contributed Rs 10 lakh to the chief minister’s emergency relief fund and Rs 5 lakh to the Prime Minister’s relief fund.Faced with huge unexpected expenditure, the Bengal government had announced austerity measures on Thursday under which no new scheme will to be taken up and all constructions will stop except urgent repairs and maintenance for which approval has to be taken from the finance department.The government will not allow purchase of new cars, computers, IT related accessories, televisions, air-conditioners, water coolers, officer equipment, furnishings and renovation of chambers of public officials. Unless approved by the government, there will be no recruitment and engagement of manpower and no hiring of vehicles. The government will also not allow air travel in executive and business class. Last month, Banerjee had publicly appealed to people and the corporate world to help with money or materials.Four days ago she contributed Rs 5 lakh each to state fund and the Prime Minister’s fund. “I do not take any salary as MLA or chief minister and I have also forgone my MP pension despite being a seven-time member of the Parliament. I come from limited means. My primary source of income is from my creative pursuits, the royalty I generate from my music and books,” she tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/srk-bengal-actors-contribute-to-mamata-manerjee-s-kitty-to-fight-covid-19-as-state-goes-for-austerity/story-5JBqr7wDlLZN3mfiSrcfEO.html
05-04-2020||India||UP migrant worker quarantined in Udaipur commits suicide||A 19-year-old labourer, staying in a quarantine facility in Udaipur since March 31, killed himself on Sunday, police said.Indian Police Service (IPS) officer Rajarshi Verma, who is in charge of Dabok police station, said the labourer worked at a restaurant in Surat and came to Udaipur on March 31. “He was staying in a quarantine facility at the Gitanjali Institute, a private medical college, and was last seen around 10.30 pm last night,” the police officer said.The man was from Hathras in Uttar Pradesh and was among the 187 labourers who were quarantined by the Udaipur district administration at the facility when they were travelling to their home town.“He was found hanging from the ceiling fan. There was no suicide note so the reason is unclear,” Verma said.He said some labourers saw him preparing to hang himself around 3 am and tried to stop him but did not succeed.The body was sent to his village in UP after the postmortem, according to the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-migrant-worker-quarantined-in-udaipur-commits-suicide/story-clSaRmHSmcngpa3pMgxBBK.html
05-04-2020||India||Coronavirus: Govt’s 11-point FAQs on PM Modi’s call to switch off lights for 9 mins at 9 pm||The Union power ministry on Sunday came out with a list of 11 questions around the lights off event later in the evening at the call of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. In the FAQs, the government underlined that there are no plans to carry out load shedding for the 9 pm lights out event and stressed that people should only switch off their domestic lights. PM Modi had appealed to people to switch off their lights in their homes and instead, light oil lamps, candles, and flash their mobile phone torches on at 9pm, for nine minutes.This, PM Modi underlined, will symbolise the collective power of people and showcase their determination in taking the country from darkness to illumination in the fight against Covid-19, or coronavirus.Power Ministry’s FAQs about lights off event at 9 pm and grid stabilityQuestion 1: Are only domestic lights to be switched off or are street lights, common area lighting, essential services etc lights also to be switched off between 9 and 9:09 pm?Answer: Only domestic home lights in the houses have to be put off voluntarily as appealed by our Hon’ble PM. It is again reiterated that no street lights, common area places, hospitals and other essential services have to switch off their lights.Question 2: Are my domestic appliances going to be safe?Answer: All your domestic appliances will be safe. There is no need to switch off Fans, ACs, Fridges etc. Indian Electricity Grid is well designed to handle such kind of load variation and has several in- built levels of control and safety mechanisms to absorb any kind of frequency changes occurring due to such load variation. Thus, all the domestic appliances will be totally safe and hence should be kept in normal functioning mode as per the requirements.Question 3 : Whether adequate arrangements and protocols are in place to handle grid stability?Answer : Yes, all adequate arrangements and standard operating protocols are in place to maintain grid stability.Question 4: Is it compulsory or voluntary to switch off lights?Answer : Voluntary. As already said only domestic home lights have to be put off .Question 5: Some apprehensions have been expressed that this may cause instability in the grid and fluctuation in voltage which may harm the electrical appliances. Answer : These apprehensions are totally misplaced. These are normal phenomena and the Indian Electricity Grid is well designed to handle such load variation and frequency changes as per standard operating protocols.Question 6 : Whether our grid management and technology deployed will withstand the fluctuation that light out may cause?Answer : Indian electricity grid is robust and stable and employs state-of-the -art technology. It has in place necessary control and protective elements capable of handling such kinds of fluctuations in demand at any instant of time.Question 7 : Whether appliances like fans, refrigerators, AC, etc should be switched off or kept in the on mode?Answer : All your domestic appliances would be safe. These appliances should be operated normally as per requirements by the consumers. No need at all to especially switch off at 9 pm.Question 8 : Whether street lights will go off?Answer : No. In fact, all States/UTs/ Local bodies have been advised to keep the street lights on for public safety.Question 9: Whether hospitals or other emergency and important installations will face light out?Answer : No, the lights in Hospitals and all other essential services like Public Utilities, Municipal Services, Offices, Police Stations, Manufacturing Facilities, etc will remain on. The call given by Hon’ble PM is to just switch off lights in residences.Question 10: Would a sudden switching off of 20% load not destabilise the grid? What measures will the Mmnistry take?Answer : Domestic lighting load is much less than 20 per cent. Such kind of reduction in demand can be easily managed for which standard technical operating protocols are in place.Question 11: Will there be load shedding? If yes, what will be the impact ?Answer : No load shedding is planned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-govt-s-11-point-faqs-on-pm-modi-s-call-to-switch-off-lights-for-9-mins-at-9-pm/story-6OjCWdZJbrvHefEsJvUmZL.html
05-04-2020||India||Pak-backed terror module in Afghanistan that targeted India busted, 37 arrested||Afghan security forces have arrested 37 members of the so-called Islamic State Khorasan Province terrorist module that had targeted a Kabul gurdwara last month. The arrests were made in the last 24 hours after Afghan forces caught Aslam Farooqui, the Pakistani national who led the terror group ISKP known to have strong links with Pakistan’s ISI that carries out off-the-shelf jihad at its instance.Among the 37 who have been arrested are 14 women and children. A majority of them are Pakistani nationals.Aslam Farooqui and the members of his module are being interrogated in the presence of US security agencies outside Kabul, people familiar with the developments in Delhi and Kabul told Hindustan Times.Afghanistan vice president Amrullah Saleh cheered the Afghan intelligence agency for the breakthrough.“I am sure he is already singing & will sing more to the dismay of his patrons in & out. A treasure of intelligence. Make him talk,” tweeted Saleh, who earlier headed the Afghan intel agency National Directorate of Security. The reference to Farooqui’s patrons is seen to be pointing to Pakistan’s intel agency ISI. Watch: Watch: Mastermind of Kabul Gurudwara attack, ISKP terrorist Farooqui, capturedThe Farooqui-led module had targeted Sikh worshippers at Gurdwara Har Rai in Shor Bazaar Kabul on March 25. The Taliban had rushed to deny its involvement in the gurdwara attack. The ISKP came forward to claim responsibility. But its assertion that the strike was revenge for Muslims in Kashmir was a dead giveaway for Pakistani deep state, people mentioned above said.ISKP chief Aslam Farooqui’s links with Pakistan’s ISI have been too well known. Farooqi, also known as Abdullah Orakzai, is a former commander of the Lashkar-e-Tayyiba with direct links to the ISI.Also Read: ISKP chief’s arrest for gurdwara attack brings out clear link to Pakistan’s ISI: OfficialHis 4,000-strong ISKP group operates with other groups like the Lashkar and Jaish-e-Mohammed. It largely comprises defectors from the Tehrik-i-Taliban Pakistan and other Islamic terrorist outfits active in the Afghan-Pakistan area along the Durand Line including elements from the LeT, Jaish and Haqqani network.The LeT already has a presence in Kunar and Nangarhar provinces and is in expansion mode. It is trying to get a foothold in the adjoining Nuristan and Laghman provinces and is reported to have set up a training camp in Waygal area of Nuristan. Counter terror operatives in Delhi and Kabul suggest that the Lashkar was in the process of opening two new centres in Kunar province. Under directions from the ISI, the LeT has been involved in planning and conducting attacks on Indian interests, including Indian Embassy and consulates in Afghanistan in coordination with the Haqqani network, an Indian government official said.The Jaish-e-Mohammed, another anti-India proxy for the ISI, maintains close links with the Haqqani network and Al Qaeda.The Jaish has dedicated commanders for 12 provinces including Kunar, Nangarhar, Paktia, Arwan, Kundu, Ghazni, Nimroz, Helmand, Kandahar and Uruzgan provinces, an official said. JeM activities in Afghanistan are controlled by the outfit’s leaders based in Pakistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-backed-terror-module-in-afghanistan-that-targeted-india-busted-37-arrested/story-kjzMl28mqulIgeHa7gpmUP.html
05-04-2020||India||Spitting in public, chewing tobacco could spread Covid-19, govt warns||Spitting in public or chewing tobacco products could help spread coronavirus infection, government officials said on Sunday while ruling out the possibility of the disease spreading through the air.“In view of the increasing dangers from the Covid pandemic, ICMR has issued an advisory requesting people to avoid smoking, spitting in public places and consumption of tobacco products in this period,” said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, the health ministry.Uttar Pradesh was among the first states to slap a ban on selling of tobacco products and spitting in public among measures to contain the spread of the disease.In another related announcement, the government officials confirmed that the rapid diagnostic tests will only be limited to particular areas.“Rapid diagnostic test to be done in hotspots, evacuation centres and places of large gatherings to test for influenza-like illnesses,” said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, ministry of health. ICMR has issued detailed guidelines for antibody testing, also referred to as rapid antibody-based tests, in the last two days while adopting a new strategy to deal with Covid-19 clusters (containment zone), in large migration gatherings and in centers were evacuees are kept in quarantine, where a large number of Covid-19 cases are arising.In another important announcement, ICMR said that the deadly Covid-19 virus doesn’t spread through the air as suggested recently by the experts in the United States.Dr R Gangakhedkar of ICMR said that while it was routine for different expert opinions to exist on matters such as this, there was not enough scientific evidence available to suggest Covid-19 was an airborne disease. “A balanced evidence-based approach must be taken. Had it been an air-borne infection then all the members of a family with a positive case amidst them should test positive as they all breathe the same air,” Gangakhedkar reasoned.He also cited the example of a hospital environment which could have lent itself to a more regular spread of the infection to all the patients present at the facility.Airborne diseases spread by viruses and bacteria are considered to be highly contagious and a high-level scientific panel in the United States had suggested that coronavirus could spread by just talking and breathing in contrast with earlier findings and analysis.The scientists said the virus could stay in the air in the form of an “ultrafine mist” that is produced when people exhale.“While the current specific research is limited, the results of available studies are consistent with aerosolisation of virus from normal breathing,” said a letter written by Dr Harvey Fineberg, chair of the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine’s standing committee of experts.India has officially reported little under 4000 positive cases so far and the government says the dangerous phase of community transmissions has not been observed yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spitting-in-public-chewing-tobacco-could-spread-covid-19-govt-warns/story-MA3z2ztbol7tyyD1TDkAWM.html
05-04-2020||India||Covid-19 cases doubling in 4.1 days, Jamaat incident worsened coronavirus spread: Govt||India’s doubling rate of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) stands at 4.1 days, Lav Agarwal, the joint secretary of the Union health ministry, said on Sunday, explaining in how many days the number of infections gets doubled in the country. If the cases reported due to a religious gathering in New Delhi in March had not taken place, the doubling rate would have been at 7.4 days, he said, referring to the congregation of the members of the Islamic missionary group Tablighi Jamaat in the national capital.The headquarters of the Jamaat, or the Markaz, in Nizamuddin area, where the gathering took place last month, has emerged as a hot spot of Covid-19 infections in India. About one-third of the total cases in the country have been linked to the gathering. Authorities across states have launched a complex exercise to trace those who visited the Markaz and then fanned out across the country.Also read: 8 Malaysians linked to Tablighi Jamaat deboarded from rescue flight“If it were not for the congregation, India’s rate of doubling— that is in how many days the cases have doubled — would have been at 7.4 days,” Agarwal said.The total coronavirus cases in India stand at 3,374 and the death toll has reached 79, Agarwal said, adding that 472 new Covid-19 cases and 11 deaths have been reported since Saturday. He said 267 people have recovered.But a PTI tally of figures reported by states showed at least 106 deaths and 3,624 cases. Of this total, 284 have been cured and discharged, according to the news agency.He said all states have been asked to put in place a district-specific containment strategy in place based on the detailed large outbreak containment plan issued by the health ministry on Saturday.Also read: Delhi’s Tablighi Jamaat meet sparks Covid-19 fears in IAF“Surveillance and contact-tracing has been our main focus, and we will continue to put emphasis on that,” said Agarwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-doubling-rate-in-india-at-4-1-days-govt/story-CcMgi8sSrZ7LnBp1oZ70OL.html
05-04-2020||India||Punjab’s first Covid-19 casualty’s son recovers, 7 more family members test negative||The 35-year-old son of the first person to die of the coronavirus disease in Punjab tested negative for the second time on Sunday, health officials in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar said.The man had tested negative for Covid-19 on Saturday as well and will be discharged from the Civil Hospital soon, officials said.Vinay Bublani, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar’s deputy commissioner, said the development was good news and that it was a ray of hope. “I am very happy,” Bublani said. The 70-year-old man, who died on March 18 because of the coronavirus disease, infected 27 of his contacts including 14 of his family members.Seven other members of the family also tested negative for Covid-19 on Sunday. “We will collect the second sample of the seven family members, who have tested negative for coronavirus, on Monday too,” Dr Harwinder Singh, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar’s senior medical officer, said.Singh said they provided the best treatment to the family members and the credit goes to all doctors and medical staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-s-first-covid-19-casualty-s-son-recovers-7-more-family-members-test-negative/story-M1qQ9asMbosggpSE6MURMM.html
05-04-2020||India||‘Once we don PPE we worry only about our patients’: Kerala nurses fighting Covid-19||They say they would like to be known as warriors, not nightingales any more. Days of gloom and challenges have made them stronger and bolder, say nurses, frontline health workers in the Covid-19 battle who spend most of their time in forlorn wards.“I have stopped breast feeding my 2-year-old daughter. Initially I had some problems but once I don the heavy personal protection equipment (PPE) I forget all my worries,” a 28-year-old nurse at Kalamassery medical college hospital in Ernakulam said. Since she has a small child, Reeja Vishnu was given an option to opt-out of the Covid-19 ward but she declined. “We can’t desert the ship when it needs us the most,” she said.Reshma Mohandas, a nurse at the Kottayam medical college hospital, turned coronavirus positive while treating 93-year-old Thomas and his 84-year-old wife Mariyamma. She was discharged the same day the old couple left the hospital, often dubbed as a miracle among the medical fraternity. While leaving the hospital, the nurse made an unusual plea to the medical superintendent-- she wants to works at the Covid-19 ward after her 14-day mandatory quarantine at home.“Both the aged people were like small kids and we treated them like that. At times they were stubborn and cranky. We had to pat them quite often. Since one of them had some hearing problem I had to go very close. It was my duty,” said Mohandas, a staff nurse. She developed fever on the fourth day of their admission and got isolated immediately. “If we start worrying about ourselves, who will be there to console and look after our patients? So I took it in my stride,” she said. Let us ask some of these nurses about their day in a Covid-19 ward. According to world health standards, a person in PPE can’t work more than four hours and they admit these four are like 40 hours. But they say for wearing and removing it takes more than one hour and another one hour for pre-quarantine and post-duty protocols.“We need another person’s help. First we wear shoes and put on the PPE overall. Then we cover the head and wear mask and goggles. At times we have to wear two or three layers of masks and then put on gloves, one large and another small over it. Since we can’t go to the washroom after putting PPE we usually avoid water,” a nurse explained. After putting the PPE on, there is a 10-minute check to find out whether the person is comfortable and can move around quickly.“Post-duty protocol is more cumbersome. We have to spray disinfectant on entire clothing before removing and each apparel has different bins. During bath we have to wash all our personal clothes and disinfect them again. Not allowed to wear those clothes for at least a month. Then we move to the hostel or dormitory and are not allowed to interact with others. We have to inform our superiors about our health twice a day,” she said. Many Covid-19 hospitals in Kerala have arranged accommodation for health staff near hospitals. There were some cases of taboo but the government intervened effectively.They all say Lini Puthussery, a nurse who died fighting the Nipah virus outbreak in north Kerala in 2018, is their inspiration. Later, a movie was made based on her life ‘Virus’ and it was a big hit. “After fighting Nipah virus, which was more dangerous, our health workers are stronger now. It is time to stand with them,” said Lini’s husband Sajeesh, who works at the health department now. When Lini died, both her children were six and two years of age, later the government gave Sajeesh, who was working in the Middle-east, a job near his house.Nurses from Kerala are most sought after the world over and you can find them in all major hospitals of the country and roughly 20,000 of them work in foreign countries also. Office-bearers of the Nurses’ association said they have information about at least six Kerala nurses who have been infected in foreign countries, including two in United Kingdom.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/once-we-don-ppe-we-worry-only-about-our-patients-kerala-nurses-fighting-covid-19/story-u8f3KkwmJnCVeet6XrhHdM.html
05-04-2020||India||No evidence of coronavirus being airborne, says ICMR’s top scientist||With the number of coronavirus cases in India now doubling in just over four days as the pandemic continues to spread the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said Sunday that there was no evidence of the virus being airborne.“There is no evidence of coronavirus being airborne,” Dr Raman Gangakhedkar, Head Scientist, (ICMR) said at the government’s daily briefing.Coronavirus spreads primarily through droplets generated when an infected person coughs or sneezes, or through droplets of saliva or discharge from the nose. Follow coronavirus live updates here.Last month, the World Health Organization had said that there is not sufficient evidence to suggest that SARS-CoV-2 is airborne, except in a handful of medical contexts, such as when intubating an infected patient.On Sunday, the number of coronavirus cases in India climbed to 3,374 and seventy nine people have lost their lives so far while 267 people have recovered, Lav Aggarwal, joint secretary, health ministry said at the briefing.Aggarwal also said the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi last month contributed largely to the rapid rise in infections recently.“Covid-19 cases doubled in 4.1 days presently.... had Tablighi Jamaat incident not happened it would have taken 7.4 days,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-evidence-of-coronavirus-being-airborne-says-icmr-s-top-scientist/story-lnLTiNx4JtgxeTZP9G64lN.html
05-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5 PM:8 Malaysians linked to Tablighi Jamaat deboarded from rescue flight and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.8 Malaysians linked to Tablighi Jamaat deboarded from rescue flightEight Malaysian nationals were intercepted by immigration authorities and deboarded from a flight to Kuala Lumpur after they were identified as Tablighi Jamaat members who attended the religious congregation in Nizamuddin, which is linked to one-third of India’s coronavirus infections, said officials. Read moreAmid lockdown, Chhattisgarh Police re-calibrate anti-Maoist ops in BastarThe lockdown to fight coronavirus has forced Chhattisgrah Police to re-calibrate and scale down anti-Maoist operations for security reasons and apprehension of likely shortage of essential items for the troopers, top officials said Sunday. Read more50 mn jobs in tourism sector at stake, need relief packages to combat Covid-19: Industry bodies to govtFifty million people will lose their jobs in the tourism sector if the government does not issue a relief package, industry bodies told the Centre during a virtual conference on Saturday. Read moreSpain witnesses drop in coronavirus deaths for third dayThe rate of the coronavirus outbreak continues to slow in Spain, the country with the second most infections behind the United States. Spain recorded 6,023 confirmed new infections on Sunday, taking the national tally to 130,759. Read moreRamayana: From Arun Govil to Deepika Chikhalia, what actors of hit mythological serial are doing nowThe coronavirus lockdown has been an unexpected boom for Doordarshan. The national broadcaster is back to being the most happening place with mega mythological serials from the golden era of Doordarshan back on screen -- Ramanand Saagar’s Ramayana and BR Chopra’s Mahabharat are currently on air. Read moreSridevi, the Eternal Screen Goddess and ‘Female’ Bachchan who fought for equality in BollywoodThe lines above are from the book, Sridevi: The Eternal Screen Goddess, by Satyarth Nayak. In this excerpt, Rishi Kapoor is describing his interaction with Sridevi during the making of the blockbuster hit, Nagina, showing us how shy and reserved India’s first female superstar actually was in real life. Read moreDecision on reopening schools, colleges to be taken on April 14: HRD ministerThe HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ on Sunday said that the government will decide whether to reopen schools, colleges on April 14 after reviewing the coronavirus situation. Read moreCovid-19 lockdown: Tech accessories, products professionals need to work from homeWorking from home is what most of the employees and professionals are doing these days due to the 21-day coronavirus lockdown imposed by the government. And because we are not used to this routine and environment, working with full focus can be difficult at times. Read moreDid that guy just walk in on himself during a Zoom meeting? WatchWho said work from home couldn’t be fun? Video producer and very-serious-professional Dan Crowd is here to remind us to have a little laugh and not take ourselves too seriously. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5-pm-8-malaysians-linked-to-tablighi-jamaat-deboarded-from-rescue-flight-and-all-the-latest-news/story-2ItaliGqEZfbW6WLu7Pq9J.html
05-04-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 cases climb to 3,374, 79 deaths reported so far, says Health Ministry||India’s approach in the fight against coronavirus outbreak has been proactive and is defined by the attitude to ‘chase the virus instead of letting it chase us’, a health ministry official said on Sunday while revealing that the total number of infections in the country had reached 3374 with 79 incidents of deaths including 11 since Saturday.The government officials also confirmed that 274 districts across the country had reported at least one positive case of coronavirus disease.“Total 3374 confirmed Covid-19 cases have been reported till now, including an additional 472 new cases that have been reported since yesterday. Total 79 deaths reported including 11 additional deaths since yesterday. 267 persons have also recovered from Covid-19,” said Lav Aggarwal, Joint Secy, Health Ministry.Agarwal added that the number of cases in the country was doubling every 4.1 days. “The doubling rate for the cases of Covid-19 cases in the country is presently 4.1 days and this would have been 7.4 days had the Tablighi jamaat cases not surfaced,” Agarwal added.Agarwal was referring to a group of religious congregants in Delhi’s Nizamuddin that have spread the infection in at least 17 states and are said to be the source of at least one-third of all positive infections in the country. The officials said that the Cabinet secretary held a review meeting with the district magistrates of all districts in the country which was also attended by the chief secretaries of all states where officials shared different successful containment strategies deployed in their respective territories. Agarwal said the successful strategies could be summed up in two points- proactive and ruthless containment and over-preparedness.“Proactive and ruthless containment implementation at field level and secondly preparedness to the extent of over preparedness to deal with all situations,” Agarwal said, highlighting the takeaways from the meeting. He said that delineating buffer and containment zones and the necessary ring-fencing of the disease was crucial to the containment strategy and added that the government’s approach has been proactive since the very beginning.“Instead of the virus chasing us, we chase the virus, our approach has been proactive since the very beginning,” Agarwal added.On the issue of a shortage of personal protective equipment, Agarwal said the shortage was being overcome by local manufacturing and import. He said available PPEs have been dispatched to the states on the basis of number of cases and the district authorities have been advised to use them judiciously.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-india-s-covid-19-cases-climb-to-3-374-death-toll-goes-up-to-79-says-health-ministry/story-GA3dyS1tIwVlIfYPbwF92M.html
05-04-2020||India||Coronavirus: 4 northeast states untouched by Covid-19, no cases in Lakshadweep||India reported its first case of coronavirus in January this year. Ever since, the number of Covid-19 patients have gone up rapidly with the current figure crossing 3,300 patients across the nation.Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Delhi are inching toward recording 500 coronavirus cases. Uttar Pradesh, Telangana, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka are also affected by the virus, among other states. However, there are still some corners of the country that are untouched by the grip of the deadly contagion. These include four northeast states and two Union Territories.Northeast India’s Nagaland, Sikkim, Tripura and Meghalaya have not recorded a single coronavirus case so far. Assam has seen 24 coronavirus patients while Manipur has just 2. Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh have one Covid-19 case each. The Union territories of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, as well as Lakshadweep, have not witnessed any coronavirus cases so far. According to the figures released by the Ministry of Health, the number of coronavirus cases in the country on Sunday rose to 3,374. The number of active cases in India stands at 3,030 while 266 people have recovered from the infection. As many as 77 people have died of Covid-19 in the country.Maharashtra leads the Covid-19 tally with a whopping 490 cases, followed by Tamil Nadu (485) and the national capital (445), as per the central government estimates. The government has drawn out a containment plan as clusters posing high risk of further spread of coronavirus disease Covid-19 have emerged in several states.“Clusters have appeared in multiple states, particularly Kerala, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Punjab, Karnataka, Telangana and UT of Ladakh. 211 districts are now reporting Covid-19 cases and the risk of further spread remains very high,” the Union health ministry has said in a 20-page strategy document.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-4-northeast-states-untouched-by-covid-19-no-cases-in-lakshadweep/story-cb7jo3clLkGFJeMYPFpvGL.html
05-04-2020||India||Amid lockdown, Chhattisgarh Police re-calibrate anti-Maoist ops in Bastar||The lockdown to fight coronavirus has forced Chhattisgrah Police to re-calibrate and scale down anti-Maoist operations for security reasons and apprehension of likely shortage of essential items for the troopers, top officials said Sunday. The officials said the approach is to have fewer “dedicated offensive” against the Left-wing extremists based on specific intelligence inputs.Chhattisgarh’s Director General of Police, DM Awasthi, said only four anti-Maoist operations have been conducted since the lockdown came into force on March 24. “Earlier, we used to have 15 to 20 such operations in 10 days,” the DGP said.Awasthi said anti-Maoist operations have been scaled down and the police have changed the ‘operational approach’.“There are many reasons behind planning fewer operations,” he said.He said for big operations, the police need huge back-up like helicopters and medical teams which may be difficult to arrange due to the lockdown. “I have given instructions to officials that operations will only be planned when there is pinpoint intelligence of Maoist movements and big movement of security forces should be avoided,” said Awasthi.More than 65,000 police personnel including 48 battalions of central forces are deployed in the Maoist stronghold of Bastar region which is spread over 39,117 sq km across seven districts and forms a crucial corridor linking Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra and Jharkhand.According to police estimates, about 5,500 Maoist cadres (from its political and military wings) live in the jungles of Bastar and more three lakh people including women and children in Bastar are Sangham Sadasya (foot-soldiers) of the banned CPI (Maoist).“The anti-Maoist operations have reduced by 50 % in my district. Only dedicated operations are still going on by the Special Forces and it is very difficult now to push other forces in the jungle for big operations,” said a Superintendent of Police posted in one of the districts of Bastar, requesting anonymity.The SP said in the absence of traffic during the lockdown, vehicles of security forces would become easier targets for Maoists. Even inside the jungles there is no movement of people, thereby making the entry of security forces more difficult, he added. “The silence of roads and jungle can be dangerous for security forces. All tribal villages have imposed lockdown and there is barely any movement in jungles. Venturing out could be dangerous,” the SP said.On the ground, the security forces are also facing other problems.Another senior police officer, who was also not willing to be named, said the security forces are facing shortages of essential items and getting supplies quickly is becoming difficult because of the Maoist threat. “It has created some resentment among the lower rung personnel,” a third police officer said. The officers also said that the killing of 17 jawans in Sukma in an ambush by Moaists, a day after the lockdown was enforced on March 24, has also taken a toll on the security personnel. Many are also worried about their families.“Many of the jawans are from rural areas in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Odisha and are worried about their family members back home. Some of them have also applied for leave as they want to visit families. We have cancelled all leaves due to lockdown which has created some resentment,” the official said.All the three police officers quoted above said in such times, mobilising security personnel for operations could have an adverse physiological impact. “The jawans are being counselled by their seniors,” said one of the police officers. Experts, however, said intelligence based operations are important and should continue in Bastar in order to dominate the Maoists.“This is a valid argument that police forces are more exposed on roads during this lockdown because no other vehicles are allowed but SPs should continue intelligence based operations and area domination of the jungle. Police should also take care of the mental health of their personnel,” said Prakash Singh, former DGP of the Border Security Force (BSF).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-lockdown-chhattisgarh-police-re-calibrate-anti-maoist-ops-in-bastar/story-b42rESvuGlTLp0Ek8wZRNP.html
05-04-2020||India||Covid-19: EPFO allows subscribers to correct age-proof documents online||The Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) has allowed people to correct discrepancies in age-proof documents online, a move that is likely to help 90% of its 60 million subscribers under the Rs 15,000 a month salary bracket after reports that many of them were unable to produce valid papers to withdraw money from their accounts as per relaxed norms announced in a Covid-19 relief package on March 26, government officials said.“EPFO has issued instructions to all field offices to ensure that all date of birth-related correction requests are expeditiously attended to and all subscribers facing financial stress due to COVID-19 pandemic must get money from their provident fund (PF) accounts online,” one of the officials said requesting anonymity.The official quoted above said on several occasions poor workers could not withdraw their hard-earned money post-retirement because their age in the record was different from their claim forms. “Thus, EPFO has decided to relax age proof norms,” he said.“The change in date of birth shall be accepted as per Aadhaar up to a maximum range of plus or minus three years with reference to the EPFO record,” the official said.A subscriber can submit the correction requests online. EPFO can validate the date of birth of a subscriber online with Aadhaar instantaneously after the member files an application.At present, subscribers can get their date of birth corrected by producing any of these documents —birth certificate issued by registrar of births and deaths, any education-related certificate, service records of central or state organisations, medical certificate by a civil surgeon, Aadhaar or any other document issued by a government department.A labour ministry spokesperson confirmed the development.Relief to EPFO subscribers is a part of the Rs 1.7 lakh crore welfare package under the Pradhan Mantri Gareeb Kalyan Yojana (PMGKBY) announced by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman last month.Under the relief package, the government would contribute both the share of the employee and the employer in the PF accounts of establishments that have fewer than 100 employees, and where 90% of the employees earn less than Rs 15,000 per month for the next three months.The government has also amended the PF regulation scheme to allow employees to withdraw, on a non-refundable advance basis, 75% of the amount, or up to three months of wages, whichever is lower, from their accounts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-epfo-allows-subscribers-to-correct-age-proof-documents-online/story-QBJjMuXbFYlMDedGX3oTjK.html
05-04-2020||India||ITC’s boxes of ‘hope’ and ‘happiness’ to provide essential supplies to the elderly amid Covid-19 lockdown||In the wake of the coronavirus outbreak, the ITC group has joined hands with three NGOs to help provide essential food supplies to those severely hit by the Covid-19 lockdown.Under its credo, ‘Nation First – Sab Saath Badhein’, the ITC group has joined hands with NGOs like Child Rights and You (CRY) and SOS Children’s Village India.The NGOs will help ITC implement its special intervention that addresses the month-long food consumption requirement of the children and the elderly across the country.The program, which is backed by ITC’s 150 crore Covid-19 emergency fund will be implemented from April 1, 2020, to ensure that essential supplies reach the children and the elderly of the nation through its ‘Aashirvaad Box of Hope’ and Sunfeast Box of Happiness. The boxes will be hand-delivered.The respective volunteers of the NGOs in each state will ensure the programme is implemented across the country in various states while ensuring the requisite health, hygiene and safety precautions.‘Aashirvaad Box of Hope’ for the elderly contains Aashirvaad atta, salt and basic spices.Sunfeast Box of Happiness for children includes packets of Sunfeast biscuits, YiPPee! noodles, Jelimals, B Natural juices and snacks from Bingo!ITC branded packaged foods is the third-largest foods company in the country and is driven by its popular brands like Aashirvaad, Bingo! YiPPee! Sunfeast, Candyman, among others.It deals in staples, spices, ready-to-eat, snacks, bakery and confectionary, juices and beverages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/itc-s-boxes-of-hope-and-happiness-to-provide-essential-supplies-to-the-elderly-amid-covid-19-lockdown/story-AzWnq8E2qhookrqUSS72DK.html
05-04-2020||India||50 mn jobs in tourism sector at stake, need relief packages to combat Covid-19: Industry bodies to govt||Fifty million people will lose their jobs in the tourism sector if the government does not issue a relief package, industry bodies told the Centre during a virtual conference on Saturday. Saturday’s meeting follows the industry bodies’ earlier talks with the tourism ministry as well as a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, asking for financial interventions. Presidents of 10 associations of the tourism and hospitality industry, under the banner of the Federation of Associations in Indian Tourism and Hospitality (FAITH), held the virtual meeting with Yogendra Tripathi, the secretary of the tourism ministry, over the National e-Governance Division (NeGD) grid system.Tripathi said the Indian tourism industry will be one of the worst-hit by the coronavirus pandemic across all the sectors, as per one of the attendees. The industry bodies reiterated their earlier demands in the face of a grinding halt of the domestic as well as the international tourism industry due to the coronavirus pandemic. This time, they presented a 20-point agenda. Among the demands and their respective statuses that were discussed were a complete Goods and Services Tax (GST) and income tax holiday for tourism, travel and hospitality industry for a year, a moratorium on repayment of EMIs of principal and interest for term loans for 12 months, the enhancement of working capital limits at interest-free rates, and a support fund for salaries and establishment costs. The associations also demanded that provident fund (PF) contributions and Employees’ State Insurance (ESI) be waived off for a year and that GST liability, advance tax, custom duties, excise duties, VAT, and TDS be deferred for a year. Another demand was that cancellations and advances of travel agents and tour operators from airlines be refunded and that the national tourism disaster management task force works on a standard tourism survival package across states. A rollback of the tax collected at source (TCS) introduced in the 2020-21 budget, reduction of interstate tax, reduction in credit card charges, no fixed costs on power tariffs, water or other utilities, deferment of property tax were some of their other demands. The industry has also suggested that Indians be given a tax benefit on the lines of Leave Travel Allowance (LTA) to boost the sector. Subhash Goyal of FAITH said among the relief measures that were given to the industry till now are the three-month moratorium on EMIs and the directive by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) that working capital limits be reevaluated by banks.In addition to that, the finance and labour ministries have waived off PF contributions for three months for organisations with less than 100 employees where 90% of the workforce earns below Rs 15,000 per month and is contributed for by the government. Apart from that, the announcement by the finance ministry that filing of income tax returns will be deferred for three months for companies earning up to Rs 5 crore. In the case of VAT and other taxes, some states have given partial reliefs. “India needs to give a relief package like the United States and the United Kingdom. The tourism ministry is the first to be affected and the last to recover,” FAITH’s Goyal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/50-mn-jobs-at-stake-tourism-sector-needs-relief-package-to-deal-with-covid-19-industry-bodies-to-govt/story-HAbXzcERtYhL6jT68Wq30K.html
05-04-2020||India||Cops to crooners: Goa Police now take to singing to urge people to stay home||After earning bad press for their ham-handed attempts to enforce the lockdown in Goa, the Goa Police has now ditched the baton and begun to flex their vocal chords in a bid to get people to stay at home. Police officers across the state have begun belting out Konkani ‘cantar’ (songs) that are entirely new compositions or with lyrics modified to the tunes of existing songs to get people to stay indoors during the lockdown and have been earning praise from the state’s top cop as well as the people. Four policemen -- Deputy Superintendent of Police Sammy Tavares, Police Inspector Sherif Jacques, Sub Inspector Diego Gracias and constable Daya Kerkar -- in separate instances chose to belt out songs encouraging people to stay in their houses within their respective jurisdictions. While Deputy SP Tavares is an acclaimed theatre singer and has several ‘singles’ and albums to his name spanning a long career wherein the cop would double up as an entertainer, it is a new experience for the others in the police force. “Creativity of #goapolice is an indicator of its commitment to #service of #Goa. Let’s add some music to our PA (Public Address). There is much to cheer as #Goa is doing so well in its #FightAgainstCOVID19,” Goa’s Director General of Police Jaspal Singh who has been actively tweeting the videos shot by his officials has said. “It is heartening to see the people of #Goa appreciating and acknowledging the efforts of their #goapolice. The #FightAgainstCOVID19 is a fight to be fought as one and in #unity. To a better tomorrow,” Singh tweeted. Besides live singing, the Goa Police under Tavares’ guidance also produced a studio recorded song urging people to stay at home, maintain social distance and other tips like encouraging the use of masks, frequent hand washing and avoiding handshakes.The Goa Police faced a lot of flak for its initial attempts to enforce the Centre’s move for a 100% lockdown after videos went viral of cops forcibly closing down grocery stores that had opened and chasing back those who ventured out. Later, images of people being punished and made to do squats and sit ups also emerged online after the CISF were deployed. The restrictions have since been relaxed to enable people to venture out and buy groceries. “Good to see some policemen doing something positive in the media, rather than the negative press they’ve been getting for heavy handed behaviour with some residents,” Fleur D’Costa, a resident said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cops-to-crooners-goa-police-now-take-to-singing-to-urge-people-to-stay-home/story-a0ym5sThZkFD8KRJpTBtvK.html
05-04-2020||India||Trader who died in Varanasi on Friday tested positive for coronavirus||A 55-year-old man diabetic patient who died in Varanasi on Friday tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday, the district’s top official said.District Magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said on Sunday that the deceased was a trader who had returned to Gangapur town from Kolkata on March 15. On March 17, he caught a cold and consulted a private doctor. After a few days, he consulted another private practitioner who advised him to consult the experts at Sir Sundar Lal (SSL) Hospital in the Benaras Hindu University (BHU).The DM said that he was admitted to the ICU in BHU.Sharma said the man’s sample was collected twice by a medical team and was sent to the department of microbiology, Institute of Medical Science, BHU after the first sample was rejected.The test report which came on Saturday said he had tested positive for coronavirus. Until the report came, the hospital kept the body in the mortuary.The DM said that the man was suffering from diabetes for a long time. His blood pressure remained high during the treatment.Sharma said two persons will take the body from BHU for the cremation.There are 10 members in his family in Gangapur town. The neighbourhood where he lived is being sealed, the DM said.There are five other coronavirus patients in Varanasi.A doctor at the hospital who did not wish to be named said that the patient was admitted to the ICU in critical condition. He was given the best possible treatment but suffered multi-organ failure due to which he died. BHU public relations officer Dr Rajesh Singh also said that according to the doctor, the patient died of multi-organ failure. At the last official count, Uttar Pradesh had 234 positive cases. Two had died of the virus earlier. Twenty eight of the state’s 75 districts have reported infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trader-who-died-in-varanasi-of-friday-tested-positive-for-coronavirus/story-sj9a1uh65iDOnCVmLV8YMN.html
05-04-2020||India||PM Modi rings Manmohan Singh, Deve Gowda, Pranab Mukherjee over Covid-19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday reached out to two former presidents and two former prime ministers of India to discuss country’s response to the unprecedented crisis over coronavirus outbreak, said officials privy to the developments.Pranab Mukherjee and Pratibha Patil are the two former Presidents to have received a call from the prime minister while Manmohan Singh of the Congress and Deve Gowda of the JD(S) are the two former prime ministers to have been approached over the phone, said officials who didn’t wish to be named.The details of the consultations were not known immediately but were said to be in line with the government’s efforts to evolve a broad-based consensus on efforts to fight Covid-19 through a combined containment strategy. PM Modi is scheduled to also consult leaders of major political parties represented in Parliament in an all party meeting to be held over video conference on Wednesday.The prime minister is also said to have called up Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Samajwadi Party patriarch Mulayam Singh, SP chief Akhilesh Yadav, Trinamool Congress chief and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, Odisha chief minister and BJD supremo Naveen Patnaik, Telangana chief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao, DMK chief MK Stalin and Shiromani Akali Dal patriarch Parkash Singh Badal.Click Here for Latest Reports on CoronavirusThe all-party meet comes at a time when India is completing 11 days of the 21-day national lockdown announced by the prime minister to disrupt the chain of infections and amid the prime minister’s appeal to states to give suggestions for a phased exit from the lockdown to mitigate against the huge economic losses while preventing a spike in infections.The Prime Minister has often said that dealing with the coronavirus pandemic will require a united response from the country and has also held a few rounds of meetings with the chief ministers of the states, several of them ruled by the opposition parties. Coronavirus live updates||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-rings-manmohan-singh-deve-gowda-pranab-mukherjee-over-covid-19/story-WPqCORcYqBrp5L7lgfuQ3M.html
05-04-2020||India||Arunachal Pradesh officer commits suicide; Covid-19 related stress could be trigger: Police||A 38-year-old woman disaster management officer in Arunachal Pradesh allegedly committed suicide over stress related to her work in tackling the coronavirus disease, police said on Sunday.The woman took her life on Saturday at her residence in the state capital Itanagar and the initial investigation by the police has ruled out foul play.Police said the officer lived with her nine-year-old son, mother-in-law and eight other people. Her husband lives in another place, they said.Also read: How high-level group formed by govt has stepped up Covid-19 fightReports said the officer who used to venture out for her duties was afraid that she could infect her son.“She was sleeping with her nine-year-old son in her room. The son slept on the bed while she slept on the floor due to fear of infection,” said a police report.Police said when the son woke up on Saturday morning and couldn’t find his mother, he asked other family members to search for her. The body of the officer was found inside a bathroom, which was locked from inside.The officer was allegedly drafting a resignation letter on Friday night, but she left it incomplete when other family members found out about it.“As per her driver, she had asked him to rest from today (Saturday) onward as they had become too exhausted because of this fight against coronavirus. When the driver enquired about his duties today (Saturday), she asked him to come late,” the police report said.A post-mortem examination has been conducted and its report is awaited, officials said.Arunachal Pradesh has recorded one Covid-19 positive case till date. The patient had taken part in the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi last month. Six others from the state who took part in the event at Nizamuddin Markaz have tested negative for the coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arunachal-pradesh-officer-commits-suicide-covid-19-related-stress-could-be-trigger-police/story-OKazN6tJbu1ePY2PvJ5IDO.html
05-04-2020||India||8 Malaysians linked to Tablighi Jamaat deboarded from rescue flight||Eight Malaysian nationals were intercepted by immigration authorities and deboarded from a flight to Kuala Lumpur after they were identified as Tablighi Jamaat members who attended the religious congregation in Nizamuddin, which is linked to one-third of India’s coronavirus infections, said officials.The intervention was made on Sunday afternoon, around 30 minutes past 12, when a Malindo Air Flight from Delhi to Kuala Lumpur via Mumbai was readying to depart with 30 Malaysian nationals in an evacuation trip.Immigration officers informed the police and officials of the ministry of health post the intervention, made in response to a lookout notice against several foreigners, who are believed to have attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at its Nizamuddin headquarters in March in violation of their visa conditions.The government has already blacklisted over 900 such foreigners and invoked provisions of the Disaster Management Act and the Foreign Management Act against them.Over 2,000 Tablighi Jamaat activists were evacuated from the Nizamuddin building last week and several hundreds of them spread out to at least 17 states. The health ministry has linked close to one-third of all Covid-19 infections in the country to Jaamat members and their contacts. A home ministry release that announced the blacklisting of 960 foreigners for attending the congregation in violation of the visa rules said most were from Indonesia (379), Bangladesh (110), Kyrgyzstan (77), Myanmar (63) and Thailand (65). Many foreign nationals who attended the religious gathering, among other Indians, have tested positive for Covid-19 and nearly 22,000 Tablighi Jamaat members and their contacts have been quarantined across the country so far, a home ministry official said on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eight-malaysian-nationals-linked-to-nizamuddin-jamaat-deboarded-from-rescue-flight/story-Ho9KlEFxZyUoNI29MJzvsO.html
05-04-2020||India||Kumaraswamy claims hidden BJP agenda in PM Modi’s blackout call||Janata Dal (Secular) leader and former Karnataka Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy has asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to offer scientific evidence to back his call for switching off the lights for nine minutes at 9 pm on Sunday and suggested that the symbolic gesture may have been organized to mark BJP’s foundation day, which falls on Monday, April 6.The prime minister on Friday gave a call for a nine-minute show of solidarity and united resolve by the citizens and asked for switching off electric lights and lighting up earthen lamps, candles or flashlights at 9 pm on Sunday. It has received a mixed response with some calling it a move to reenergize the nation towards the national goal of containing the coronavirus disease and others dismissing it as a marketing gimmick.“Has the PM slyly asked the nation to observe a candlelight vigil on the eve of foundation day of (the) BJP? April 6 being its foundation day, what else can explain the choice of date & time for this event? I challenge the PM to offer a credible and scientific explanation,” Kumaraswamy tweeted.PM Modi during his appeal, made through a video clip released on Friday, had added that the gesture will serve as a reminder that the country was united in the battle against coronavirus.“At that time, if you have turned off all the lights of your homes, and each one of us in all directions has lit a diya; we will experience the superpower of light, clearly illuminating the common purpose we are all fighting for. In that light, in that lustre, in that radiance, let us resolve in our minds that we are not alone, that no one is alone! 130 crore Indians are committed, through a common resolve!” the PM had said.In a series of tweets, Kumaraswamy accused Centre of not providing enough personal protective equipment (PPE) to doctors and demanded that testing should be made affordable for the common man. He alleged that the prime minister was not telling the nation what concrete steps are being taken to combat the Covid-19 menace and was instead giving “meaningless” tasks to an already exhausted population.The JDS leader said that PM Modi was converting a national crisis into an event of self-aggrandisement and alleged BJP had a “hidden agenda” while the country faced an unprecedented global calamity.The government has denied claims that there was a scientific purpose behind prime minister’s appeal to switch off lights and light diyas and clarified that it is purely a symbolic move to rally the citizens behind a common cause.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kumaraswamy-claims-hidden-bjp-agenda-in-pm-modi-s-blackout-call/story-jA8hk5XYFt6amoVNuvUYdJ.html
05-04-2020||India||BJP tells leaders to use social media cautiously||Bharatiya Janata Party president JP Nadda has told party office bearers to be cautious of their social media activity during the 21-day lockdown imposed to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease outbreak. In a first, many officials are working from home, along with a major chunk of the country’s workforce, as a preventive measure.The instruction was conveyed during an hour-long briefing, co-hosted by party leader BL Santosh, on Thursday.“Naddaji told us that while some of us may not be in a position to go out and help people because we were quarantined, we should be sensitive to the worker’s psyche,’’ said one of the leaders who attended the meeting on condition of anonymity.“Some of us have been posting photos of yoga sessions, of relaxing during the lockdown. Naddaji’s point is that this (such photos and videos) is discouraging, because the worker will resent the fact that he’s out on the streets volunteering to help while senior leaders seem to be having a good time,” the leader cited above said.A second leader who also attended the video conference, said, “He (Nadda) just took it up for 15 seconds because he wanted to convey that this isn’t a holiday. After the lockdown was imposed, many BJP MPs had shared their photos while doing yoga, playing with their pets or mingling with family. Union minister Prakash Javdekar was criticized for tweeting a photo of himself watching Ramayana in his living room.Reacting to the party president’s directive, BJP leader Kailash Vijaywargiya said, “I think that if you like reading and you like bhajans (devotional music), it’s not tough.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-tells-leaders-to-use-social-media-cautiously/story-87tmhUOrRdPnnlfViRMlAI.html
05-04-2020||India||100-year-old man dies in quarantine in Jammu and Kashmir’s Udhampur, Covid-19 test report negative||A 100-year-old man has died in a quarantine centre in Udhampur district of Jammu and Kashmir but his COVID-19 test report has come negative, a senior government official said on Sunday.The man and his brother were shifted to a quarantine facility a few days ago as a precautionary measure after it came to light that they had come in contact with a person in Magheni village who had tested positive for coronavirus, District Development Commissioner of Udhampur Piyush Singla said.“He breathed his last on Saturday night and his body was subsequently shifted to the district hospital according to protocol since his test report was awaited. The report was received on Sunday morning and it came negative,” he told PTI.Jammu and Kashmir has so far recorded two coronavirus deaths, while 90 people -- 69 in Kashmir and 21 in Jammu -- have tested positive. Three patients have recovered and discharged from hospital.“The man was asymptomatic and was shifted to one of the best available quarantine facilities given his age and close contact with the positive case. He did not have any major health problem except old-age related issues,” Singla said.Three persons from Narsoo village in Udhampur tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday. Following this, the district magistrate declared Narsoo and Chunti villages as red zones and their surrounding villages as buffer zones.“There shall be no inward or outward movement of any person from these villages and people shall stay at their homes. There shall be complete lockdown. That there shall be no vehicular movement on internal lanes or roads connecting these villages,” Singla said in an order and warned of stern action against violators.He also directed the officers concerned to ensure supply of essential commodities to the villages in accordance to the protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/100-year-old-man-dies-in-quarantine-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-udhampur-covid-19-test-report-negative/story-IWZKaw4KziZvpMgGckf1KN.html
05-04-2020||India||Local officials not getting lockdown instructions right: Centre to states||Local officials are not on the same page as the Union government on federal recommendations on the lockdown to fight the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), risking agriculture, routine health care and critical supplies, a communication sent out to states by the Centre shows.There are different “interpretations” of the Centre’s orders on exemptions “on the ground” during the three-week, nationwide lockdown, the communication cautions, indicating that states are not getting federal instructions right at a crucial stage when India is fighting a pandemic that has infected over 3,000 people in the country.The communication comes amid reports that tight rules to enforce social distancing are being applied to exempted essential activities, which district officials are regulating with lockdown permits.Also read: Covid-19 lockdown: 800 cameras, 15 drones are Jaipur Police’s eyes in the skyOn at least three occasions, the Union cabinet secretariat and the home ministry have renewed guidelines on which services to allow and how to manage supply lines, but these have not “percolated down”, the communication to all states said on Friday.It also urged states to ensure district authorities are appropriately briefed to avoid “ambiguity”.Communication lapses could test the limits of efforts to supply essentials to a billion people during the lockdown. For instance, there are reports that diagnostics laboratories, necessary for patients of many non-communicable and communicable diseases, are not adequately functioning in many centres, although they enjoy federal exemptions. This risks the health of people with ailments such as diabetes, heart or neurological conditions The Centre’s communication on April 3 asked states to allow “opening of temporary collection centres, movement of lab technicians and transportation of samples from collection centres to laboratories”. The letter to chief secretaries of states said at the “ground level, different interpretations are being made on exemptions”, which have “hindered” smooth flow of the supply chains. Also read: How high-level group formed by govt has stepped up Covid-19 fightFarmer communities face one of the greatest risks of income losses in what is a key spring harvest season for a range of crops, such as wheat, potato and onion. The Centre has renewed its guidelines on three occasions, especially on allowing agriculture and linked activities that form the farm-to-fork supply chain, on March 25, March 26 and April 3. Farm production, warehousing and transport are critical to the agriculture sector that employs nearly half of the population, with a 16% share in the country’s gross domestic product. On Saturday, the Centre issued a fresh advisory to allow farm machinery and their servicing points.Federal instructions have allowed these sectors to operate in a regulated manner. To ensure social distancing, the mainstay of India’s strategy to fight Covid-19, isn’t compromised while keeping these sectors open, “district authorities have resorted to a pass system”, a senior official of the agriculture ministry said, requesting not to be quoted. The Centre’s advisory on the functioning of these sectors on April 3, seen by HT, said: “Difficulties in getting passes are, however, being faced by businesses with nationwide supply chains of essential goods.” To address this issue, the Centre has asked states to give priority in issuing passes to firms that cater to nationwide supply lines.A key challenge for local officials has been to regulate essential activities that comply with social distancing rules. “Local administration might have tilted more towards the latter. They have constrained capacities. In these situations, the district collector and district police chief have the biggest responsibilities,” said Ananda Kumar Pai, a retired Indian Administrative Service officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/local-officials-not-getting-lockdown-instructions-right-centre-to-states/story-c1OUrLv4CvA0LaRbYjJ4QN.html
05-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Environment ministry panel for automatic extension of forest clearance||The environment ministry’s forest advisory committee (FAC) has recommended that the validity of forest clearance be extended automatically for government-owned mines whose lease period got a 20-year extension (some of these are from the last year). FAC made this recommendation in view of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak and economic impacts of the lockdown imposed to stop contain the infection.According to the minutes of FAC’s meeting held on March 30 through video-conferencing, these mines will not require a fresh forest clearance. Hence, the impact of forest diversion on the area will not be assessed. Every time its lease expires, a mine has to apply for a fresh forest clearance.The minutes, which HT has seen, state that ministry of steel sought a clarification from the environment ministry in September 2019 on whether forest clearance can be made co-terminous (valid for same period) with the mining lease period.The 50-year lease of five National Mineral Development Corporation (NMDC) mines in Chhattisgarh expired in 2015 (for four mines) and 2017 (for one mine). Last year, the Chhattisgarh government extended the lease period by another 20 years till 2035 and 2037. Odisha has also extended the lease period for some of its mines. The request for extension of forest clearance was made for these projects by the steel ministry.FAC observed that based on interpretation of various court orders and legal opinion from time to time, such extension of forest clearance can be granted. FAC, however, said the extension of forest clearance should be continued based on whether mines have complied with previous conditions stipulated in the forest clearance like compensatory afforestation and mitigation of environmental impacts. The status of compliance with previous conditions will be monitored after three months (beginning March 30) and additional mitigation measures recommended if needed.“Environment ministry in view of the recent emergency situation (lockdown due to outbreak of Covid-19 disease), may consider the approval granted under FCA-1980, to Government mines, making those co-terminus with the valid lease period,” FAC observed.“FAC’s emphasis on the compliance with previous conditions of forest diversion is significant. However, this should not become a mere bureaucratic exercise both by the central and state governments. For now, the state government can reach out to affected people living in and around these mines to ascertain the existing impacts before taking a final decision. In the context of the lockdown, people living around the mines are the only ones who can report ground realities, other than the mining companies,” said Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher at the Centre for Policy Research, a public policy think tank.Separately, the environment ministry has already issued directions for extending the validity of all prior environmental clearances expiring between March 15 and April 30 till June 30. The ministry of home affairs has categorised “mining operations” as essential services, which will not be interrupted during the three-week lockdown period that began on March 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-env-min-panel-for-automatic-extension-of-forest-clearance/story-e6W7xbhu5b16xidB855rHK.html
05-04-2020||India||‘Will do all we can’: How PM Modi responded to Trump’s request on Covid-19 drug||India has made it known to the US that it is a “responsible country” and will do all to supply hydroxychloroquine, a prophylactic for health care workers fighting against coronavirus, but only after making its own 1.3 billion population secure against the pandemic.“We will do all what we can” was apparently what PM Modi told the US President Donald Trump during an extensive call on Saturday evening. Besides focusing on bilateral cooperation against the pandemic, President Donald Trump recalled his visit to India in late February.According to government sources, India is stockpiling the drug for its population in the event of a worst case scenario and will lift the export control order only after it has enough to take care of all Indians. Other countries are also doing the same. India is one of the largest manufacturers of hydroxychloroquine, which has been used for treatment of malaria and lupus. Also Watch | Why PM Modi’s call to light candles on April 5 is not mere symbolismWhile India is all for honouring its contracts for supply of this drug to American companies, it is also willing to be on the frontline of human clinical trials of a future Covid 19 vaccine with its body of highly professional doctors , laboratories and transparent feedback to the manufacturers. This may not be possible in African countries as well as in China.Also Read: ‘There’ll be a lot of death’, Trump tells US as Covid-19 cases surgeIn the past two weeks, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been working the phones and video-conferences with all the major global leaders to fight the pandemic. Since the lockdown, he has spoken to G-20 leaders, majority of SAARC leaders and leaders from Israel, Spain and Brazil.Supplementing the global effort is external affairs minister S Jaishankar who is in constant touch with his counterparts in Gulf countries and has touched base with nearly 100 foreign ministers in the past two months.While the “extensive” telephone call between PM Modi and US President Trump was focused on the fight against coronavirus, the conversation between EAM Jaishankar and his US counterpart Mike Pompeo went beyond coronavirus and touched on bilateral relations.Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla has also been on the phone in this context. In the past two weeks, he has spoken to his counterparts in India-Pacific region including the US, Japan, South Korea, Vietnam, Australia and New Zealand.Worried at the spike in coronavirus cases due to the infection spread at Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Markaz Nizamuddin, India is seriously ramping up its pharmaceutical capacities too as there would be a price to pay to whoever develops the Covid-19 vaccine first.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-do-all-we-can-how-pm-modi-responded-to-trump-s-request-on-covid-19-drug/story-mEH6BrglRAey1fIpT6UdmM.html
05-04-2020||India||Coronavirus Update: India’s Covid-19 cases jump to 3373 by Sunday afternoon||India’s tally of coronavirus cases on Sunday afternoon was at 3373 with 3030 active cases and 77 deaths, as per the current data released by the ministry of health. 276 of these cases have been cured and discharged. The Central government data, however, doesn’t take into account the latest cases reported by the states, which if taken into consideration will put the total over the four thousand mark at 4014, including all incidents of deaths and cured cases.Maharashtra is the only state to have reported in excess of 700 cases with a combined tally of 719, followed by 495 in Tamil Nadu, 461 in Delhi, 358 in Kerala, 257 in Uttar Pradesh and 272 in Telangana as per the state-wise data reported by PTI. The worldometre, which provides live updates based on state-wise data, the total number of cases in India stood at 3916 including 99 deaths and 229 recoveries. The website says, 529 new cases and 13 new deaths were reported in the country on Saturday, which didn’t show any significant jump over the last four days. Meanwhile, the latest worldwide figure has risen to over 1.2 million with close to 65,000 deaths and 246,000 recoveries. USA tops the chart with over 300,000 infections followed by Spain, Italy, Germany and France with over 126,000, 124,000, 96,000 and 85,000 cases respectively. Italy has registered 15,362 deaths, the most globally, followed by 11,947 in Spain and 8454 in the USA.India entered day 11 of the 21-day lockdown on Sunday which, the government has indicated, could be lifted in a phased manner after April 14. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a video conference with leaders of all political parties on Wednesday to hear their suggestions on the containment strategy for Covid-19.India has also revised its testing strategy to include rapid testing involving blood tests to detect the presence of antibodies against Covid-19 virus, however, it is only being used to test communities in hotspots so far.Several experts and political parties have suggested scaling up testing followed by isolation in order to prevent its spread. Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram has said that the lockdown for coronavirus will be effective only if “we test, detect, isolate and then treat”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-india-s-covid-19-cases-jump-to-3373-by-sunday-afternoon/story-jMoEm4SH9VVpIirq9OrgpL.html
05-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Govt draws aggressive containment strategy to check spread of Covid-19 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Govt draws aggressive containment strategy to check spread of Covid-19 The government has drawn out a containment plan as clusters posing high risk of further spread of coronavirus disease Covid-19 have emerged in several states. Read more.How high-level group formed by govt has stepped up Covid-19 fightA group of senior bureaucrats has held six meetings with international organisations, over 40 NGOs and several industry bodies in just six days since its formation, highlighting the sense of urgency in the Narendra Modi government to tackle the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Read more.Trump urges PM Modi to lift export hold on anti-malaria drug for Covid-19 treatmentPresident Donald Trump on Saturday said he requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to release orders placed by the United States with Indian pharmaceutical companies for hydroxychloroquine doses, which he has personally touted as a game-changer in the fight against the coronavirus. Read more.Father-son duo recreates Ratatouille scene. “Just like the movie” say netizensRemember the irritated dad who had to dress up as Anton Ego, the character of a grumpy food critic from the movie Ratatouille? He’s back with another episode and it’s a perfect recreation of a scene from the movie. This time, however, he’s not alone. Posted on TikTok, the clip has swiftly gone viral and it may give you the perfect dose of laughter for the day. Read more.Amazon to postpone Prime Day 2020 to August due to Covid-19Amazon is likely to postpone its annual sales event, Prime Day 2020, owing to the coronavirus outbreak at countries around the world. Read more.Coronavirus outbreak: Piggy bank donations for PM’s relief fundDelhiite Rakshita Sharma, 14, has been saving money for a year to buy a reading gadget. But, when PM Modi asked citizens to donate to PM CARES for the pandemic relief, she didn’t think twice before donating all her savings. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-govt-draws-aggressive-containment-strategy-to-check-spread-of-covid-19-and-all-the-latest-news/story-cjnzsmCpoI8otET5GLmdHL.html
05-04-2020||India||‘#9pm9minute’: PM Modi’s reminder on Sunday’s lights off||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has tweeted a small reminder for people to switch off their lights on Sunday night to show the spirit of togetherness as the country is hunkering down during the 21-day lockdown to stop the chain of coronavirus infections.“#9pm9minute,” was the Prime Minister’s tweet.His request to the citizens to stand on their doorways and balconies with candles, diyas, torches or flashlights of their mobile phones for nine minutes at 9pm on Sunday had come on Friday.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverage“At that time, if you have turned off all the lights of your homes, and each one of us in all directions has lit a diya, we will experience the superpower of light, clearly illuminating the common purpose we are all fighting for. In that light, in that lustre, in that radiance, let us resolve in our minds that we are not alone, that no one is alone! 130 crore Indians are committed, through a common resolve!” he said in a video message.“We have to move towards the light from the darkness created by the coronavirus,” he had said.Also read | ‘Let’s light a lamp’: PM Modi tweets Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s poem as reminder for SundayHundreds and thousands of people, including Bollywood stars and sportspersons, have responded to the Prime Minister’s call like they had last month.Modi had asked the people to come out in their balconies and clap, ring and beat utensils to show appreciation for doctors, nurses and others helping fight coronavirus during the Janta Curfew on March 22.As India entered the 12th day of the three-week lockdown, 3373 cases of Covid-19 have been reported from across the country. These include 266 people who have been discharged from various hospitals and 77 fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-9pm9minute-pm-modi-s-reminder-on-sunday-s-lights-off/story-yCTsGhlJi2AFCmFwvsiS1M.html
05-04-2020||India||‘Light your candles tonight’: Rajnath Singh, Nitin Gadkari resound PM Modi’s call||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday urged the citizens to switch off their household lights tonight at 9 pm for 9 minutes as appealed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to fight the darkness spread by the coronavirus pandemic.“The whole of India will give a unique message to the world with its determination at exactly 9 o’clock tonight,” Singh tweeted out. “Light your candle or mobile flashlight at your home’s door or the balcony. # 9 PM9minute,” Singh’s tweet read.  प्रधानमंत्री श्री @narendramodi की अपील पर आज सारा भारत ठीक ९ बजे अपनी संकल्पशक्ति से पूरी दुनिया को एक अनूठा संदेश देगा। घर की लाइट रात ९ बजे ९ मिनट के लिए बंद करके अपने घर के दरवाज़े या बालकनी पर दिया, मोमबत्ती या मोबाइल की टॉर्च की रोशनी करें।#9PM9minuteMinister of Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari also resounded Singh’s message and urged the countrymen to participate in the 9-minute blackout tonight. आज रात 9 बजे 9 मिनट हमें माननीय प्रधानमंत्री जी के आह्वान पर सामाजिक दूरी का ध्यान रखते हुए दरवाजे, खिड़की, बालकनी या छत पर दीया, मोमबत्ती, टॉर्च या मोबाइल की फ्लैसलाइट जलाकर कोरोना से फैले अंधकार से प्रकाश की ओर और निराशा से आशा की ओर जाना है। #IndiaFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/yhnMNrXehDGadkari said that by following PM Modi’s call to light diyas, candles or mobile flashlights tonight, the country will walk away from the darkness spread by coronavirus onto the path of light and from despair to hope.  आओ दीया जलाएं। 'नौ बजे नौ मिनिट'#9pm9minuteThe Prime Minister also took to Twitter and reminded everyone to light candles, diyas and switch off household lights tonight.  #9pm9minute“Aao, phir se diya jalayein (Come, let’s light a lamp once again),” PM Modi tweeted.In a release by the power ministry on Saturday, the government said that the move is a voluntary one and applies only to residences. The call is only to switch off residential lights and does not apply to household appliances, fans, et cetera. Hospitals, public utility services, government and essential services will continue to work. The ministry also clarified that there will be no effect on the grid due to the move.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-light-your-candles-tonight-rajnath-singh-nitin-gadkari-resound-pm-modi-s-call/story-4dHkY7p0Gw7m8tQzgeRf5M.html
05-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Suspected Covid-19 patient attempts suicide in Delhi||A 37-year-old suspected Covid-19 patient tried to kill himself by jumping off the third floor of the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital building in central Delhi late on Saturday, police said.The man suffered a fracture in his legs and is undergoing treatment in the hospital, they said. They added that the man, a shopkeeper, does not have any foreign travel history. “Prima facie, it appears that he was depressed and feared to be infected by the Covid-19,” said a police officer. Police said the man is not from the Nizamuddin Markaz area, from where more than 2300 people, including foreigners, were evacuated by authorities after many from across the country who had attended a religious congregation there were found Covid-19 positive. Sanjay Bhatia, the deputy commissioner of police (central), said the man, who lives with his family in a residential area not too far from the hospital, had walked into the hospital on March 31, complaining about a runny nose and cough. Also read: New plan holds clues to unlocking countryAfter initial medical tests, the doctors said he was suffering from normal flu and had no symptoms of Covid-19.“They discharged him but he returned the same day and insisted on being admitted so that his tests should be done again. The man was admitted,” said Bhatia, adding that the result of the man’s test for Covid-19 test was awaited.On Saturday at around 11.30pm, DCP Bhatia said, the man jumped down from the third floor of the hospital. He first fell on the metal roof below and then landed on the ground, because of which he survived but fractured his legs.“Doctors have told us that his condition is stable,” said Bhatia.An official from Lok Nayak Hospital, which has been converted into a dedicated Covid-19 hospital, also confirmed that the suspected patient jumped from the building. “We do not know the reason yet. His is alive and his injuries are currently being evaluated and treatment is being done,” the official said.There are 466 Covid-19 patients, including 15 discharged and six fatalities, in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-suspected-covid-19-patient-attempts-suicide-in-delhi/story-EB2ipMwT8QZlPHWU5M3OpO.html
05-04-2020||India||Govt draws aggressive containment strategy to check spread of Covid-19||The government has drawn out a containment plan as clusters posing high risk of further spread of coronavirus disease Covid-19 have emerged in several states.The cluster containment strategy is meant to contain the disease within a defined geographical area by early detection of cases, breaking the chain of transmission and thus preventing its spread to new areas.“Clusters have appeared in multiple states, particularly Kerala, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Punjab, Karnataka, Telangana and UT of Ladakh. 211 districts are now reporting Covid-19 cases and the risk of further spread remains very high,” the Union health ministry has said in a 20-page strategy document.More on Covid-19:• Covid-19: Your guide to staying safe• Covid-19: What you need to know today• Can Covid-19 spread after symptoms end?• How coronavirus is different from seasonal flu and common coldThe aggressive containment strategy will be scaled down, said the government document, only if no new cases of Covid-19 are reported for at least four weeks after the last confirmed test.“Intensive risk communication campaign will be followed to encourage all persons to stay indoors for an initial period of 28 days, to be extended based on the risk assessment. Based on the risk assessment and indication of successful containment operations, an approach of staggered work and market hours may be put into practice,” the document said.The cluster containment strategy would “include geographic quarantine, social distancing measures, enhanced active surveillance, testing all suspected cases, isolation of cases, quarantine of contacts and risk communication to create awareness among public on preventive public health measures”, the document stated.“The objective of this plan is to stop the chain of transmission thus reducing the morbidity and mortality due to Covid-19,” it said.For large outbreaks amenable to containment, the documents stated that the strategy will remain the same but vary in extent depending upon spread and response to be mounted to contain it.Geographic quarantine and containment strategy will include defining the area of operation, active surveillance for cases and contacts in the identified geographic zone, expanding laboratory capacity for testing all suspect cases, high risk contacts and SARI cases and operationalising surge capacities created for isolation (Covid-19 hospitals/blocks) to hospitalise and manage all suspect or confirmed cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-draws-aggressive-containment-strategy-to-check-spread-of-covid-19/story-9xosl47rbiw9w9dtWndarK.html
05-04-2020||India||PM’s appeal on lighting lamps is BJP’s hidden agenda: HD Kumaraswamy||Former Karnataka chief minister H D Kumaraswamy alleged on Sunday Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s appeal for lighting lamps in the context of the fight against the coronavirus was a “hidden agenda” of the BJP and challenged him to offer a credible scientific and rational explanation for his call. Has the PM slyly asked the nation to observe a candle light vigil on the eve of foundation day of BJP? April 6 being its foundation day, what else can explain the choice of date & time for this event? I challenge the PM to offer a credible scientific and rational explanation, the Janata Dal (Secular) leader tweeted. It is shameful to convert the national crisis into an event of self aggrandisement & it is beyond shameful to push the hidden agenda of his party in the face of global calamity.May sense prevail upon the PM, Kumaraswamy said. The government, he alleged, is yet to provide personal protective equipment (PPEs) for doctors and make test kits affordable for the common man. Without telling the nation what concrete steps are being taken to combat COVID-19 menace, the Prime Minister is giving meaningless tasks to an already exhausted population, the son of former Prime Minister and JDS supremo H D Deve Gowda claimed. The Prime Minister on Friday urged people to switch off lights at their homes and light up lamps, candles and hold mobile phone torches for nine minutes from 9 pm on Sunday to display the country’s “collective resolve” to defeat the coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/south/pm-s-appeal-on-lighting-lamps-is-bjp-s-hidden-agenda-hd-kumaraswamy/story-GW0gzsrerdsu9nEmfiw3BM.html
05-04-2020||India||Covid-19 challenge seeks innovative solutions to mitigate pandemic impact||The National Innovation Foundation, an autonomous body under the Department of Science and Technology (DST), has launched a Challenge Covid-19 Competition (C3), seeking technologies and innovative solutions to various problems related to the viral disease.NIF will help in incubating and scaling up shortlisted entries — innovations such as better PPE (personal protective equipment) kits and masks, rapid diagnostics, cheaper ventilators, sanitizers or anything else that can break the transmission of the virus.NIF is also looking for ideas keeping people gainfully engaged or that proposing a healthy diet during a lockdown. Ideas for supply chain management and door-step delivery for the elderly are also being looked at.Also read: Coronavirus update: PM Modi’s call for switching off lights for 9 minutes at 9pm todayIn the long term, the challenge will also look at supporting contact-less technologies. Surfaces such as elevator buttons that are frequently touched by many become a source of infection and hence solutions to minimise the contact have been invited.“The initiative being launched will not only create awareness, but will intimately engage a wide cross-section of society with diverse backgrounds in providing and implementing solutions,” said Ashutosh Sharma, secretary, DST.The Science Engineering and Research Board (SERB), another body under DST, is also supporting an Indian Institute of Technology-Kanpur team in developing a virucidal coating that can be used on masks and personal protective gear to ensure no virus can pass through.The IIT-Kanpur team will use a combination of polymers that are known to have anti-microbial properties along with some anti-viral molecules to better protect health care workers, extend the life of the gear, and make it reusable. The team will also keep in mind the cost of the coating to ensure scalability, according to DST.“Immobilising anti-microbial and anti-viral ingredients on the fabric can be useful in critical environments, and for extending the life, re-usability and safer handling and disposal. This additional defence will be especially valuable if it can be added at a fraction of the cost of the mask,” said Sharma.Another DST-funded startup — Weinnovate Biosolutions — has come up with a non-alcoholic colloidal silver solution that can be used for disinfecting hands and surfaces. The liquid is non-flammable. Lab testing has already been done and the manufacturers have received a test license.“We are aiming to manufacture primarily a minimum of 200 litres of colloidal silver solution per day with our manufacturing set up to cater to the demand of hand sanitisation and disinfection. With our solution, we are positive to reduce the number in infection spread and helping India to be infection-free,” said Milind Choudhari, one of the founders of Weinnovate Biosolutions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-challenge-seeks-innovative-solutions-to-mitigate-pandemic-impact/story-uQ1l62gwj1khNnXCMClwgJ.html
05-04-2020||India||How high-level group formed by govt has stepped up Covid-19 fight||A group of senior bureaucrats has held six meetings with international organisations, over 40 NGOs and several industry bodies in just six days since its formation, highlighting the sense of urgency in the Narendra Modi government to tackle the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The empowered group on “Coordinating with Private Sector, NGOs, and International Organisations for COVID-19-related Response Activities”, is chaired by NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant. It is one of the 11 panels constituted by the Centre on March 29 to monitor all aspects of the pandemic.According to an official release, the primary objective of Kant’s team (Empowered Group Number 6, or EG6) has been to seek support and technology-based solutions in specific areas, clear hurdles for private players and also coordinate with other groups as well as state governments.The group met industry associations, international organisations, and civil society organisations about “their contribution to Covid-19 response, their plans for the coming weeks, the issues they are facing, and their expectations from the government”, the release said.While all three groups of stakeholders pointed out the areas where they need support, Kant assured them of the government’s help, and also put them in touch with other empowered groups for faster and more effective response and coordination.Apart from Kant, the group comprises principal scientific officer K Vijayaraghavan; Kamal Kishore (member, National Disaster Management Authority); Sandeep Bhatnagar (member, Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs); Anil Malik of the home ministry; Vikram Doraiswami and P Harish of the foreign office; Gopal Baglay and Aishvarya Singh from the Prime Minister’s Office; and Tina Soni from the cabinet secretariat. The work of the group is serviced by Sanyukta Samaddar, adviser, Sustainable Development Goals, NITI Aayog.The group has met the United Nations (UN) Resident Coordinator for India, and the country heads of the World Health Organization (WHO), United Nations Children’s Fund (Unicef), United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA),United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), International Labour Organization (ILO), UN Women, UN-Habitat, Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), World Bank, and the Asian Development Bank. The discussions focused on providing technical support in monitoring and surveillance systems, strengthening health and nutritional services, capacity building, financial resources and critical equipment support. Following the meetings, the UN in India has built a Joint Programme Response Plan “defining their clear activities and deliverables in different sectors and States, where they are partnering with Union Ministries and State Governments”. The plan has been submitted to the Niti Aayog.Kant’s team has held detailed deliberations with over 40 prominent civil society bodies and NGOs (Non-Governmental Organisation) till April 3, apart from writing to 92,000 such bodies registered with the Niti Aayog. Kant has also appealed to these bodies to assist the government in identifying hot spots of the disease, and deputing volunteers and caregivers to deliver services to the elderly, persons with disabilities, children, transgender persons, and other vulnerable groups. The government has reached out to these groups to “create awareness about prevention, social distancing, isolation, and combating stigma and to provide shelter to the homeless, daily wage workers and urban poor families. and to set up community kitchens for migrants,” the release said .Further, Kant wrote to all states, asking them to utilise the physical and human resources made available by these NGOs and civil society groups.The committee also met private sector players and start-ups for collaboration among them to produce health equipment and PPE (personal protective equipment). “As many as 8 Start-Ups working in innovative health care solutions, 12 top industry leaders from CII (Confederation of Indian Industry), 6 CEOs from FICCI (Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry) partners, 14 CEOs of top tech-based companies from NASSCOM (a not-for-profit industry association) participated” in the discussions. The talks focused on issues including the estimation of PPE, ventilators and medical equipment requirement, retrofitting domestic production lines to meet demand, supply chain management issues, innovative technology-led solutions, issues of certification, GST, import duties on components, issues of procurement, training, and post-lockdown operating procedures.“The start-ups, namely, AgVa, Biodesign Innovation Lab, Kaeaenaat, Qure AIDrona Maps, mFine, MicroGo, Staqu, working on innovative ventilator design, testing tools, and tracking solutions have been contacted separately to understand their scale and possible contributions,” said the release.While industries appraised the group about their philanthropic and CSR (corporate social responsibility) activities related to Covid-19, they also took up several challenges on critical issues of health care intervention, pertaining to ramping up production and procurement of ventilators, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-high-level-govt-group-has-stepped-up-efforts-to-fight-covid-19/story-wxjYujbnfnb562eE89Nc7J.html
05-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Govt discusses preparedness, challenges with industry representatives, global bodies||The Empowered Group number 6, chaired by NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant and formed by the government of India, held a series of meetings on the prevailing coronavirus crisis with international organisations, development partners, civil society organisations and industry associations. As per a government release issued on Sunday, the committee held six meetings between March 30 and April 3 with all above-mentioned stakeholders. The Empowered Group held detailed meetings with UN Resident Coordinator for India and country heads of WHO, UNICEF, UNFPA, UNDP, ILO, UN Women, UN-Habitat, FAO, World Bank, and Asian Development Bank.“The UN in India has built a Joint Programme Response Plan and submitted it to NITI Aayog, defining their clear activities and deliverables in different sectors and States, where they are partnering with Union Ministries and State Governments,” the release read.The committee also conducted deliberations with over 40 civil society organisations, development partners and NGOs working in different parts of the country and with different communities. “Several challenges and issues raised by these CSOs were addressed by the EG6 to facilitate their working in the field during this crisis,” the release added. Nearly 1 lakh NGOs/ CSOs registered with NITI Aayog have been urged to assist the government in identifying Covid-19 hotspots and for “deputing volunteers and caregivers to deliver services to the elderly, persons with disabilities, children, transgender persons, and other vulnerable groups”.The NGOs and CSOs have also been directed to create awareness about prevention, social distancing, isolation, and combating stigma; to provide shelter to homeless, daily wage workers, and urban poor families; set up community kitchens for migrants; services.Kant has also written to all Chief Secretaries urging them to instruct the local administration at the district level to utilise the physical and human resources made available by NGOs and CSOs.In deliberations with industry associations such as CII, FICCI, ASSOCHAM, NASSCOM and other representatives, the committee pressed for the need to produce more health equipment and PPEs.“As many as 8 start-ups working in innovative healthcare solutions, 12 top industry leaders from CII, 6 CEOs from FICCI industry partners, 14 CEOs of top tech-based companies from NASSCOM, participated and deliberated on all issues ranging of estimation needs for PPE, ventilators and medical equipment, retrofitting domestic production lines to meet demand, supply chain management issues, innovative technology-led solutions, issues of certification, GST, import duties on components, issues of procurement, training, post lockdown operating procedures, etc,” the release read.Industry representatives and the Group deliberated in detail and resolved several challenges on critical issues of health-care intervention, pertaining to ramping up production and procurement of ventilators, PPEs, testing kits apart from the ways to step up the relief and rehabilitation and information dissemination.Last month, the government formed 10 Empowered Groups and a strategic task force comprising senior civil servants to deal with the Covid-19 outbreak.The setting up of the groups and the task force, which together have 68 bureaucrats, is an attempt to forge a planning and implementation machinery that acts in concert to minimise the impact of the disease the World Health Organization (WHO) has declared a global pandemic.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday PM chaired a joint meeting of all Empowered Groups constituted for planning and ensuring implementation of Covid-19 response activities in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-govt-discusses-preparedness-challenges-with-industry-representatives-global-bodies/story-OU1aDudkENjSwj4HTXBZbM.html
05-04-2020||India||3 soldiers dead, 5 terrorists killed in Kashmir’s Kupwara: Army||Three soldiers of the Indian Army have died and five terrorists killed on Sunday during an anti-infiltration operation in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kupwara district, officials said.Sources said four more soldiers have been injured during the operation to flush out infiltrators along the Line of Control (LoC) in Keran sector of the district, which was launched two days ago.The army said the operation is still underway.“Unfortunately, two more soldiers succumbed to their injuries and others are presently undergoing treatment. Total three soldiers have been martyred,” Colonel Rajesh Kalia, the spokesperson of the army, said.“Despite prevailing inclement weather conditions, casualties have been evacuated,” Col Kalia said.The army had said earlier in the day that alert troops braving inclement weather and hostile terrain had killed the five terrorists in the operation in Keran sector. The five, believed to be part of a group of infiltrators who had recently sneaked into the Valley, were attempting to infiltrate across LoC taking advantage of the bad weather, it said.The army said it has killed nine terrorists, including the five infiltrators, in the last 24 hours. Four terrorists were killed in Batapura of south Kashmir’s Kulgam on Saturday. “Four terrorists who were involved in the killing of innocent civilians were eliminated at Batapura area of south Kashmir on April 4,” Col Kalia said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-soldier-dead-9-terrorists-killed-in-last-24-hrs-in-kashmir-army/story-krTIgEGQ39nI7cLfBtJ5eM.html
05-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Govt keeps tabs on pharma sector to ensure smooth supplies||The government is keeping tabs on the working of the pharmaceutical industry in order to ensure that there is no shortage of essential medical supplies during the three-week, nationwide lockdown imposed to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) .The department of pharmaceuticals has reached out to all stakeholders, asking them to duly document details of the pharma industry’s operations on a daily basis. And acting on that directive, the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) has written to drugs controllers in all states and Union Territories to ensure that details are submitted to the government every day.“In view of the current situation of lockdown due to the outbreak of Covid-19 in the country, the government of India is desirous to know the status of working of pharma industry. Accordingly, department of pharmaceuticals has forwarded a performa for the required information to be provided on daily basis,” reads the letter from CDSCO to all drugs controllers.Initially, the exercise will be implemented at the state-level, and gradually will be extended at the district-level.“The government is keeping an eye on manufacturing, sale and distribution process, and action will be taken wherever necessary. So far, there is no shortage of any medicines, vitamins etc. in the market, and people need not hoard,” said a government official, requesting anonymity. The government has also restricted the export of diagnostic kits with immediate effect.“Experts are reviewing the situation on a day-to-day basis, and are intervening wherever there is a need. These export curbs are a part of several measures that the government is taking to ensure there’s no shortage of essential items, and are temporary in nature,” said a second senior government official.To ensure that there is no overpricing of medical devices, especially at a time the country is fighting the pandemic, the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA) earlier notified that all 24 classes of medical devices shall be regulated as drugs.The government, under this new regulation, will ensure that no manufacturer will increase the maximum retail price (MRP) of these items beyond 10% of the MRP in a year. The country’s apex drug pricing regulator issued the notification under the provisions of Drug (Price Control) Order, 2013, and it came into effect on April 1.“The companies cannot increase the price of medical devices beyond what is permitted under any circumstances. This is done to ensure there is no price inflation, especially when the country is combating a pandemic,” Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, health ministry, said in a briefing on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-govt-keeps-tabs-on-pharma-sector-to-ensure-smooth-supplies/story-YTQZ1FVnscocTbgvzmXjlJ.html
05-04-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: UGC chief led panel to deal with delay in academic session of varsities||To deal with the effects of Covid-19 lockdown on higher educational institutions, the HRD ministry on Saturday decided to form a panel headed by UGC chief DP Singh to chart out the academic calendar of universities.In a statement, the ministry said HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank took the decision to form the panel. In addition, the ministry also decided to form another panel that would look into aspects related to online learning and online exams.“The decision to form an academic calendar committee under the leadership of UGC Chairman was taken by the minister. The committee will suggest measures to deal with the issue of delay in the academic session,” the ministry said in the statement.It added that HRD minister held a meeting with vice chancellors to motivate their faculty and students to use SWAYAM and SWAYAM PRABHA educational platforms in mission mode and also through other online digital mediums.To promote online education and give suggestions regarding online examination a committee under the chairmanship of IGNOU Vice Chancellor Professor Nageshwar Rao has been constituted, the statement said.Among other issues discussed in the meeting were measures to be taken regarding health of students residing in hostels and academic and non-academic staff of the university, adherence to social distancing and isolation instructions and provision for testing of suspected cases of Covid-19 in the university.Aspects like role of the management in dealing with mental health challenges of students, salary related problems of all employees (permanent, temporary and daily wage earners) and research on Covid-19 were also discussed.Banaras Hindu University (BHU) and Aligarh Muslim university (AMU) informed that they have created facility of 40-bed isolation rooms. Most of the universities continue to run courses digitally so that academic session is not delayed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-ugc-chief-led-panel-to-deal-with-delay-in-academic-session-of-varsities/story-7O9NWxmyjbaSXEeLskTYKN.html
05-04-2020||India||After recovery, Odisha’s first Covid-19 patient urges people not to panic||When he was diagnosed with Covid-19 on March 15, the 33-year-old man from Odisha’s Bhubaneswar was a little nervous and demoralised. The research scholar at University of Milan in Italy got to know he had contracted the coronavirus disease when the Regional Medical Research Laboratory in Bhubaneswar messaged to doctors in Capital Hospital that his swab report had tested positive. He became Odisha’s first Covid-19 patient that night.Discharged on April 3 from Capital Hospital, two days after the second Covid-19 patient was released from AIIMS Bhubaneswar, the man sent a video message thanking the doctors for their support.“I urge people not to panic over the situation and stay positive,” the man wearing a surgical mask is heard saying in the video. Also read: Odisha asks thousands to self-quarantine as postman tests positiveHe has been advised to remain under home quarantine for another 14 days and avoid any cold food. He has also been asked to call doctors if there any health complications during this period.His father and their cook were kept in an isolation ward of the same hospital for coming in contact with him and released a few days ago as they tested negative.Confusion and clearanceOn March 14, when the man and his father came to the hospital along with their cook over suspected symptoms of Covid-19, he had an upset stomach. They were asked to stay in the isolation ward along with another man, who had arrived from Belgium and showed symptoms of the viral attack. On the night of March 15 when the man’s first test report arrived, there was some confusion as the result showed his was a suspected case while the report of the other who had travelled to Belgium was positive. However, soon the confusion was cleared as the second report confirmed that the 33-year-old man had Covid-19 while the other tested negative.“When I took the youth to his cabin, he was already having loose motions and seemed very nervous. He kept on asking if he will survive. I assured him that he would be alright,” the doctor who attended him said requesting anonymity.Cocktail of drugsBooks, phoneAs there are no prescribed medicines for the coronavirus disease, the doctor at the Capital Hospital consulted his retired teachers and read up international medical journals to get an idea about the drugs.“So, we administered hydroxychloroquine, Azithromycin and Oseltamivir to the youth. Luckily after a few days, it started showing results,” said the doctor.“But more than that I took to chatting with him over the phone to lift his morale. That was very important as he was alone in that cabin. If a patient gets demotivated, then his situation may worsen,” he said.Also read: With 15 new Covid-19 cases, Odisha sees a 3-fold jump; 3 towns shut down completelyThe man’s father, who was kept isolated in the same hospital, said he just saw his son across the glass door a few times.“The hospital authorities would keep his food outside his cabin on a table. He would then take the tray inside and eat. Inside his cabin, he had just his mobile phone to keep him busy for about 20 days,” he said.He had also books and magazines to keep him busy.The man would have been discharged a little earlier but his second sample could not be tested due to a surge in cases at the laboratories. So, a third sample was sent a couple of days earlier which came out negative for Covid-19.The doctor who treated him lived in a servant quarter of his government accommodation and his family stayed several metres away.Doctors at Capital Hospital said the third Covid-19 patient, a 60-year-old banker who retired last month, was also improving.“He was suffering from pneumonia which is what Covid-19 does. But we tried the same cocktail of medicines that we tried with the first patient and luckily it worked. He would hopefully be discharged after his reports test negative twice in a span of 24 hours,” said the doctor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-recovery-odisha-s-first-covid-19-patient-urges-people-not-to-panic/story-CmNALoSglJp1YKGPGl5MqM.html
05-04-2020||India||Cancer patients from Assam stranded in Mumbai amid Covid-19 lockdown||Anup Bordoloi reached Mumbai on February 25 for his 64-year-old father’s cancer treatment at Tata Memorial Hospital.After being tested, Jogen Bordoloi was diagnosed with food pipe cancer and was referred to a private hospital in Mumbai on March 17.Belonging to Mangaldai, a town 75 kilometres north of Guwahati, this family with limited resources was relying on the Atal Amrit Abhiyan — a cashless healthcare scheme.But it was denied by the hospital, which is not among 30-odd private sector healthcare institutes outside the state empanelled with the Assam government.Left with no option, the father and son decided to move back to Guwahati, but fate had some other plans. The Bordolois are now among scores of other cancer patients from Assam who are stranded in Mumbai due to the Covid-19 lockdown.Also read: Assam’s lone non-Markaz patient baffles officials, shows symptoms month after travelThey have been staying at Assam Bhavan, which has been converted into a shelter for cancer patients and tourists from the state.“We are providing free lodging and food to 200 people, most of whom are cancer patients,” Devasish Sarma, joint resident commissioner of Mumbai’s Assam Bhavan, says.“We are also providing free food to around 7000 migrant labourers from Assam, who have been rendered jobless. A helpline number (022-27810888) has also been activated,” Sarma says.Dilip Kumar, 37, who had come for bone marrow transplantation in Mumbai is another stranded patient.“I was told to arrange Rs 15 lakh for treatment. For this, I have to travel back to my hometown Mangaldai to seek financial assistance, but I can no more travel amid the lockdown,” he says.Same is the case with Nasim Khan, 44, of Titabor, a town located 300 kilometres east of Guwahati. He is in Mumbai along with his wife for her urinary tract cancer treatment. Uttam Kumar Roy, 52, who went to Mumbai to get his brother treated for mouth cancer at Tata Memorial Hospital, says his brother’s case has been referred back to Guwahati, but now they are unable to make their way back.Meanwhile, Kabita Dey, 36, from Guwahati is facing a problem of a different kind. She was undergoing treatment for breast cancer at Christian Medical College, Vellore, but decided to shift to Tata Memorial Hospital because of the high costs involved.“Here in Mumbai, doctors wanted my biopsy slides prepared at Vellore, but due to the lockdown, they haven’t reached yet, and I am stranded here with no treatment,” she says.Why they move out“The number of cancer patients stranded in Mumbai is too high, but the Assam Bhavan is doing a great job in supporting them,” M Angamuthu, commissioner of Assam’s general administration department, says.“Even Assam has good cancer care facilities, but these came up a bit late. While some people are not aware of them, others don’t want to rely on local institutes and make a beeline for prominent hospitals in Mumbai and other metropolitans.”Echoing a similar sentiment, Bibhuti Borthaur, superintendent of B Barooah Cancer Institute in Guwahati, says most of the times, cancer patients’ well-wishers suggest them to go to metropolitan cities, such as Mumbai and Chennai, to get better medical attention.As public and private cancer care institutes in Assam have long waiting lists, they are unable to provide prompt treatment, he says.“Since Tata Memorial Hospital is the most preferred cancer hospital in India, many patients end up going to Mumbai,” he says.Also read: People between 21-40 worst hit by virus, shows ministry dataHowever, many of them, like Jogen Bordoloi, are later referred to other private hospitals, where the cost of treatment is much higher.“Cancer patients undergoing treatment are more susceptible to any kind of viral infection,” says Borthaur. “We encourage patients to opt for hospitals at or close to their hometowns, as cancer treatment takes time.”Generally, the cost of treatment is less than the cost of travel, stay and food. After a point, it gets difficult to bear the financial strain and people give up, he says.However, Anup Bordoloi is not giving up just yet and is waiting for the lockdown to end so that he can bring his father back to Assam to resume his cancer treatment in Guwahati.“I am hopeful,” he says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cancer-patients-from-assam-stranded-in-mumbai-amid-covid-19-lockdown/story-C0cGCFVUuwFyijkBOWYrQN.html
05-04-2020||India||Covid-19 statewise tally: Cases near 500 in Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, Delhi at 445||The number of coronavirus cases in the country on Sunday rose to 3,374. As per the figures updated by the Ministry of Health, the number of active cases in India stands at 3,030 while 266 people have recovered from the infection. As many as 77 people have been killed by Covid-19 in the country.Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Delhi account for the highest number of Covid-19 cases in India. The number of positive cases here is nearly 500. Here’s the statewise breakup of active coronavirus cases in various states, number of people who have recovered and the fatalities. MaharashtraWith 490 Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra has registered the highest number of coronavirus cases in the country. The state has recorded 24 deaths so far while 42 patients have recovered.Tamil NaduThe southern state has the second-highest number of Covid-19 cases in the country which now stand at a whopping 485. Tamil Nadu has seen six recoveries and three Covid-19 deaths.DelhiDelhi closely follows with the third-highest number of coronavirus cases in the country. As many as 445 people have tested positive of coronavirus in the national capital. Six people have died from the infection while 15 people have made a recovery, as per the health ministry’s data.KeralaWith 306 coronavirus cases, Kerala is the fourth most coronavirus-affected state in the country. As per the latest data by the Ministry of Health, Kerala has witnessed two deaths due to Covid-19 while 49 people have successfully recovered.Telangana269 positive cases of coronavirus have been reported from the state so far. 32 people have made a recovery from the virus while seven people have died from Covid-19.Uttar Pradesh227 people have been infected from Covid-19 in the state. While 19 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, two have died from the infection here.RajasthanCoronavirus cases in Rajasthan touched 200 on Sunday. The state has reported no cases of fatalities. 21 patients have recovered from the infection.Andhra PradeshThe state has witnessed a sudden spike in its Covid-19 cases. 161 positive Covid-19 patients have been reported in the state and one case of recovery. One person has died.KarnatakaThe state has recorded 144 Covid-19 cases and four deaths. 12 people have been cured and discharged.GujaratPrime Minister Narendra Modi’s home state has registered 105 coronavirus cases and 14 recoveries so far. Ten people have died from the infection in the state.Madhya PradeshThe state has reported 104 positive cases of coronavirus. Six people have died from Covid-19 here.Jammu and KashmirThe union territory of Jammu and Kashmir has seen the number of Covid-19 patients rising to 92. Two people have died from the infection while four were cured.Haryana and PunjabThe neighbouring states have 49 and 57 Covid-19 cases respectively. While 5 people have died in Punjab, Haryana has seen no deaths. Twenty four people have recovered from Covid-19 in Haryana, one in Punjab.Sixty nine people have been affected by the Sars-CoV-2 virus in West Bengal. There have been three deaths and ten recoveries in the state. In Chandigarh, 18 people have contracted the Covid-19 disease. Andaman has recorded 10 coronavirus cases. Chhattisgarh has recorded nine cases of coronavirus, and three people have recovered. In Bihar, 30 people have tested positive for coronavirus, one has died.Assam has reported 24 Covid-19 cases. Uttarakhand has 22 coronavirus patients, two patients have recovered from the infection. Odisha has 20 Covid-19 positive patients while Ladakh has 14. Goa has reported seven cases of Covid-19 disease. Himachal Pradesh has six cases, one patient has died and one has recovered. Pondicherry has reported five cases, one has recovered. Two coronavirus cases have been reported in Manipur. States and Union territories with just one positive Covid-19 case include Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram.India is under a 21-day nationwide coronavirus lockdown announced by PM Modi to break the chain of Covid-19 infection in the country. The country entered the 12th day of the three-week lockdown on Sunday. The 21-day lockdown will end on April 14.Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-statewise-tally-coronavirus-cases-near-500-in-maharashtra-and-tamil-nadu-delhi-s-at-445/story-8jxwgdDrlDGV8MRftxYoPP.html
05-04-2020||India||Man killed after clashes break out over setting up of a quarantine centre in south Bengal district||A 30-year-old man was killed after clashes broke out allegedly over setting up of a COVID-19 quarantine centre at Panrui in south Bengal’s Birbhum district late on Saturday night.Someone had hurled a crude bomb during the clash and the man, identified as Shyam Babu Seikh, sustained splinter injuries, police said.“We have detained seven persons for questioning. Investigation is going on,” said Shyam Singh, superintendent of the police of Birbhum district.The administration had decided to build a quarantine centre. A section of the people didn’t want the centre to come up as they apprehended that there could be an outbreak. The idea was supported by another section of villagers. “This triggered a political unrest. A clash followed, which left one person dead,” said a senior police officer.A large police contingent was rushed to the spot to bring situations under control.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-killed-after-clashes-break-out-over-setting-up-of-a-quarantine-centre-in-south-bengal-district/story-uIX8qbbAypnR1LxXEh80RK.html
05-04-2020||India||Covid-19 update: Requested PM Modi to release US order of hydroxychloroquine stockpile, says Trump||US President Donald Trump on Saturday said that he has requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to supply Hydroxychloroquine tablets that can be used to treat Covid-19 patients.  “After call today with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, India is giving serious consideration to releasing the hold it put on a US order for hydroxychloroquine,” Trump announced at the White House Coronavirus task force briefing that he requested PM Narendra Modi for more Hydroxychloroquine tablets.President Trump did not shy away from saying he too will take a tablet of hydroxychloroquine after announcing that he has requested Prime Minister during his telephonic conversation earlier today to lift a hold on the US order of the medicine.“I may take it too, will have to talk to my doctors,” he added.“India makes a lot of it. They need a lot too for their billion-plus people. The hydroxychloroquine, the anti-malaria drug will be released through the Strategic National Stockpile for treatment,” he said. “I said I would appreciate if they would release the amounts that we ordered” of hydroxychloroquine, he said. The Indian government has put on hold the export of anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine and its formulations.Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Twitter, “Had an extensive telephone conversation with President @realDonaldTrump. We had a good discussion, and agreed to deploy the full strength of the India-US partnership to fight COVID-19.”Prime Minister conveyed deep condolences for the loss of lives in the United States and his prayers for the early recovery of those still suffering from the disease.As on Sunday, the United States has at least 301,902 cases of coronavirus according to Johns Hopkins University’s tally. At least 8,175 people have died in the US from coronavirus.There was a steep rise in the number of cases in the last 24 hours. At least 23,949 new cases were reported, and at least 1,023 new deaths in the US have been reported in the last 24 hours.US Secretary of State Michael Pompeo had discussions with External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar about the importance of continued close cooperation between the United States and India to combat coronavirus by strengthening global pharmaceutical supply chains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-requested-pm-modi-to-release-us-order-of-hydroxychloroquine-stockpile-says-trump/story-ypudWCoQOpEEmPQPzOXBBP.html
05-04-2020||India||‘Let’s light a lamp’: PM Modi tweets Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s poem as reminder for Sunday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has shared a video of Atal Bihari Vajpayee, the Bharatiya Janata Party’s veteran leader, reciting one of his famous poems to remind people to light diyas on Sunday.“Aao, phir se diya jalayein (Come, let’s light a lamp once again),” PM Modi tweeted.He also shared a video of former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee reciting the poem ‘Aao Phir Se Diya Jalayein’ from a stage.The BJP had also tweeted the same clip of Vajpayee to remind people to light lamps on Sunday night.“Let’s light the lamp again … On April 5 at 9 pm, turn off all lights in the house for 9 minutes, light a candle, lamp, flashlight or mobile flashlight on the door or balcony. Together we have to challenge the darkness of the corona crisis,” it had tweeted in Hindi along with the video on Friday.Also read: New plan holds clues to unlocking countryThe Prime Minister had on April 3 urged people to switch off the lights in their homes and light up diyas, candles or flashlights of their mobile phones for nine minutes at 9pm on Sunday, April 5, to display the nation’s collective spirit to defeat the coronavirus pandemic.“On April 5, on Sunday, I want 9 minutes from all you, at 9pm. Listen carefully, on April 5, at 9pm, turn off all the lights in your homes, stand at your doors or in your balconies, and light candles or diyas, torches or mobile flashlights for 9 minutes. I repeat, light candles or diyas, torches or mobile flashlights, for 9 minutes at 9pm on the April 5,” Modi had said on April 3.“At that time, if you have turned off all the lights of your homes, and each one of us in all directions has lit a diya; we will experience the superpower of light, clearly illuminating the common purpose we are all fighting for. In that light, in that lustre, in that radiance, let us resolve in our minds that we are not alone, that no one is alone! 130 crore Indians are committed, through a common resolve!” he said.He had also cautioned people against gathering at a place and not to cross the ‘Lakshman Rekha’ of social distancing, which he reiterated is the only way to break the chain of coronavirus infection.The Prime Minister had asked people to clap, blow conch shells and ring bells at 5pm for five minutes on March 22 to encourage the frontline workers and essential service providers who are working during the coronavirus pandemic.Hundreds of thousands of people had responded to the Prime Minister’s call.India has been on a 21-day lockdown since March 25 to curb the spread of coronavirus. The country has seen a rise in the cases of Covid-19 since then and 3072 people, including 212 recoveries and 75 deaths, have contracted the coronavirus disease till Sunday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/let-s-light-a-lamp-pm-modi-tweets-atal-bihari-vajpayee-s-poem-as-reminder-for-sunday/story-2kJZ5ykID62Wo53CgvdHaO.html
05-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: MP tribal beaten to death by police during lockdown, alleges family||The family of a 65-year-old tribal man, out to buy essential items, in Madhya Pradesh’s Dhar district has said he was beaten to death by the police on Saturday, a charge denied by the force.The son of Tigoo Adivasi, a resident of Mandleshwar in Khargone district, said his father had gone to Gujari village under Dhamnod police station in Dhar district, three to four kilometres away, to buy some essential items of daily need on Saturday morning. “The eyewitnesses told me that my father was at a shop about 7am when police personnel in three to four vehicles reached there and beat him up with canes while accusing him of violating lockdown restrictions. He died on the spot,” Raju Adivasi said.The local legislator Panchilal Meda also blamed the police for the tribal man’s death.“The dead body of the deceased bore signs of canes which suggest that he was beaten up by police and it caused his death. Strict action should be taken against guilty police personnel,” Meda said. Also read: Community spread worries swirl in MP’s Covid hotspot IndoreAditya Pratap Singh, Dhar district’s superintendent of police, admitted that a police team was there at the village market but said the man didn’t die because of any action taken by police.“There was a vegetable market in the morning when a sub-divisional officer of police (SDoP) and town inspector of police reached there with their team to make people follow the norms of social distancing,” Singh said.“When the team reached there, people who were there started running away on seeing the police vehicles. While the police team was returning it got information that a man was lying unconscious. The police personnel took him to a hospital where he died,” he said.Singh said an inquiry is being conducted into the incident. Also read: At least 10 infected with Covid-19 after attending mass feast in Madhya Pradesh“It is only after the inquiry that the cause of death can be established. The post-mortem is being conducted by a panel of three doctors to allay any apprehension in the mind of the family members about the cause of death.”Divya Patel, sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), said the tribal man’s family has been given immediate financial assistance of Rs 20,000. “Since the deceased belonged to Mandleshwar we are trying to contact the administration over there to know if he had any below poverty line (BPL) card so that more assistance could be given to the family,” Patel said.More than 100 people have contracted the coronavirus disease in Madhya Pradesh and six people have died till date, according to the Union health ministry data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-mp-tribal-beaten-to-death-by-police-during-lockdown-alleges-family/story-mcpT4pRKvkhIkH2mGQwamO.html
05-04-2020||India||A new plan and antibody tests: Covid-19 news from India||A Union health ministry plan has outlined how regions -- cities, villages or neighbourhoods -- with large Covid-19 outbreaks or multiple clusters of the disease could be walled in, charting what could be India’s first official road map to keep the infection in check. In another move, the ministry on Saturday kept rapid antibody tests limited to people in high-risk areas, and did not open up the test to the private sector. Covid-19 update: New plan holds clues to unlocking countryA Union health ministry plan has outlined how regions — cities, villages or neighbourhoods — with large outbreaks or multiple clusters of the coronavirus disease Covid-19 could be walled in, charting out what may be the first official road map to keep the disease in check by focussing curbs and surveillance on hot spots while other areas return to some degree of normalcy once the nationwide lockdown ends later this month. Read moreCovid-19 update: Scope of antibody tests rigid despite panel pushThe Union health ministry on Saturday kept rapid antibody tests limited to people in high-risk areas (containment zones), “large migration gatherings” and evacuation centres, and did not open up the test to the private sector, overlooking recommendations by its high-level Covid-19 technical experts committee. Read moreCovid-19: What you need to know todayThis is the 18th instalment of this column. Like the two other instalments that have come on Sundays, today’s was to have focused on how Covid-19, the coronavirus disease, would affect individuals (on the two previous Sundays, the column looked at how Covid-19 would change countries and companies). Read moreIndia Inc awaits fiscal push from Centre to keep afloatAs businesses around the country reel under the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown it has necessitated, business owners, executives and experts are looking to the government to do enough to keep companies afloat and healthy and, more importantly, to ensure that they do not engage in mass retrenchments. Read moreCovid-19 update: How pool testing can enhance speed, scaleThe ministry of health and family welfare evaluated this week a testing methodology that could significantly expand its testing capacity, although it is yet to take a final call in the matter. Read moreCoronavirus testing, treatment free for Ayushman Bharat beneficiariesAs the number of coronavirus infections continue to head north, the National Health Authority (NHA) said on Saturday that testing and treatment for Covid-19 will be free for 50 crore Ayushman Bharat beneficiaries at private laboratories and empanelled hospitals. Read moreCovid-19: Govt says maximum cases in the age group between 21 and 40 yearsThe maximum percentage of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive cases at 42% in the country have been reported among people in the age group between 21 and 40 years, the government’s data showed on Saturday. Read more‘No possibility of grid collapse, don’t switch off fridge, TV’: Power ministryThe union ministry of power on Saturday clarified that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call for switching off lights on Sunday would not cause instability to the power grid amid concerns over a possible grid-collapse. Read morePM Modi calls all-party meeting on April 8Prime Minister Narendra Modi has called an all-party meeting on Wednesday, April 8, to discuss the situation arising out of the outbreak of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, days after the Centre announced a three-week nationwide lockdown to prevent its spread. Read moreBiomedical waste from quarantined homes remains a potential hazardThousands of people across India have been advised by doctors to stay in home quarantine for 14 days on suspicion that they could be potential carriers of the deadly coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Read moreNovember’s U-17 World Cup in India deferred by FIFAThe women’s under-17 football World Cup, scheduled in five Indian cities from November 2-21, has been deferred as a consequence of the Covid-19 pandemic, Fifa announced on Saturday. The decision was taken at the first meeting of the Fifa-Confederations Working Group through a conference call. Read more‘Cannot do selective evacuation of stranded Indians from Covid-19 affected countries,’ says ministerMinister of state for external affairs (MEA) and parliamentary affairs, V Muraleedharan, spoke to Hindustan Timesabout brings Indians back from abroad, foreigners stranded in India, and relief being sent by India to other countries, among other issues. Read more1,023 Covid-19 cases across 17 states linked to Jamaat: CentreAt least 1,023 cases of Covid-19 in India are linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in New Delhi, the Union health ministry announced on Saturday, adding that authorities had traced nearly 22,000 other people who were connected to the religious event that has emerged as the biggest hot spot of the infection in the country. Read moreWelfare schemes, well-oiled PDS helping Tamil Nadu’s poorIt is either vattams (circle) or kattams (square). Hemalatha, 38, has stood in both shapes — chalk-drawn on the road to help people maintain distance — while waiting her turn to pick up rations from the fair-price shop in Usilampatti in Madurai district. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-new-plan-and-antibody-tests-covid-19-news-from-india/story-IllpFQCtjZzXTLkEa8WzVM.html
05-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: How pool testing for coronavirus can enhance speed, scale and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19 update: How pool testing can enhance speed, scaleThe ministry of health and family welfare evaluated this week a testing methodology that could significantly expand its testing capacity, although it is yet to take a final call in the matter. Read more.Trump urges PM Modi to lift export hold on anti-malaria drug for Covid-19 treatmentPresident Donald Trump on Saturday said he requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to release orders placed by the United States with Indian pharmaceutical companies for hydroxychloroquine doses, which he has personally touted as a game-changer in the fight against the coronavirus. Read more.Covid-19 update: New plan holds clues to unlocking countryA Union health ministry plan has outlined how regions — cities, villages or neighbourhoods — with large outbreaks or multiple clusters of the coronavirus disease Covid-19 could be walled in, charting out what may be the first official road map to keep the disease in check by focussing curbs and surveillance on hot spots while other areas return to some degree of normalcy once the nationwide lockdown ends later this month. Read more.Satan’s trying to keep us apart, say US pastors set to defy Palm Sunday quarantine over Covid-19The United States has the world’s highest number of known cases of Covid-19, the flu-like respiratory disease caused by the coronavirus. More than 306,000 people have tested positive in the United States and over 8,300 have died. Read more.‘Society, government need to be more considerate towards people with disability’30-year-old para-athlete Manasi Joshi gained recognition after she clinched a gold medal at BWF Para-badminton World Championships last year. After a competition-heavy 2019, Manasi was eyeing a berth at the Tokyo Paralympics, with qualifying tournaments approaching. Read more.Enrich your lexicon with Covid-19 lingoCovid-19 pandemic has brought with it a new set of words and terms, which are rapidly becoming part of common vocabulary and are being widely used on social media. Read more.YouTube Music starts rolling out new library designYouTube Music is getting some UI changes which make it look like Google Play Music. The new visual changes on YouTube Music make it easier for users to find songs, artists and albums with proper categorisations. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-am-how-pool-testing-for-coronavirus-can-enhance-speed-scale-and-all-the-latest-news/story-eWewpLwYE4nDjwah3Tj9HL.html
05-04-2020||India||Covid-19 cases cross 3,000, nation to switch off lights in solidarity tonight: 10 points||The number of coronavirus cases in the country crossed the 3,000 mark on Saturday and now stand at 3,374. The number of active Covid-19 cases in the country is at 3,030 while the number of people who have recovered from the infection stands at 266. As many as 77 people have been killed by Covid-19.Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Delhi continue to grapple with the rise in coronavirus cases.Here are the key developments:1. As directed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the country will observe 9 minutes of blackout tonight at 9 pm.2. In a release by the power ministry on Saturday, the government said that the move is a voluntary one and applies only to residences. The call is only to switch off residential lights and does not apply to household appliances, fans, et cetera. Hospitals, public utility services, government and essential services will continue to work. The ministry also clarified that there will be no effect on the grid due to the move.3. A Union health ministry plan has outlined how regions with large outbreaks or multiple clusters of the coronavirus disease could be walled in, charting out what may be the first official road map to keep the disease in check by focussing curbs and surveillance on hot spots while other areas return to some degree of normalcy once the nationwide lockdown ends later this month.4. The railways is in the process of preparing plans to resume passenger and mail express train services after the 21-day lockdown period, according to documents reviewed by Hindustan Times.5. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has set a fresh protocol for healthcare workers to start with a rapid antibody-based blood test for Covid-19.6. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday chaired a review meeting of all the groups. Countrywide preparedness in terms of availability of hospitals, proper isolation and quarantine facilities, and disease surveillance, testing and critical care training were reviewed at the meeting.7. At least 1,023 cases of Covid-19 in India are linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in New Delhi, the Union health ministry announced on Saturday, adding that authorities had traced nearly 22,000 other people who were connected to the religious event that has emerged as the biggest hot spot of the infection in the country.8. On Saturday, Delhi health minister Satyendar Kumar Jain said that nearly 250 of Delhi’s total Covid-19 cases have links with Markaz Nizamuddin.9. Low-cost carrier AirAsia India will be opening its flight bookings from April 15, after the lockdown is lifted on April 14, at 23.59.10. The maximum percentage of coronavirus disease positive cases, at about 41% in the country, have been reported among people between 21 and 40 years old, while the most deaths have occurred among people above 60, shows the government’s age profile analysis.The country entered the twelfth day of the 21-day coronavirus lockdown that will end on April 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-cases-cross-3-000-nation-to-switch-off-lights-in-solidarity-tonight-10-points/story-emItLdk7QyfGfcvsLpn4gJ.html
05-04-2020||India||Trump urges PM Modi to lift export hold on anti-malaria drug for Covid-19 treatment||President Donald Trump on Saturday said he requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to release orders placed by the United States with Indian pharmaceutical companies for hydroxychloroquine doses, which he has personally touted as a game-changer in the fight against the coronavirus.Trump told reporters at the daily White House briefing on the coronavirus outbreak that he had call Modi and urged him to “release the amounts we ordered” and added, “they are giving it serious consideration”Follow latest updates on coronavirus herePrime Minister Modi tweeted about the phone call but did not mention the American president specific request. He only said they had a “good discussion, and agreed to deploy the full strength of the India-US partnership to fight Covid-19”. Also Watch | ‘There will be a lot of death’: Donald Trump warns as COVID-19 cases swell in USLate Saturday, the White House said in a readout of two leaders’ phone call that they discussed how the two countries can work together to combat the coronavirus pandemic and “agreed to remain in touch on the issue of global supply chains for critical pharmaceuticals and medical supplies and to ensure they continue to function as smoothly as possible during the global health crisis”.India is one of the world’s largest manufacturers of hydroxychloroquine, a drug that has been used for decades to treat malaria and lupus. It banned the export of the it as active pharmaceutical ingredient (API, the molecule) and it formulations on March 25, around the time President Trump began talking about the need for it to treat Covid-19.India is using the drug extensively as a prophylactic for healthcare professionals working on coronavirus patients.Also read| ‘There’ll be a lot of death’: Trump tells US as Covid-19 cases surgeThe restriction, issued by the director general of foreign trade, was not blanket. An exception could be made, the notice said, on “humanitarian” grounds and on a case-to-care basis determined by the ministry of external affairs. And India has indeed made exceptions for Israel from restrictions announced earlier on a list of 26 drugs, according to news reports. It was not clear if exemptions for Israel included hydroxychloroquine.Also read: How pool testing for Covid-19 can enhance speed, scaleThis notification was amended and superseded by another issued on Saturday, which removed the exemptions altogether. “The export of hydroxychloroquine and formulations made from hydroxychloroquine, therefore, shall remain prohibited, without any exception,” the director general of foreign trade said in the new notification.The implications of the new notification for President Trump’s “personal” plea to Prime Minister Modi could not be immediately ascertained but people familiar with the matter said it’s a government notification that can be overturned by the government if it so determined.If India has surplus doses of the drug, they argued, it might want to allow the US orders at this time of emergency for a country struggling with an epidemic that has killed close to 8,500 people and infected more than 300,000. The long- and short-term implications of the “gesture” cannot be overstated, they added.Also read: Untraced foreigners could spread coronavirus, experts fearFaced with a fast depleting stockpile of medical supplies and equipment needed to deal with the rush of cases and fatalities, Trump has reached out to other countries as well. He recently called his South Korean counterpart Moon Jae-in for medical equipment and the Russians sent a planeload of supplies last week. Earlier Saturday, New York governor Andrew Cuomo announced getting a donation of 1,000 ventilators from China.The size of the US order on “hold”, as the president called the ban, could not be immediately ascertained, but their importance to his cannot be underestimated. “They make large amounts of hydroxychloroquine, very large amounts, frankly,” the resident said, adding, “and they had a hold, because, you know, they have 1.5 billion people. and they (need) a lot of it”.There is no proven evidence that hydroxychloroquine works against the coronavirus. There have been some studies and trials, but scientists and experts have said they were too small to determine its effectiveness. But physicians have been using it nevertheless, even in the United States.President Trump has spoken of hydroxychloroquine as a potential “game-changer” many times, with experts of his coronavirus task force adding the usual cautionary note every time that the drug has no proven benefits for COVID-19 patients. The US drug regulator, the Food and Drug Administration, granted “compassionate use” authorization for the use of hydroxychloroquine (or chloroquine), to be prescribed to severely ill patients in mid-March. Last week, the regulator gave it emergency-use authorization. And it is being tried on COVID-10 patients in New York City, the epicentre of the American outbreak.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-donald-trump-urges-pm-modi-to-lift-export-hold-on-anti-malaria-drug-for-covid-19-treatment/story-qL7QVaX2jD3OvXiJQ6Ce2K.html
05-04-2020||India||Covid-19 update: New York gets 1,100 ventilators with help from China, Oregon||New York secured a planeload of ventilators from China on Saturday, and Oregon was sending a shipment of its own to battle the coronavirus pandemic at its US core, New York Governor Andrew Cuomo said. But the governor’s startling plan to force hospitals elsewhere in the state to give spare ventilators to the fight in New York City apparently hadn’t yet materialised, a day after he ordered them to surrender 20 per cent of any unused supply to the National Guard for temporary redistribution. The state got 1,000 ventilators after the Chinese government facilitated a donation from billionaires Jack Ma and Joseph Tsai, the co-founders of the Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba, Cuomo said. He added that the state of Oregon had volunteered to send 140 more breathing machines.The influx offered some hope after the governor repeatedly warned that the state’s supply of the vital machines would be exhausted in days if the number of critically ill coronavirus patients kept growing at the current rate.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here“It’s going to make a significant difference for us,” Cuomo said.New York is the pandemic’s US epicentre, with over 113,700 confirmed cases as of Saturday morning. More than 3,500 people statewide have died, and about 15,000 coronavirus patients are hospitalized. Over 4,100 are in intensive care — many, if not all, of them needing ventilators.The outbreak is heavily concentrated in the New York City metropolitan area.Cuomo’s announcement came a day after he said he would have the National Guard collect and “redeploy” ventilators that some hospitals weren’t using.He alluded again Saturday to the plan, but details remained unclear.“We find what equipment we have, we use it the best we can,” the Democrat said Saturday, saying he’d seek 20 per cent of “unused and available” ventilators, a number he pegged at 500 in all.Also read| ‘There’ll be a lot of death’: Trump tells US as Covid-19 cases surgeThe idea has alarmed Republican politicians and some hospital leaders upstate.They said it would leave people in their areas vulnerable and pit the state’s regions against one another.But two hospital umbrella groups didn’t protest. The Greater New York Hospital Association portrayed the idea as ongoing reciprocity among medical centers as the outbreak’s hotspots shift, while the Healthcare Association of New York State noted that some hospitals have already, voluntarily sent staff and equipment to harder-hit institutions or accepted patients from them.Click here for complete coronavirus coverageBoth groups, and several upstate hospitals, said Saturday they had gotten no further information on the governor’s plan. The state Health Department said no information was available beyond the governor’s remarks.Messages were sent to his office seeking details on how the redistribution would work.National Guard spokesman Eric Durr said Saturday that the collection had not yet begun.Governors around the US have been pleading, competing and scouring the global marketplace for needed supplies, especially ventilators, to treat the sick. Cuomo said Saturday that New York at one point made purchase orders for 17,000 of the devices, but only 2,500 came through.“You get a call that says, ‘We can’t fill that order,’” he said.Cuomo and New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio, also a Democrat, said last week that the federal government agreed to send about 2,400 ventilators to the city and another 2,000 to the state. The mayor and governor have repeatedly implored the federal government for more help.The new coronavirus causes mild or moderate symptoms for most people. For some, especially older adults and people with existing health problems, it can cause more severe illness or death.In upstate New York, state Sen. James Seward, a Republican from Milford, had been on a ventilator since Thursday and in a medically induced coma because of COVID-19, but his condition improved and he was taken off the ventilator Saturday, his spokesman, Jeff Bishop, said in a Twitter posting.Earlier Saturday, Seward’s wife, Cynthia, posted in an online community group that he was still in a coma and on a respirator at Albany Medical Center, and she asked for thoughts and prayers for his healing, PBS reported. Cynthia Seward, who also has COVID-19, said in the post that she was self-quarantining, had pneumonia and shingles, and had lost her sense of taste.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-new-york-gets-1-100-ventilators-with-help-from-china-oregon/story-yPvmD4i6rULH46VmX4FQUK.html
05-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: PM Modi’s call for switching off lights for 9 minutes at 9pm today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has urged all countrymen to switch off their lights for 9 minutes at 9pm on Sunday and asked them to light diyas, candles or use the flashlight of their mobile phones as a sign of solidarity in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic.The Prime Minister made the appeal in a video address—his third in two weeks. Before that, Modi had called for resolve and restraint to fight coronavirus disease on March 19 and also announced a Janta Curfew on March 22, a Sunday. On March 24, he had announced the 21-day nationwide lockdown to check the spread of the deadly virus. Also Watch | Why PM Modi’s call to light candles on April 5 is not mere symbolismWhat PM Modi said about 9 minutes at 9pm“On April 5, on Sunday, I want 9 minutes from all you, at 9pm. Listen carefully, on April 5, at 9pm, turn off all the lights in your homes, stand at your doors or in your balconies, and light candles or diyas, torches or mobile flashlights for 9 minutes. I repeat, light candles or diyas, torches or mobile flashlights, for 9 minutes at 9pm on the April 5,” Modi had said on April 3.“At that time, if you have turned off all the lights of your homes, and each one of us in all directions has lit a diya; we will experience the superpower of light, clearly illuminating the common purpose we are all fighting for. In that light, in that lustre, in that radiance, let us resolve in our minds that we are not alone, that no one is alone! 130 crore Indians are committed, through a common resolve!” he said.Also read: New plan holds clues to unlocking country“Friends, I have one more prayer in this regard, that no one must assemble or gather anywhere while participating in this program. Please do not go out on to the roads, lanes or your localities, do it at the doorstep or balconies of your own homes. One must never cross the ‘Lakshman Rekha’ of social distancing. Social distancing should not be breached under any circumstances. This is the only panacea to break the chain of coronavirus,” he said.“So, on April 5 at 9pm, sit in solitude for some time and reminisce about Ma Bharati, picture the faces of 130 crore Indians. Experience the collective resolve, the collective superpower of 130 crore Indians. This will give us the strength to fight, as well as the confidence to win, in this hour of crisis,” he said. Busting mythsAfter Prime Minister appealed for a show of solidarity in the country’s collective fight against the coronavirus pandemic, social media was full of videos and posts about its ‘scientific benefits’.This led the government to dismiss these as ‘rumours and unscientific’ through the Press Information Bureau (PIB).“Don’t fall for the rumours/unscientific reasoning on the appeal for lightning Diya/candles/flash/torch on 5th April at 9pm. This initiative is to show solidarity and confidence in our collective fight against #Covid19,” PIB tweeted“Please maintain #SocialDistancing to keep #Covid19 at bay,” it said.Power gridsModi’s appeal to citizens to switch off lights across India on Sunday to mark the coronavirus fight also raised concerns that a surge in voltage due to a steep dip in power demand could harm the grid and cause widespread outages.The power grid has seen a 30% drop in demand due to the absence of commercial activity amid the 21-day nationwide lockdown. There were fears that the Prime Minister’s call could encourage people to switch off everything, reducing demand even more.The Union ministry of power then clarified that Modi’s call would not cause instability to the power grid amid concerns over a possible grid-collapse.Also read: What you need to know today“Some apprehensions have been expressed that this may cause instability in the grid and fluctuation in voltage which may harm electrical appliances. These apprehensions are misplaced. The Indian electricity grid is robust and stable and adequate arrangements and protocols are in place to handle the variation in demand,” the power ministry said in a statement.“The appeal of the Hon Prime Minister is to simply switch off the lights in their homes from 9 pm to 9.09 pm on the 5th of April. There is no call to switch off either streetlights or appliances like Computers, TVs, Fans, Refrigerators and ACs in the homes. Only lights should be switched off,” it added.PM Modi’s earlier appealModi had called on people to go on a self-imposed Janta Curfew and stay inside their homes and avoid going outside between 7am to 9pm on March 22. He also asked people to come to their doorways, balconies and windows to clap or ring bells at 5pm to thank those working toward essential services. Hundreds of thousands across the country had responded to the Prime Minister’s appeal to cheer doctors, nurses, police officials and others who are working to fight the coronavirus pandemic.India has seen a rise in the cases of Covid-19 since then and 3072 people, including 212 recoveries and 75 deaths, have contracted the coronavirus disease till Sunday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-pm-modi-s-call-for-switching-off-lights-for-9-minutes-at-9pm-today/story-olj4BNvDusJtIZeUAYAaCJ.html
05-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Man killed in clash over setting up of quarantine centre in Bengal||A man was killed in a clash between two groups of villagers allegedly over setting up of a quarantine centre at a village school in Birbhum district on Saturday night.The incident occurred in Talibpur village under Parui police station.“A clash broke out between two groups of villagers.Prima facie a man succumbed to bomb injuries,” Superintendent of Police Shyam Singh said.Police forces have been deployed in the village where the situation is tense but under control, he said.The police, however, did not say anything on the reason behind the clash.Local sources claimed that the administration has decided to set up a quarantine centre for suspected COVID-19 cases at a school in the village and it was not liked by a section of villagers while others were in favour of it.An altercation on the issue between members of the two groups led to a clash and a middle-aged was killed, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-man-killed-in-clash-over-setting-up-of-quarantine-centre-in-bengal/story-GyqigJy74q1SPTbQVewMYM.html
05-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: 61-year-old woman dies in Gujarat’s Surat; death toll at 11||The death toll due to the coronavirus disease reached 11 in Gujarat on Sunday after a 61-year-old woman, who had tested positive for Covid-19, died in Surat, news agency ANI reported.There are 108 Covid-19 patients in the state after 13 more people tested positive in Gujarat on Saturday.A 67-year-old woman had died in an Ahmedabad hospital on Saturday. Officials said the woman, who was admitted to Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Hospital on March 28, was on a ventilator.Her husband is also a coronavirus positive case with a travel history to Indore in Madhya Pradesh.Also read: What you need to know todayJayanti Ravi, Gujarat’s principal secretary (health), said on Saturday four more Covid-19 patients were discharged, one of them in Vadodara and three others in Gandhinagar, including an 80-year-old woman who also suffered from diabetes and other diseases. So far, 14 patients have been discharged in the state, she said.Ahmedabad has reported the highest number of cases at 45, followed by Surat and Gandhinagar at 13 each, Rajkot at 10, Vadodara and Bhavnagar at nine each, Porbandar at three, Gir Somnath at two, and Kutch, Patan, Panchmahal and Mehsana at one each.According to officials, 2139 samples have been tested so far in Gujarat and 2018 have tested negative while the result of 16 is awaited.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-61-year-old-woman-dies-in-gujarat-s-surat-death-toll-at-11/story-YR9CsuS8Go9YHSlq2xMZBM.html
05-04-2020||India||ICMR gives nod for rapid antibody test to detect Covid-19 in hotspot areas||In a bid to see whether the coronavirus is getting transmitted in the hotspot areas, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has set a fresh protocol for healthcare workers to start with rapid antibody-based blood test for COVID-19.The top medical research body has framed a newer strategy for areas reporting in clusters (containment zone), in large migration gatherings and evacuee’s centres, where large number of COVID-19 cases are arising.ICMR stated that cases of Influenza-like Illness (ILI) are to be monitored in health facilities. Any surge in cases are to be monitored and brought to the notice of surveillance officer or chief medical officer for additional investigation.“We have identified several hotspot areas where large numbers of COVID-19 cases are cropping up and rapid anti-body test is most suitable to detect whether the disease is spreading in the area or not... Also, rapid antibody test give quick results. Once a person is positive for rapid anti-body test, he or she should be quarantined for 14 days and a RT-PCR test should be done as a confirmatory test,” Dr R Ganga Khedkar of ICMR told ANI.“We have issued fresh guidelines for healthcare workers which say that all healthcare workers who are doing the rapid antibody test should use gloves, mask and headcovers. Healthcare workers collecting throat or nasal swab should follow standard national infection control guidelines,” he said.The advisory also mentioned that as a matter of abundant precautions, all symptomatic ILI persons should be advised home quarantine for 14 days. At facility level, symptomatic ILI individuals are to be tested using rapid antibody test.The guidelines mentioned, “Antibody test negative: if warranted, confirm by real time RT PCR using throat or nasal swab. If RT PCR negative: likely non COVID19 ILI and if RT PCR positive: confirmed COVID 19 case and action as per protocol to be initiated for isolation, treatment and contact tracing.”“Anti-body test positive: After clinical assessment, treatment in hospital or isolation as per protocol. Action to be taken as per protocol to initiated for contact tracing,” it said.The ICMR stated that the rapid antibody test approved by US-FDA CE-IVD or non CE-IVD validated by ICMR-NIV with marketing approval by DCGI be used.To ensure that all such cases are monitored and necessary action is initiated with respect to infectious can disease management, ICMR has sought details of all test results to its portal and update real time data. Failure to do so they will be held liable to action under Disaster Management Act, 2005.As of now, India has reported over 3,000 cases of COVID-19 and 75 deaths so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-gives-nod-for-rapid-antibody-test-to-detect-covid-19-in-hotspot-areas/story-yW35kCeXHJk4PSiESHygCK.html
05-04-2020||India||PM stresses on PPE availability in meeting with empowered groups||A week after forming 11 empowered panels comprising senior bureaucrats to monitor all aspects of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired a review meeting of all the groups.According to a government official familiar with the matter, only the heads of the 11 panels -- 10 empowered groups and a task force -- interacted with the PM. The group leaders spoke on issues and challenges that need to be addressed and the Prime Minister told them that the government is closely working with the states to combat the deadly virus.Later, in a series of tweets, the PM said that countrywide preparedness in terms of availability of hospitals, proper isolation and quarantine facilities, and disease surveillance, testing and critical care training were reviewed at the meeting. According to the official cited in the first instance, the meeting also identified areas needing attention. Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe Prime Minister also emphasized on ensuring sufficient production, procurement and availability of all essential medical equipment such as PPEs, masks, gloves and ventilators.Many states have sought more medical equipment such as protective gear, gloves and masks from the Centre apart from financial packages. The Prime Minister was also appraised of the steps being taken in the past seven days to ramp up the production of medical equipments. Earlier, in a meeting it was found that more than 20,000 ventilators in India are lying unused due to shortage or spares or servicing.The Narendra Modi government on Sunday established ten empowered groups and a key strategic task force to look into all aspects of the Corona outbreak. the measure turns at least 68 senior bureaucrats into a consorted planning and implementing machinery as India scrambles to minimize the impact of the deadly diseases that continues to kill thousands across the world.Last Sunday, the government announced working groups with specific task assigned to country’s top bureaucrats and experts to cover all aspects of the current situation arising out of the Corona outbreak.Groups have been formed with focus areas such as “the medical emergency management plan”, “availability of hospitals, isolation and quarantine facilities, disease surveillance and testing and critical care training” and “facilitating supply chain and logistics management for availability of necessary items such as food and medicine” and other issues.All the ten empowered groups have representatives from the cabinet secretariat and PMO for better coordination.A six-member Strategic Task Force has also been formed which will exclusively deal with issues related to the ongoing three-week lockdown that ends on April 14. Niti Ayog member Dr. VK Paul, home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla, secretary (coordination) VP Joy and three officials from the Prime Minister’s Office AK Sharma, Arvind Srivastava and Abhishek Shukla.PM will also be meeting his council of ministers and the Union Cabinet on Monday via video conferencing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-stresses-on-ppe-availability-in-meeting-with-empowered-groups/story-RVLTDMeoGsY5n4sfzbKB7O.html
05-04-2020||India||Community spread worries swirl in MP’s Covid hotspot Indore||Around 50% of the Covid-19 patients in Indore, the commercial capital of Madhya Pradesh, have no recent travel history or exposure to another person infected by the coronavirus, indicating that they caught the disease possibly through community transmission, health officials said. Indore recorded its first Covid-19 case on March 25, five days after the first four cases in the state were reported from Jabalpur. The number of cases grew steadily -- five more on March 26, four each on March 27 and 28 and three on March 29. The spurt started on March 30, when 19 new cases were identified. As of Thursday night, Indore accounted for 82 of Madhya Pradesh’s 107 Covid-19 patients.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicOnly 40 of the 82 people identified as Covid-19-positive had a travel history or exposure to a person known to be suffering from the disease, indicating the likelihood of community transmission, said a health department official of Indore district, who is maintaining records of all Covid-19 positive cases. Community transmission, known as stage 3 in a pandemic of the Covid-19 kind, is suspected when the source of infection cannot be identified and is seen as a sign of the virus spreading in local communities. Indian medical authorities have so far not acknowledged that the country has reached that stage. A health department official, requesting anonymity, said that when the initial cases were reported in Indore, little screening of people had taken place in the densely populated neighbourhoods where they surfaced. The complete lockdown starting on March 25 had also not been strictly enforced, the official said. “This may have caused some community spread,” the official added.The Madhya Pradesh government on March 30 replaced collector Lokesh Kumar Jatav and deputy inspector general of police Ruchivardhan Mishra with Manish Singh and Harinarayan Chari Mishra,respectively. Jatav declined speak on alleged lapses that took place in containing the spread of infections at the onset of the virus in Indore. The new collector should brief the media about the situation in Indore, Jatav said. Singh said they were alert about the situation and strict lockdown has been enforced in all these localities. What shocked health officials was that about 70 patients, or 80% of the Covid-19 patients identified as of Thursday night, had no recent history of travel. Chief medical and health officer (CMHO), Indore, Dr Praveen Jadia said, “Most of the cases don’t have a travel history. We suspect that the first four cases may have got the disease from one source and may have unknowingly spread it to others.” The first cases were reported from Ranipura, Chandan Nagar and Khajrana and they spread to new neighbourhoods like Daulatganj and Azad Nagar, indicating that the enforcement of the lockdown had been lax. Anwar Qadri, a local corporator , agreed with Jadia. “We are also baffled as to how the virus spread so fast in these localities,” he said, that unlike in other places, Indore’s Muslims had an insignificant association with the Tablighi Jamaat, the Islamic group whose Delhi headquarters hosted an international congregation last month and emerged as a hotspot of the coronavirus disease. Even three days after the spurt happened, the district administration is yet to complete contact tracking of all the Covid-10 patients. Commissioner, Indore division, Akash Tripathi said: “We are trying to know as to how many persons came in contact with Covid-19 positive cases to identify and screen such people. But we are yet to know as to whom it all started from.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/community-spread-worries-swirl-in-mp-s-covid-hotspot-indore/story-iqpFtGfmA4XqKscz4JwAYP.html
05-04-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||This is the 18th instalment of this column. Like the two other instalments that have come on Sundays, today’s was to have focused on how Covid-19, the coronavirus disease, would affect individuals (on the two previous Sundays, the column looked at how Covid-19 would change countries and companies). That will have to wait – although it’s an important topic. The pandemic, the lockdowns, the havoc that has been wrought on communities and economies – all of it has forced people to ask fundamental questions of themselves. And so, even as many will be forced to change how they live and how they work because their companies will ask them to go – unless India, like France, gives companies a good reason to not fire people – there will be others who decide it is time to change how they live and where they work (or vice versa, or both).It will have to wait because – Gattaca.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicOver the past few days, there’s been a lot of talk of the antibody test for Covid-19, and how the widespread use of this test could help get people back to work quickly (and get the wheels of economies chugging). WFH is all fine, but there’s a lot of stuff that can’t be done from home. In Italy, a debate is raging on who can and should be allowed to work. Veneto, one of the provinces of the country (Venice is located in it), is mulling antibody tests for health care workers, and then, everyone else. Those who are found to possess antibodies (of the kind that indicate they have had the disease; another kind simply shows that they are still fighting the disease -- at least that’s the theory) will be allowed back to work. Those who do not, even if they have never been infected by the Sars-CoV-2 virus which causes Covid-19 will not be – simply because the risk that they could get infected in a second wave of infections is too high.Italy isn’t the only country speaking this language. Last week, The Guardian reported, quoting the country’s health secretary Matt Hancock, that the UK is considering so-called immunity passports – certificates, based on antibody testing, that show that people have antibodies against Covid-19, which means they have had the disease – as a way to decide who gets to go back to work. The Guardian also reported that the idea seems to be derived from Germany, where researchers are readying a large-scale study to decide, again, based on immunity, who gets to be exempt from lockdown restrictions.Also Read: Biomedical waste from quarantine homes remain a potential hazardOther countries will also have to do this – even as researchers everywhere try and answer questions about antibody testing, which is less expensive, and also much less complicated than the PCR tests used to identify cases of Covid-19. Antibody testing is also based on bloodwork – something every neighbourhood path lab in India knows how to do.An announcement on antibody testing in India is imminent, HT’s health editor tells me. Its usage here is likely to be different – in clusters, to identify those with infections (although the antibodies show up after a lag, usually), rather than as a way to decide who is safe, and who isn’t.Which brings us to Gattaca, perhaps the best science-fiction movie ever made. It revolves around eugenics and the ethics of it and is set in a world where certain jobs are reserved for genetically superior people (called the valids). The others, the invalids, are not allowed to perform such jobs. One can argue that immunity passports are more about protection than reservation, but it is likely, if they are adopted, that they will be used not just to decide who gets to work, but also who gets to travel, and, perhaps, do other things as well. The world will now be divided between those who are immune to the coronavirus and those who are not.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-n64LltiISkBSjBWOU4gmHJ.html
05-04-2020||India||Untraced foreigners could spread coronavirus, experts fear||Early this week when the security establishment and health workers were close to completing the evacuation of 2,300 people from the Tablighi Jamaat’s headquarters in central Delhi, investigations led the police to conclude that there were more foreigners who attended the gathering organised by the missionary group who were staying in different mosques in the national capital. On 31 March, the Delhi Police sent an urgent message to the Delhi Government seeking help to locate the remaining Jamaat workers in the city’s mosques. The police communication listed 16 mosques.Investigators were prepared to find 187 foreigners and two dozen Indian nationals who had shifted to the mosques after attending congregation meetings at the headquarters of the religious sect in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area, an official familiar with the matter said.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicIt turns out they were horribly wrong.In four days, the combined teams of police, health workers and civil servants widened the net to cover a large number of mosques and have located over 800 foreigners linked to the Jamaat in the national capital. And they still have some distance to cover.“The big fear is that many of them would turn out to be positive cases, and could have already infected many others,” the official added. speaking on condition of anonymity.The Jamaat workers have been placed in multiple government-run quarantine facilities across the national capital. The ones who were found in mosques are yet to be tested. That process is expected to begin in a day or two.A senior official in the Delhi government’s home department confirmed the development but underlined that he couldn’t put a number on the foreigners found. “We are still in the process of getting final reports from the field,” he said on condition of anonymity.Security agencies who pored over the registers for foreigners maintained at the Markaz found 2,100 foreign nationals had touched base after landing in the country between March 1 and 18. Of them, 216 were still at the Jamaat headquarters when the crackdown took place and 824 had already left on missionary work. “We believe that the remaining 900-odd foreigners are mostly hiding in mosques around the city,” an offcial involved in the operation said.This person added that about 100 foreigners were found in mosques in the north-east district, 200 in the south-east district, 170 in the south district and seven in west district. Officials recall that by the time they evacuated the Jamaatis from the Markaz this week, 24 people had already tested positive and nearly 200 had symptoms. The Delhi government hasn’t received all the test reports, but the Markaz-linked cases already make up for two-thirds of all coronavirus patients in Delhi.By Friday evening, Delhi had 445 cases of Covid-19; of these, 301 can be attributed directly to the Jamaat gathering.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/untraced-foreigners-could-spread-coronavirus-experts-fear/story-LcO0kuSNxyIsuMgmGhL4kK.html
05-04-2020||India||Three Air India passengers from separate flights test positive for Covid-19||Air India on Sunday via a tweet informed that three of its passengers who travelled on three separate flights have tested positive for Covid-19. A passenger from AI661 which flew from Mumbai to Goa on March 19 has tested positive. #FlyAI : For Kind attention of passengers travelled by AI661 (Mumbai to Goa) of 19th March 2020. #COVID2019 pic.twitter.com/q8nQQmFEWKA passenger on AI883 which flew from Mumbai to Goa on March 22 have tested positive for Covid-19. #FlyAI : For Kind attention of passengers travelled by AI883(Mumbai to Goa) of 22nd March 2020. #COVID2019 pic.twitter.com/l3TC0eHL9UA passenger who travelled on AI101 which flew from Mumbai to Delhi on March 20 and was also on board the AI 415 which flew from Delhi to Patna on March 23 has also tested positive for Covid-19.  #FlyAI : For Kind attention of Passengers travelled on AI101 of 22nd March 2020(Mumbai to Delhi) and of AI 415(Delhi to Patna) of 23rd March 2020. #COVID2019 pic.twitter.com/PmlmILY8oxThe Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme of the Directorate of Health Services in Goa and Disaster Management Department of Bihar informed Air India of the development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-air-india-passengers-from-separate-flights-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-l9oudUgBQUbS71gQM6O5CP.html
05-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Odisha asks thousands to self-quarantine as postman tests positive||The Odisha government Saturday asked thousands of people in one of the most densely populated areas of Bhubaneswar to quarantine themselves a day after a postman in the area tested positive for coronavirus.Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation commissioner PC Chaudhury said the postman, who serves at the BJB Nagar Sub Post Office in Bhubaneswar had returned from Delhi on March 10. Officials said the postman delivered letters in Goutam Nagar as well as the Khurda district and sessions court area where hundreds of people including lawyers, litigants and policemen come every day. Also read: India-US partnership to fight Covid-19, says PM Modi after call with Trump“The postman has delivered a substantial number of letters and other postal articles in his service area during these 10 days of lockdown period. I would request the people of his service area that if you have come in contact with him then please stay in mandatory home quarantine and in addition to that please register yourself with 104. If you develop any symptoms like cough, fever or any other symptom then please inform 104 and we will undertake all procedures like sample collection, testing etc,” the BMC Commissioner said.The Puri district administration on Saturday sealed Danagahir village village in Pipili block where the postman lived ,not far from Bhubaneswar.Puri collector Balwant Singh said Danagahir village under Pipili Block is being declared as a ‘containment zone’ to restrict the public from entering and going out of the place. Similarly, the district administration in Jajpur sealed off three villages including Brahmabarada village as well as 10 block headquarter towns and four municipal areas to prevent the spread of the deadly virus after a person from the village had tested positive. The man had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi.Meanwhile, the number of those infected by coronavirus in Odisha rose to 21 on Saturday after a 29-years-old man of Kalahandi district tested positive. The man had recently returned from Bahrain, but did not show any symptoms of the disease.Also on Saturday, the Odisha government started passive surveillance of both the government and private healthcare facilities and asked all the hospitals to inform the government about the details of patients suffering from severe acute respiratory infection and influenza. The hospitals have been urged to report all the cases of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection and Influenza-like Illness to the district Integrated Disease Surveillance Program cell or State IDSP, said Odisha government’s chief spokesperson on Covid-19, Subroto Bagchi.“As there has been a sharp increase in the number of Covid-19 positive cases, it has become imperative to strengthen passive surveillance. Any violation shall be viewed seriously including sealing of the facilities and cancellation of licence under the Clinical Establishment Act. The office-bearers of Private Clinical Establishment Association have also been urged to bring it to the notice of all concerned,” said Bagchi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-odisha-asks-thousands-to-self-quarantine-as-postman-tests-positive/story-5ra4qEAteNtzzWWCfUB1QP.html
05-04-2020||India||Scientists write musical notation on coronavirus protein||In times of social isolation, many are turning to the soothing notes of classical music, but for scientists, it might provide a new method to study the virus that has brought the world to its knees.Researchers at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) have translated the spike protein of Sars-Cov-2, the coronavirus that causes Covid-19, into music using a technique called sonification.The audio, posted on SoundCloud in March, is meant to help researchers better understand the structure of the virus, which first emerged in China late last year and has infected more than a million people across the world in just over three months.Over time, this audio format could help create drugs or find an antibody that can counter the virus’s effect, scientists say.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicAt the heart of the experiment is the spike protein -- the component on the surface of the virus that gives it a crown-like appearance and the name coronavirus (‘corona’ meaning ‘crown’ in Latin). This protein is what binds the pathogen to host cells, often predominantly in the lungs. Its structure and relationship with the cell it infects is instrumental in understanding how the virus attacks the human body.But why choose music over conventional methods of mapping the virus?“Our brains are great at processing sound. We would need a high-powered microscope to see the equivalent detail in an image, and we could never see it all at once. Sound is such an elegant way to access the information stored in a protein,” Markus J Buehler, the MIT professor at the helm of the project, told the university’s on-campus publication, MIT News, on Thursday.“We might also use a compositional approach to design drugs to attack the virus. We could search for a new protein that matches the melody and rhythm of an antibody capable of binding to the spike protein, interfering with its ability to infect,” Buehler added.There is also a larger metaphor that shows why scientists are keen to translate the virus’s structure into sound. The “pleasing, relaxing sounds” convey the “deceitful nature of the virus, which hijacks the body” to exploit it, wrote Buehler in his description for the nearly two-hour long audio, ‘Viral counterpoint of the coronavirus spike protein’, that he posted on the music sharing platform, SoundCloud.The process of sonification involves assigning amino acids that make up a protein to corresponding sounds by transposing their natural frequencies on a note in a specific musical scale. Other aspects of the protein are represented by altering the volume and duration of the notes, giving it rhythm.Artificial intelligence algorithms are used to convert these musical scores into a composition that displays the “innate relationship” between amino acid and the protein structure, according to a methodology released on American Chemical Society (ACS) Publications by researchers Chi-Hua Yu, Zhao Qin, Francisco J Martin-Martinez and Markus J Buehler, who suggested the broad guidelines of the process of sonification. This isn’t the first time microbiological data has been perceived through sound. A 2017 study converted information stored in a DNA sequence into music, which, it argued, could help the scientific community analyse its complex structure and any mutation that might occur. Last month, a UK-based artist released a track titled ‘Sound of Covid-19’, albeit with no such scientific utility: the artist said the notes were a conversion of the genome sequence of Sars-Cov-2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scientists-write-musical-notation-on-virus-protein/story-BBJ36dRM4RCx8S3mD19xEP.html
05-04-2020||India||Covid-19 update: New plan holds clues to unlocking country||A Union health ministry plan has outlined how regions — cities, villages or neighbourhoods — with large outbreaks or multiple clusters of the coronavirus disease Covid-19 could be walled in, charting out what may be the first official road map to keep the disease in check by focussing curbs and surveillance on hot spots while other areas return to some degree of normalcy once the nationwide lockdown ends later this month.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe strategy is based on lessons from the 2009 outbreak of the H1N1 influenza pandemic which, according to the report, had a bigger impact on “well-connected big cities with substantive population movement” while rural areas and smaller towns with low population and poor connectivity reported only few cases. “The current geographic distribution of Covid-19 mimics the distribution of H1N1 pandemic influenza. This suggests that while the spread of Covid-19 in our population could be high, it’s unlikely that it will be uniformly affecting all parts of the country. This calls for differential approach to different regions of the country, while mounting a strong containment effort in hot spots,” said the health ministry’s containment plan for large outbreaks. Also Watch | Health Ministry’s plan to unlock lockdown, musical version of COVID-19: Top 5 stories from HTAlso Read: India Inc awaits fiscal push from Centre to keep afloatThe road map is meant to tackle the third most serious scenario of the outbreak in the country. The first, and the mildest scenario, is when cases are limited to those who have travelled. Second is when cases are spread locally. The third scenario is when there are large clusters, while the remaining two are, when there is widespread community transmission and, the most severe, when India becomes endemic for Covid-19. Actions for mitigation phase -- a scenario when focus must shift to management of cases instead of containing the outbreak -- will be dealt under a separate plan, the report added.“The large outbreak in India is still amenable to containment. All states have put in place aggressive containment measures, and we haven’t reached that stage where the outbreak is uncontrolled,” said a senior health ministry official, requesting anonymity. At present, there are 21 clusters in nine regions that are under a close watch for outbreaks. While there are no rigid thresholds set for what defines a “large outbreak” or how many clusters make the cut, an official aware of the plan cited Delhi’s Nizamuddin neighbourhood, Rajasthan’s Bhilwara and Kerala’s Kasargod as examples of what will be considered for the containment plan. Nizamuddin is home to the Tablighi Jamaat’s headquarters, which has contributed about two-thirds of Delhi’s 445 infections. Bhilwara accounts for 27 of Rajasthan’s 200 cases and Kasargod 136 of Kerala’s 306 infections. “That’s what is being done at the ground level from where a large number of cases are being reported. Most of our cases still can be traced back to international travel and the percentage where contacts have not been traced yet is too small to cause panic,” the official quoted above added.According to the plan, a hot spot will be divided into zones: the quarantine zone and a buffer zone around it. The quarantine zone will be where most of the cases are focussed, while the buffer will include certain blocks or districts around it, as decided by authorities on a case-to-case basis.For both zones, access– particularly outbound travel – will be cut off and all movement of vehicles and public transport will be halted, with exceptions only for those with special passes meant to enable essential services. “Thermal screening, IEC (inform-educate-communicate: a strategy to raise awareness on risks and consequences) shall be carried out at all entry and exit points,” the plan says.Schools and colleges will be closed, mass gatherings will be banned and people will be encouraged to stay indoors for the first 28 days in both zones, the document states, adding: “based on the risk assessment and indication of successful containment operations, an approach of staggered work and market hours may be put into practice.”These measures will be paired with increased disease surveillance: more random tests on hospitalised cases, testing of all suspected cases, isolation of patients and quarantine of contacts.The testing criteria, however, remains the same. All symptomatic individuals who have undertaken international travel in the past 14 days, all symptomatic contacts of laboratory confirmed cases, all symptomatic health care workers, all hospitalised patients with severe acute respiratory infections (SARI) and asymptomatic direct and high-risk contacts of a confirmed case should be tested once between day 5 and day 14 of coming in contact. The testing will continue till 14 days from the date the last confirmed case is declared negative by laboratory test, says the document.According to experts, such strategies are crucial because it is not possible to keep a country as huge as India under perpetual lockdown and a blanket withdrawal is not advisable at this stage of transmission. “The aim behind implementing the lockdown in the first place was to buy more time to better prepare the country for likely surge in cases, therefore, areas from where unusually high number of cases is being reported, what are called as hot spots, those should still remain under lockdown as these are sensitive areas that can change the entire scenario if left unattended. These are vulnerable pockets and need special government focus, else it can defeat the whole purpose behind country’s efforts towards flattening the transmission curve,” said Pradip Chakraborty, senior advisor, Centre for Public Health and Food Safety. The containment strategy is similar to what has been used in China, the ground zero for the outbreak. Wuhan, a city of about 11 million people from where the virus is believed to have begun spreading in late December and affected the largest number of people within the country, was put under a strict curfew. The curbs were gradually relaxed, but movement restrictions have not been removed entirely.Among some new measures, the health ministry report suggests local administrations must ensure “supply of enough triple layer masks to households in the containment and buffer zones to be distributed through visiting surveillance teams”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-plan-holds-clues-to-unlocking-country/story-SuNkpmmyaDy2zEU4u0E77O.html
05-04-2020||India||‘Cannot do selective evacuation of stranded Indians from Covid-19 affected countries,’ says minister||Minister of state for external affairs (MEA) and parliamentary affairs, V Muraleedharan, spoke to Hindustan Times about brings Indians back from abroad, foreigners stranded in India, and relief being sent by India to other countries, among other issues.MEA had a daunting task of evacuating Indian citizens from overseas. How did you go about it?A lot of Indians who were abroad have been brought home; the last such flight came from Iran. We have been carrying out evacuations, but since international travel has stalled, and there is a lockdown in India, we have through our high commissions and embassies ensured that food and other necessities of people of Indian origin are taken care of. In fact there are between 700-800 Indians abroad who are infected by the virus, even their needs are being taken care of.We get a lot of emails and requests from people who want to come home, some are unwell, some have bereavements in their families, but since international travel is affected so we cannot do selective evacuation. Embassies and high commissions have been asked to step up; they have also been helping people whose visas have expired. It is not their job, but they are helping people renew their visas as well.How is India helping in the relocation of foreign nationals stranded across the country?For foreign nationals who are in India, we have already started a portal where they can register and we can plan for their evacuation. A lot of people from countries such as Germany, the UK and the US have already been evacuated. Governments of some countries sought our help in getting their nationals who were stuck in distant places to reach the airports in Mumbai, Delhi or Kochi; that assistance we could provide after coordinating with the home ministry and the local police - we helped them reach the airport from where they could then be evacuated to their respective countries.How exactly is India helping other countries? We’ve sent help to Maldives…Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been in discussion with heads of states; he had a meeting with the members of the Saarc nations and G20; he also spoke to French President Emmanuel Macron on Tuesday (expert teams of the two countries will actively share information on measures to prevent the spread of coronavirus as well as about ongoing research on treatment and vaccines.) Union Minister for external affairs S Jaishankar has also spoken to his US counterpart Mike Pompeo (on how to combat the international crisis, including strengthening global pharmaceutical and healthcare manufacturing and supply chains). The PM also addressed the heads of 130 missions. Wherever we can offer help and provide assistance, we’re going to do that.What is the status of relief efforts by India to the neighbouring countries?Being a member of Saarc, PM Modi has already announced the setting up of a Covid-19 emergency fund with India making an initial contribution of $10 million. Countries such as Sri Lanka, Nepal, Bhutan and Maldives have already made the contributions. These countries are again collaborating in whatever ways to fight the pandemic.What is the initial assessment of the lockdown?The overall impact has been good because people have appreciated the decisive action of the PM. Because of his address on TV, a lot of people understood the seriousness of the situation. His word carries weight and people have faith in him.The economic impact is an important issue, and the second is the migration of workers. The government will have to work on these. Some groups [of exporters] have had a discussion with the commerce minister pointing out how India could lose markets if restricted resumption of services export services is not started. But we will all have to bear the impact of the pandemic. However, some international financial agencies have said that except China, India and Indonesia, which will have growth in the whole financial year, other countries will be in recession. The challenges now are to ensure that the delivery of essential goods is carried without any hiccups. The railways,for instance, is transporting all essential goods, but the workers to carry the load may not be permitted by the police to leave their homes. We will have to find a way out; those in the government and in the police, particularly at the lower levels, will have to be a bit more discerning and understand the nuances of the lockdown.There was criticism from the Opposition that Parliament should have been adjourned earlier?Parliament was on because at that moment there was a sense that adjourning the House will create a situation of panic. The Prime Minister had said ‘no’ to panic and ‘yes’ to precautions. We had already taken steps such as banning visitors from Parliament. The message was that life has to go on but with precautions. After the “Janta curfew” on Marcch 22, and when an escalation of cases began, it was decided that there will be a locked down. After the Lok Sabha passed the finance Bill on March 23, a lockdown was announced on the 24th, in that way the timing was perfect; it was neither too late nor too early.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/get-a-lot-of-emails-and-requests-cannot-do-selective-evacuation-v-muraleedharan/story-DECv8ZhX7mYzXUafCS7ssO.html
05-04-2020||India||1,023 Covid-19 cases across 17 states linked to Jamaat: Centre||At least 1,023 cases of Covid-19 in India are linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in New Delhi, the Union health ministry announced on Saturday, adding that authorities had traced nearly 22,000 other people who were connected to the religious event that has emerged as the biggest hot spot of the infection in the country. At a briefing ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal said infections linked to the event were found in 17 states and that primary contacts of the 22,000 people had been placed in quarantine. “Around 30% of the total cases so far are linked to one particular place where we could not sort of understand it and manage it,” he said.The congregation of the Islamic missionary group at its six-storey headquarters in Delhi’s Nizamuddin saw people trickling in and out for weeks, and came to light late on Saturday when officials began evacuating hundreds from the building. By that time, many people had already gone back to their homes, forcing many state governments to call in the police and paramilitary forces to ferret people out of villages. Prominent religious and political leaders have also appealed any attendees to contact local health authorities. Among the worst hit is Tamil Nadu, which now has the second highest infection count in the country (485) after Maharashtra. All but one of the 74 new cases reported in the southern state on Saturday were linked to the event. In Uttar Pradesh, 47 of the 55 fresh Covid-19 cases were members of the Jamaat who attended the congregation, additional secretary, home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi and principal secretary, Health and Family Welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said at a joint press conference in Lucknow. The state police identified 1,302 Jamaat members and 1,000 have been quarantined. The statewide search drive of the Tabligi Jamaat members is continuing, said Kumar.In Andhra Pradesh, the government declared that 1,085 people had attended the conference, of which 946 people had been identified and tested. At least 108 had tested positive for Covid-19. Another 626 persons came in contact with the attendees and 32 of them contracted the virus. “In all, 140 out of 161 positive cases in the state were related to Tablighi Jamaat meeting directly and indirectly,” a release from the state government said. The details of the remaining persons related to Jamaat incident are yet to be revealed.In Assam, 24 of the 25 patients visited the Jamaat event last month. “It is unfortunate that daily we are getting fresh inputs about more and more people from the state who had visited the congregation. I would appeal to the district and state level functionaries of Tablighi Jamaat in Assam to give us the entire list of attendees voluntarily,” said Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma. “We have not got the kind of response we expected from them. If we don’t get all the information within Sunday we might be forced to ask the police to get involved in tracing them,” he added.In Odisha, where the government has imposed a harsh lockdown in several cities, three of the 28 people from the state who attended the Jamaat have tested positive. A worried Odisha government has now asked anyone who attended the event to come forward voluntarily and get tested in the next 24 hours. A senior government official said 68 persons from Odisha, including several African nationals, attended the event last month.On Saturday, Uttarakhand police said it had identified 708 Jamaat followers and quarantined 673 of them. “In the case of 383 Jamaatis from our state, 26 didn’t return and are quarantined in Delhi only. Here, 285 of them have been put in institutional quarantine and 72 in home quarantine. Soon the ones in home quarantine would also be put in institutional quarantine,” said Ashok Kumar, director general (law & order), Uttarakhand police.Three Jamaat members were among 11 tested positive in Kerala on Saturday, said state health minister KK Shailaja. In Bengal, the government has not disclosed whether any state resident visited the Delhi event but the Kolkata Port Trust (KoPT) said on Saturday that a man working at Haldia port, who went to the Nizamuddin Markaz, tested positive for Covid-19. The man is an employee of one of KopT’s contractors at the port. KoPT said officers who might have had any kind of contact with the patient had been quarantined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-023-cases-across-17-states-linked-to-jamaat-centre/story-pdlVxSMu5Yf2909kWycIoN.html
05-04-2020||India||Bengal undecided on allowing jute mills to operate||KOLKATA: A day after the ministry of food and public distribution wrote to the West Bengal government, requesting them to immediately direct the jute mills to start operations to meet the increased demand of jute bales, the state government remained undecided on Saturday.Bengal is the country’s biggest hub of jute industry and about 60 mills in the sector directly employ nearly 2 lakh people. Another 40 lakh jute growers are dependent on orders from the industry. “We have received no instruction from the state government yet. Earlier in March, we too had written to the state government, urging it to allow us to function. We hope a decision would be arrived at on Monday,” said Raghavendra Gupta, chairman of Indian Jute Mills Association.Chief secretary Rajiva Sinha did not respond to questions sent via text messages and WhatsApp asking if the government had taken any decision in this regard. Labour minister Malay Ghatak did not take repeated calls.Jute Commissioner of India (JCI) Moloy Chandan Chakraborty said he did not receive any communication from the state government asking the mills to start functioning. The food and public distribution ministry’s letter to the West Bengal chief secretary was also marked to the JCI. In his letter to the chief secretary, dated April 3, E K Majhi, additional secretary at the ministry of consumer affairs, food and public distribution wrote that the government of Punjab and the Food Corporation of India (FCI) had stated about shortage of jute bales due to the nonfunctioning of the jute mills since the beginning of the lockdown in March.“It is of utmost importance that jute mills immediately resume their operations for manufacturing/dispatch of jute bales to meet the requirements of the State Procurement Agencies/FCI,” Majhi wrote.“I shall, therefore, earnestly request your indulgence to direct jute mills to immediately start manufacturing/ supply of jute bales so that during the peak procurement period, procurement operations of government are not disrupted due to shortage of jute bags,” the letter said.It also stated that there could be additional requirements of jute bales this year.Jute is one of Bengal’s largest labour-intensive industries and the mills are located in the districts around Kolkata – Howrah, Hooghly, North 24-Parganas and South 24-Parganas.A senior government officer posted at the state secretariat said on Saturday, requesting anonymity, that the state government wanted to have an informal discussion with leaders of prominent trade unions before asking to start operations.“We do not want to pressurize the state government. It is a sensitive situation, where a fine balance needs to be struck between procurement of food and safety of mill workers. The state has been advised and we hope they would arrive at the best judgment,” said a senior official at the ministry of textile who did not want to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-undecided-on-allowing-jute-mills-to-operate/story-VN2JklGcvpGsbFIljhqRaM.html
05-04-2020||India||Welfare schemes, well-oiled PDS helping Tamil Nadu’s poor||It is either vattams (circle) or kattams (square). Hemalatha, 38, has stood in both shapes — chalk-drawn on the road to help people maintain distance — while waiting her turn to pick up rations from the fair-price shop in Usilampatti in Madurai district. “My father is over 60 so we got an SMS saying that we should stay home and we will be given a token which will specify the date and time on which we have to line up outside the ration shop,” she told Hindustan Times. “Before us the residents of the next street were asked to line up. It is done in an orderly way.”Hemalatha, who works as an assistant project officer at the Tamil Nadu State Rural Livelihoods Missions, said that two volunteers of a local self help group are deputed to a ration shop each morning. They are provided gloves, masks and sanitisers and they must ensure that people in the queue maintain adequate distance. There are also notices by the government on how to wash hands thoroughly, and the sanitation workers sprinkle bleaching powder in neighbourhoods and roads regularly, she said.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThough 31 out of Tamil Nadu’s 37 districts have been affected by Covid-19 cases — the updated total on Saturday was 485 — the state has largely been able to avoid a humanitarian crisis largely due to the containment strategy it put in place after over 1000 persons who attended a religious conference of the Tablighi Jamaat in New Delhi, returned. More importantly, a well-oiled public distribution system and well-supplied social welfare schemes of the state have been able to help residents, particularly those with livelihoods at stake, during the 21-day national lockdown.Hours before Tamil Nadu went into lockdown mode, on March 24, the government announced a Rs 3280 crore special relief package which included Rs 1000 cash assistance to each rice ration card holder, construction worker and autorickshaw driver. Those with “rice” ration cards were also promised free rice, lentils, palm oil and sugar for April. Based on socio-economic vulnerability, the state provides five types of smart ration cards. The relief measures apply to all those who have ration cards to avail rice in both priority and non-priority households. However, those who do not want to avail the service can give it up by indicating their choice online. More than 20.1 million ration card holders were covered in the Covid-19 relief announced by the government, a senior official at the TN Civil Supplies Department said on condition of anonymity.“All the beneficiaries will get cash support at their door and tokens will be issued to collect food grains from allotted fair price shops in a staggered manner. We are ensuring that up to 100 tokens are issued per day and people are given date and time in their tokens,” he said. “We are also providing doorstep delivery for those who are home quarantined since they cannot come to the shops. There is a separate team that is involved. All government employees have been reorganised to complete this task,” he added.All 35,244 ration shops in the state are operated by the government.“No private agents [are involved in the operation] like in states such as Uttar Pradesh or Maharashtra. From procurement from Food Corporation of India to sending it to different godowns at the district level, and then from there to fair price shops, [all of] it is done quite smoothly. It is easier to coordinate passing of information, and each transaction at the point of sales devices is captured in real time,” the senior official said.Besides the PDS system, Amma Canteens provide subsidised food said J. Jeyaranjan, director of the Institute of Development Alternatives. The canteens were launched by former chief minister J. Jayalalithaa in 2013, and offer cooked food is offered at heavily subsidized prices. For instance, an idli costs one rupee, Pongal (a mix of rice and lentil) costs Rs 5 and curd rice is available for Rs 3. “The point is the system is in place. While previously you would have seen 200 people visiting the Amma Canteen, now it is 600-700 people. The advantage is, you don’t have to invent something new to manage the crisis but you will need to pump in [more supplies],” he explained .There is “faith” in the system that it will work, Kripa Ananthpur, associate professor, Madras Institute of Development Studies, said. “For me the fact that migrant workers are not fleeing the state is an indicator that things are working,” she said. In the past week, the state also created containment zones to tackle the return of 1103 persons who attended the Tablighi Jamaat conference in New Delhi in mid-March. Many of them identified themselves promptly. For the past four days, the number of persons who have tested positive in the state has been driven by conference attendees.State health secretary Dr. Beela Rajesh announced that a detailed containment plan involves intense contact tracing: the attendees of the conference, their family members, their primary contacts are being investigated and tested. Health workers are also visiting homes in the area and checking for symptoms of Covid-19. The areas are also being cordoned off and movement is restricted. “Five kilometres is earmarked as a containment zone and two kilometres as a buffer zone. This is restricted and cordoned off by police and for each containment zone we have assigned staff including an anganwadi worker,” a senior official from the National Health Mission, Tamil Nadu, said. A doctor is put in charge of four zones, and can get a snapshot of prevalence of upper respiratory tract infections. “The moment a positive person is identified, he is isolated to a Covid-19 ward. Apart from that close contacts are brought to a facility’s quarantine.” Already 21 hospitals have been identified as Covid-19 treatment facilities in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/welfare-schemes-well-oiled-pds-helping-tn-poor/story-HgNMVaFI96sEHS71iU5YHO.html
05-04-2020||India||‘Aggressive testing, tracing those infected is key’: South Korean envoy||Aggressive testing among those at high risk, tracing people infected by the Coronavirus and quarantining them is key to preventing the mass spread of Covid-19, South Korean ambassador Shin Bong-kil said.South Korea’s 3T or “test, trace and treat” policy figured in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s video conference with 130 Indian envoys on Monday as one of few successful approaches to tackling the spread of the virus. Shin said the situation is his country had stabilised, with the number of new confirmed cases showing a steady decline and fluctuating around 100 a day.“The Korean government’s Covid-19 control strategy consists of robust testing to identify confirmed cases, tracing their contacts to prevent further spread, and treating those infected at the earliest possible stage,” Shin said in an interview with HT.South Korea’s current diagnostic testing capacity is up to 15,000 tests per day. While it has performed more than 400,000 tests, it continues to test at near-full capacity, he said. Identifying and isolating the contagion and treatment in the early stages is the only viable method because no vaccine is available, he said.Asked if the “test, trace and treat” can be applied in India, which has a much larger population, Shin replied: “In India’s case, the lockdown of the entire nation was a necessary step considering India’s sheer size and demographic. However, in order to prevent mass spread of the virus, it is important to identify those at high risk, carry out aggressive testing, then trace those infected by the virus and quarantine them.”More than half of South Korea’s more than 9,600 cases were traced to the Shincheonji Church of Jesus, and Shin said his country had faced a mass outbreak in the initial stage “due to a gathering of a religious congregation in” a province. “The Korean government acquired the list of all members of the religious organisation and aggressively proceeded to test and quarantine them. We were thus successful in controlling the spread of the virus at an early stage,” he said.Shin said the South Korean government was prepared to fully share all information and insights garnered from its fight against Covid-19 with India. “President Moon Jae-in and Prime Minister Modi exchanged ideas through the virtual G20 Summit,” he added.In the long run, South Korea and India, with their advanced information technology, bio and pharmaceutical industries, can cooperate in research and development in the fight against virus-related diseases, he said.Shin also expressed the hope that the Indian government will take speedy steps to address the concerns of South Korean firms once the 21-day lockdown ends.“As you are well aware, Korean companies such as Samsung, LG, Hyundai and Kia closed their plants due to the lockdown…Well aligned with the ‘Make in India’ policy, our companies have invested heavily in the country and a complete shutdown incurs massive losses for them,” he said.“Once the shutdown is lifted, new personnel will have to be dispatched for handling new equipment and installing new facilities. I hope the authorities expedite visas for engineers from Korea who wish to enter India.”Shin said a crisis often “leads to chance” and “India must not lose the opportunity to emerge as a world top manufacturing hub”.With hundreds of South Korean nationals stranded in India, Shin said a special Korean Air flight is expected to evacuate residents and tourists who desire to return in the first weekend of April. “Further evacuation will be dependent on the future pandemic situation and the status of the shutdown, which is currently imposed till April 15,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aggressive-testing-tracing-those-infected-is-key-korean-envoy/story-3Gsk91Cou7N0LrekzLtMwO.html
05-04-2020||India||Exposure to coronavirus needs to be digitally traced||The spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid) is too rapid to be contained by the traditional manual contact tracing of infected people, a new study has concluded, calling for digital and phone-based methods to control the contagion at scale. The study, conducted by professors at the University of Oxford and published in the journal Science, also flagged significant concerns around privacy and ethics and urged governments to be transparent and constitute an independent board to oversee the use of such invasive techniques. “Our analysis suggests that almost half of coronavirus transmissions occur in the very early phase of infection, before symptoms appear, so we need a fast and effective mobile app for alerting people who have been exposed. Our mathematical modelling suggests that traditional public health contact tracing methods are too slow to keep up with this virus,” said Christophe Fraser of Oxford University’s Big Data Institute, Nuffield Department of Medicine, and one of the authors of the study. Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe paper has been published at a time when India is experiencing a surge in infections – the number has almost tripled in five days – and governments have pressed the local police, district administrations and even anti-terror squads to trace people who attended or have come into contact with those who attended an Islamic congregation in March in New Delhi’s Nizamuddin, which has emerged as the biggest hotspot of Covid-19 in the country. The government has linked at least 647 cases of the infection to the congregation, attended by delegates from overseas and all over India. In the study, scientists use a mathematical model of infectiousness through four routes of transmission: symptomatic (known contact with someone exhibiting Covid-19 symptoms), pre-symptomatic (contact with someone before symptoms showed up), asymptomatic (direct transmission from individuals who never experienced symptoms), and environmental (when direct close contact is not known).In the model, the scientists assume that the threshold for stopping the spread of the epidemic is to reduce the reproduction number (R) – the number of people one patient can infect – to below one. This would mean that each Covid-19 patient would infect less than one person, and the disease would eventually die out. The model of infection spread is assumed to be exponential – as has been witnessed in several countries.The scientists found that instantaneous contact tracing significantly improved the chances of containing the epidemic and reducing R to below 1, while a delay of three days – typically associated with manual contact tracing – led to the probability nearing zero. To be sure, this assumed that no other parameters – such as weather or medical intervention – were involved in the situation.“At the current stage of the epidemic, contact tracing can no longer be performed effectively by public health officials in the UK, and many countries across Europe, as coronavirus is spreading too rapidly. Our research of early data from other countries shows that patient histories are incomplete - we don’t know the details of the person we sat next to on the bus,” said David Bonsall from Oxford’s Nuffield Department of Medicine and one of the study’s authors. The scientists suggested the use of a mobile phone app that keeps a temporary record of proximity between individuals so that it can immediately alert close contacts of diagnosed cases and prompt them to self-isolate. The paper also proposed an algorithm by which instantaneous signals, carrying details of proximity and location, are transmitted to and from a central server, which also receives coronavirus diagnoses. This enables recommendation of risk-stratified quarantine and physical distancing measures in those known to be possible contacts – similar to the measures undertaken by South Korea after a 61-year-old woman attended a church congregation and ended up infecting close to 5,000 people. “To work, this approach needs to be integrated into a national programme, not taken on by independent app developers. If we can securely deploy this technology, the more people that opt-in, the faster the epidemic will stop, and the more lives can be saved,” Bonsall said. But the paper flags significant ethical and privacy concerns and stresses the need to avoid coercive surveillance. It calls for oversight by an independent advisory board, a transparent algorithm, data protection and sharing of knowledge. “People should be democratically entitled to decide whether to adopt this platform. The intention is not to impose the technology as a permanent change to society, but we believe under these pandemic circumstances it is necessary and justified to protect public health,” the study said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/exposure-needs-to-be-digitally-traced/story-30JJuHxqN91v6ovAF97gfP.html
05-04-2020||India||EC defers legislative council polls in UP, Bihar in view of coronavirus lockdown||The Election Commission (EC) has deferred elections for the legislative councils of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar in view of the lockdown due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. The elections were to be held for eight legislative council seats in Bihar and 11 legislative council seats in UP. In Bihar, four of the seats are in graduates’ constituencies, in that graduates of the particular constituency will be allowed to vote. The remaining four are in teachers’ constituencies, in that only full-time teachers in a particular constituency will be eligible to vote. While the tenures of the incumbents only end on May 6, the EC, in a statement issued Friday, has stated that it requires at least four weeks, “subject to holidays, to complete the statutory activities, as prescribed in the Representation of the People Act.” The EC statement points out that the electoral process involves the “movement and gathering of polling officials, agents of political parties, support officials and electors on the poll day, which may put public safety at risk and create public health hazard”. Given the lockdown, the statement adds that “continuing with the electoral process in the current environment may not be feasible in view of the restrictions for the maintenance of public safety and avoiding health hazards”. “Now, therefore, the Commission invoking its powers under Article 324 of the Constitution of India read with Section 16 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, hereby orders that the process of elections to the above-mentioned seats shall be initiated at a later date after reviewing the situation,” the statement concludes. The Uttar Pradesh Legislative Council has 100 seats. At present, it has a strength of 99, while one seat is vacant. Bihar, on the other hand, has 75 seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ec-defers-legislative-council-polls-in-up-bihar/story-TUUySpDpR8uYMnh9SQGuNN.html
05-04-2020||India||Biomedical waste from quarantined homes remains a potential hazard||Thousands of people across India have been advised by doctors to stay in home quarantine for 14 days on suspicion that they could be potential carriers of the deadly coronavirus disease (Covid-19), . Some states have already set up a system to collect the biomedical waste generated by the quarantined households, but others seem to be lagging behind.The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has tagged this waste – face masks and gloves - “domestic hazardous waste” and issued guidelines on how to handle it. But till date, much of the biomedical waste is getting the same treatment as solid domestic waste instead of being disposed of at Common Biomedical Waste Treatment and Disposal Facilities (CBWTFs).Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThis, experts say, is dangerous because it increase the risk of the disease spreading; many people who were home-quarantined were detected with the virus at a later stage. The CPCB’s guidelines say that such waste should be collected from doorsteps in yellow bags which are to be provided by the authorities. Civic bodies should engage a dedicated team of trained workers equipped with protective gear for the doorstep collection. The authorities need to maintain a list of such homes. In Himachal Pradesh, the Shimla Municipal Corporation (SMC) has set up a trained task force for door-to-door collection. They workers are provided with N95 masks and sanitizers.“The quarantined houses are informed before we go for collection. They are provided with yellow garbage bags, disinfectants and gloves. The garbage collector puts the yellow bag inside another bag which is sealed and sent for disposal,” said Surekha Cohpda, the district health officer.In Madhya Pradesh, too, a system has been set in place for home collection but sometime citizens raise objections when vehicles enter the neighbourhood to collect biomedical waste.“When we go for door-to-door collection with vehicles, some people raise objections. They fear that the vehicle may spread germs even though the entire process is done in a scientific manner,” said Deepak Shah, adviser to the MP Nursing Home Association, which manages the biomedical incinerators.In West Bengal, where more than 50,000 people are under home quarantine, the authorities seem to be lagging behind in putting such a system in place .“In West Bengal the mechanism to collect and dispose biomedical waste from hospitals is run by the health department. The civic bodies are no way associated with this,” said Subrata Gupta, secretary of the urban development department.Although top health officials including the secretary and the director of health services didn’t take calls, one of the CBWTFs said the health department had not issued any directions for collection of biomedical waste from till date.“We have been asked to collect biomedical waste only from hospitals. We have not received any orders to collect such waste from doorstep or provide yellow bags to houses,” said Krishnendu Dutta, deputy general manager (operations) at Medicare Environmental Management, which runs three CBWTFs in West Bengal.In Bihar, although officials claimed that biomedical waste was being properly collected and disposed according to the guidelines laid down by the government, an official of a waste disposal agency, requesting anonymity, said there were many loopholes in the disposal of waste generated by quarantine centres set up in villages.“Initially we faced some problem but now things have been streamlined,” said Krunesh Garg, member-secretary of the Punjab Pollution Control Board, adding that the board had distributed double-layered, yellow-colour bags for collection of waste. Separate sanitation staff has been deputed for collections of the waste.In Rajasthan, the authorities are still trying to put a system in place. “The state pollution board will be collecting the data related to biomedical waste. The health and the local-self-government department have to share a list of Covid-19 related facilities by Saturday along with how much of the biomedical waste is collected. We are bringing the system in place,” said Shailaja Deval, member-secretary of the Rajastha pollution control board.Experts like Satish Sinha, associate director at Toxics Link, an NGO working on waste management, doubt that the guidelines of the CPCB and state pollution control boards are being properly implemented on the ground.“The guidelines seem good on paper. But I have serious doubts of what is happening on the ground. Instead of creating a separate team by ULBs {urban local bodies} for collection, which needs to be trained, the task of collection from houses should be handled by the CBWTFs,” Sinha said. “They have the expertise and were doing the job of collection and disposal of waste generated by hospitals. The biomedical waste generated at homes is no different. They have the same virus and could be a threat. It is just that the generation points have increased.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/biomedical-waste-from-quarantined-homes-remains-a-potential-hazard/story-h7O30krjzoDxBx60TPl9aL.html
05-04-2020||India||Covid-19 update: How pool testing can enhance speed, scale||The ministry of health and family welfare evaluated this week a testing methodology that could significantly expand its testing capacity, although it is yet to take a final call in the matter. The methodology is pool or pooled testing, which involves simultaneously testing a combined sample from multiple people from a household or a local cluster to widen reach and speed up results.Used during large outbreaks and invisible community transmission, such as of HIV, the virus that causes AIDS, this method is now being used to detect shards of the unique genetic material called RNA of Sars-COv2, the virus that causes coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicCovid-19 has infected at least 151,000 people and killed 61,000.The method uses the highly accurate real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test in a combined sample from several people. If a combined sample comes back positive, each person in the group is isolated and tested separately.Researchers from Israel have demonstrated that testing combined samples from up 64 people for Covid-19 significantly speeded up results, brought down cost and fast-tracked contact tracing, while reducing the workload on labs.Germany, which has the lowest death rates in Europe, increased testing from 40,000 tests per day to 200,000 to 400,000 tests without compromising accuracy.“The pool testing has no influence on the detection limit. In the case of a positive mini-pool result, individual testing is carried out in previously reserved samples. The positive sample can then be identified within four hours,” according to researchers from German Red Cross Blood Donor Service in Frankfurt and the Institute for Medical Virology at the University Hospital Frankfurt at Goethe University. “The more people who can be reliably tested for SARS-CoV-2, the faster the pandemic can be curbed,” said Birgitta Wolff president of Goethe University.India evaluated pooled testing as a method to scale up testing capacity, but did not include the method in its new testing protocol issued on April 4.“Efforts to increase test capacity by the ‘pooling’ of samples are being evaluated. This is not simple and needs the development and testing of optimization algorithms so that one positive in a large pool is not missed, for example,” India’s principal scientific adviser K VijayRaghavan said on Twitter a week ago.India has tested just tested 75,000 people for Covid-19, according to the Indian Council of Medical Research, a fraction of its population size of 1.36 billion people.“India’s testing capacity is a key bottleneck. So far, only around 75,000 people have been tested, with confirmatory results from National Institute of Virology in Pune taking three to four days,” said a public health specialist, requesting anonymity.“It’s a pity because pooled testing detects viral RNA in samples very accurately and helps maximise existing resources. For Covid-19, swab samples from mucous membranes of the nose or throat are combined in a buffer solution, which are then tested using the highly accurate RT-PCR. It can really save costs,” he added||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-mulls-new-testing-approach/story-eD4ZiGlrdaynBRPSebpJoO.html
05-04-2020||India||Man stuck in Ghana as wife, son infected by coronavirus in Mumbai||A 47-year-old man in Ghana is waiting to return home in Chembur, Mumbai, even as his wife and 14-year-old son undergo treatment for coronavirus in Fortis Hospital, Mulund. The family’s youngest child, a 9-year-old girl who suffers from a rare neurological ailment, is stuck in home quarantine with her maid. The man travelled to Accra, Ghana, on March 9 on a business trip. His 43-year-old wife started developing symptoms from March 19. Despite being informed twice, Kasturba Gandhi Hospital allegedly refused to run a test on her as she didn’t have any travel history or wasn’t in direct contact with a person who was carrying the pathogen of coronavirus. “She went to a local physician who prescribed her antibiotics which didn’t improve her health condition but did delay the diagnosis. Finally, on March 27, she approached a private laboratory that found her positive with Covid-19,” said the man. She was rushed to Fortis Hospital where she is undergoing treatment in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) and has been kept on minimal artificial breathing support. Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe man had no way of returning to India as international airlines were shut. Meanwhile, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) health workers collected swab samples from other close contacts of his wife, including their teenage son, daughter, his mother-in-law and two maids. On March 29, his son also got diagnosed with Covid-19 along with his mother-in-law and a maid. “I was hundreds of kilometers away and couldn’t do anything about it. I am more worried for my daughter as she is a specially-abled girl,” he said. The girl suffers from a rare neurological disorder, RETT Syndrome, which affects the development of the brain in girls. It also affects the immunity of the patients. She is unable to talk, walk and eat on her own.“She will be taken to my mother’s place. But for now, she is home quarantined in a single room along with a maid. She is having seizures regularly as she can’t see her mother and brother. My wife, who is admitted in ICU, keeps worrying about her, which is also affecting her recovery,” he said. Now, his 22-year-old nephew is staying with the family but he also doesn’t know how to handle a specially-abled child. The girl’s test is done in a private laboratory and the report is awaited.The man has sent mails to the ministry of external affairs and the Prime Minister’s Office to rescue him. The family has also started a petition on Change.org and has already received nine thousand signatures. “I know everything is closed but still, the government is running emergency services across borders. I need to come back to my family. This is a plea to the government from a father,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-stuck-in-ghana-as-wife-son-infected-in-mumbai/story-F9cErjimsKZqEJYudTxjPK.html
05-04-2020||India||Muslim scholars in UP urge members to back PM’s 9pm call on April 5||In a video clip, which is doing the rounds in some closed WhatsApp groups, a Muslim doctor based in the US can be seen advising community members to light a candle or diya (earthen lamp)at 9pm on Sunday, April 5, to “remain in the mainstream of the country”. “Today, people, including our own neighbours, are looking at us with suspicion. They will be watching us. Do light diyas to remove all misgivings about the community,” he says.The doctor is not the only one.With the Nizamuddin Markaz emerging as a hotspot of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the country, influential members of the Muslim community have taken to mobilising the people to take steps that help bust myths, not just about coronavirus but also about the community.And getting Muslims to openly answer the call given by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, to light diyas, candles or flash torchlights for nine minutes at 9pm on Sunday to show solidarity in the fight against Covid 19, is one of them.With mosques practically closed due to the lockdown, WhatsApp messages have come in as a handy tool for the clerics and scholars to disseminate the message. ‘NEED TO IMPROVE IMAGE’Mufti Obaid-ur- Rahman of Gorakhpur feels the Nizamuddin incident has dented Islam’s image and thus it is their (the community’s) duty to correct it. He says, “There are WhatsApp groups of madarsa teachers, clerics, intellectuals and commoners, wherein appeals are being made repeatedly to abide by social distancing rules and join countrymen in lighting candles outside doors and on balconies on April 5. Earlier too, many Muslims here had joined the nation in ringing bells and clanging thalis to show their solidarity with frontline corona warriors. This time, too, we will follow the PM’s appeal.”In Lucknow, Maulana Khalid Rasheed Farangi Mahali, Imam of Eidgah (Aishbagh), says: “Muslims love their country and they must come out of this communal mindset to defeat coronavirus.”Prominent Shia cleric Maulana Kalbe Jawwad says, “The coronavirus doesn’t differentiate between Hindus and Muslims, so we must fight it together.”Dr Javed Ahmed Siddiqui, who runs a clinic in Hussainganj locality of the state capital, says, “It’s time to prove that everyone is not like the Tablighis. Muslims are most liberal and scientific in approach. I have asked all my neighbours to join me in lighting diyas as this disease is a common enemy of both the communities.”Tablighi Jamaat, an Islamic group that urges Muslims to follow the practices of the religion, has been grabbing headlines since March 30 after several people who participated in a religious congregation held in its headquarters — Markaz, situated in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area — in mid-March were tested positive for Covid-19. The gathering was attended by hundreds, including foreigners, leading to intensive contact tracing efforts and enforcement of mass quarantine and isolation. On Saturday, the Union health ministry said that a third of the 3,000-odd Covid-19 cases reported in the country are linked to the Tablighi Jamaat.In Agra, social activist and footwear exporter Nazeer Ahmad says, “The PM’s appeal is to Hindustanis and not Muslims and Hindus. Lighting lamps may not be a treatment of the coronavirus, but it is a token of the country’s unity to fight the disease.”Prominent lawyer Amir Ahmad says, “Appeals by noted personalities are being issued through various channels.”On Friday, religious heads of various communities met superintendent of police, City (Agra), Rohan Pramod Botre and expressed solidarity with the cause.The clerics are also quoting verses of the Quran to convince the community members that religious assemblies can be avoided during emergency situations.In Meerut, Shahar Mufti Qazi-e-Shariat Darul Qaza Saif-ur- Rehman, in a video released on social media, can be seen asking people not to move in groups as it will expose them to the virus and, in turn, cause problems for others.‘INDIVIDUAL DECISION’ On the PM’s appeal, Zainus Rasheedin, the Nayab Shahar Qazi and Aligarh president of Jamiat- Ulema- e- Hind, says, “It is a personal decision but one can use a cell phone torch instead of a candle or diya.”Mufti Zulfikar, state president of All India Imam Association, says, “As the PM’s appeal has nothing to do with treatment and cure of the coronavirus, following it will be a personal decision.” HELPLINE ON THE CARDSDarul Uloom Farangi Mahal, a seminary in Lucknow, is planning to launch a helpline to remove misconceptions about Covid-19 in the society. “We are going to launch a helpline for answering queries of Muslims about the coronavirus,” says Maulana Khalid Rasheed Firangi Mahali. “I saw a post by an educated Muslim on Facebook stating that the word corona is derived from Quran so it will not happen to Muslims. I couldn’t stop myself from writing that had this been true, the virus would not have affected the Muslim countries and Mecca and Medina would not have been shut down,” he adds.IN DAMAGE-CONTROL MODEIn western Uttar Pradesh in particular, Muslim scholars and spiritual leaders are trying to control what they call the damage done by the Nizamuddin incident.Qazi Zainus Sajeedin, former professor of Islamic mythology at Aligarh Muslim University, agrees that the Markaz committed mistakes, but adds that mistakes were also made on part of the district authorities who didn’t take adequate action for evacuating the jamatis in time.‘DON’T MISBEHAVE WITH HEALTH WORKERS’In Varanasi, Mufti-e-Banaras Maulana Abdul Batin Nomani has issued a video appeal. “When you return to your area from any other city, do go for testing as per government instructions. All of us should ensure the contagious disease doesn’t spread further,” he says. He also appealed to the people not to misbehave with the medical staff. “I appeal to the awam (people) to welcome the medical team when they come to your doorstep for testing. Don’t misbehave with them. Treat them well and get your test done.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/muslim-scholars-urge-members-to-back-pm-s-9pm-call-on-apr-5/story-XcZf01ISxTX5fOeCKLiOlK.html
05-04-2020||India||Modi calls all-party meeting on April 8||New Delhi: Prime Minister Narendra Modi has called an all-party meeting on Wednesday, April 8, to discuss the situation arising out of the outbreak of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, days after the Centre announced a three-week nationwide lockdown to prevent its spread.This will be the PM’s first meeting with political party leaders after the outbreak that has paralysed nations across the world after its onset in China towards the end of 2019. A letter from parliamentary affairs minister Prahlad Joshi said only the floor leaders of parties that have more than five members of Parliament would be invited to participate in the meeting. Keeping in mind the need for social distancing and travel restrictions that may prevent the invitees from being present physically at the meeting, it will be in the form of a video conference.The government’s decision to restrict the meeting to floor leaders and not invite party leaders has disappointed some parties. A senior Trinamool Congress leader indicated that the party may skip the meeting, but the main opposition party, Congress, is expected to attend Joshi personally called up different floor leaders on Saturday evening to request them to attend the meeting. Trinamool’s Lok Sabha floor leader Sudip Bandopadhyay told him that he would be busy in his constituency. “The need of the hour is to stay in the constituency and help the state government. The Centre’s top priority should be to help the states with a financial package. West Bengal government is working hard but desperately needs funds from the Centre,” Bandopadhyay said.Given that the Congress has been consistently urging the Prime Minister to hold a video conference with all political parties, its floor leaders are likely to attend the meeting.Joshi called up both the Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad and Congress leader in the Lok Sabha Adhir ranjan Chowdhury and sought their participation.The government has also conveyed to the Congress that the video conference will not be limited to parties with five MPs but even smaller parties will be invited.“We expected this initiative from the government side much earlier, but still better late than never. We have right from the beginning extended our whole-hearted support to the Centre and state governments {in their efforts} to deal with the crisis,” a senior party functionary said on condition of anonymity.Communist Party of India (Marxist) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, one of the many leaders demanding an all-party meeting, said it should have been held earlier. Yechury said, “Let’s all be clear that it’s not the government alone that is fighting against Corona. It is a joint, united fight of India and Indian people against Covid. And all that the Centre needs to do now is to give more money to the states. Also, on issues such as migrant workers’ crisis, the Centre should have taken the states on board.”Many opposition leaders have been seeking an all-party meeting with the PM on the pandemic that has had far-reaching and devastating effect on lives and livelihoods.At the meeting, PM Modi will seek suggestions from political parties on the road map towards containing the deadly virus,government officials said. The meeting will start at 11am with Modi’s opening remarks in which he will appraise party leaders of the steps his government has taken so far to contain the coronavirus . According to the plan, only one leader from each party will be allowed to speak.According to one official, the meeting will also be an opportunity to build a broad political consensus on India’s fight against Covid-19.Apart from Modi, home minister Amit Shah, defence minister Rajnath Singh, parliamentary affairs minister Joshi and leader of the Rajya Sabha, Thawar Chand Gehlot, are also expected to be present at the meeting by video conference.Modi had on March 24 declared a three-week nationwide lockdown aimed at stemming the spread of the coronavirus. The lockdown, which took effect the following day, will be lifted on April 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-calls-all-party-meeting-on-april-8/story-3gLtbyxfgMuJfY4DmRtrSI.html
05-04-2020||India||‘No possibility of grid collapse, don’t switch off fridge, TV’: Power ministry||The union ministry of power on Saturday clarified that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call for switching off lights on Sunday would not cause instability to the power grid amid concerns over a possible grid-collapse. “Some apprehensions have been expressed that this may cause instability in the grid and fluctuation in voltage which may harm electrical appliances. These apprehensions are misplaced. The Indian electricity grid is robust and stable and adequate arrangements and protocols are in place to handle the variation in demand,” the power ministry said in a statement. “The appeal of the Hon Prime Minister is to simply switch off the lights in their homes from 9 pm to 9.09 pm on the 5th of April. There is no call to switch off either streetlights or appliances like Computers, TVs, Fans, Refrigerators and ACs in the homes. Only lights should be switched off,” it added. The power grid has seen a 30% drop in demand due to the absence of commercial activity in the wake of the nationwide lockdown, and there were fears that the Prime Minister’s call could encourage people to switch off everything, reducing demand even more. The essence of grid management is load balancing over time (in this case, 15-minute intervals), and a drop in demand could have resulted in a sudden change in grid frequency, leading to a potential blackout. According to power ministry data available for April 2, peak demand stood at 125.8 GW, which is 25% lower than 168.3 GW for the same day last year.“As somebody who has been associated with the power sector for almost three decades including as minister, the call to go dark for 9 min at 9 pm on the 5th can have deep impact on the grid and its stability. I sincerely hope this is being properly managed,” Jairam Ramesh, senior Congress leader, said in a tweet.Following the Prime Minister’s call , the Union power ministry, on Friday, held a high-level review meeting to assess the impact of power fluctuation on the grid. The meeting was chaired by Union power minister RK Singh and senior officials from Power Grid Corporation of India Limited (PGCIL) and grid operator POSOCO National Load Despatch Centre, Hindustan Times reported on Friday.An advisory has been issued to all states by the centre to assure that adequate arrangements have been made to meet the variation in demand. “The national load dispatch centre has worked out the procedures for grid balancing during the period which they will be communicating to the regional and state load dispatch centre’s separately,” the advisory by the power ministry said. Load dispatchers in states such as Uttar Pradesh have written to the state power operators warning of sharp load reduction of approximately 3 GW, advising load shedding in a staggered manner for an hour during the event. “To avoid sharp crashing of load, load shedding in staggered manner may be done starting from approximately 8 pm to 9 pm” the letter written by UP state load dispatcher, seen by HT, said. According to POSOCO, total domestic lighting load reduction on an all India level has been pegged at 12-13 GW. In a detailed advisory on Saturday, a copy of which has been reviewed by Hindustan Times said, “Unlike normal operation, this reduction in load of the order of 12-13 GW would happen in 2-4 minutes and recover nine minutes later within 2-4 minutes. This sharp reduction in load and recovery, which is unprecedented, will need to be handled through hydro and gas resources.” During the evening peak hours (from 6 PM to 10PM) hydro generation will be reduced and conserved for providing flexibility during the event at 9 PM, POSOCO has said. During this time directions have been issued for thermal and gas generation to be scheduled in a manner so as to manage the peak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-possibility-of-grid-collapse-don-t-switch-off-fridge-tv-power-ministry/story-VximuWOa3dHO8MBNQW1QLM.html
05-04-2020||India||Govt rolls out ‘grid balancing’ plan for PM Modi’s 9 pm lights-off event||The union ministry of power on Saturday clarified Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call for switching off lights on Sunday would not cause instability to the power grid amid concerns over a possible ‘grid-collapse’ raised by the opposition. “Some apprehensions have been expressed that this may cause instability in the grid and fluctuation in voltage which may harm the electrical appliances. These apprehensions are misplaced. The Indian electricity grid is robust and stable and adequate arrangements and protocols are in place to handle the variation in demand,” the power ministry said. “The appeal of the Hon Prime Minister is to simply switch off the lights in their homes from 9 pm to 9.09 pm on the 5th of April. There is no call to switch off either streetlights or appliances like Computers, TVs, Fans, Refrigerators and ACs in the homes. Only lights should be switched off,” it added. Concerns have been raised on the health of the power grid with a dip of 30% in demand for power due to the absence of commercial activity in the wake of the lockdown, a sudden change in grid frequency could lead to a potential power blackout. According to power ministry data available for April 2, peak demand stood at 125.8 GW which is 25% lower than 168.3 GW for the same day last year.“As somebody who has been associated with the power sector for almost three decades including as minister, the call to go dark for 9 min at 9 pm on the 5th can have deep impact on the grid and its stability. I sincerely hope this is being properly managed,” Jairam Ramesh, senior Congress leader tweeted.Congress party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi also raised concerns over the safety of workers at power grid. “While the country is expressing solidarity in the war against Corona, it is expected that the power grids and engineers’ concerns are also being taken care of by the central government. So that there is no obstruction in the power supply during the crisis and in times of need,” she said.Following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call to switch off lights, on April 5, at 9 pm, for nine minutes, the Union power ministry, on Friday, held a high-level review meeting to assess the impact of power fluctuation on the grid. The meeting was chaired by Union power minister RK Singh and senior officials from Power Grid Corporation of India Limited (PGCIL) and grid operator POSOCO National Load Despatch Centre, Hindustan Times had reported on Friday.An advisory has been issued to all states by the centre to assure that adequate arrangements have been made to meet the variation in demand. “The national load dispatch centre has worked out the procedures for grid balancing during the period which they will be communicating to the regional and state load dispatch centre’s separately,” the letter written by the power ministry said. Load dispatchers in states like Uttar Pradesh have already issued letters to the state power operators warning of sharp load reduction of approximately 3 GW, advising load shedding in a staggered manner for an hour during the event. “To avoid sharp crashing of load, load shedding in staggered manner may be done starting from approximately 8 pm to 9 pm” the letter written by UP state load dispatcher director said. State power minister for MaharashtraNitin Raut has also warned of a power grid failure and asked all regions to take extra precautions to ensure no blackout occurs. Acording to POSOCO total domestic lighting load reduction on an all India level has been pegged at 12-13 GW. In a detailed advisory on Saturday, a copy of which has been reviewed by Hindustan Times said, “nlike normal operation, this reduction in load of the order of 12-13 GW would happen in 2-4 minutes and recover nine minutes later within 2-4 minutes. This sharp reduction in load and recovery, which is unprecedented, will need to be handled through hydro and gas resources. Experts too have said load dispatchers would have to rely on hydro and gas power plants to curtail risk. “I am not aware of any event before leading to such a sharp fluctuation before. It will need careful management and pre-planning. They will have to judicially use hydro and gas power plants to come back and curtail risk,” said Vinay Rustagi, managing director at renewable energy consultancy Bridge to India Energy Private Limited. During the evening peak hours (from 6 PM to 10PM) hydro generation will be reduced and conserved for providing flexibility during the event at 9 PM, POSCO has said. During this time directions have been issued for thermal and gas generation to be scheduled in a manner so as to manage the peak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-rolls-out-grid-balancing-plan-for-pm-modi-s-9-pm-lights-off-event/story-Bh7yb3fOT1qWLUEFvWX0rM.html
05-04-2020||India||Covid-19 kills more men than women across nations||Men are three times more likely to die from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) than women, according to a yet-to-be peer reviewed meta-analysis of 32 studies published in MedRxiv, a pre-print server for health sciences.The study found that deaths related to Covid-19 were higher than reported in studies in China, with the pooled death rate of hospitalised patients being 6.6%. The study was the first, systematic review of Covid-19 clinical characteristics, and sex-specific risk of death.Men hospitalised with Covid-19 had a significantly higher death rate (9.2%) compared to women (3.4%), showed the analysis of data from 4,789 hospitalised patients, who had a mean age of 49 years. “These findings could indicate the need for more aggressive treatment of Covid-19 in males,” said study authors, from Iran and the United States.Covid-19 has consistently shown a bias against men, with data from China first revealing that men accounted for close to two-thirds (64%) of deaths.A similar gender gap in mortality rates has emerged from Italy, Spain, South Korea, France and Germany, with men accounting for 71% of the Covid-19 deaths in Italy.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThere were also disproportionately high deaths in men in other coronavirus outbreaks caused by Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (Mers) and Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (Sars), with data from Hong Kong showing deaths in men were 50% higher even though more women got infected.“We still don’t know for sure why it is happening but smoking and higher coronary artery disease rates in men play a role. The lungs of smokers are already damaged, which makes them more susceptible to collapse,” said Dr K Srinath Reddy, president, Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI).Virus behaviour also plays a role. The cellular receptor used by the Sars-CoV-2 to enter human cells is angiotensin-converting enzyme-2 (ACE-2), which is a protein found on the cell surface that plays a role in heart and immune function. Sars-CoV-2 infection begins with the crown-like spike protein of the virus, which gives the virus its name (‘corona’ means ‘crown’ in Latin) binding to ACE-2. Sars-CoV-2 mainly invades alveolar epithelial cells in the lungs, leading to respiratory distress. These symptoms are more severe in patients with cardiovascular disease, which may lead to increased secretion of ACE-2 in people with heart disease compared to healthy people.Since ACE-2 is a functional receptor for Sars-CoV-2, people having ACE-inhibitors to control high blood pressure need to be carefully treated.“Higher comorbidities such as hypertension and cardiovascular diseases could be related to the pathogenesis of the virus through ACE-2 receptor, which open doors for future studies to evaluate the role of ACE inhibitor drugs in the high-risk group. There are still a lot of unknown features of Covid-19 for the broad scientific community to investigate in an effort to slow the progression and mortality of Covid-19 and finally defeat this pandemic,” said the study.The jury is still out on whether patients with Covid-19 and hypertension, who are taking an ACE inhibitor or angiotensin-receptor blocker, should switch to another antihypertensive drug, but further evidence is required.The study also found that progressive fever, cough and fatigue were the most common symptoms, with than half of hospitalised patients showing leukopenia (low white blood cells count) or a high C-reactive protein, which are indicators of inflammation and infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-kills-more-men-than-women-across-nations/story-1XlmaPk2LE10aWKw0cyoBK.html
