06-04-2020||India||Amid lockdown, Air India evacuates 96 stranded Americans from Dehradun to Delhi||Ninety-six American citizens who were stranded in Uttarakhand due to the Covid-19 pandemic, were flown out of Dehradun’s Jolly Grant airport to Delhi in a special Air India flight Monday evening, airport officials said. DK Gautam, director Jolly Grant Dehradun said the special Air India aircraft had arrived in Dehradun to fly the Americans out of the state to Delhi. “The flight had arrived at 6:20 pm in the evening and departed safely with all the 96 Americans at 7:07 pm from the airport,” said Gautam. Follow coronavirus live updates here.The airport director said the airport staff took “all the required measures including health check-up of the passengers by state health department staffers. The airport management had to operate the airport beyond the notified timings especially for this flight.”According to the state police, there are around 300 to 400 foreigners still stranded in the state with maximum in Rishikesh, Nainital and Almora due to the lockdown. So far about 700 foreigners had left the state with arrangements being made by their respective embassies. “All the foreigners stranded are in quarantine. We are allowing them to leave as per the arrangements made by their embassies in the country. We are fully co-operating with their authorities,” said Ashok Kumar, director general (law & order), Uttarakhand police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-lockdown-air-india-evacuates-96-stranded-americans-from-dehradun-to-delhi/story-gdnPPN7SF9bCyKzbCTxVfL.html
06-04-2020||India||Telangana joins list of states seeking extension of lockdown||Telangana chief minister K Chandrashekar Rao said on Monday that India should not lift the nationwide lockdown until the Covid-19 outbreak is brought further under control, becoming one of the most prominent officials yet to suggest that the unprecedented curbs be extended further. A similar opinion was expressed by a top bureaucrat from Uttar Pradesh, who suggested the state – UP has recorded 305 infections – may continue to be in a lockdown after April 14, the date till when the current curb is scheduled to last.“The lockdown is the reason the country is saved and has seen very few cases. A country like India has to be careful otherwise it will become uncontrollable. The economy will get hurt but at least we are not seeing deaths like Italy, Spain and the US,” KCR said, adding that he had suggested to Prime Minister Narendra Modi that the curbs be extended for two more weeks.“At least some of the restrictions should stay for a bit more. Otherwise, India will not be able to handle things if the lockdown is hastily lifted,” he said.In UP, additional chief secretary, Home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi, said that following a recent spike in Covid-19 cases, the lockdown in the state is likely to continue. “The state government wishes to make it clear that the lockdown is not likely to be lifted till there is a single coronavirus case in the state. The lifting of the lockdown means UP has become coronavirus free,” additional chief secretary, Home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi said at a press conference in the state capital.Officials from multiple states have indicated previously that districts with no Covid-19 cases are likely to be given relaxations from curbs on movements and business activity first, but those that are classified as hot spots are likely to stay under severe restrictions.This approach is also the strategy outlined by the Union health ministry, which has briefed states on the need to ring-fence districts with large outbreaks or multiple clusters so that infections do not spread. Punjab is expected to continue with the lockdown in most parts, but issue curfew passes to allow harvesting from April 15. “A final call will be taken on April 12 or 13,” Suresh Kumar, Punjab chief minister’s chief principal secretary, said on Sunday.Last week, a minister in Maharashtra indicated the state may extend the lockdown by a couple of weeks, especially in Mumbai and other urban areas of the state. “Lifting it fully in a city like Mumbai is unlikely,” health minister Rajesh Tope said on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-joins-list-of-states-seeking-extension-of-lockdown/story-GjwHl2MbQQT4h9OylJOkeP.html
06-04-2020||India||PM tells ministers to prioritise focus areas||New Delhi: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday asked his ministers to list major priority areas once the restrictions imposed to halt the spread of the coronavirus pandemic are lifted.He also said spoke for creating a graded plan to slowly open departments where hotspots aren’t existing.Modi told his team that the present crisis also required that the country needs to lessen its dependence on other nations as he asked all departments to maintain an objective index on how their work will promote Make in India.The prime minister addressed his ministers through video conference, which officials said was a first.Modi asked the ministers to prepare a list of ten major decisions and ten priority areas of focus once lockdown ends exhorting them to identify and implement pending reforms.Talking about the impact of COVID-19 on the economy, he said the government must work on war-footing to mitigate the impact, adding that the ministries should prepare a ‘Business Continuity Plan’.According to an official statement, Modi noted that a graded plan to slowly open departments where hotspots aren’t existing should be made, adding that the crisis offers an opportunity to become self-dependent in the medical sector. Highlighting the impact on India’s exports, he asked the Ministers to submit actionable suggestions on boosting manufacturing and exports and ensure that new sectors and countries are added in India’s export net.He said the lockdown measures and social distancing must go hand in hand and added it is essential to strategise for the emergent conditions once the curbs end.Addressing ministers, Modi said it is important that leaders communicate with the state and district administrations, especially in the areas that have emerged a the pandemic hotspots, to remain apprised about the ground situation. He said it is also important to ensure there is no crowding at Public Distribution System centres. Modi called for maintaining effective monitoring, taking action on complaints and preventing black marketing and a rise in prices of essentials.Modi said the welfare of farmers is of high importance. He added the government would provide all possible help to farmers in the harvesting season. He suggested harnessing of technology and encouraging exploration of innovative solutions like using truck aggregators to connect farmers with mandis on the lines of app-based cab services. Modi underlined the need for devising a strategy to ensure the procurement of products from tribals so that the sources of income of the indigenous populace remain intact.He stressed on the importance of monitoring continuously and ensuring that the benefits of PM Garib Kalyan Yojana keep reaching the intended beneficiaries. Modi said there should be continuous monitoring to maintain timelines of the production of essential medicines and protection equipment. ENDS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-tells-ministers-to-prioritise-focus-areas/story-Km3WdrEn17XDhsbpIyiYqJ.html
06-04-2020||India||FIR against Assam daily newspaper for ‘false’ report||GUWAHATI: The Assam government has started taking action against people allegedly spreading misinformation on Covid-19 on social media and also against news organisations airing or publishing unverified news articles about the infectious disease.On Sunday, the information and public relations department of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government filed a first information report (FIR) against Jugasanka, a Bengali-language daily published from Silchar, for carrying an alleged “false news report” about the state’s first Covid-19 positive patient.While the patient is still admitted to the Silchar Medical College Hospital, the news story mentioned that he had been cured of the disease. It said the second test carried on the patient was found negative.“According to doctors, the news item is completely baseless and the patient has not recovered yet,” said the FIR lodged in Karimganj police station by Sajjadul Hoque Choudhury, the district’s information and public relations officer.Publication of the news item has resulted in “inconvenience in maintaining law and order”, the FIR said. The case was lodged against the reporter and the publisher of the newspaper under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (disobedience of orders duly promulgated by a public servant) and provisions of the Assam Covid-19 Regulation, 2020. Under this law, no person, institution or organisation is allowed to use any print, electronic or social media for dissemination of information on Covid-19 without verifying the facts and clearance of the government. “There was some confusion about the name of the Covid-19 patient admitted to Silchar Medical College, and another patient with a similar name was admitted for another disease...there was no ill intention behind it. We had already carried a corrigendum on the front page of the paper on April 5,” said Chinmoy Kumar Das, the editor of Jugasanka.The information department has also taken to Twitter to name and shame news platforms for publishing and airing alleged fake news. The Eastern Chronicle, an English-language daily, and Pratidin Time, an Assamese news channel, have been named out for putting out misleading details on Covid-19 patients.The actions came three days after the department constituted a five-member committee “for monitoring and checking of fake news in all forms of media.” Members of the committee are officials from the information, health, police and disaster management departments.Besides monitoring purported fake news, the committee directed district information officers to streamline social media handles and activate WhatsApp numbers so that the public can get access to correct information.The police department has already become active in surveillance of social media users spreading rumours about the disease. Till Sunday, 12 cases had been lodged, seven persons arrested, 80 others counselled and over 100 purported fake reports removed from various social media platforms.Warning of stringent action, the police have requested citizens not to share or provide unverified or provocative content on social media. The department also asked the public to inform it about rumours on its Facebook page, Twitter handle and WhatsApp helpline number: 9132699735.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fir-against-assam-daily-newspaper-for-false-report/story-mSOkKLysiODMpjwHwyDAbL.html
06-04-2020||India||MPs, experts join forces to form Covid-19 action group||New Delhi A device as rudimentary as a thermometer got Samajwadi Party (SP) spokesperson Ghanshyam Tiwari thinking about a group, which could come up with innovative solutions to prevent the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.“Our thermometers are primarily contact heavy,” Tiwari, the national coordinator of the initiative, explained. “We need contactless thermal sensors that can collate data, as Covid-19 spreads through contact. This can come in handy for front line workers combating the pandemic. We can put out the data online and create a thermal map,” he said.Tiwari and the Congress’ Anil K Antony thought it would be a good idea to create a national Covid-19 Action Group with people cutting across party lines -- members of Parliament (MP), public policy organisations and health experts. The group has been named Parliamentarians with Innovators for India (PII), whose primary task is to ensure that the solutions reach the masses.“The vision is to bring together think-tanks, policy experts with parliamentarians to conceptualise innovative solutions in the fight against Covid-19,” Anil Antony, co-ordinator, south and west, for the initiative said. “The focus is technological solutions such as low-cost medical solutions like ventilators and testing kits. We have even reached out to some premier venture capitalists in case funding is needed for any of these projects.”BJP’s Rajat Sethi is the co-ordinator for the north and east. The coordinators reached out to several parliamentarians including the Shiv Sena’s Rajya Sabha MP Priyanka Chaturvedi. “The idea is to put together a group of people from different political ideologies and rise above our political differences to fight this pandemic together,” Chaturvedi said. The fledgling group consists of 14 MPs including Chaturvedi: National People’s Party’s (NPP) Agatha Sangma, BJP’s GVL Narsimha Rao, Jamyang Tshering Namgyal, Varun Gandhi and Sudhanshu Trivedi , Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s Kalanidhi Veerasamy, the Congress’ Karti Chidambaram, Manish Tewari and Rajeev Gowda , Bahujan Samaj Party’s Kunwar Danish Ali, YSR Congress Party’s Lavu Krishna, Trinamool Congress’s Mahua Moitra and Biju Janata Dal’s Sujeet Kumar.The group has also partnered with the Delhi-based Centre for Policy Research, the Indian Institute of Management (IIM) Indore, Confederation of Indian Industry, Delhi, and the Population Foundation of India. Health experts such as Meenakshi Datta Ghosh, former special secretary, Union Ministry of Health & Family Welfare; Dr Arnab Mukherjee of IIM-Bangalore and Dr. Amir Ullah Khan, advisor, Indian School of Business (ISB), are a part of the novel initiative.The group has invited suggestions from the public on its website (piiindia.org) and will meet once a week from April 15. “We’ll need protocols and suggestions as to how to tackle many other possible problems such as traveling in public transport after the ongoing 21-day nationwide lockdown is lifted,” Tiwari said. “We need to start thinking about the next step right now.” The group is also planning to collate videos in several languages to offer healthcare professionals tutorials on the pandemic. “This will be a knowledge-sharing platform that has a wide scope,” said Congress MP Rajeev Gowda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mps-experts-join-forces-to-form-covid-19-action-group/story-8BetJOqrHJDlHtYnf49CgN.html
06-04-2020||India||Coronavirus Update: Manipur’s first Covid-19 case tests negative after treatment, likely to be discharged soon||Manipur’s first Covid-19 case was tested and found negative for the second time on Monday after being treated for the disease. This was the second consecutive negative result in the last three days, said the Covid-19 Common Control Room in a press release.The patient, a woman, is likely to be discharged soon from government-run JNIMS hospital, the release said.The first Covid-19 case in the state was reported on March 24 while the second positive case was confirmed on April 2. After treatment, the woman was tested first on April 4 and then on April 6, testing negative both the times. The second confirmed case in the state is still being treated in RIMS hospital. Meanwhile, a 4.7 tone consignment of the medical items consisting of PPE, sodium hypochlorite, hand sanitizers, N-95 and triple layered masks was delivered to the state by air force aircraft at the initiative of the state government,the release added. In another development, state governor Najma Heptulla donated 30% of her salary ffor one year starting from April to the Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance & Relief in Emergency situation (CARES) Fund. The Central Agricultural University, Imphal has also donated a sum of Rs 29.03 lakh to the PM CARES Fund to fight the COVID-19 pandemic. The Manipur Civil Service Association, officers belonging to the State’s elite Civil Services also contributed a total of Rs. 8.20 lakhs and donated to the COVID-19 Relief Fund of Manipur Chief Minister. All markets and shops except those selling medicines, milk booths and newspapers hawkers have been ordered to remain closed in Manipur till April 12 in order to curb the spread of coronavirus outbreak. The respective district magistrates of the state have issued relevant and identical notifications in this regard on Sunday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-manipur-s-first-covid-19-case-tests-negative-after-treatment-likely-to-be-discharged-soon/story-6GF12xqPBTnkfpxaRKj2kN.html
06-04-2020||India||India between Stage 2 and 3 of Covid-19 pandemic: Health Ministry||India is between Stage 2 and 3 of coronavirus pandemic with large number of cases being found in particular areas, the Union Health Ministry said on Monday concurring with the AIIMS Director’s remarks that localised community transmission is being observed in some pockets of the country.  AIIMS Director Dr Randeep Guleria, who is also a member of a Task Force on COVID-19, on Monday reportedly said that “localised community transmission” has been seen in some pockets and that India is between Stage 2 (local transmission) and Stage 3.  He had clarified that the most of India is currently at Stage 2 of the COVID-19 pandemic. Asked about Guleria’s remarks, Joint Secretary in the Ministry of Health Lav Agarwal said, “What the AIIMS Director has said is not in variance with what we have been explaining to you.” Explaining further, Agarwal said that they go for a cluster containment strategy when limited cases are reported from a particular area while the government’s action and intervention gets intensified when larger number of cases are reported.“We tell you every time that if there will be a community transmission we will be the first one to tell you so that everyone gets alert. If we go by the wordings (of AIIMS Director), he said localised community transmission, which implies larger number of cases are being found in a particular area,” the official said. “We are in between Stage 2 and 3 and that implies that our efforts and actions should be focused on ensuring we do not shift to stage 3,” the joint secretary said, adding there are clear defined strategies for containment in areas reporting larger number of cases and the government was working according to that. In Stage 2, disease transmission is limited to those with travel history to affected countries or those in contact with the infected persons. Community transmission or Stage 3 means a patient was infected though he had no known contact with another confirmed case of COVID-19 or travelled from a country affected by the pandemic. Agarwal said there had been 693 new COVID-19 cases and 30 deaths since Sunday. The total number of cases stand at 4,067 with the death toll at 109. However, a PTI tally based on figures reported by states directly showed at least 126 deaths across the country, while the confirmed cases reached 4,111. Of them, 315 have been cured and discharged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-between-stage-2-and-3-of-covid-19-pandemic-health-ministry/story-49drkMu0rpUrLo1eM3bi0I.html
06-04-2020||India||Bahrain king assures PM Modi of welfare of Indian community during Covid-19 crisis||Prime Minister Narendra Modi was on Monday assured by Bahrain’s King Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa that he would ensure the welfare of the large Indian community in the Arab state against the backdrop of the Covid-19 crisis.Modi had a telephone conversation with the king of Bahrain as part of his outreach to leaders around the world to discuss the Covid-19 pandemic and ways to counter the spread of the Coronavirus.Al Khalifa assured Modi “of his personal attention to the welfare of the large Indian community in Bahrain during the present health crisis”, said a statement from the external affairs ministry. Modi expressed his appreciation for the care and affection the Bahrain authorities have always extended to the Indian diaspora.The two leaders also discussed the consequences of the pandemic on logistics chains and financial markets. They agreed their officials will remain in touch and ensure all possible support to each other for dealing with the pandemic.Bahrain, a small country of just 765 sq km and a population of 1.4 million, is home to some 350,000 Indians, mainly from Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Karnataka. Almost 70% of them are unskilled labour.Modi told the king that India regards Bahrain as “an important part of its extended neighbourhood”, the statement said.The prime minister also had a conversation with Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison, and discussed the response strategies being adopted by their respective governments to the pandemic.They agreed on bilateral experience-sharing during the health crisis, including collaborative research efforts.Modi said the Indian government is ready to provide facilitation and support to any Australian citizens stranded in the country due to travel restrictions. Morrison assured him the Indian community in Australia, including students, will “continue to be valued as a vibrant part of Australian society”.Both leaders agreed to focus on the “wider significance of the India-Australia partnership, including in the Indo-Pacific region”, as they work to tackle the health crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bahrain-king-assures-pm-modi-of-welfare-of-indian-community-during-covid-19-crisis/story-kt8in4CZDpS6SZFAVfi6cJ.html
06-04-2020||India||Covid-19 death toll rises to 111 in India, number of cases to 4,281: Health Ministry||The death toll due to the novel coronavirus pandemic rose to 111 and the number of infections climbed to 4,281 in the country on Monday registering a record jump of 704 cases in 24 hours, according to Union Health Ministry data.The active Covid-19 cases stood at 3,851, while 318 people were either cured or discharged and one had migrated, the ministry stated. According to the data updated at 6 PM, 28 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours -- 21 from Maharashtra, two each from Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, and one each from Punjab, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh. According to the ministry, Maharashtra has reported the most coronavirus deaths at 45, followed by Gujarat (12), Madhya Pradesh (9), Telangana (7), Delhi (7), Punjab (6) and Tamil Nadu (5). Karnataka has reported four deaths, while West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh have recorded three fatalities each. Two deaths each have been reported from Jammu and Kashmir and Kerala. Bihar, Himachal Pradesh and Haryana have reported a fatality each, according to the data. The total number of cases includes 66 foreign nationals. The country-wide death toll on Sunday was 83. However, a PTI tally based on figures reported by states directly showed at least 137 deaths across the country, while the confirmed cases reached 4,678. Of them, 344 have been cured and discharged. There has been a lag in the Union Health Ministry figures, compared to the numbers announced by different states, which officials attribute to procedural delays in assigning the cases to individual states subject to verification. According to the ministry data, the highest number of confirmed cases are from Maharashtra (748), followed by Tamil Nadu at 571 and Delhi with 523 cases. Cases in Telangana have gone up to 321, in Kerala to 314, in Uttar Pradesh to 305, while the number of cases has gone up to 274 in Rajasthan.There are 226 cases in Andhra Pradesh.Covid-19 cases have risen to 165 in Madhya Pradesh, 151 in Karnataka, followed by 144 in Gujarat.Jammu and Kashmir has 109 cases and Haryana has 84 cases. West Bengal has reported 80 infections, followed by Punjab at 76.Thirty-two people are infected with Covid-19 in Bihar, while Assam and Uttarakhand have 26 cases each.Odisha has 21 positive patients, Chandigarh has 18, Ladakh has 14 and Himachal Pradesh has 13 patients.Ten cases have been reported each from the Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Chhattisgarh. Goa has reported seven Covid-19 infections, followed by Puducherry with five cases.Jharkhand has reported four cases, while Manipur has reported two cases. Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh have reported an infection each.“State-wise distribution is subject to further verification and reconciliation,” the ministry said on its website.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-death-toll-rises-to-111-in-india-number-of-cases-to-4-281-health-ministry/story-25pAbGAr0jRNxLfZVEN1zK.html
06-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 PM: Amid Covid-19 pandemic, doctor BJP MPs are returning to hospitals and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Amid coronavirus pandemic, doctor BJP MPs are returning to hospitalsFor Sanjay Jaiswal the day begins with a rushed breakfast and some quick exercises. Then he sets out for the hospital, where on any given day he takes between 500-700 phone calls from those seeking medical advice and examines patients. Read moreUP: Teenagers commit suicide, bodies found hanging on treeTwo teenagers allegedly committed suicide by hanging themselves from a tree outside their village in Fatehpur, said police. Read moreFloriculture crisis: No demand, growers forced to destroy flowers in their fieldsAs the curfew enforced in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak has brought down the demand for flowers in the market to almost nil, flower growers in Punjab are destroying their yield in the fields. Read moreIrish PM Varadkar returns to hospital duty to help Covid-19 patientsLeo Varadkar, who remains the caretaker prime minister of Ireland after the February general election threw up a hung parliament, has returned to his earlier profession as a doctor to resume duty to help with coronavirus patients. Read moreF1 team Williams furlough staff as drivers take pay cutWilliams became the second Formula One team to furlough some staff due to the coronavirus pandemic as drivers George Russell and Nicholas Latifi agreed to cut their wages by 20 percent on Monday. Read moreGoogle Maps now shows food, night shelters details across 30 citiesGoogle Maps will now show the location of food shelters and night shelters across 30 cities in India amid the Covid-19 lockdown. Google said it is working closely with the central and state governments to provide the location details of these relief centres. Read moreWorld Health Day 2020: History and significanceEvery year on April 7, the World Health Organisation (WHO) celebrates World Health Day. World Health Day is celebrated to spread awareness about the importance of health. Read moreMarvel boss Kevin Feige teases ‘completely unexpected’ surprises in Black WidowMarvel Studios president Kevin Feige has teased that the upcoming Black Widow film will approach the character’s backstory ‘in a completely unexpected way’. Read moreKolkata sweet shop makes Corona sandesh and people are not happyA sweet shop in Kolkata came up with a new type of sweet and it’s not something that many would like to eat – at least that’s what tweeple suggest. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-amid-covid-19-pandemic-doctor-bjp-mps-are-returning-to-hospitals-and-all-the-latest-news/story-s75IaNd8KmtN37AqYf1ZeI.html
06-04-2020||India||Amid coronavirus pandemic, doctor BJP MPs are returning to hospitals||For Sanjay Jaiswal the day begins with a rushed breakfast and some quick exercises. Then he sets out for the hospital, where on any given day he takes between 500-700 phone calls from those seeking medical advice and examines patients. In the wake of the Corona pandemic, and the ongoing 21-day nation-wide lockdown, restrictions have been imposed on patients seeking medical care in hospitals and other medical centres such as nursing homes.It is here that tele-medicine has come to the rescue of doctors. “Earlier, there was no permission for doctors to conduct consultations through tele-medicine, but now conditions have been relaxed by the MCI and we can at least see our patients online or speak to them on the phone. My wife is a gynecologist, and we have strict protocols in place to ensure there is no spread of infection in the hospital,” he said. In between his duties as a doctor, Jaiswal, who is also the Bharatiya Janata Party’s Bihar unit chief and Lok Sabha MP from West Champaran, has to field calls from party workers, and attend daily meetings with party bosses.But it is his Hippocratic oath that overrides all else these days. Jaiswal said, while he has volunteered to be deployed (for care of corona patients); to ensure that the other health care workers in his hospital are safe, a 140-bed isolation ward has been set up in his hospital.“We have requisitioned for PPEs and cardiac monitors as there is a shortage all across,” he said.Referring to the overall monitoring of Covid-19 spread in the state, which is among the most populous with severe gaps in healthcare, Jaiswal said Asha workers, ANMs and tola workers in rural areas have been empowered to monitor every resident with travel history.“Each Asha or tola worker has been assigned 10 people who have come from outside. They check on them regularly and share the data of checking blood samples etc. Luckily, so far we have not had a single positive case,” he said.Another doctor-turned-MP, Anil Jain, who is also the BJP general secretary, has been monitoring the situation on the ground in Haryana and Chandigarh. A consultant surgeon with the Apollo Group, Jain has not been practising medicine since he took oath as an MP, but finds time to speak to those who call for consultations.“I hear their concerns and tell them what to watch out for and when to rush to the emergency, but I have not been practicising,” said Jain, a Rajya Sabha MP.Jain, who also attended party meetings online, is focusing more on logistics on the ground to ensure hospitals have supplies and patients are being looked after. “We are making sure that patients who need dialysis for instance are being looked after. While the pandemic has affected regular services, we are ensuring that treatment is not stalled,” Jain said.Former minister and now MP from Gautam Buddh Nagar, Mahesh Sharma has also returned to the examining table. As per a party aide, Sharma, who runs the Kailash hospital chain, is also examining patients at the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-coronavirus-pandemic-doctor-bjp-mps-are-returning-to-hospitals/story-KWTKkqoIO05cdlcPNhgkoI.html
06-04-2020||India||Amid lockdown, CRPF comes to the rescue of Rajouri man cycling from Mumbai to see ailing father||The Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) worked in close coordination in four states and a union territory in a life-saving operation to airlift an ailing 50-year-old man from Rajouri to Jammu and then transfer him to Chandigarh on Monday while it simultaneously traced his son who was cycling from Mumbai to reach his father.Wazir Hussain had suffered a brain stroke last Tuesday. The family then informed his son Mohammad Arif who works in Mumbai’s Bandra (West) area as a security guard. By Monday evening, Hussain had been moved from Jammu to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) in Chandigarh for advanced treatment after he had been evacuated from Rajouri on Sunday.“The CRPF has also tracked his 30-year-old son Mohammed Arif near Jodhpur in Rajasthan and he will also be ferried by us to Chandigarh,” said CRPF’s Jammu sector spokesperson and deputy commandant Shivnandan Singh said earlier in the day.With transportation snapped because of the lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus, Arif had embarked on a gruelling 2100 km long journey on a bicycle with Rs 600 in his pocket on Thursday.“CRPF Madadgaar helpline reached out to this man in distress. His father Wazir Hussain was airlifted in a Pawan Hans chopper from Rajouri to Jammu on Sunday before being sent to Chandigarh through road,” said Singh.“The CRPF units worked in close coordination in Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Punjab and the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir to help this family, the officer said. Arif was in Gujarat when the CRPF tracked him down.“We tracked Arif in Gujarat through 100 Rapid Action Force of the CRPF in Ahmedabad and gave him sanitizers and food. Thereafter, we tied up with civil police and arranged a vehicle for him. He is nearing Jodhpur now. From Jodhpur, CRPF will make further arrangements to ferry him to Chandigarh,” said the official.In Arif’s native village Panjgrain in Rajouri district, CRPF’s 72 battalion doctors visited his ailing father and shifted him to Rajouri district hospital from where he was airlifted to Jammu on Sunday. He was referred for treatment in Chandigarh on Monday in view of his condition.Two doctors of the CRPF and his nephew accompanied Wazir Hussain to Chandigarh. “We pray he gets well and all hard toil of this young man is rewarded,” Singh said.However, senior officials in the establishment said that coming from Maharashtra makes Arif a potential case of coronavirus and 14-day quarantine would be essential for him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-lockdown-crpf-comes-to-the-rescue-of-rajouri-man-cycling-from-mumbai-to-see-ailing-father/story-cDTT1WThCQA3oo3IPKlFCJ.html
06-04-2020||India||92 hospital staff quarantined after patient contracts Covid-19||At least 92 staff members, including several doctors, of the D Y Patil Hospital here in Maharashtra have been quarantined after an accident victim, who was being treated at the facility, tested positive for coronavirus, an official said on Monday.A senior civic official denied speculations of the COVID-19 patient having direct or indirect link to the Tablighi Jamaat which organised a religious congregation at Nizamuddin in Delhi last month that later emerged as a coronavirus hotspot in the country.The patient, an autorickshaw driver, met with the accident on March 31, said Jitendra Bhawalkar, dean of the D Y Patil Medical College and Hospital, a private medical facility located in Pimpri Chinchwad township here.“The man,who is in his 30s, came to the emergency section of the hospital on March 31 after the accident. He was operated upon and on the second day, he developed fever. The doctors got suspicious and his samples were sent for testing which came out positive for coronavirus,” he said.The patient was immediately shifted to the Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital.“We then tried to find out those who came in contact with the man and quarantined our 42 doctors and 50 paramedical staff members as a precaution. Samples of all of them have been sent for tests,” Bhawalkar said.Some people claim the man has link to the Tablighi Jamaat while some say he had transported people belonging to the Islamic organisation, the official said, adding that the patient hid the information from the hospital after he was admitted following the accident.Asked if the man has any link to the Tablighi Jamaat, Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Commissioner Shravan Hardikar said the patient does not have any connection to the outfit.“Thepatient is in ICU. People are speculating about his links, but right now we can only say he is not from the Tablighi Jamaat. He is from the different community altogether,” the official said. PTI SPK GK GK||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/92-hospital-staff-quarantined-after-patient-contracts-covid-19/story-eDAoq7nvK02G9AxxCxz5xN.html
06-04-2020||India||Railways in mission mode to prepare Covid-19 isolation coaches||The Indian Railways has converted 2,500 of its coaches into special Covid-19 isolation wards with 40,000 isolations within a week with an average of 375 coaches converted per day.The national carrier plans to modify a total of 5,000 coaches with 80,000 beds in the first phase. In total, it plans to modify 20,000 coaches that can accommodate nearly 3.2 lakh beds for isolation wards. The work is being carried out at 133 locations across railways’ workshops in the country. The railway board has suggested the isolation coaches be used in rural areas where there is no access to hospitals.“In times of lockdown, when manpower resources are limited and have to be rationalised and rotated, different zones of railways have almost done an impossible task of so many conversions in such a small span of time. With the conversion of around 2,500 coaches, 40,000 isolation beds are now ready for contingency. Once the prototype was approved, conversion action was started quickly by zonal railways,” the ministry of railways said.It may be noted that these isolation coaches are being prepared only as a contingency and to supplement the efforts of the ministry of health in fighting coronavirus, it added. These coaches are equipped as per medical advisories issued. Efforts are being made to ensure best possible stay and medical supervision as per norms.The first prototype was prepared by the Northern Railways, it is equipped with 10 isolation wards per coach. The coaches are being sanitised before and after they are converted into isolation wards. “The hospital isolation coaches will have provision of air curtains in each compartment. We have converted two toilets into bathrooms by plugging the toilet pan and (installing) proper flooring. We have removed the middle berth,” a Northern Railways official said.The national transporter has also begun manufacturing of low cost Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) after two of its samples made by Northern Railways workshop were cleared by DRDO. The Indian railways is planning to make 100 PPEs per day to meet shortage of production in the country.Railways has also begun developing ‘disinfection tunnels’ or fumigation tunnels. They are designed in a manner where nozzles spray one part per million sodium hypochlorite solution, as people walk for a duration of between three to five seconds inside the tunnel. The Indian railways has said the tunnel costs around Rs 10,000 with a capacity of 500 litres, the disinfection tunnel will work uninterrupted for 16 hours, requiring refilling only once a day.The Indian railways has also been tasked with using its large manufacturing and locomotive production units and workshops for manufacturing essential medical equipment hospital beds and stretchers, among others. The national transporter has issued directions to this effect to its production units -- the Integral Coach Factory in Chennai and Diesel Loco Works in Varanasi, among others. The Rail Coach Factory (RCF), Kapurthala, has manufactured a prototype low-cost ventilator design. It has now been sent to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for testing and approval.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-prepares-covid-19-isolation-coaches-in-mission-mode/story-YYwGmKaADMKysN9pffz7PO.html
06-04-2020||India||As Kashmir struggles with Covid-19, Pak preps to send across more terrorists||At a time when the global eyes are focused on the fight against coronavirus pandemic, Pakistan-based terror groups - Lashkar-e-Tayyiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed — have started assembling at launch pads across the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir to beef up terrorist strength and prepare for engagement with security forces this summer.One of the first terror teams that came from across the border has been neutralised by soldiers in Kupwara. J&K Director General of Police Dilbagh Singh told Hindustan Times.The Jammu and Kashmir police chief said the Muridke-based group has also readied terrorist groups for infiltration into Uri, Karna, Keran and Kala Roos sector in north Kashmir. The situation south of Pir Panjal has also been hot with infiltration alerts at Mendhar, Balakot, Savjian, Nowshera, Samba and Hiranagar sectors.Also Read: Five army commandos, 5 terrorists killed in LoC ‘hand-to-hand’ battleThe renewed attempts at infiltration are an attempt to boost the terrorist strength in Kashmir where 50 terrorists have been neutralised in the last three months.According to an estimate by the security establishment, there are, however, no less than 242 active terrorists in the Valley. About 100 of them are foreign terrorists belonging to the Lashkar and Jaish-e-Mohammed.According to inputs, while Lashkar is trying to use the north Kashmir route to infiltrate, the JeM groups are trying to infiltrate in the Jammu sector.“Already there are visuals of food and shoes being stockpiled at launch pads at Tattapani across the Kupwara sector indicating infiltration activity will pick up in the coming days when the snow melts at high mountain passes,” said a senior security official.According to counter-terror operatives, even though the local youth sentiment may be inclined towards extremism, terror groups had not been able to recruit them due to shortage of weapons and communication clampdown.Kashmir was placed under a communication lockdown just before parliament ended the erstwhile state’s special status in early August. The internet ban, which was imposed during this period, was relaxed when the government allowed people access to 2G mobile networks. There have, since then, been demands to restore 4G network.Security agencies have, however, asked the government to continue with the restricted internet connectivity. Officials insist that the terrorists were shifting to platforms such as the Wire, Telegram and Conion to communicate, which would be difficult to track. Since these Voice Over Internet Protocol (VOIP) platforms would require 4G networks, security officials are telling the government to continue the restrictions for some more time.Even though the recent release of National Conference father-son duo has been seen favourably by the public in the Valley, it is testing time for the new Altaf Bukhari Apni party as Pakistan based groups will mount heat this summer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-kashmir-struggles-with-covid-19-pak-preps-to-send-across-more-terrorists/story-o27C6XBCioRON9e6Z0YvCP.html
06-04-2020||India||Little possibility of lifting lockdown, says top Uttar Pradesh bureaucrat||A top Uttar Pradesh government official has ruled out the possibility of lifting the 21-day lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus when it ends on April 14.“There is little possibility of lifting lockdown after April 15 as claimed in a section of the media. We will not be in a position to lift the lockdown even if a single case of Covid-19 is left in Uttar Pradesh. So it can take time,” said additional chief secretary (home) Avanish Awasthi, according to ANI. Uttar Pradesh has recorded 305 cases of coronavirus in the state so far. Three people have died of Covid-19 in Basti, Meerut and Varanasi. Those who have tested positive, are spread across 31 of the state’s 75 districts have so farFollow coronavirus live updates here. The countrywide lockdown came into force on March 25 on the call of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in an effort to break the chain of transmission of coronavirus that now affected more than 4000 people across the country and claimed more than a 100 lives.On Sunday, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath had said that the government must prevent people from spilling out on the streets when the lockdown is lifted. “All the hard work the state did would come to a nought if people crowd at the end of the lockdown. So we have to strategise accordingly. Please come up with suggestions to help the government,” Adityanath told MPs and central ministers from Uttar Pradesh during a video conference.He also told the MPs and ministers that the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi had undermined the state’s hard work in checking the spread of Sars-Cov-2 but the government was tackling even that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/little-possibility-of-lifting-lockdown-says-top-uttar-pradesh-bureaucrat/story-CePP5WOg4Sg9myygsR1hBO.html
06-04-2020||India||People of India will together fight Covid-19: Rahul Gandhi||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Monday said the people of India will together win the battle against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), as it gives an opportunity to unite and rise above the differences of religion, caste, and class.He appealed to the people to forge one common purpose, where compassion, empathy, and self- service are the central ideas, to defeat the pandemic. “The coronavirus is an opportunity for India to unite as one people, putting aside differences of religion, caste, and class; to forge one common purpose: the defeat of this deadly virus. Compassion, empathy, and self-sacrifice are central to this idea. Together we will win this battle,” he tweeted.Gandhi also posted a picture of two young children of different religions walking with their arms around each other.Earlier, his sister and party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi-Vadra urged the people to raise their voice for more aggressive testing, saying it’s the only way to prevent the spread of Covid-19.She said the mantra should be to test as much as possible and raise the testing levels and then treat the infected people.“The only way to prevent infection of coronavirus is through more and more testing. Only then can we treat the infected person. Test as much as possible and treat --- this should be our mantra. My request to all of you is - raise your voice for more testing,” she tweeted in Hindi.The Congress has been calling for more aggressive testing, saying India’s testing has been the lowest in the world, going by its population count.The party said that if testing was not “exponentially ramped up”, the country will be wasting precious time in the fight to save lives. “We just cannot afford to lose even a single day,” it warned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/people-of-india-will-together-fight-covid-19-rahul-gandhi/story-ofsWv0HjxtP6yUF81JRYtJ.html
06-04-2020||India||Share profits from low crude oil prices with people in lockdown: Congress tells govt||HT CorrespondentNew Delhi: The Congress on Monday alleged that the government was indulging in profiteering from low crude oil prices when the country is in the grip of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.“It is time to care for the people and share a part of the Rs20 lakh crore profit. The need of the hour and immediate necessity is to share a part of this profit made by the government in the last six years,” Congress spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi told reporters through video-conferencing.He said it is time to reduce taxes or give it back in some other form to farmers, labourers and common people suffering amid the 21-day nationwide lockdown, which started on March 25 to contain the spread of the Covid-19 outbreak and the resultant economic downturn.“It is not a time for profiteering, it is a time for the government to do profit sharing and do some sharing and caring. This is the need of the hour and immediate necessity,” added Singhvi.The Congress leader also alleged that the Centre has made a profit of around Rs 20 lakh crore in the past six years.“Our question today to you is, why are you not passing on a fraction of these humongous gains. The Bharatiya Janata Party needs to realise that it has to stop solo profiteering; instead of stealing touch it has to give a healing touch.”Singhvi recalled that the price of crude oil internationally was hovering around $108 per barrel in March 2014 and now, six years later on March 30 it was at a historic low of $23 per barrel.“Lives are most important, followed by livelihood. We want to draw your attention to GDP -- Gas Diesel Petrol -- during the lockdown and how they should be harnessed to deal with it,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/share-profits-from-low-crude-oil-prices-with-people-in-lockdown-congress-tells-govt/story-uyeZaIpv1y8ZDWJHleWTaL.html
06-04-2020||India||63% of Covid-19 deaths in India among elderly, says govt||People above 60 years of age account for 63% of the 109 deaths that have occurred due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India, the government said on Monday, while cautioning that comorbid conditions such as diabetes make the infection deadlier — a finding that is in line with global trends. People between 40 and 60 years account for 30% of the deaths, and below 40 years account for 7%, Lav Agarwal, the joint secretary of the health ministry, said. He added that 73% of the deaths occurred in men and 27% in women, indicating that men face a significantly higher risk due to the infection in India.Agarwal said 86% of the patients who died had conditions such as diabetes, chronic kidney disease, hypertension and heart-related problems. “...we must realise those with comorbid health conditions are at a higher risk of developing a severe form of illness, and need to be extra cautious,” he said.Agarwal put the total number of cases at 4,067. According to the data compiled by the Union health ministry, men account for 76% of the total Covid-19 positive cases in India in comparison with the 24% infection rate in women, he said. Forty-seven per cent of the cases involved people who are aged below 40 years, 34% of the patients are between 40 and 60 years, and 19% of cases pertain to those above 60 years. Agarwal added that of the total cases in India, 1,445 (or about 35%) are linked to a Tablighi Jamaat congregation in the national capital. According to the home ministry, at least 25,500 Jamaat members or people who came in contact with them have been quarantined across India.The six-storey headquarters in Delhi, where the mid-March gatherings of the Islamic missionary group took place, has emerged as India’s biggest hot spot of the fast-spreading infection.“In Haryana, five villages have been sealed as it was found some foreign nationals of the Jamaat had stayed in those villages,” said Punya Salila Srivastava, joint secretary of the home ministry.She also stressed that the government was trying its best to ensure smooth transportation of essential items such as medical supplies and food grains during the three-week, nationwide lockdown, which began on March 25.“It has been directed...that medical oxygen is an essential item and its manufacturing and transport is exempted from lockdown measures,” said Srivastava.The railways has also transported 1,340 wagons of sugar, 950 wagons of salt and 360 wagons/tanks of edible oil so far. In all, 16.94 lakh (1.69 million) metric tonnes of food grains have been transported, she said.At the same briefing, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said it is also gearing up to test more samples, and has increased its testing capacity to 25,000 tests in a day in two shifts.“We have order about 500,000 rapid testing kits that we should get by April 8 or 9, and will be deployed in states as per the requirement,” said Raman R Gangakhedkar, chief, epidemiology and communicable disease, ICMR.According to an ICMR advisory, rapid testing kits (for antibody tests or blood tests) need to be deployed in areas where mass testing is required, such as evacuation camps, large cluster areas, and migrant workers camps.“Our containment strategy is largely divided in two parts: one for areas where large number of cases are reported, and areas where large-scale local outbreaks are being reported. All states have been asked to form a district-specific containment plan even for districts that have not reported any cases so far. Our strategy is to remain proactive and over-prepared to deal with any eventuality,” said Agarwal.He, however, denied any widespread community transmission, the phase of the disease when the source of an individual’s infection cannot be traced and isolated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/63-of-covid-19-deaths-in-india-among-elderly-says-govt/story-8dKqAkDSe9p0jyZFarvkpL.html
06-04-2020||India||Temporary suspension of MPLADS leads to fissure within the Congress||The government’s decision to suspend the Members of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS) has led to a fissure within the Congress party, exposing the disconnect between its Lok Sabha (LS) and Rajya Sabha (RS) MPs.The government has announced that the amount allocated to each MP under MPLADS will be suspended for two successive years till 2021 and the sum will be sent to the Consolidated Fund.Some of the senior Congress leaders, including the party’s RS member Jairam Ramesh, welcomed the move.“I have been arguing for long that the approximately Rs7,000 crore given to MPs & MLAs (members of legislative assembly) annually for development works should be used as a corpus for state funding of elections,” he tweeted. Moments after, his party colleague, Lok Sabha MP Manickram Tagore, tweeted that RS members are not up to speed with realpolitik. “It’s sad that how Rajya Sabha MPs are completely disconnected with the ground reality,” Tagore tweeted. Tagore told HT that the move to suspend MPLADs is driven by “pure politics”. “It is a well-thought strategy to block Opposition MPs doing anything in their constituencies,” he said. Another senior Opposition member said that the LS members were anticipating trouble regarding MPLADS funds for a while. “There were strong indications and in a meeting that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders had held with an Opposition party a senior BJP leader had let it slip,” said the leader. The move has found other supporters and detractors inside the Congress. The party’s chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the move is a “huge disservice”. “Please note that MPLADS is meant to execute developmental works in the constituency. Suspending it is a huge disservice to the constituents & will undermine the role & functions of MP,” he tweeted.Manish Tiwari called it an overstretch. “MPLADS is a targeted & nimble instrument to customise micro-level interventions to alleviate distress. I think MPLAD funds need to be restored,” he tweeted. Thiruvananthapuram MP Shashi Tharoor also said that the move was problematic. “MPLADS is the only means for an MP to direct development resources to his constituency. An order to earmark all MPLADS spending for #COVID19 related measures would have been OK; I used mine to get urgently-needed #rapidtestkits & PPE to Thiruvananthapuram’s health workers,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/temporary-suspension-of-mplads-leads-to-fissure-within-the-congress/story-QNfhXC6my2NTsTRCPtr15I.html
06-04-2020||India||Training of Gaganyaan astronauts in Russia put on hold amid lockdown: Report||The training of Gaganyaan’s four prospective astronauts in Russia has been put on hold as the facility where the exercise is being undertaken has been temporarily shut in the wake of coronavirus outbreak, sources said on Monday. The four test pilots of the Indian Air Force, chosen for India’s manned mission to space, have been undergoing training at the Yu.A. Gagarin Research and Test Cosmonaut Training Centre near Moscow since February. However, since last week the centre has been shut due to coronavirus outbreak, sources said. “Our (prospective) astronauts are fine. They are currently in hostel. We have been told the centre will open by the end of the month,” a source said. When asked whether the suspension of training for nearly four weeks will hurt the training programme, the sources added that although the training programme spans over 12 months, they had kept a buffer of three months to factor in exigencies. India’s first manned mission to space -- Gaganyaan -- is planned around 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/training-of-gaganyaan-astronauts-in-russia-put-on-hold-amid-lockdown-report/story-IZDzRg3Sb7fK8uNjpEfttI.html
06-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Over 25,000 Tablighi Jamaat members quarantined, says govt||The government said on Monday that 25,500 local workers of Tablighi Jamaat and people who came in contact with them have been quarantined in an effort to rein in the coronavirus pandemic.Last month, the Tablighi Jamaat group had organised a massive congregation at Delhi’s Nizamuddin area which has now emerged as a Covid-19 epicentre.“We have quarantined 25000 local TJ (Tablighi Jamaat) workers as well as people who have come in contact with them. Apart from that, the five villages in Haryana where some of the TJ people had stayed have also been sealed and quarantined,” Punya Salila Srivastava, joint secretary in the home ministry said at the daily briefing. Follow coronavirus live updates here.At least 1,445 cases out of a total 4,067 coronavirus cases in the country, have been linked to the Tablighi Jamaat event, the government said.More than 1700 TJ members have been blacklisted so far. “So far 2,083 foreign TJ members have been identified out of which 1,750 have been blacklisted. We are hopeful that with such measures we can enforce the lockdown and break the chain of transmission of Covid-19,” Srivastava said.Last week, the government cancelled visas of hundreds of Tablighi Jamaat members for their involvement in activities in violation of their visa conditions amid the coronavirus pandemic.The Union home ministry had also directed police chiefs of all States and Union Territories concerned and the Delhi Police to take necessary legal action against all such violators, on priority, under relevant sections of the Foreigners Act, 1946 and Disaster Management Act, 2005.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-over-25-000-tablighi-jamaat-members-quarantined-says-govt/story-qiN2fCR10bkM5413M8D5dJ.html
06-04-2020||India||PM Modi asks ministers to list priority areas once lockdown ends||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday emphasised on the dire need to ensure the welfare of farmers and the poor while urging his Council of ministers to list 10 major decisions and an equal number of priority areas after the ongoing 21-day nationwide lockdown, which has been enforced since March 25 to contain the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), is lifted.The PM also stressed that it was high time that India lessened its dependence on other countries while interacting with the ministers via video-conference. He asked the departments to maintain an objective index about how their work can promote the Make in India initiative.Modi urged the ministers to make sure the ongoing nationwide lockdown measures and social distancing norms are strictly adhered to. He asked the ministers to prepare a list of 10 major decisions and an equal number of priority areas after the lockdown ends.He lauded the feedback provided by the ministers to tackle the Covid-19 outbreak.He said it is important that leaders communicate exhaustively with the state and district administrations, especially in those districts that have emerged as hotspots for the pandemic, and apprise him on the ground situation on a regular basis. It is also important to ensure there is no crowding at public distribution system (PDS) centres, maintain effective monitoring, take strict action against complaints and prevent black marketing and rise in prices of essential commodities, he said.Modi said the welfare of farmers held the key. He said the government would provide all possible help to farmers during the harvesting season. He suggested harnessing technology and encouraging exploration of innovative solutions such as using “truck aggregator” to connect farmers with mandis on the lines of app-based riding hailing cab services. He underlined the need to devise a strategy to ensure the procurement of tribal products in a bid to ensure the source of income of the country’s tribal populations isn’t affected.The PM stressed on the importance of ensuring that the benefits of PM Garib Kalyan Yojana continues to reach the intended beneficiaries. There should be a continuous monitoring mechanism to maintain timelines of production of essential medicines and personal protective equipment (PPE).The PM is seized of the pandemic’s impact on the economy and appealed that the government must work on a war footing to lessen the aftershocks. He urged the ministries to prepare a Business Continuity Plan to tide over the crisis. He suggested that a graded plan to slowly open government departments, in non-hotspot zone, as he hoped that the crisis offers an opportunity to become self-dependent in the medical sector.He asked the ministers to submit actionable suggestions on boosting manufacturing and exports and ensure that new sectors and countries are added to India’s export net. He also asked the ministers to promote the Aarogya Setu app in rural areas.The ministers praised the #9pm9minute initiative, saying that people from all corners of the country participated in it on Sunday evening, according to an official statement.They apprised the PM about the efforts to tackle difficulties faced by migrant labourers, prevention of misuse of social media to create panic, maintenance of supply lines of essential items, health hazards faced by frontline workers against the pandemic and efforts to mitigate them, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-asks-ministers-to-list-priority-areas-once-lockdown-ends/story-u8tgzE7hld6lrWyygAMIZK.html
06-04-2020||India||Nobel winner Abhijit Banerjee in Mamata Banerjee’s Covid-19 policy team||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday said Bengal is forming a team to tackle the coronavirus pandemic and will rope in services of Nobel winner Abhijit Banerjee.“Due to lockdown, there’s no revenue. We don’t know how long we’ve to stay like this. We’ve to plan for future. Our government will form a Global Advisory Committee for Covid-19 response policy in state. Nobel laureate Abhijit Banerjee will be a part of the committee,” said CM Banerjee.On Friday, the Centre approved the release of Rs11,092 crore to states under State Disaster Risk Management Fund following an assurance from prime minister Narendra Modi to augment state resources needed to fund coronavirus containment efforts.A release from the home ministry described the funds as “advance release” of Centre’s share of first installment of SDRMF for 2020-21.States have been authorised to use SDRFM funds for testing and treatment costs among other Covid-19 containment requirementsAs of 12 PM this afternoon, the total number of active coronavirus cases reported in West Bengal is 61, of which 55 cases are from seven families only, the chief minister said.Only 3,000 Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) have been sent by the Centre, said the CM, adding that she arranged 2,27,000 PPEs.Around 35 people are presently staying at isolation rooms set up at various hotels in Kolkata, which have been earmarked by the Hotels and Restaurants Association of Eastern India (HRAEI) following the outbreak of Covid-19.Following a request from the West Bengal government, 31 two-star, three-star and four-star hotels across the state have offered a total of 640 rooms at subsidised rates to people who have been directed to live in isolation for 14 days.“The government is asking those who need isolation whether to stay at its quarantine places or hotels. Many are opting for hotels. At present 32 or 35 people are staying at the identified hotels on pay-and-use basis”, secretary of HRAEI Sudesh Poddar told PTI.Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar said he has not been updated about the steps being taken by the state government in combating the disease.“I am not complaining but I think I should have been informed,” he was quoted as saying on Sunday.Dhankhar, who has been at the loggerheads with the state government on a range of issues since taking charge in July last year, had recently praised the chief minister for her efforts in fighting the pandemic||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nobel-winner-abhijit-banerjee-in-mamata-banerjee-s-covid-19-policy-team/story-4Gz6VXQa011Jjh1Oy4mutN.html
06-04-2020||India||1,445 out of 4,067 Covid-19 cases linked to Tablighi Jamaat: Health Ministry||1,445 cases out of a total of 4,067 cases are related to Tablighi Jamaat gathering, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare Joint Secretary Lav Agarwal said on Monday.“693 new COVID-19 cases have been reported in the last 24 hours, taking the total number to 4,067 in India out of which 1,445 cases are related to Tablighi Jamaat,” Agarwal said at the daily press briefing here.The Joint Secretary said that 76 per cent cases are males and 24 per cent are females.“In 47 per cent cases, the victims are less than 40 years old, and in 34 per cent cases the patients are 40-60 years old. In 19 per cent of cases, the patients are 60 years or above,” he said.Agarwal said that in all 109 people have died of the coronavirus so far out of which 30 deaths were reported on Sunday. 73 per cent deaths are related to males and 27 per cent to females, he said.Agarwal said that there is a higher risk associated if the elderly people test COVID-19 positive. “63 per cent deaths have been reported in the people who are 60 years or above and 30 per cent in the people from 40-60 years and 7 per cent death among those who are below 40 years,” he said. He said the Indian Railways transported sugar through 1340 wagons, salt through 958 wagons and edible oil through 316 wagons/tanks, to different parts of the country amid lockdown in the last 13 days.“There was a meeting of the Council of Ministers today in which further discussion took place on the plan of action regarding COVID-19 challenges. A detailed guideline has been released by the Health Ministry in which we have focused on signs, symptoms and segregating cases,” said Agarwal.“Rs 1,100 crore has already been released from the National Health Mission Funds for the States. Also, an additional amount of Rs 3,000 crore has been released today,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-445-out-of-4-067-covid-19-cases-linked-to-tablighi-jamaat-health-ministry/story-eK8oimpTN6qCZcnUAYlrDN.html
06-04-2020||India||Political ideologies aside, MPs, experts come together to fight Covid-19||A device as rudimentary as a thermometer got Samajwadi Party (SP) spokesperson Ghanshyam Tiwari thinking about a group, which could come up with innovative solutions to prevent the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.“Our thermometers are primarily contact heavy,” Tiwari told Hindustan Times. “We need contact-less thermal sensors that can collate data, as Covid-19 spreads through contact. This can come in handy for frontline workers combating the pandemic. We can put out the data online and create a thermal map,” he said.Tiwari has set the ball rolling to create a national Covid-19 action group with people cutting across party lines such as members of Parliament (MP), public policy organisations and health experts. The group is named Parliamentarians with Innovators for India, whose primary task is to ensure that the solutions reach the masses.“The vision is to bring together think-tanks, policy experts with parliamentarians to conceptualise innovative solutions in the fight against Covid-19,” Anil Antony, south and west states coordinator for the initiative said. “The focus is technological solutions such as low-cost medical solutions like ventilators and testing kits. We have even reached out to some premier venture capitalists in case funding is needed for any of these projects.”An alumnus of Harvard University, Tiwari believes that the MPs have the last-mile connectivity with people on the ground and are best suited to spread public awareness about Covid-19.He started the initiative by reaching out to Shiv Sena’s Rajya Sabha MP Priyanka Chaturvedi. “The idea is to put together a group of people from different political ideologies and rise above our political differences to fight this pandemic together,” Chaturvedi said. The fledgling group consists of 14 MPs including National People’s Party’s (NPP) Agatha Sangma, GVL Narsimha Rao, Jamyang Tshering Namgyal, Varun Gandhi and Sudhanshu Trivedi from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s Kalanidhi Veerasamy, Karti Chidambaram, Manish Tewari and Rajeev Gowda from the Congress, Bahujan Samaj Party’s Kunwar Danish Ali, YSR Congress Party’s Lavu Krishna, Trinamool Congress’s Mahua Moitra and Biju Janata Dal’s Sujeet Kumar.The group has also tied up with the Delhi-based Centre for Policy Research, Indian Institute of Management (IIM) Indore, Confederation of Indian Industry, Delhi, and the Population Foundation of India. Health experts such as Meenakshi Datta Ghosh, former special secretary, Union Ministry of Health & Family Welfare; Dr Arnab Mukherjee of IIM-Bangalore and Dr. Amir Ullah Khan, advisor, Indian School of Business (ISB), are a part of the novel initiative.The group has invited suggestions from the public on its website starting Tuesday and will meet once a week from April 15. “We’ll need protocols and suggestions as to how to tackle many other possible problems such as traveling in public transport after the ongoing 21-day nationwide lockdown is lifted,” Tiwari said. “We need to start thinking about the next step right now,” he added. The group is also planning to collate videos in several languages to offer healthcare professionals tutorials on the pandemic. “Not everyone knows all the protocols. The government can’t do everything, so we’re trying to do our bit. The solutions will be posted on LinkedIn, a social media network for professionals, as we need to synthesise expertise for public welfare,” he added. “This will be a knowledge-sharing platform that has a wide scope,” said Congress MP Rajeev Gowda.“The exchange of information will help cross-fertilisation of ideas to fight Covid-19,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/political-ideologies-aside-mps-experts-come-together-to-fight-covid-19/story-W2sO9Fhj0EGQuC6ra0r5FJ.html
06-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5 PM: Assam may start permit system for entry after Covid-19 lockdown ends, says minister and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Assam may start permit system for entry after Covid-19 lockdown ends, says ministerAfter a spurt in coronavirus cases in Assam, the state’s finance minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Monday that the government might start a permit system for those who have to enter the state after the lockdown. Read more‘Felt like Diwali’: BJP leader fires gunshots to mark PM’s 9 pm callOn Sunday at 9 pm, when the nation switched off lights and lit up candles and diyas as urged by the Prime Minister, BJP’s Mahila Morcha president in Balramlpur fired gunshots in the air. Read moreCovid-19: Assam cracks down against fake news; 12 cases lodged, 7 arrestedAssam government has started taking stringent action against persons spreading misinformation on Covid-19 on social media and also news organisations airing or publishing unverified news about the disease. Read moreChina testing Wuhan residents to find out actual rate of Covid-19 infection, antibodiesChina is carrying out a large-scale “seroprevalence” survey to check for Covid-19 antibodies in the population of Wuhan where the novel coronavirus first emerged late last year before spreading rapidly in three months to trigger a global pandemic. Read more‘They have won the most knockout games’ - Scott Styris on why he prefers CSK over MIFormer New Zealand cricketer Scott Styris believes Chennai Super Kings’ consistency makes them the top team in the Indian Premier League (IPL), even ahead of four-time champions Mumbai Indians. Read moreCBSE says don’t believe in fake notices about board exams circulated on social mediaThe Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Monday released an official notification informing all concerned about circulation of fake notices pertaining to CBSE board exams, evaluation and pass criteria being circulated on social media. Read moreSonam Kapoor defends ‘morons decided to burst firecrackers’ comment despite hate, tells off Ashoke PanditActor Sonam Kapoor fielded trolls on Monday morning after her comment on people bursting firecrackers during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s 9pm 9 minute call amid coronavirus spread went viral. Read moreCoronavirus outbreak: Keeping your elders safeThe Covid-19 situation is quite grim around the world, and people over the age of 60 are more vulnerable to its severity. Like many, for celebrities, too, making sure that they are safe is therefore, of paramount importance. Read moreUse Zoom at your own risk: Privacy concerns around this viral video conferencing appZoom video conferencing has been the talk of the town for weeks now. Due to the ongoing lockdown globally, Zoom’s popularity quickly shot up as people used it for meetings and students for online classes. Read moreCorona Heroes: Wives of CRPF jawans, couple make masks to help people fight Covid-19 in BengaluruIt’s often said that the time of crisis brings out the best in humans. As the world is currently facing a crisis, acts of some selfless souls are proving that aptly. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5-pm-assam-may-start-permit-system-for-entry-after-covid-19-lockdown-ends-says-minister-and-all-the-latest-news/story-6Mw5QoHl1Cr6tb2iVSi9NI.html
06-04-2020||India||GoAir is open for bookings for domestic flights from April 15: Report||Low-cost carrier GoAir on Monday said it will resume bookings from April 15 for its domestic flights, according to news agency ANI.“GoAir is open for bookings from 15th April 2020 for its domestic flights, and the airline is open for bookings for international flights from 1st May 2020,” the carrier’s spokesperson said according to ANI.Last week, India’s national carrier Air India stopped advance bookings for all flights till April 30.Domestic flights had stopped as the lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus came into force on March 25 but even before that many airlines had cancelled flights or stopped services due to low traffic.India had initially suspended international flights for a week on March 22. It was later extended until April 15 in line with the lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus. The coronavirus pandemic that has led to the 21-day lockdown has paralysed the aviation sector. On Sunday, regional airline Air Deccan announced ceasing operations until further notice and that all employees were being put on leave without pay. It became the Indian aviation company to fall to the coronavirus crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goair-to-start-bookings-for-domestic-flights-on-april-15-after-lockdown-ends/story-kFE4h3ewhHQcsfmbbRE2dI.html
06-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Govt restricts movement of people around national parks||The Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC) issued an advisory on Monday to restrict the movement of people around national parks, sanctuaries and tiger reserves across the country after a Malayan tiger tested positive for SARS-CoV-2, which causes the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), at Bronx Zoo in New York.In an advisory to all chief wildlife wardens and state governments, the MoEFCC said there are possibilities of the viral outbreak in tiger reserves and national parks. The government anyway has imposed a three-week, nationwide lockdown, which began on March 25, to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease.The advisory urged the following precautions such as highlighting immediate preventive steps to be taken to stop the spread of Covid-19 among wildlife, reducing human-wildlife interface, setting up of a task force of veterinary doctors, biologists, and field managers, creating a 24x7 reporting mechanism, enhancing disease surveillance and reporting action taken to ministry.“Human activities such as consumption of wild meat, wildlife trade, habitat change, and fragmentation are leading to increasing contact between people and wildlife. Multiple zoonotic diseases have emerged resulting in transmissions between wildlife, domestic animals and people. Covid-19 is, perhaps, the most destructive example … Interspecies transmission is extremely worrisome --- whether it be from pangolins, bats, civets or tigers. Mammals are vulnerable but we don’t know enough as of now,” said Krithi Karanth, chief conservation scientist at the Centre for Wildlife Studies and adjunct associate professor, Duke University, North Carolina, USA.The tiger at the Bronx Zoo is believed to be the first known infection in an animal in the US or a tiger anywhere, the authorities said on Sunday.The four-year-old tiger named Nadia – and six other tigers and lions that have also taken ill – are believed to have been infected by a zoo employee who wasn’t yet showing symptoms, the zoo authorities said. The first animal started showing symptoms on 27 March, and all were doing well and expected to recover, they added. The Bronx Zoo has been closed to the public since 16 March amid the Covid-19 outbreak.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-govt-restricts-movement-of-people-around-national-parks/story-yoe6HTBP2K0eJxZ8LS73xN.html
06-04-2020||India||PM Modi asks ministers, officials to prep for post-lockdown scenario||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday asked his ministers to prepare a list of 10 major decisions and 10 priority areas of focus on once the 21-day lockdown ends, a release from the Prime Minister’s Office said on Monday.The Prime Minister also said that it is “essential to strategise for emergent condition” once the lockdown ends.The lockdown was enforced on March 25, a day after PM Modi’s address to the nation. In his address, the Prime Minister had said that 21 days are needed to break the cycle of infection caused by the Sars-CoV-2 virus, as per the experts, hence he is calling for a nationwide lockdown to minimise people-to-people contact and observe social distancing.In his interaction with central ministers via video conference today, PM Modi appreciated the leadership of the ministers and said that the continuous feedback provided by them has been effective in strategising for tackling Covid-19.The Prime Minister further said that it is imperative that leaders communicate exhaustively with the administration, especially in districts which are hotspots for Covid-19 pandemic, to be apprised of the ground situation and also provide solutions to the emerging problems. He asked ministers to popularise Aarogya Setu app in rural areas and grassroots institutions.Giving examples of the innovative solutions in the time of lockdown, the Prime Ministers said that farmers can be connected to mandis through technological solutions like ‘truck aggregators’, on the lines of app-based cab services.Stating that lockdown measures and social distancing must go hand in hand, PM said that it’s essential to strategise for emergent conditions once lockdown ends.All the ministers, Principal Secretary, Cabinet Secretary and other senior officials of the central government participated in the interaction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-asks-ministers-officials-to-prep-for-post-lockdown-scenario/story-ul3jX2g5UlAGpaLZq2iQ8L.html
06-04-2020||India||Resume interstate traffic after ‘comprehensive broad discussion: Bhupesh Baghel to PM||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi that the decision to resume interstate traffic after the ongoing 21-day nationwide lockdown, which has been in place since March 25 to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), is lifted can be taken after a “comprehensive broad-based discussion” with the state government to prevent the viral outbreak.“If after April 14, interstate trains, flights, and road transport services are resumed, then there will be all possible chances of movement of Covid-19 infected people from other states to Chhattisgarh as a result of which the state may face new challenges. This sort of situation can also arise in other states too …Hence I’m urging you that decision to resume inter-state traffic should be taken after a ‘comprehensive broad-based discussion’, ” Baghel stated in his letter dated April 5.The CM has apprised the PM that 10 Covid-19 positive cases have been reported from Chhattisgarh so far of which eight have recovered and discharged from hospitals. The remaining two patients are undergoing treatment and their condition is stable.“Chhattisgarh has not reported a single death related to Covid-19. The situation in the state is under control because of the measures taken by the state government and public cooperation. But in other parts of the country, the number of Covid-19 patients has been steadily rising. The number of Covid-19 positive cases will rise as more people are tested,” Baghel said in the letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/resume-interstate-traffic-after-comprehensive-broad-discussion-bhupesh-baghel-to-pm/story-81M37tRzuvfk8VGVnOysNO.html
06-04-2020||India||14-month-old boy with no travel history tests positive for Covid-19 in Gujarat’s Jamnagar||A 14-month-old son of casual labourers, who has no travel history, has tested positive for Covid-19 in Gujarat’s Jamnagar district, reports said on Monday.According to news agency PTI, the child tested positive on Sunday and is on ventilator support. This is also the first case of coronavirus infection in Jamnagar district.“The child is the son of a labourer couple hailing from Uttar Pradesh. They live in Dared industrial area on the outskirts of Jamnagar city and work in factories as casual labourers,” Ravi Shankar, Jamnagar’s collector, was quoted as saying by PTI.“They have not gone out of the area since long. Yet, their 14-month-old son got the coronavirus infection,” Shankar said.The boy parents brought him to a government hospital on Saturday after his condition started deteriorating.“The boy is undergoing treatment. His parents are asymptomatic, but as a precautionary measure, we have quarantined them,” he said.The locality where his labourer parents live in Dared village has been put under complete lockdown to check the spread of the virus, officials said. The administration is now trying to trace the child’s infection source.Sixteen new cases of coronavirus disease were reported from Gujarat on Monday, including 10 with a direct or indirect link to the congregation organised by Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi’s Nizamuddin last month, state officials said.Gujarat’s principal secretary (health) Jayanti Ravi said the number of Covid-19 cases has risen to 144 in the state.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/14-month-old-boy-with-no-travel-history-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-gujarat-s-jamnagar/story-SIQv5k2c5gCUyAk2fB80SP.html
06-04-2020||India||‘Felt like Diwali’: BJP leader fires gunshots to mark PM’s 9 pm call||In a bizarre incident, a female BJP leader in Uttar Pradesh’s Balrampur district took PM Modi’s call to light diyas too far. On Sunday at 9 pm, when the nation switched off lights and lit up candles and diyas as urged by the Prime Minister, BJP’s Mahila Morcha president in Balramlpur fired gunshots in the air.Over-enthusiastic Manju Tiwari, who hails from the district’s Moti Sagar area, took her husband’s licensed pistol and opened fire in the sky to support PM Modi’s diya-lighting call. A video of Tiwari’s gunshot stunt went viral on social media after which the local police came into action. The Tiwari couple first took to lighting diyas and candles at their residence but later Manju’s husband gave her his pistol and asked her to open fire as he recorded her video and shared it on social media.  Balrampur: BJP leader Manju Tiwari booked for firing in the air around 9 PM yesterday. "I saw the entire city illuminating with candles & earthen lamps. I felt like it was Diwali & fired in the air out of jubilation. I accept my mistake & apologise for it," the leader says. pic.twitter.com/cn1rqrzSTvIn an apology, Manju said the atmosphere felt like it was Diwali which got her excited.  “I saw the entire city illuminating with candles & earthen lamps. I felt like it was Diwali & fired in the air out of jubilation. I accept my mistake & apologise for it,” the leader said.“It was because of over-excitement that I opened fire in the sky with the revolver. I apologize if anyone is hurt with my act. I am a disciplined party worker,” she added.  भाजपा की महिला जिलाध्यक्ष द्वारा की जा रही फायरिंग की सोशल मीडिया पर वायरल वीडियो पर कार्यवाही के संबंध में #AddlSp की बाइट @Uppolice @AdgGkr @digdevipatan @dgpup @CMOfficeUP @BJP4UP pic.twitter.com/sJNhQoiPQVManju Tiwari has been booked under the Arms Act. Her husband Omprakash runs an NGO and works as a contractor. The license of his pistol has also been cancelled. Sources said that the BJP was contemplating action against Tiwari. “Last night Manju Tiwari, the BJP leader fired in air with her video of the celebratory firing going viral on social media. A case has been registered against Tiwari in Nagar Kotwali under section 286 of the IPC (negligent conduct with respect to explosive substance),” Balrampur Superintendent of Police Arvind Mishra said..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/felt-like-diwali-bjp-leader-fires-gunshots-to-mark-pm-s-9-pm-call/story-cGQhZMFse7NFQCNX3IhK7J.html
06-04-2020||India||Assam may start permit system for entry after Covid-19 lockdown ends, says minister||After a spurt in coronavirus cases in Assam, the state’s finance minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Monday that the government might start a permit system for those who have to enter the state after the lockdown.“The Assam government is considering starting a permit system for people willing to enter the state after coronavirus lockdown ends,” Sarma said at a press conference in Guwahati according to PTI.Currently, Manipur, Nagaland, Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh are four states in the Northeast where outsiders need an inner line permit to visit.The Inner Line Permit is an official travel document issued by the state governments to allow inward travel of an Indian citizen into a protected area for a limited period. For Indian citizens from outside those states, it is obligatory to obtain a permit for entering into the protected state.Sarma did not specify what kind of permit the government the government was looking at. Twenty five of the 26 cases of Covid-19 in Assam are linked to the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area last month. The government had urged those who had attended the event to come forewrd for tests.At the press conference, Sarma warned that Tablighi Jamaat members who attended the event will be booked if they do not report for tests.“Cases will be filed against Tablighi Jamaat attendees from Assam who fail to report for testing by today,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-may-start-permit-system-for-entry-after-covid-19-lockdown-says-minister/story-60KG5adGu31na3LEe2AvKN.html
06-04-2020||India||President, MPs, ministers take a pay cut for 1 year, say it is a message||The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday cleared an ordinance to slash salaries of parliamentarians and ministers by 30 per cent for one year in the wake of the coronavirus crisis.The Cabinet also decided to suspend the MP local area development scheme for two years and transfer the money into the government’s consolidated fund. The money under MPLADS is around Rs 7,900 crore for two years: 2020-21 and 2021-22.Union information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar told reporters that President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President Venkaiah Naidu and governors had also offered to take the 30 percent cut in salaries.Watch | Cabinet clears ordinance to cut salaries of President, PM & all MPs by 30%  Cabinet approves temporary suspension of MPLAD Fund of MPs during 2020-21 & 2021-22 for managing health& adverse impact of outbreak of #COVID19 in India. The consolidated amount of MPLAD Funds for 2 years - Rs 7900 crores - will go to Consolidated Fund of India: Prakash Javadekar pic.twitter.com/Suy20pFLQiBriefing media after the Cabinet meeting, Javadekar said the Cabinet has approved the ordinance amending the salary, allowances and pension of Members of Parliament Act, 1954, reducing their salary, allowances and pension by 30 per cent. This will be effective from April 1 for a year.The decision came hours after PM Modi told BJP workers to prepare for a long haul. The country and its people can’t afford to get tired or rest in this long war, he said.“This is a landmark decision that sends the right signals,” Javadekar told reporters. The President, Vice President, Governors of States have voluntarily decided to take a pay cut as a social responsibility. The money will go to Consolidated Fund of India: Union Minister Prakash Javadekar https://t.co/ExTFqVJTMa pic.twitter.com/xubj3ObqAnMore than the money, the minister said, the importance of the gesture was to send the right message.The minister explained that an ordinance was required since salaries of MPs and other dignitaries were determined by law. “Charity begins at home,” he said.Various state government had already decided on salary cuts and other measures in the fight against coronavirus. Kerala government on Wednesday decided to cut a month’s salary of all its staffers to raise funds for the state disaster relief fund. Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has given up a year’s salary to help the state fight the Covid-19 crisis.Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and Rajasthan also announced a cut in salaries of its government employees depending on their ranks.Maharashtra, which is bearing the brunt of the coronavirus crisis with nearly 800 cases, has decided to pay out the salaries in instalments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ordinance-passed-to-cut-salaries-of-mps-ministers-by-30-to-fund-covid-19-battle/story-2x9a6obfOxHc5HQ8rhS7FP.html
06-04-2020||India||Delhi Police send second notice to Tablighi Jamaat over Markaz event||The Delhi Police’s crime branch, which is probing Tablighi Jamaat head Maulana Saad and his associates, has sent a second notice to Saad comprising six questions pertaining to a religious gathering in March in the Islamic missionary group’s six-storey headquarters in the Nizamuddin area.Saad and six other top Jamaat functionaries have been booked for violating prohibitory orders issued to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The Jamaat headquarters, also known as Markaz, where the congregation took place last month, has become a hot spot of Covid-19 infections in the country. It has been linked to over 1,000 infections, or about 30% of the total cases, in the country.Saad’s counsel, advocate Fuzail Ayyubi, confirmed that the police have sent a second questionnaire with more queries. “The investigating officer has sought some information in the second questionnaire (notice). We filed our reply to most of the questions and told them that for some questions, we need time. We could not get some of the records they have sought because of the lockdown. They have asked for some clarifications in the second notice,” he said.On April 1, the investigating officer of the case sent a list of 26 questions to Saad and requested him to provide information to those questions.Crime branch officials did not comment on the progress of the investigation. Details of the second notice, sent on Monday, was immediately not available. The FIR (first information report) against Saad has been registered under sections of The Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. He also faces charges of criminal conspiracy. In the first notice, police sought details of the CCTV cameras inside the building. They also asked Saad to preserve the CCTV data. Other information sought in the first notice included original register/data/and records maintained by the management of the Markaz regarding all those who participated in the gathering after March 12. The police also sought details of all persons, including foreigners, who were present in the congregation last month. Question number 17 in the first notice was related to details of the steps that the management took to disperse the gathering after the government’s prohibitory orders mid-March.The police have accused Saad of ignoring the government’s March 13 and March 16 orders that put a ban on religious congregations and assembly of more than 200 persons in Delhi. The police have said that despite the orders, there were more than 2,000 persons inside the building.Amid reports that Saad has gone missing, his lawyer, Ayyubi, said: “ We have not been summoned yet. The Maulana is in self-quarantine on the advice of the doctors. He will cooperate with the police when they summon him.”Meanwhile, the police have placed barricades on roads leading to the Markaz after evacuating over 2,400 people, including about 250 foreigners, from the building with the help of health department officers in an operation that began on March 29 and ended on March 31. The evacuees were either sent to hospitals or at the government’s quarantine centres. A team of forensic officers from the government also visited the building on Sunday as part of the investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-police-send-second-notice-to-jamaat-leadership-on-markaz-event/story-Sc4kk8I0WTe64qauphIcVP.html
06-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Assam cracks down against fake news; 12 cases lodged, 7 arrested||Assam government has started taking stringent action against persons spreading misinformation on Covid-19 on social media and also news organisations airing or publishing unverified news about the disease.On Sunday, the information and public relations department of the government filed an FIR against Jugasanka, a Bengali daily published from Silchar, for carrying a false news report about the state’s first Covid-19 patient.While the patient is still admitted at Silchar Medical College Hospital, the news story mentioned that he has been cured of the disease. It stated that the second test carried on the patient was found negative.Follow coronavirus live updates here.“According to doctors, the news item is completely baseless and the patient has not recovered yet,” said the FIR lodged at Karimganj police station by Sajjadul Hoque Choudhury, district information and public relations officer Karimganj.Stating that publication of the news has resulted in “inconvenience in maintaining law and order”, the case was lodged against the reporter who filed the story and the publisher of the newspaper under section 188 of IPC and provisions of Assam Covid-19 Regulation, 2020.Twenty six people have so far tested positive for coronavirus in Assam and out of them 25 have been linked to the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area last month.The information department has also taken to Twitter to name and shame news platforms for sharing fake news. The Eastern Chronicle, an English daily and Pratidin Time, an Assamese news channel have been called out for sharing misleading details on Covid-19 patients. Both are based in Guwahati.The actions came three days after the department constituted a five-member committee “for monitoring and checking of fake news in all forms of media. Members of the committee are officials from the information, health, police and disaster management departments.Besides monitoring fake news, the committee directed district information officers to streamline social media handles and activate WhatsApp numbers so that the public can get access to correct information.The police department has raised surveillance levels to check social media users spreading rumours about the disease. Till Sunday, 12 cases had been lodged, 7 persons arrested, 80 others counselled across the state. Over 100 fake reports were also removed from various social media platforms.Police have warned of stringent action and have requested citizens to share or provide unverified or provocative content on social media. The department has also asked the public to inform them about rumours on its Facebook page, Twitter handle and WhatsApp helpline number 9132699735.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-assam-cracks-down-against-fake-news-12-cases-lodged-7-arrested/story-0n988FAzwW3JaSu7gEtDoL.html
06-04-2020||India||USAID to provide $2.9 million to support fight against Covid-19 in India||The US Agency for International Development (USAID) will provide $2.9 million to support a health organisation and the WHO in their efforts to counter Covid-19 in India.A total of $2.4 million will go to USAID’s health strengthening project implemented by Jhpiego, an international non-profit health organisation affiliated with Johns Hopkins University, and $500,000 to the World Health Organization (WHO), the US embassy said in a statement on Monday. The new funds will help the Indian government to “slow the spread of Covid-19, provide care for the affected, and support local communities with the tools needed to contain the disease”, the statement said. The new funding builds on a foundation of more than $1.4 billion in health assistance, and nearly $3 billion in total assistance, that the US has provided to India over the past 20 years.Praising India’s efforts to counter the disease, US ambassador Kenneth Juster said the USAID assistance will further support the country’s response.“Covid-19 is a global public health threat that can be addressed best by close collaboration among governments and international organisations. The US government, through USAID, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and other US Department of Health and Human Services agencies, is working closely with the government of India and multilateral agencies to support India’s response to this global pandemic,” he said.The US has been the world’s largest provider of bilateral assistance in public health for several decades. Since 2009, American taxpayers have made available more than $100 billion in health assistance and nearly $70 billion in humanitarian assistance globally.US contributions to WHO in 2019 exceeded $400 million, almost double the second largest member state’s contribution, while US support to the UN refugee agency (UNHCR) was nearly $1.7 billion in 2019. US contributions to the UN Children’s Fund in 2019 totalled more than $700 million.“Because an infectious disease threat anywhere can become a threat everywhere, the US calls on other donors to contribute to the global effort to combat Covid-19,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/usaid-provides-2-9-million-aid-to-india-to-fight-covid-19/story-g5xrY0UCZiPNuIpyrOSbKJ.html
06-04-2020||India||Son of Tablighi Jamaat attendee tests positive of Covid-19 in Mohali, taking count of positive cases to 16||Three days after his 62-year-old father, who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat meet recently, tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19), a 30-year-old resident of Kumbra village in Sector 68, Mohali, was also diagnosed with Covid-19 on Monday, taking the count of positive cases in Mohali to 16.The father tested positive on April 3 and was admitted to the isolation ward of Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said, “We had taken samples of all family members but only the son has tested positive. He has also been taken to Gian Sagar Hospital.”The father had returned from Delhi on March 17 and did not quarantine himself.Two of the three men from the district who attended the Tablighi Jamaat’s congregation at Nizamuddin in Delhi last month tested positive for Covid-19 on April 3.The other patient is a 42-year-old man from Mauli Baidwan in Sector 80.They attended the event between March 1 and 15 and returned to Mohali on March 17.After receiving the reports, the Mohali district administration sealed both Mauli Baidwan and Kumbra villages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/son-of-tablighi-jamaat-attendee-tests-positive-of-covid-19-in-mohali-taking-count-of-positive-cases-to-16/story-4I2HrR9ZiE40Viz8deu4bL.html
06-04-2020||India||Coronavirus outbreak: Arvind Kejriwal responds to Gautam Gambhir’s ‘big egos’ barb, explains the problem||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday thanked Bharatiya Janata Party lawmaker Gautam Gambhir for his offer of Rs 50 lakh to buy personal protective equipment (PPE) and masks for doctors and nurses working to fight the coronavirus disease.As the ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) came under attack from the BJP for the second time in two days, Arvind Kejriwal also tried to clear the air.“Gautam ji, thank u for ur offer. The problem is not of money but availability of PPE kits. We wud be grateful if u cud help us get them from somewhere immediately, Del govt will buy them. Thank u (sic),” Kejriwal tweeted.The BJP’s barbs came after Manish Sisodia, Kejriwal’s deputy, on Saturday sought central funds to fight coronavirus pandemic, saying it was the third most affected state in the country.Sisodia, in a letter to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, had alleged the Centre released over Rs 17,000 crore to states from the disaster fund but not a single rupee was given to Delhi.  मैंने केंद्र सरकार को चिट्ठी लिखकर दिल्ली के लिए भी आपदा फंड की माँग की है. केंद्र ने राज्यों को कोरोना से लड़ने के लिए, आपदा फंड से 17 हज़ार करोड़ जारी किए लेकिन दिल्ली को इसमें एक रुपया भी नहीं दिया. इस समय पूरे देश को एक होकर लड़ना चाहिए. इस तरह का भेदभाव दुर्भाग्यपूर्ण है. pic.twitter.com/OEKMt783EzArvind Kejriwal had also claimed that his government has asked for PPE kits from the Centre but none were received.After that, Gautam Gambhir, who represents East Delhi in the Lok Sabha, had accused the Arvind Kejriwal government of “shedding crocodile tears” and “playing the victim card” over the issue on Saturday.Gambhir also said that he had offered to donate Rs 50 lakh to the Delhi government for buying PPE kits and masks, but did not receive any feedback. सुबह से शाम तक TV पे प्रचार के करोड़ों अगर PPE Kits पे लगाते तो जनता का कुछ भला हो जाता 2 हफ़्ते पहले मैंने PPE Kits और Masks के लिए 50 लाख pledge किये थे, आज तक कोई feedback नहीं. अब centre से मांग रहे हैं @ArvindKejriwal के दो हथियार, घड़ियाली आंसू और victimcard pic.twitter.com/Cm11UcyBT5Manoj Tiwari, the BJP’s Delhi unit president, had also tweeted about Arvind Kejriwal’s intention pointing to the AAP’s budget of Rs 65,000 crore and its inability to buy PPE kits worth Rs 1-2 crore.On Monday, the former cricketer targeted the Kejriwal-led government once again. “CM @ArvindKejriwal & his Dy say funds are needed. Though their massive egos didn’t allow them to take 50 L from my LAD fund earlier, I pledge 50 L more so that innocents don’t suffer!” Gambhir posted.“1 CR would at least solve urgent need for masks & PPE kits for days Hope they prioritize Delhi,” he said.At least 24 health care workers—doctors, nurses, sanitation staff—in Delhi have contracted Covid-19 and raised questions about the availability of adequate PPEs such as full-body suits, goggles, masks, gloves and shoe covers.Resident doctors at Centre-run Safdarjung Hospital have written to NGOs asking for PPE kits and masks. The doctors, however, said there wasn’t an immediate shortage, but any help was appreciated in the long battle.Delhi has the third-highest number of Covid-19 cases in the country after Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. The Union health ministry said on Monday morning that there are 528 cases of the coronavirus disease, including 18 people who have been cured of discharged, and seven fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-outbreak-arvind-kejriwal-responds-to-gautam-gambhir-s-big-egos-barb-explains-the-problem/story-i9CVH7Lc4rhvZSJ8hM8coL.html
06-04-2020||India||Coronavirus: PM Modi chairs meeting with Council of Ministers||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday chaired a meeting of Council of Ministers via video conferencing. Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh were also in attendance at the meeting.This came shortly after the Prime Minister gave an address on the occasion of the 40th anniversary of the Bharatiya Janata Party earlier in the day. During his address, PM Modi said that the country took timely action in its fight against coronavirus. He also described the Covid-19 crisis as a “long war”. Prime Minister Narendra Modi chairs a meeting of Council of Ministers via video conferencing. Union Home Minister Amit Shah & Defence Minister Rajnath Singh also present. pic.twitter.com/BposTFEIOS“I state it with full responsibility that this is a long war against the coronavirus pandemic. But we do not have to get tired or take a rest in this war. We have to emerge victorious. Today, the country has only one goal and one resolve: to win this war,” said PM Modi. The Prime Minister urged everyone to download the Aarogya Setu mobile application that has been developed to fight the coronavirus disease. He said the app can play an important role in curbing infection in the country.The number of coronavirus cases in the country crossed 4,000 on Monday. As per the latest figures by the Ministry of Health, Covid-19 cases in the country stand at 4,067 including 3,666 active cases and 109 deaths. As many as 291 people have recovered from the infection.Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Delhi continue to be the worst-hit while northeast states like Tripura, Sikkim, Meghalaya and Nagaland have not reported any Covid-19 case yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-pm-modi-chairs-meeting-with-council-of-ministers/story-iz93Enq7z2VLwBfjtK07UO.html
06-04-2020||India||Nod to Tablighi Jamaat gathering should have been denied, says Sharad Pawar||Authorities in Delhi should not have given permission to the Tablighi Jamaat for holding an international congregation at Nizamuddin in the national capital between March 13 and 15 amid the outbreak of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar said on Monday. Pawar said Maharashtra, where the NCP is in the ruling alliance alongside the Shiv Sena and the Congress, earlier denied Jamaat permission for an event. The country wouldn’t have experienced a spike in Covid-19 positive cases if the permission to hold the international congregation was denied to Jamaat, Pawar said, while interacting with people during a live Facebook chat. “Tablighi Jamaat shouldn’t have organised the international congregation in the first place. There was no reason to give permission to the organisation to hold the event amid the Covid-19 outbreak. In Maharashtra, too, a similar request was made, but both chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and home minister Deshmukh decided to deny the permission. If similar concern was shown by the authorities in Delhi, then we wouldn’t have to see what is going on today,” he said.“Is there an attempt to create a perception about a particular community and foment a social divide? They wouldn’t have got that opportunity,” he added without pinning the blame on any individual or party.Pawar cited another example of social distancing from Maharashtra, where a bull and horse race competition was organised at a village in Solapur district and a crowd in thousands were gathered. The district police authorities started booking people, who made a beeline for the event, he said. “If similar alertness was shown by the authorities in Delhi then we’d certainly have averted the unfortunate situation,” he added. He also stressed that the country needs to stand united and no attempt should be made that could lead to suspicion, animosity and social divide. “Whatever I’m watching on television and especially the messages being circulated on WhatsApp is of grave concern. Later, it was found that four of the five messages were fake. It appears these messages are being sent to create confusion and misunderstanding among people,” he warned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/permission-to-hold-congregation-by-tablighi-jamaat-should-have-been-denied-says-pawar/story-uqUSwyc1YODkfQVdCBkdiL.html
06-04-2020||India||Anurag Srivastava becomes new foreign ministry spokesperson||Anurag Srivastava, an Indian Foreign Service (IFS) officer of the 1999 batch, took over on Monday as spokesperson of the external affairs ministry, replacing Raveesh Kumar who is set for an ambassadorial assignment.Srivastava’s last posting was as the ambassador to Ethiopia and the African Union. Before his assignment as the envoy to Ethiopia, he headed the political wing at the Indian high commission in Sri Lanka and was closely involved in framing and implementing India’s development assistance projects.He also served at India’s permanent mission to the UN in Geneva, where he dealt with human rights, refugees and trade policy. He has also held different positions in the ministry in New Delhi, including in the Pakistan-Afghanistan-Iran division and in the external publicity (XP) division.“Honoured and privileged to take over as the Official Spokesperson of @MEAIndia. I look forward to working closely with all to fulfill my responsibilities in this new role,” Srivastava tweeted.Srivastava has degrees in engineering and business management and did a brief stint in the corporate sector before joining the IFS. He also has a postgraduate diploma in diplomatic studies from Oxford University.Raveesh Kumar, who served as the public face of the external affairs ministry during the post-Pulwama standoff with Pakistan last year, is an IFS officer of the 1995 batch. He is expected to be given an ambassadorial assignment in Europe, though movements of diplomats are currently restricted because of the Covid-19 pandemic.“Time to pass the baton. After 33 months of an incredible opportunity to serve the nation, my best wishes to Anurag Srivastava as the next Official Spokesperson of @MEAIndia,” he tweeted.Kumar succeed Gopal Baglay as the spokesperson in July 2017, and was the consul general in Frankfurt before becoming the spokesperson. He has also had stints in the Indian missions in Indonesia, Bhutan and the UK and served in the East Asia division of the ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anurag-srivastava-becomes-new-foreign-ministry-spokesperson/story-eMHNWSQHhPUFmQfpap6dLO.html
06-04-2020||India||Coronavirus: What is a Covid-19 containment zone and why is it created?||With the spread of coronavirus infections, one thing that is also rising is the use of the jargons around the Covid-19 related news. One such term is “containment zone”.Mumbai authorities have declared Wockhardt Hospital a containment zone after dozens of nurses and doctors tested positive for Covid-19. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has also come up with a map showing the city’s containment zones. Here’s a quick look at what the term stands for and how are such zones determined in tackling the coronavirus spread. What is a containment zone?According to the Ministry of Health, a Covid-19 containment zone refers to the area where positive cases of coronavirus are found. Containment zones are created to map the local transmission of the disease and prevent the contagion from spreading. How is a containment zone determined?The rapid response team (RRT) identifies containment zones based on the extent of cases/contacts listed and mapped by them. Every confirmed case has to be considered as an epicentre and micro-plan activities will need to be done.The RRT then demarcates the area of 3-kilometre radius around the epicentre (the residence of the positive case) in case contact listing and mapping takes more than 24 hours. This area of 3 km radius is the containment zone. If required, based on the mapping of contacts and cases, the containment zone is refined, the release issued by the health ministry read.What is a buffer zone?A buffer zone of an additional 5-kilometre radius (7 Kms in rural areas)/administrative boundary of including neighbouring districts/per-urban zone shall also be identified, as detailed in the cluster containment plan. “The containment zone will be divided into sectors with 50 houses each (30 houses in difficult areas),” the government’s release on the micro plan containing local coronavirus transmission read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-what-is-a-covid-19-containment-zone-and-why-is-it-created/story-k2qHFXwUXqr4a17mQoPtuO.html
06-04-2020||India||No approval for Covid-19 testing kit that can be used at home||The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) has issued a notice saying it has not approved any coronavirus disease (Covid-19) testing kit that can be used at home like a pregnancy kit to determine whether a person is Covid-19 positive.The notice was issued after allegations that a Bengaluru-based start-up was advertising a Covid-19 rapid testing kit on its website, and was offering the product directly to consumers.DCGI said the company was offering for sale a “rapid single use finger-prick test” for the Sars-CoV-2 virus that will give results in 5-10 minutes. “...The product is also widely publicised in the media. In this regard it is hereby informed that Central Drugs Standard Organisation (CDSCO), the competent authority for the approval and issuance of license for import/ manufacturer for marketing of coronavirus diagnostic kit, has not licensed the aforesaid diagnostic kit by M/s Bione Ventures Private Limited,” the DCGI notice said, warning people against buying such a product online.The drugs controller acted on a complaint by the All India Drug Action Network (AIDAN), which said the Bengaluru company provided no details on the foreign manufacturers of the kits, approval status in India or the test kit’s performance. “The kit is being marketed as a single point-of-care home screening kit, and being sold directly to consumers through its website,” the complaint said. There is no self-testing kit for Covid-19 approved for sale in India at present. All tests are to be conducted by trained health experts and after following the rules laid down by the country’s apex biomedical research organisation, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-approval-for-covid-19-testing-kit-that-can-be-used-at-home/story-6KByMODJmrBFIdjI4pKHQI.html
06-04-2020||India||PM Modi makes 5 requests to BJP workers; gratitude, masks, Aarogya Setu are among them||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday put in five requests to his colleagues in the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which is marking its 40th foundation day, to help strengthen India’s war against the coronavirus pandemic.Modi said the BJP’s president JP Nadda and the party’s national team has already set the template as he made the panchagraha or the five requests through a video address.“I am just repeating them in my own words and it applies to all of us including me. We all must follow these suggestions by the party which have the feeling of Antodaya as well as the firm resolve of service at their core,” he said.Among his first request for the party’s workers was to provide the poor with food and not just for the duration of the present crisis. The Prime Minister said it should be a continuous service to the poor.Also read: A long war against coronavirus, must not get tired or rest, says PM Modi“Ever since this crisis has started, lakhs of the BJP’s workers have been doing this but it needs to be expanded into a bigger campaign by taking along other organisations to ensure no one is left hungry. We have to make sure of this,” he said. The Prime Minister’s second request was about masks.“When you are going to help someone else, you should always wear something to cover your face. It is not necessary to wear only those masks that are being used but healthcare workers. We can use any mask made at home and make it a practice to wear it,” the PM said.He also urged party workers to make masks for five other people in their family and distribute them among others. Also read: With 490 new coronavirus patients, India now has 4067 cases; death toll at 109“In this difficult time, we need to express our gratitude, thank those who are involved in serving the people and boost their morale. And this is not just our responsibility and we need to mobilise the entire society,” he said.His third request, Modi said, was connected with the ‘thank you campaign’.“The party has given a broad template to carry out this campaign that we need to ask families to write a letter of appreciation for five different sections of workers and reach out to them in polling booths,” he said.They are doctors and nurses in their areas, sanitation workers, police personnel, bank and post office workers and other government employees engaged in carrying out essential services.He also encouraged workers to inform people about and download Aarogya Setu, a mobile application that has been developed to fight the coronavirus disease, and said it can play an important role in curbing infection in the long term.“The more successful we are at doing this, the better we will be able to control the spread of the infection. You must be able to persuade at least 40 people to install this Aarogya Setu app and tell them about this,” he said.There’s another thing that has to be done, he said, to fight this battle against coronavirus pandemic.“Financial service is a big thing. We have seen that when the country is at war, our mother and sisters give away their jewellery. The poor give away whatever that can. We have seen this during every war,” he said. “This is no less than a war… Just as we contribute during wars and make a tradition out of it, right now lakhs of people are donating towards the PM-CARES fund,” he said.The Prime Minister said his fifth request was for workers to make an effort to make sure the donations being made for the PM-CARES fund increase. “Every BJP workers must help. We need to motivate 40 people to donate towards the fund as well,” the PM said.As he ended his address he stressed on the usage of masks, discipline and social distancing to make sure everyone is safe in the fight against the coronavirus disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-makes-5-requests-to-bjp-workers-gratitude-masks-aarogya-setu-are-among-them/story-M8JiPiHCDUcV5j4XKkrLKO.html
06-04-2020||India||2 more Covid-19 deaths in Andhra Pradesh; total cases reach 266||Two more deaths were reported in Andhra Pradesh due to coronavirus disease Covid-19 on Monday, taking the overall toll in the state to three, an official bulletin said.The total number of Covid-19 positive cases in the state rose to 266 after 14 more cases were reported from Sunday night till 9 am on Monday, said the bulletin.Five patients have so far recovered - one each in East Godavari, Krishna, Nellore, Prakasam and Visakhapatnam. If three deaths and five cases of recovery are added, the cumulative number of Covid-19 positive cases in Andhra Pradesh reach 274.Kurnool recorded the maximum number of 56 cases, followed by 34 in Nellore, 32 in Guntur, 28 in Krishna, 23 each in Kadapa and Prakasam, 20 in Visakhapatnam, 17 in Chittoor, 16 in West Godavari, 11 in East Godavari and six in Anantapur districts.Out of the two people who died, one was from Anantapur. The 64-year-old man came in contact with his kin having travel history to Mecca. He was admitted to government hospital in Anantapur on April 1 with serious complications and he died on April 4. However, the test results were announced on Monday, indicating that he succumbed to Covid-19.Another death was that of 55-year-old man from Machilipatnam in Krishna district, who got admitted to the government hospital on April 4 with symptoms of asthma and bronchitis. He died on the same night and his sample test revealed that he was suffering from Covid-19.“The patient reportedly travelled to Berhampur in Odisha in February and also Vijayawada in March on business purposes. It is not known where he contracted the disease,” the bulletin said.Andhra Pradesh recorded a surge in number of infected people with 60 people Covid-19 positive cases on Sunday - 36 were reported between Saturday night to 10 am on Sunday morning and another 24 cases till Sunday evening.Of the total number of positive cases recorded till now, 235 patients are those who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat meeting in New Delhi’s Nizamuddin area last month and their direct contacts, the bulletin said.The government has so far disclosed the details, like age, gender and district, of as many as 190 patients who had connections with Jamaat attendees and said details of others would be disclosed in due course.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-more-covid-19-deaths-in-andhra-pradesh-total-cases-reach-266/story-Ct2BCAnhJE6uHceeroi9ZK.html
06-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Amid coronavirus crisis, a look at countries untouched by the deadly contagion and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Amid coronavirus crisis, a look at countries untouched by the deadly contagionThe coronavirus pandemic has affected hundreds of countries across the globe, infecting over 1.2 million people and killing more than 60,000. What started in the Chinese city of Wuhan has now travelled across continents to severely hit the United States and European nations like Italy, Spain, France and Germany. Read more.A long war against coronavirus, must not get tired or rest, says PM ModiPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said it will be a long war against coronavirus and exhorted the citizens to not be tired or take rest as they have to emerge victorious. Read more.Mumbai’s Wockhardt Hospital declared containment zone after nurses, doctors test positive for Covid-19Authorities in Mumbai have declared Wockhardt Hospital a containment zone after dozens of nurses and doctors tested positive for Covid-19, the coronavirus disease, within a week, reports said on Sunday. Read more.Mumbai Indians or Chennai Super Kings: Sanjay Manjrekar picks which side holds the edgeChennai Super Kings and Mumbai Indians are the two sides which have dominated the Indian Premier League over the years. Led by MS Dhoni, CSK have been the most consistent team, but the fortunes of Mumbai Indians have improved drastically ever since Rohit Sharma has taken over as the captain. Read more.‘Sambhaal Lena:’ Soulful song touches people’s hearts. Even Smriti Irani shared itIf you’re the kind of person who turns to soothing music to uplift your mood, this beautiful track is a must listen for you. Titled ‘Maalik Sambhaal Lena’, the song is a creation of artist Rochak Kohli and lyricist Manoj Muntashir. Read more.This Japanese university used robots and Zoom to conduct a virtual graduation ceremonyThe ongoing lockdown due to Covid-19 didn’t stop one university in Japan from holding its convocation. The Business Breakthrough University in Tokyo went ahead with its traditional ceremony as planned but instead of students present there were robots receiving their degrees. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-amid-coronavirus-crisis-a-look-at-countries-untouched-by-the-deadly-contagion-and-all-the-latest-news/story-22DTZyUqZjGWSq8lkBZ0bL.html
06-04-2020||India||Indian zoos put on ‘highest alertness’ after Bronx zoo tiger tests positive of COVID-19||All zoos in India have been asked to remain on ‘highest alertness’ and monitor animals 24x7 for any abnormal behavior, after a tiger at the Bronx Zoo in New York tested positive for the coronavirus. Zoos have also been asked to send samples of animals suspected to be sick, to three designated animal health institutes to initiate COVID-19 testing. The Central Zoo Authority, the apex body for all zoos in India, issued an advisory in this regard on Monday. “Zoos in the country, are therefore, advised to remain on highest alertness, watch animals on 24x7 basis, using CCTv for any abnormal behavior and symptoms, keepers and handlers not to be allowed in the vicinity without safety gear preferably PPE (personal protective equipment), isolate and quarantine sick animals, and have least contact whole provding feed to animals,” the advisory issued by the CZAI said.A four-year-old female Malayan tiger named Nadia tested positive for the coronavirus at the Bronx Zoo. There are around 160 recognised zoos in India with more than 56,800 captive animal in them. All zoos are presently closed because of the lockdown. The CZAI advisory also says “Mammals like carnivores especially cats, ferrets and primates to be carefully monitored and fortnightly samples of suspected cases to be sent to the designated animal health institutes to initiate COVID-19 testing while following all bio-containment and safety measures required to handle this high risk pathogen as per the national and ICMR guidelines.”It also says that all zoo personnel will have to to strictly adhere to safety and disinfection protocol issued by the government, time to time, on novel coronavirus disease.“Further zoos are advised to coordinate with designated nodal agencies of the government responsible for public health response and permit screening, testing and surveillance and diagnostic samples as and when required by the nodal agency,” it says.An earlier non-peer reviewed study published in BioRxiv had found that ferrets and cats are susceptible to contracting coronavirus (Covid-19) but not dogs, ducks, chickens and pigs. According to the study, these findings can be important for vaccine and antiviral drug development for the disease. BioRxiv is a free online archive and distribution service for unpublished preprints in life sciences.There is, however, no reason for panic among pet keepers or cat lovers because the findings are based on only lab experiments, and there has been no study on whether cats can pass on the infection to humans, according to experts. It is also unclear which species of cats was used for the experiments for the study.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-zoos-put-on-highest-alertness-after-bronx-zoo-tiger-tests-positive-of-covid-19/story-cKImw7cY7lp5oeAkkRd2nO.html
06-04-2020||India||India’s efforts to fight Covid-19 appreciated globally: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said the country’s timely and proactive efforts to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak have been appreciated globally and the steps taken so far have set an example for the world at large.The PM said this while addressing the workers of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on the party’s 40th foundation day. He pointed out that India is among those nations that have understood the seriousness of Covid-19 pandemic and took timely actions to prevent the spread of the viral outbreak.“We took several measures, took all state governments along even though we didn’t know anything about the disease. Whatever necessary decisions were required were taken with the help of experts; whether it was about thermal screening at airports, or evacuation of people or enhancing medical infrastructure requirements. We took all proactive steps to contain the disease,” he said.He appreciated the role of the state governments for their collaborations, as the country could expedite the measures taken to fight the pandemic. The World Health Organization has also appreciated India’s efforts, he added.“India played a critical role in the SAARC (South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation) nations’ and G-20 (Group of 20 nations) meetings. We’ve been in constant touch with world leaders and they’ve all appreciated our steps. We’re busy fighting the war against poverty. But now at this time of the crisis, we’re continually moving ahead unitedly,” he said.The PM lauded people’s adherence to the ongoing 21-day nationwide lockdown, which started on March 25. He said the maturity and seriousness that they showed during the “Janta Curfew” on March 22 is unparalleled. “No one could imagine that in such a large country, people will show such discipline,” he said.The PM also gave his party colleagues five tasks, or panchagraha, to help strengthen the nation’s war against Covid-19.“Party president JP Nadda and the national team have already set the template, and it applies to all of us, including me. We all need to follow these suggestions that have antodaya and service at their core,” he said.The first rule to follow is to the provision of ration and food for the poor. Lakhs of party workers have been doing this, but it needs to be expanded into a bigger campaign taking along other organisations to ensure no one is left hungry, he said. “Always wear a mask while helping others, and it is not necessary to wear only those masks that health care workers use. We can use any mask made at home and make it a practice,” the PM added. He also urged party workers to make masks for five others.The third instruction is to carry out a campaign to thank health care workers, police, bank and post office workers and others engaged in essential services. He urged the party members to reach out to families in their polling booths and make them sign letters of appreciation for these front-line workers.He encouraged BJP workers to stress the need for using Arogya Setu, an app that has been developed to curb the viral outbreak. “At least 40 people should be told about how to use this app,” he said.“ When the country is at war, our women give away their jewellery and the poor give away whatever they can. This is not less than a war, just as we contribute towards war, we need to increase the donations being made for the PM CARES (Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations) fund. We need to donate and also encourage others as well,” the PM said, urging party colleagues to increase the collections for the donative drive that will be used exclusively for fighting the Covid-19 outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-efforts-to-fight-covid-19-appreciated-globally-modi/story-OuG4LDIlwZC2gxqwAFw1sL.html
06-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Bengaluru civic body uses two hotels as quarantine centres||The city civic body has used only two hotels so far to quarantine Covid-19 cases even though it has notified 16 properties for the purpose, an official said on Monday.“We have used only two hotels until now, though we have notified 16 hotels for quarantining Covid cases,” told a Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) official to IANS.On March 29, the civic body notified 16 hotels in the city to house Covid-19 suspects undergoing 14-day quarantine.Some of the notified hotels included Emirates Hotel, Empire Hotel, Arafan Inn, Hotel Citadel, Oyo Town and Trinity Wood Hotel among others which are located across the city.The hotels were supposed to bring 1,227 rooms at the disposal of the civic body.Interestingly, some of the hotels were shying away from allowing their properties to be used as quarantine centres, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/south/coronavirus-update-bengaluru-civic-body-uses-two-hotels-as-quarantine-centres/story-MveLIuJTdd7MTAX78AG6NJ.html
06-04-2020||India||With 33 new cases, Maharashtra Covid-19 tally jumps to 781||Maharashtra said on Monday morning 33 more people have tested positive in the state, taking the number of Covid-19 case to 781, with Pune reporting the most.The state’s health department officials said of the new Covid-19 case, 19 are in Pune, 11 in Mumbai, one each in Satara, Ahmednagar and Vasai.As the number of cases in the worst-affected state is nearing the 800 mark, the Uddhav Thackeray-led government has said it will focus on Mumbai and other cities in Maharashtra like Pune and Nagpur to contain the spread of the virus. The municipal corporations in these cities have been directed to implement the cluster containment action plan minutely to restrict the spread. Also read: Maharashtra bans entry of people without masks to MantralayaMumbai and other cities in Maharashtra like Pune and Nagpur have recorded a substantial rise in the number of Covid-19 patients in last few days—of these nearly 85% are in Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and Pune district, the most urbanised areas of the state.Reports said on Sunday that the Maharashtra government has issued a helpline number for those who attended the Tablighi Jamaat’s congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin Markaz. The Jamaat attendees can call on 1916 for help, according to reports.According to a report released by the state’s medical education and drugs department (MEDD), 71 confirmed Covid-19 patients in the state between March 29 and April 5 have not shown any symptom associated with the coronavirus infection. The report released on Sunday has revealed that this is a surge from the 66% asymptomatic cases recorded till the last week of March from the time the first set of cases emerged.Dr Sanjay Mukherjee, MEDD’s secretary, said that the asymptomatic cases have surged as the government has begun to trace and test all the contacts also of those who have been tested positive. The data has also revealed that there is a spike in the number of cases in Maharashtra from March 23.The fatality rate in Maharashtra is at par with the world at 5%, compared to the fatality rate in the rest of the country, which stands at 2% as on April 5, the data also shows.The Union health ministry said on Sunday morning the number of coronavirus disease cases in India rose to 4067, with an increase of 490 in the last 12 hours, and that 109 people have died because of the respiratory illness.According to the figures released by the Union health ministry at 9am, there are 3666 active cases of Covid-19 and 291 people have been cured or discharged till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-33-new-cases-maharashtra-covid-19-tally-jumps-to-781/story-om1XquxFF9qYE2Mjz27bpM.html
06-04-2020||India||Siddaramaiah urges Karnataka CM to announce special package to help farmers, working class||Leader of Opposition in Karnataka Siddaramaiah on Monday urged Chief Minister B S Yediyurappato announce a special package to help farmers, agriculture labourers and also working class in various sectors who are affected by the lockdown.Siddaramaiah put forth his demands during a telephonic conversation and the Chief Minister positively responding to it informed that he will formulate a programme keeping in mind the suggestions made by the Opposition, a statement from the his office said.It said, the Chief Minister also spoke to Siddaramaiah regarding the government’s decision to stop supply of free food for poor and needy through Indira Canteens.Siddaramaiahon Saturday had written to Yediyurappa urging him to utilise Indira Canteens efficiently and provide food for poor and needy until the coronavirus crisis and lockdown is over.The former Chief Minister’s letter hadcome a day after the state government had decided not to provide free food at Indira Canteens as concerns were raised about the quality and misuse that was happening.It had however, decided continue to provide subsidised food- breakfast at Rs 5 and lunch and dinner at Rs 10, as usual.Yediyurappa during the phone conversation on Monday appraised Siddaramaiah that the decision to supply food by fixing a pricewas taken to stop misuse that was happening.Siddaramaiah however, insisted the government should provide food free of cost to the poor and need, by taking care that misuse doesn’t happen.The senior Congress leader asked the Chief Minister to take action against errant officials who allowed misuse to happen, the statement said, adding that Yediyurappa has promised to look into it.Initially, the government last month had decided that the state subsidised Indira Canteens would provide food packets free of cost to the poor and needy in the wake of the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/south/siddaramaiah-urges-karnataka-cm-to-announce-special-package-to-help-farmers-working-class/story-4HNOUJXxJ6v7rlUggAOxuO.html
06-04-2020||India||A long war against coronavirus, must not get tired or rest, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said it will be a long war against coronavirus and exhorted the citizens to not be tired or take rest as they have to emerge victorious.“I state it with full responsibility that this is a long war against the coronavirus pandemic. But we do not have to get tired or take a rest in this war. We have to emerge victorious. Today, the country has only one goal and one resolve: to win this war,” said PM Modi in his address to BJP karyakartas on the party’s foundation day.The PM underlined how India understood seriousness of this disease and waged a timely war against it. He said India’s efforts have set an example before the world. The PM also praised the maturity shown by 130 crore Indians during this nationwide lockdown. “India’s efforts have set an example before the world in tackling coronavisus.India is one of the countries which understood the seriousness of this disease and waged a timely war against it. India took several decisions and tried its best to implement them on ground,” said the PM via video call to BJP members. PM Modi to Akshay Kumar & Mukesh Ambani: Watch who all lit diyas | 9 pm, 9 min The death toll due to novel coronavirus rose to 109 and the number of cases in the country climbed to 4,067 on Monday, according to the Union Health Ministry.Maharashtra has reported the most coronavirus deaths at 45, followed by Gujarat at 11, Madhya Pradesh at nine, Telangana and Delhi at seven each, Tamil Nadu at five and Punjab at six. The highest number of confirmed cases is from Maharashtra at 690, followed by Tamil Nadu at 571 and Delhi at 503. The number cases in Telengana has gone up to 321, in Kerala to 314 and in Rajasthan to 253.In March, in a video conference with leaders and representatives from SAARC nations, PM Modi, chalking out a joint strategy to fight the coronavirus outbreak, said “prepare, but don’t panic” has been India’s guiding mantra in dealing with the pandemic.“We started screening people entering India from mid-January itself, while gradually increasing restrictions on travel,” Modi told the Saarc leader.In India, testing has now become more widespread and aggressive in clusters and containment zones, at least in a few states. And it will become even more widespread (and quicker) when some states start using the antibody test kits they have been allowed to procure.A document put out by the government on Saturday, and the Prime Minister’s reference to a phased exit from the lockdown in a meeting with chief ministers last week seem to suggest that restrictions will continue in at least some parts of the country — clusters and containment zones, for instance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-long-war-against-coronavirus-must-not-get-tired-or-rest-says-pm-modi/story-kVVk8XTk6CcdY3VbA9VrNK.html
06-04-2020||India||World has praised India’s efforts in fighting Covid-19, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday India’s efforts to fight the coronavirus pandemic has set an example before the world as it understood the seriousness of the disease and took steps to break the chain of infections.The Prime Minister said, while addressing the members of his Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on its 40th foundation day, India brought all the governments together in the fight against the coronavirus disease which has killed thousands of people and affected millions across the world.“India is one of the countries which understood the seriousness of this disease and waged a timely war against it. India took several decisions and tried its best to implement them on the ground,” Modi said in his address.“India has worked rapidly with a holistic approach that is being appreciated by not only Indians but also WHO (World Health Organization). All countries should come together and fight this, so India had active participation in the meeting of the Saarc countries and the G20 meeting,” he said.The Prime Minister also put in praise for the 130 crore Indians across the country, who he said have shown an unprecedented maturity during the ongoing lockdown to break the chain of infections and Janta Curfew on March 22.“No one could have imagined that the people will abide by this with such obedience and sense of service,” he said. Modi pointed out the response by people to his 9 minutes at 9pm call on Sunday to switch off lights in their homes.“Yesterday, we got a glimpse of the sense of unity displayed by the people of the country. People from every section of society and age group demonstrated this unity and strengthened the resolve to fight Covid-19,” he added.As he everyone should be thankful towards all those who are working from the front, he pointed out that “this is a long war against the coronavirus pandemic.“But we do not have to get tired or take a rest in this war. We have to emerge victorious. Today, the country has only one goal and one resolve—to win this war,” Modi said.The Union health ministry said that the number of coronavirus disease cases in India rose to 4067, with an increase of 490 in the last 12 hours, on Monday and that the deaths related to Covid-19 were recorded at 109.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-has-praised-india-s-efforts-in-fighting-covid-19-says-pm-modi/story-6GynrPuvwqU8JousS0NJON.html
06-04-2020||India||Zoos in India put on alert after tiger tests Covid-19 positive in New York||All zoos in India have been asked to remain on high alert and monitor animals for any abnormal behaviour, after a tiger at the Bronx Zoo in New York tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Zoos have also been asked to send samples of suspect animals to animal health institutes to initiate Covid-19 testing. The Central Zoo Authority of India (CZAI), the apex body for all zoos in India, issued an advisory in this regard on Monday.It came after a four-year-old female Malayan tiger named Nadia tested positive for the coronavirus at the Bronx Zoo, in what is believed to be the first known infection in an animal in the US or a tiger anywhere.Nadia — and six other tigers and lions that have also fallen ill — are believed to have been infected by a zoo employee who wasn’t yet showing symptoms. The first animal started showing symptoms March 27, and all are doing well and expected to recover.There are around 160 recognised zoos in India with more than 56,800 captive animals. All zoos are presently closed because of the 21-day, nationwide lockdown that began on Match 25. “Zoos in the country, are therefore, advised to remain on highest alertness, watch animals on 24x7 basis, using CCTV for any abnormal behaviour and symptoms,” the advisory issued by CZAI said.It asked zookeepers and handlers not to go close to the animals without safety gear, preferably PPE (personal protective equipment), and have least contact while feeding them. Zoo officials have also been directed to isolate and quarantine sick animals.According to the CZAI directive, carnivores, especially cat, ferret and primates, are to be carefully monitored and fortnightly samples of suspect cases are to be sent to three designated animal health institutes for Covid-19 testing while following all safety measures.All zoo personnel will have to strictly adhere to safety and disinfection protocol issued by the government, time to time, the guideline said. “Further zoos are advised to coordinate with designated nodal agencies of the government responsible for public health response and permit screening, testing and surveillance and diagnostic samples as and when required by the nodal agency,” it said.The Bronx Zoo finding raises new questions about transmission of the virus in animals. The coronavirus outbreaks around the world are driven by person-to-person transmission, experts say. However, concerns have been raised over whether the infection caused by the Sars-CoV-2 virus can be transmitted between animals and humans; there are reports of a pet cat in Belgium and two dogs in Hong Kong getting infected.But Hong Kong agriculture authorities concluded that pet dogs and cats couldn’t pass the virus to human beings but could test positive if exposed by their owners.Some researchers have been trying to understand the susceptibility of different animal species to the virus, and to determine how it spreads among animals, according to the Paris-based World Organization for Animal Health.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zoos-in-india-put-on-alert-after-tiger-tests-covid-19-positive-in-new-york/story-YxbBKta1EfAe8YIwlbce6J.html
06-04-2020||India||Mumbai’s coronavirus map shows Covid-19 containment zones in city||Mumbai’s Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has released a map pointing out the coronavirus containment zones in the city.The map can come handy for those who venture out of their homes for essential services or for buying essentials. With the help of the map, the residents can avoid visiting or passing by those areas. Containment zones are those areas in the city where people have tested positive for coronavirus. Meanwhile, city’s Wockhardt Hospital has been declared a containment zone after dozens of nurses and doctors tested positive for coronavirus here within a week.Maharashtra is grappling with the highest number of coronavirus cases in the country. As per the figures released by the Ministry of Health on Monday morning, the number of cases in the state near 800 which includes 690 active cases, 45 deaths and 42 recoveries. The total number of Covid-19 cases in the country has been updated to 4,067 including 3,666 active cases and 109 deaths. As many as 291 people have recovered from the infection in the country.On Monday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the nation on the 40th anniversary of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party and said that India took timely steps in its fight against coronavirus. “Whether it was the Janta Curfew, or the nationwide lockdown, all of us have firmly stood together. The maturity shown by 130 crore people of India is unprecedented,” PM Modi said in his address to the workers of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on the party’s 40th foundation day.“Nodoby would have believed that people of this country will show such discipline,” he added.  India entered the 13th day of the 3-week Covid-19 lockdown announced by PM Modi on Monday. The lockdown will come to an end on April 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-mumbai-gets-a-covid-19-map-which-shows-city-s-coronavirus-containment-zones/story-46RmSVN03hfEdV8r9Ybe3H.html
06-04-2020||India||Covid-19 suspect dies while trying to escape from hospital, report comes negative||A 55-year-old man in Haryana’s Panipat, a suspected patient of coronavirus disease, died after reportedly falling from the sixth floor of Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College and Hospital building on Monday morning.Karnal Superintendent of Police Surender Singh Bhoria said that the man died on the spot and his body was sent to the mortuary of the hospital and the police investigation was going on.He has been identified as Shiv Charan of Noorpur village in Panipat district.As per the preliminary investigation by the police, the deceased was admitted at the hospital on April 1 with multiple ailments.It is learnt that he also developed Covid-19 symptoms and was admitted at the isolation ward of KCGMCH Karnal.Talking to HT, Karnal Chief Medical Officer Ashwini Ahuja said, “We have got his report telephonically in which he was found negative of Covid-19”. The police said that he was trying to escape from the hospital by using bedsheets as rope but fell accidentally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-suspect-dies-while-trying-to-escape-from-hospital-report-comes-negative/story-cDvhN0ueGa6l35nTpVKyKL.html
06-04-2020||India||Mumbai’s Workhardt hospital shut after 26 nurses test Covid-19 positive||The Wockhardt Hospital in Mumbai’s Agripada was sealed on Monday after 26 nurses and three doctors tested positive for coronavirus. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had declared the hospital as a containment zone on Sunday. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner (health), BMC, said they have sealed the hospital and the staffers are not allowed to go out until they test negative for a coronavirus test. “It is the fault of the hospital administration that they didn’t take precautionary measures, due to which nearly 300 staffers have been quarantined. We have also set up a team to probe how the virus spread among so many people in a hospital setting,” he said.As HT had reported earlier, the Covid-19 positive nurses alleged that due to the negligence of the hospital, the infection spread to other staffers. On March 20 two suspected and positive Covid-19 patients were brought to the hospital from Kasturba Gandhi Hospital. The confirmed cases were kept in isolation wards, while suspects were kept in general ICU wards where non-Covid-19 patients were also being provided care. Also Watch | Why Mumbai’s lack of isolation beds could pose problems in battling pandemic On March 28, two nurses working in the same general ICU ward tested positive for Covid-19. But soon, 10 nurses got infected and later the infection spread to 26 nurses and three doctors.“We have contracted the infection after we were exposed to suspected coronavirus patients who were undergoing treatment in a general ward at the hospital,” said a nurse from the hospital who has been found positive. The relatives of the patients also claimed that the infected nurses shared the same canteen, hostels and bathrooms with uninfected medical staffers.Staff members said that the hospital did not quarantine the nurses and forced them to work resulting in the spread of the virus to other staff members. While recounting the alleged harassment, a nurse said when the BMC came for inspection on April 1, few of the nurses informed them about their symptoms but they were reprimanded by the senior officers from the hospital.Meanwhile, the nurses who tested positive have been shifted to the hospital from their quarters in Vile Parle, while two of the infected doctors are admitted to Seven Hills and the third one to SL Raheja Hospital, Mahim. The swab samples of more than 270 hospital staff and some patients have been sent for tests.The nursing association has filed a complaint with the BMC commissioner seeking action against the hospital. Mumbai and other cities in Maharashtra like Pune and Nagpur have recorded a substantial rise in the number of Covid-19 patients in last few days—of these nearly 85% are in Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and Pune district, the most urbanised areas of the state.The state government has said it will focus on these areas to contain the spread of the virus. The municipal corporations in these cities have been directed to implement the cluster containment action plan minutely to restrict the spread of the coronavirus disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-s-wockhardt-hospital-declared-containment-zone-after-nurses-doctors-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-a3JpRK4WiMyf8TMeymNlCK.html
06-04-2020||India||India has been proactive in stemming spread of coronavirus, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday hailed the discipline shown by the people of the country in making the lockdown in the wake of Covid-19 a success.“Whether it was the Janta Curfew, or the nationwide lockdown, all of us have firmly stood together. The maturity shown by 130 crore people of India is unprecedented,” PM Modi said in his address to the workers of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on the party’s 40th foundation day.“Nodoby could have believed that people of this country will show such discipline,” he added.Also read: Let’s make India Covid-19-free: PM Modi on BJP’s 40th foundation dayHe also said that the unity shown by the people was at display during the 9 pm-9 minute event on Sunday night. The PM had asked people of the country to switch off the lights at 9 pm on Sunday (April 5) for nine minutes to “challenge the darkness of coronavirus”.“Yesterday, we got a glimpse of the sense of unity displayed by the people of the country. From villages, to big cities, countless lamps were lit to fight the darkness of coronavirus. These mega-steps taken by 130 crore Indians have prepared us for a long fight. Today, the direction and mission of the entire country is one,” said PM Modi.He also appreciated the support given by state governments in fight against Covid-19 and said that the steps taken by India has set an example for the world.“India was proactive at every step, and they were expedited with the help of state governments. The holistic approach taken by us has been hailed by various countries, as well as WHO,” he said.The Prime Minister had earlier taken to Twitter and posted his message on the 40th anniversary of the BJP.Also read: ‘Our workers have toiled to bring positive changes’: PM Modi extends greetings on 40 years of BJP“We mark our Party’s 40th Anniversary when India is battling COVID-19. I appeal to BJP Karyakartas to follow the set of guidelines from our Party President @JPNaddavJi, help those in need and reaffirm the importance of social distancing. Let’s make India COVID-19 free,” the Prime Minister had tweeted.The BJP was founded on April 6 in 1980 by leaders of the erstwhile Jana Sangh, which had merged with the Janata Party to put up a united fight against the Indira Gandhi-led Congress in the 1977 Lok Sabha polls, held after the Emergency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-been-proactive-in-stemming-spread-of-coronavirus-says-pm-modi/story-CyGzhFKzJoRzArZr3T0ZJO.html
06-04-2020||India||Amid coronavirus crisis, a look at countries untouched by the deadly contagion||The coronavirus pandemic has affected hundreds of countries across the globe, infecting over 1.2 million people and killing more than 60,000. What started in the Chinese city of Wuhan has now travelled across continents to severely hit the United States and European nations like Italy, Spain, France and Germany.Amid the Covid-19 crisis, one thinks if there’s hardly any corner in the world which isn’t touched by the deadly contagion - the answer to which is, yes.According to reports, small Pacific Island nations have not reported any coronavirus so far. These island nations benefit from their remoteness as well as travel restrictions. Solomon Islands, Vanuatu, Samoa, Kiribati, Micronesia, Tonga, the Marshall Islands Palau, Tuvalu, and Nauru are places where there’s no news of Covid-19.Also Watch | China’s hollow ‘virus diplomacy’ and a look at Beijing’s missteps Interestingly, North Korea and Yemen, Turkmenistan and Tajikistan in Asia have not reported any Covid-19 cases.Some international experts are sceptical of North Korea’s assertion that it has not had a single case of the new coronavirus, which was first detected in neighbouring China.“I’m a bit surprised that North Korea decided to go ahead with its spring SPA session,” said Rachel Minyoung Lee, a Seoul-based analyst for a website that monitors North Korea, news agency Reuters reported.The coronavirus outbreak infected at least 80,000 people and killed over 3,000 before marching on to the rest of the world. So far, the United States of America has the highest number of cases with over 2 lakh patients and nearly 10,000 deaths. Spain, Italy, Germany and France follow.In India, the number of Covid-19 cases crossed 4,000 on Monday. Nearly 300 patients have recovered while more than 100 have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-coronavirus-crisis-a-look-at-countries-untouched-by-the-deadly-contagion/story-6RmrKr1QUM9GdIsjhVpvlL.html
06-04-2020||India||Maoists in Andhra call for ceasefire amid Covid-19 outbreak||The Communist Party of India-Maoist (CPI-Maoist) has announced a unilateral ceasefire and announced that they would not attack security forces because of the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak across the country.CPI (Maoist) Malkangiri-Koraput-Visakha Border (MKVB) division’s committee secretary Kailasam released on Sunday a hand-written statement in Telugu to the Andhra Pradesh media that stated the SARS-CoV-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, was creating havoc across the world.“Our party, People’s Liberation Guerrilla Army (an armed wing of the CPI-Maoist), and various frontal organisations of the party have decided against carrying out any kind of attack on the security forces during this period,” the statement said.Kailasam, however, warned that the party would be compelled to retaliate, if security forces resort to any kind of action. “We demand that the government responds to our statement within five days,” Kailsam said.Civil rights activists have welcomed the ceasefire proposal, urging both the Centre and Telangana and Andhra Pradesh (AP) governments to respond positively.In a joint statement, Civil Liberties Committee’s (CLC) Telangana unit president Dr Gaddam Laxman and AP chief V Chittababu said: “The Centre and state governments should work in tandem to create a peaceful environment by accepting the proposal.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maoists-in-andhra-call-for-ceasefire-amid-covid-19-outbreak/story-yydNAqZCtNLdf6F2DYp4gM.html
06-04-2020||India||In Maharashtra’s Covid-19 containment plan, Mumbai, Nagpur and Pune are key||With a substantial rise in Covid-19 positive cases in Mumbai and other cities like Pune and Nagpur in last few days, the Maharashtra government has decided to focus on these areas to contain the spread of the virus.Of the total number of positive patients in the state, nearly 85 per cent are in Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and Pune district, the most urbanised areas of Maharashtra.The municipal corporations in these cities have been directed to implement the cluster containment action plan minutely to restrict the spread. The state administration headed by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and chief secretary Ajoy Mehta have been closely monitoring the action plan in these cities.Thackeray is holding a meeting with the guardian secretaries (senior IAS officers ascertained with the responsibilities of districts) of all districts on Monday and is expected to direct them to ensure containment of the virus and smooth supply of the essential commodities. Mumbai and Navi Mumbai municipal corporations have formed 519 and 196 teams of the health works respectively to work in the containment zones and monitor the people who are high-risk possibilities. Pune has 439 teams, while Nagpur city has 210 such teams. “We have 3078 teams comprising more than four members in each team across the state. They have traced more than 10 lakh people who need to be monitored to avoid the spread,” said state health minister Rajesh Tope.Of the 748 positive patients (as of Sunday evening) in Maharashtra, which tops the chart in the country, 640 are from MMR and Pune. Similarly, of 45 deaths, 36 are in MMR which comprises of Mumbai, Thane and Navi Mumbai. Five are in Pune, which is less than 150 kilometre from MMR.“Of the 36 districts, around 10 have no positive patient at all. Excluding MMR, Pune and Nagpur, the remaining part of the state has hardly seen any outbreak of the virus. If we could keep the most affected areas away from the remaining part, we could rapidly recover from the rising numbers. Similarly, spread within these containment zones will have to be contained. The collectors and municipal commissioners from these areas have been directed for such concentration on these areas,” said a key official from state government.Another challenge before the state government is controlling the crowding at the vegetable markets in cities. After having shifted its major market at Dadar, the government is expected to tweak its policy for the vegetable markets temporarily shifted at grounds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-maharashtra-s-covid-19-containment-plan-mumbai-nagpur-and-pune-are-key/story-odT2rLdUMbGinze6Qd9d2L.html
06-04-2020||India||Maharashtra govt to focus on containment of Covid-19 in hotspots||The Maharashtra government is focusing on the containment in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) hotspots such as Mumbai, Pune, and Nagpur, which have reported the maximum of positive cases in the past few days.Around 85% of Covid-19 positive cases been reported from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and Pune district, the most urbanised parts of the state. Mumbai, Thane and Navi Mumbai make up the MMR, which is located less than 150 kilometres away from Pune.Maharashtra has reported 781 Covid-19 positive cases until Monday morning --- the highest in the country --- of which 670 are from the MMR and Pune. The state has recorded 45 Covid-19 related deaths, of which 36 are from the MMR and five from Pune. The civic bodies in the MMR and Pune have been directed to meticulously implement the cluster containment action plan in a bid to contain the rapid spread of the viral outbreak.The state administration, headed by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and chief secretary Ajoy Mehta, has been closely monitoring the action plan in these urban areas. Thackeray will hold a meeting with the guardian secretaries -- a senior Indian Administrative Service (IAS) from each district has been appointed as a point-person for better coordination with the state government -- on Monday. The district authorities are likely to be ordered to ensure the containment of Covid-19 positive cases and a smooth supply of essential commodities. Mumbai and Navi Mumbai municipal corporations have formed 519 and 196 teams of health workers, respectively, to work in the containment zones and monitor the high-risk people. Similarly, Pune and Nagpur have formed 439 and 210 teams, respectively. “We’ve formed 3,078 teams, comprising more than four health workers in each unit, across the state. They’ve traced over 10 lakh people, who need to be monitored to prevent the viral outbreak,” said state health minister Rajesh Tope.“Of the 36 districts, around 10 haven’t reported a single Covid-19 positive case. The outbreak is only restricted to the MMR, Pune and Nagpur. If we could isolate the affected areas from the rest of the state, we could rapidly bring down the number of Covid-19 positive cases. Similarly, the spread within the containment zones can be brought under control,” said an official.The authorities, however, are facing a major challenge as far as controlling the crowds at vegetable markets in urban areas is concerned. They have temporarily shifted the markets to open grounds on the lines of their experiment with the Dadar market last week. Plans are now afoot to set up a cluster of small markets in residential areas.Senior IAS officers are appointed as guardian secretary with one district each for better coordination between state amd district administrations. The CM will now discuss district plan with them in the backdrop of covid outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-govt-to-focus-on-containment-of-covid-19-in-hotspots/story-KihUPWu7CMjcOS7hThRiFP.html
06-04-2020||India||Covid-19 state tally: Cases in Maharashtra near 800, no patients in 4 northeast states||The number of coronavirus cases in the country crossed 4,000 on Monday. As per the latest figures by the Ministry of Health, Covid-19 cases in the country stand at 4,067 including 3,666 active cases and 109 deaths. As many as 291 people have recovered from the infection.Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Delhi continue to be the worst-hit while northeast states like Tripura, Sikkim, Meghalaya and Nagaland have not reported any Covid-19 case yet.Here’s the statewise breakup of coronavirus cases, fatalities and patient recovery as per the data shared by the health ministry. MaharashtraWith 690 Covid-19 active cases, Maharashtra has registered the highest number of coronavirus cases in the country. The state has recorded 45 deaths so far while 42 patients have recovered. The total in Maharashtra nears 800 including active cases, deaths and recoveries. Tamil NaduThe southern state has the second-highest number of Covid-19 cases in the country which now stand at a whopping 571. Tamil Nadu has seen 8 recoveries and 5 Covid-19 deaths.DelhiDelhi closely follows with the third-highest number of coronavirus cases in the country. As many as 503 people have tested positive of coronavirus in the national capital. 7 people have died from the infection while 18 people have made a recovery, as per the health ministry’s data.Telangana321 positive cases of coronavirus have been reported from the state so far. 34 people have made a recovery from the virus while seven people have died from Covid-19.KeralaWith 314 coronavirus cases, Kerala is the fifth most coronavirus-affected state in the country. As per the latest data by the Ministry of Health, Kerala has witnessed two deaths due to Covid-19 while 55 people have successfully recovered.RajasthanCoronavirus cases in Rajasthan touched 253 on Monday. The state has reported no cases of fatalities. 21 patients have recovered from the infection.Uttar Pradesh227 people have been infected from Covid-19 in the state. While 19 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, two have died from the infection here.Andhra PradeshThe state has witnessed a sudden spike in its Covid-19 cases. 226 positive Covid-19 patients have been reported in the state and one case of recovery. Three people have died.Madhya PradeshThe state has reported 165 positive cases of coronavirus. 9 people have died from Covid-19 here.KarnatakaThe state has recorded 151 Covid-19 cases and four deaths. 12 people have been cured and discharged.GujaratPrime Minister Narendra Modi’s home state has registered 122 coronavirus cases and 18 recoveries so far. 12 people have died from the infection in the state.Jammu and KashmirThe union territory of Jammu and Kashmir has seen the number of Covid-19 patients rising to 106. Two people have died from the infection while four were cured.Haryana and PunjabThe neighbouring states have 84 and 68 Covid-19 cases respectively. While 6 people have died in Punjab, Haryana has seen one death. Twenty-five people have recovered from Covid-19 in Haryana, 4 in Punjab.80 people have been affected by the Sars-CoV-2 virus in West Bengal. There have been three deaths and ten recoveries in the state. In Chandigarh, 18 people have contracted the Covid-19 disease. Andaman has recorded 10 coronavirus cases. Chhattisgarh has recorded nine cases of coronavirus, and three people have recovered. In Bihar, 30 people have tested positive for coronavirus, one has died.Assam has reported 26 Covid-19 cases. Uttarakhand has 26 coronavirus patients, four patients have recovered from the infection. Odisha has 21 Covid-19 positive patients while Ladakh has 14. Goa has reported seven cases of Covid-19 disease. Himachal Pradesh has 13 cases, one patient has died and one has recovered. Pondicherry has reported five cases, one has recovered. Two coronavirus cases have been reported in Manipur.States and Union territories with just one positive Covid-19 case include Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram.India is under a 21-day nationwide coronavirus lockdown announced by PM Modi to break the chain of Covid-19 infection in the country. The country entered the 13th day of the three-week lockdown on Monday. The 21-day lockdown will end on April 14.Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-state-tally-cases-in-maharashtra-near-700-no-patients-in-4-northeast-states/story-cEVoBbzdnfinNx93Nf8FYN.html
06-04-2020||India||BJP at 40: Nadda praises PM Modi’s leadership, asks party workers to give up one meal||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Jagat Prakash Nadda has said that the way Prime Minister Narendra Modi has led the country during the Covid-19 crisis is being praised everywhere.“The way Prime Minister Narendra Modi has led the country at this moment of global crisis due to Covid-19, it is being praised everywhere. The whole world is looking towards PM Modi with hope, to recover from this crisis,” Nadda said in his address to the party workers on 40th foundation day of the party.“On the occasion of 40th establishment day of the BJP, every party worker will contact 40 people and urge them to donate Rs 100 in PM-CARES fund,” said Nadda.“We should thank the policemen, doctors, nurses, bank officials and postmen who are working for our convenience,” he added.He had earlier tweeted, “I request you to express gratitude and motivate those who work for our health 24x7.” Nadda also asked party workers to give up one meal to show solidarity with people facing hardships during the ongoing lockdown.Prime Minister Narendra Modi also took to Twitter and posted his message on the 40th anniversary of the BJP.“We mark our Party’s 40th Anniversary when India is battling COVID-19. I appeal to BJP Karyakartas to follow the set of guidelines from our Party President @JPNaddavJi, help those in need and reaffirm the importance of social distancing. Let’s make India COVID-19 free,” the Prime Minister tweeted. Senior BJP leader and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said that the organisation has emerged as the biggest and strongest pillar of democracy in the country. “In just 40 years of its foundation, BJP has not only become the biggest and strongest pillar of Indian democracy but has also become the centre of people’s trust. The credit for this goes crores of party workers and a strong leadership. Congratulations to all workers on BJP foundation day,” Singh said in a tweet on Monday.The UP unit of the BJP is celebrating the party’s 40th Foundation Day by undertaking a signature campaign to thank the “corona warriors”, who are working on the frontline in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic that has claimed nearly 70,000 deaths across the world.The BJP was founded on April 6 in 1980 by leaders of the erstwhile Jana Sangh, which had merged with the Janata Party to put up a united fight against the Indira Gandhi-led Congress in the 1977 Lok Sabha polls, held after the Emergency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-at-40-nadda-praises-pm-modi-s-leadership-asks-party-workers-to-give-up-one-meal/story-OBlpajZ48PDhMaEZpOZNjP.html
06-04-2020||India||Social media comes down on those who burst crackers in response to PM’s candlelight vigil call||“It’s not a party,” “It’s not Diwali,” netizens vented their ire on social media, as people switched off lights at their homes at 9 pm on Sunday and instead of lighting candles, burst firecrackers in response to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call for a nine-minute candlelight vigil.Modi had called for a nine-minute candlelight vigil on Sunday as a means to dispel the darkness spread by the coronavirus pandemic. He had asked people to switch off the lights at their homes and light a candle or a diya at their doorsteps or in their balconies at 9 pm on Sunday.While many put up video clips and pictures of themselves lighting candles, most social media posts came down heavily against those bursting crackers.Netizens put up video clips and pictures of people bursting crackers and shouting slogans as 9 pm approached.“Corona ke Bharat aagman par deshwaasi khushi manate hue. Well done (people welcoming the entry of corona to India),” tweeted Arun Arora, taking a dig at those bursting crackers.Twitter user Sparsh Oberoi, however, attributed the celebrations to boredom.“I find that we are getting crazier by every activity. Is this due to being bored of the lockdown or just no idea of what’s going on around us. The PM never asked to burst crackers. We are not celebrating anything ppl,” he tweeted.Disability rights activist Nipun Malhotra urged people not to burst crackers and reminded them that this was not a joyous moment. “Light a diya. Be united. But crackers? Really? This ain’t a party!” he tweeted.Standup comic Vir Das indicated that he had preempted this reaction to the PM’s call two days in advance.“Repeat: Sunday is an INDOORS show of solidarity. It is NOT diwali,” he said, re-tweeting an April 3 tweet of his with a solitary “sigh”.Many wondered how people procured firecrackers during a nationwide shutdown.“Who declared crackers as essential service?” wrote Anivar Aravind.Tweeting from the handle @_NairFYI, one user saw the bursting of crackers during a pandemic as an ominous sign and said, “Before the Titanic went down they did fire rockets to alert nearby ships.” Some Twitter users also said slogans were raised as 9 pm approached.“This is so incredible & mesmerising, to my surprise ppl even shouted slogans “Bharat Mata Ki Jay” & “Vande Mataram”... #9pm9minute,” tweeted Amol Siddham.However, there were some who found humour even in the mass voluntary blackout.“Itna andhera ho gaya hai poore India main, Corona ne rasta bhatak kar wapas China chale jana hai (there is so much darkness in India that corona has lost its way and gone back to China),” tweeted a user from the handle @swatic12.Another user, Rangjogi, said, “Well, right after the first 2 quaint minutes, there were rockets in the sky. Mithai anyone??” tweeting with the hashtag #DiwaliAgainstCorona.According to the Health Ministry, the number of coronavirus cases climbed to 3,374 in the country on Sunday, while the death toll rose to 77.Of these, the number of active COVID-19 cases stood at 3,030, while 266 people were cured and one had migrated, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/social-media-comes-down-on-those-who-burst-crackers-in-response-to-pm-s-candlelight-vigil-call/story-gnEFkT6Z3Gi8nbFtgn9jbN.html
06-04-2020||India||With 490 new coronavirus patients, India now has 4067 cases; death toll at 109||The number of coronavirus disease cases in India rose to 4067, with an increase of 490 in the last 12 hours, and the deaths related to Covid-19 were recorded at 109 on Monday morning, the Union health ministry said.There are 3666 active cases of Covid-19 and 291 people have been cured or discharged till date, according to the figures released by the Union health ministry at 9am. This is up from 3577 cases and 83 deaths, according to the health ministry data, on Sunday.’The Covid-19 cases and deaths have been reported in 30, out of 36, states and Union territories till date.Maharashtra, which is the worst-affected state in the country, reported 777 Covid-19 cases including 45 deaths. Tamil Nadu was second with 584 patients of the coronavirus disease followed by Delhi, which has reported 528 cases with seven fatalities.Also Watch | ‘Ruthless containment...’: Govt on district-level plans as Covid-19 cases rise The numbers in Delhi have risen after hundreds of people, who took part in the Tablighi Jamaat’s religious congregation in Nizamuddin, tested positive for Covid-19. Mumbai and other cities in Maharashtra like Pune and Nagpur have recorded a substantial rise in the number of Covid-19 patients in last few days—of these nearly 85% are in Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and Pune district, the most urbanised areas of the state.The state government has decided to focus on these areas to contain the spread of the virus. The municipal corporations in these cities have been directed to implement the cluster containment action plan minutely to restrict the spread. Municipal corporations in Mumbai and Navi Mumbai have formed 519 and 196 teams of the health works respectively to work in the containment zones and monitoring people who are in high-risk areas. Pune has 439 teams and Nagpur city has 210.“We have 3078 teams comprising more than four members in each team across the state. They have traced more than 10 lakh people who need to be monitored to avoid the spread,” said state health minister Rajesh Tope.The Centre said on Saturday that the doubling rate of the pathogen’s spread was at 4.1 days and it said would have stood at 7.4 if not for the Nizamuddin hotspot.The jump in the number of coronavirus infections, officials said, has been driven by the detection of hundreds of people who attended the congregation of the Tablighi Jamaat, a Muslim missionary group, in Delhi’s Nizamuddin Markaz last month.Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Jammu and Kashmir, Assam, Karnataka, Andaman and Nicobar, Uttarakhand, Haryana, Maharashtra, Himachal Pradesh, Kerala, Arunachal Pradesh and Jharkhand have reported cases linked to the Tablighi Jamaat event in March.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), India’s top biomedical research organisation has said that Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, is not airborne.“If it was an airborne infection, then in a family whoever has a contact they all should come positive because they are living in the same surrounding as the patient and the family is breathing the same air,” Raman R Gangakhedkar, ICMR’s head of epidemiology and communicable diseases, said on Saturday.“When someone is admitted in a hospital, other patients would have been exposed (if it was airborne) but that is not the case,” he said.ICMR also issued an advisory saying spitting in public places could enhance the spread of Covid-19. It has released an advisory on how and where to use the rapid test, which can determine the immunity of an individual and help people get back into the workforce. The advisory includes people in high-risk areas or containment zones, large migration gatherings and evacuation centres.Millions of people across India turned off their lights and lit up their balconies and doorsteps with lamps, candles and flashlights on Sunday, in response to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s appeal to “challenge the darkness” spread by the coronavirus crisis.The Prime Minister, who imposed a three-week-long nationwide lockdown on March 25, asked all citizens to turn out their lights for nine minutes at 9pm and to display lamps and candles in a show of solidarity.Officials in multiple states have said curbs on movement and commercial activity could be relaxed first in districts with no coronavirus disease cases as part of their plan to a staggered return to normal activity could work after April 14, when the nationwide lockdown is scheduled to end.Central officials said on Sunday that they discussed with states a “containment strategy” that hinges on identifying and cordoning off hot spot areas.This strategy could be crucial to lifting the three-week lockdown in force since March 25 without risking a resurgence of the disease. As on Sunday, cases have been reported from 274 of the country’s 718 districts. Twenty-one of the 230 districts in nine states are considered hot spots.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in a conference call on Thursday with chief ministers from across the country, had asked states to pitch in with ideas on how the curbs can be relaxed in a phased manner.The number of Covid-19 cases in the world was 1.25 million on Sunday night, and the number of deaths stood at 68,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-cases-in-india-rise-to-4067-death-toll-at-109/story-gxiLOm9hx74ExahoMRbHKK.html
06-04-2020||India||We have pledged and completed the resolutions of our era: JP Nadda tweets on 40 years of BJP||Bharatiya Janata Party president JP Nadda on Monday extended wishes on the 40th anniversary of the party and urged all party workers to work toward helping the needy amid the coronavirus crisis. “I request you to express gratitude and motivate those who work for our health 24x7,” Nadda tweeted out.“We continued to struggle on the path of our ideology even in many ups and downs, we set the journey to becoming the largest political party in the world and alongside we made many welfare schemes for the nation and the poor, we have pledged and completed the resolutions of our era,” Nadda’s tweet read. माँ भारती को परम वैभव पर स्थापित करने के पुनीत विचार से जन्मी भारतीय जनता पार्टी को अपने परिश्रम से सींच कर विशाल वटवृक्ष के रूप में खड़ा करने वाले मनीषियों और करोड़ों समर्पित, निष्ठावान कार्यकर्ताओं को भाजपा के 40वें स्थापना दिवस के अवसर पर नमन एवं शुभकामनाएं। #BJPSthapnaDiwas pic.twitter.com/5Y5iaNrdveEarlier in the day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi also took to Twitter and posted his message on the 40th anniversary of the BJP.“We mark our Party’s 40th Anniversary when India is battling COVID-19. I appeal to BJP Karyakartas to follow the set of guidelines from our Party President @JPNaddavJi, help those in need and reaffirm the importance of social distancing. Let’s make India COVID-19 free,” the Prime Minister tweeted. The Prime Minister thanked the many party workers for working tirelessly for the party’s cause. “In line with the principles of the party, our workers have toiled to bring positive changes in the lives of the people and also set a new example of social service,” PM’s post read. Meanwhile, the number of coronavirus cases in the country crossed the 4,000 mark on Monday. Over 100 people have lot their lives to Covid-19 infection in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-have-pledged-and-completed-the-resolutions-of-our-era-jp-nadda-tweets-on-40-years-of-bjp/story-MUpi2ikL5Biyu31kqw7UEM.html
06-04-2020||India||Let’s make India Covid-19-free: PM Modi on BJP’s 40th foundation day||Amid muted celebrations to mark its 40th foundation day, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday set itself the task of reaching out to thank health care workers, policemen, sanitation workers, who are on the frontline of the battle against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), as well as those who have been providing essential services during the ongoing 21-day nationwide lockdown to check the spread of the pandemic.Prime Minister Narendra Modi greeted his party colleagues and asked them to help those in need as the country fights to contain the novel coronavirus outbreak.“We mark our Party’s 40th Anniversary when India is battling COVID-19. I appeal to BJP Karyakartas to follow the set of guidelines from our Party President @JPNaddaJi, help those in need and reaffirm the importance of social distancing. Let’s make India COVID-19 free. #BJPat40,” he tweeted.PM Modi also paid tributes to those who toiled for decades to build the party, and said it is because of them that the BJP got the chance to serve the country.In another tweet, the PM, who has been urging people not to break the protocol of the three-week lockdown (which began on March 25), said whenever the BJP has been given the opportunity to serve the nation, it has focused on good governance and empowering the poor. He praised his party colleagues for having worked hard to bring a positive difference in the lives of many and done great social service.“…In line with the party’s ethos, our karyakartas (workers) have worked hard to bring a positive difference in the lives of many and done great social service,” he tweeted.On Sunday, party president JP Nadda urged the cadre to mark the 40th foundation day though a week-long outreach programme; he said party workers must reach out to 490 families to carry out a signature campaign to thank the people working on the frontline in the fight against coronavirus.The party workers have also been told to make at least two face masks at their homes for the people. Nadda also asked party workers to feed at least five needy families.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-on-bjp-s-40th-foundation-day-lets-make-india-covid-19-free/story-oHKbH6ivNFqzKjjAqgvVVJ.html
06-04-2020||India||Unlocking India and antibody test plans: Covid-19 news from the country||Curbs on movement and commercial activities could be relaxed first in districts with no Covid-19 cases, state officials say, offering some pointers about how a staggered return to normal activity could work after April 14 in India, where over 100 people have died due to the disease. Health authorities, meanwhile, may begin a rapid antibody testing on Thursday, with people in high-risk areas expected to undergo first this test that checks the presence of antibodies created by the body to stop the Sars-CoV-2 virus.India’s Covid-19 toll hits 100; Delhi infection tally 503The number of deaths from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) topped 100 on Sunday as the total infections crossed 4,000 – 503 of them in Delhi – with the central government pegging the doubling rate of the pathogen’s spread at 4.1 days, a figure it said would have stood at 7.4 in the absence of the Nizamuddin cluster. Read moreCovid-19: What you need to know todayLet’s look at some numbers. The number of Covid-19 cases in the world was 1.25 million on Sunday night, and the number of deaths stood at 68,000. That works out to a fatality rate of around 5%. But, like all aggregates, this number is not representative. Read moreWill districts with no Covid-19 cases be first to be unlocked?Curbs on movement and commercial activity could be relaxed first in districts with no coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, officials in multiple states have said, offering some pointers about how a staggered return to normal activity could work after April 15, when the nationwide lockdown is scheduled to end. Read moreModi calls former Presidents, PMs, Sonia Gandhi to discuss Covid crisisPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday called former presidents Pranab Mukherjee and Pratibha Patil, two former PMs Manmohan Singh and HD Deve Gowda apart from heads of different parties, including Congress chief Sonia Gandhi, to discuss the situation in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak and the steps taken by the Centre to contain the pandemic. Read moreCoronavirus Update: PM Modi’s lights off call gets ‘huge response’, sharp dip in power demandThe Centre said on Sunday that the national response to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call to switch off lights for nine minutes at 9pm was huge and power demand dropped by 32 GW, more than double of what officials had anticipated. Read moreShortage of safety equipment crippling states’ Covid-19 containment effortsIn India’s two biggest states -- Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra that have nearly a thousand cases between them -- health officials admitted to a shortage of PPE, saying that private companies had expressed their inability to provide the kits early because of an increase in demand. Read moreCases doubling in 4.1 days, up since Jamaat event: GovtThe government on Sunday said that the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) doubling rate in India is currently at 4.1 days and attributed the rapid increase to Tablighi Jamaat congregation that took place in Delhi between March 10 and 15. Read moreUS and UK set to evacuate their nationals from IndiaThe UK and the US are set to join a list of countries that have been evacuating their stranded nationals from India, with the Boris Johnson government on Sunday announcing the first wave of seven charter flights for some 20,000 Britons in different states. Read moreVigilant Jaipur Police monitors lockdown from coronavirus war roomA large hall on the first floor of the Jaipur Police Commissioner’s office, near the government press, is buzzing despite the 21-day national lockdown. On the left, it has three rows of eight workstations, each with three computer screens. About 30 other screens are mounted on a wall in front. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unlocking-india-and-antibody-test-plans-covid-19-news-from-the-country/story-0v0tBkKG4U01a6cz3JTmqJ.html
06-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: 25 Muslim men arrested for attacking police during Odisha town shutdown||Police in Odisha’s Cuttack have arrested 25 Muslim men for pelting stones at them while enforcing the 48-hour shutdown as part of the state government’s measures to contain the spread of Covid-19 disease.Cuttack deputy commissioner of police Akhileswar Singh said the inspector of Mangalabag police station and some other policemen were on foot patrolling in Kesharpur area when they saw some men sitting near the local mosque.“When the cops asked the youths why they were not inside their homes as per shutdown order they started pelting stones. The inspector and a few other policemen were injured,” said Singh.Soon after the incident, two platoons of the police force were deployed in the locality to avoid any further untoward incident. Police said cases have been registered against the men under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for attacking the police.Odisha police have registered more than 2700 cases and arrested 2600-odd people for violating the lockdown as of Sunday. More than 400 vehicles have also been seized.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-25-muslim-men-arrested-for-attacking-police-during-odisha-town-shutdown/story-IzUNJCldfuG6Ocsn1xcCtK.html
06-04-2020||India||‘Our workers have toiled to bring positive changes’: PM Modi extends greetings on 40 years of BJP||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday took to Twitter and posted on the occasion of the 40th anniversary of the Bharatiya Janata Party. “We mark our Party’s 40th Anniversary when India is battling COVID-19. I appeal to BJP Karyakartas to follow the set of guidelines from our Party President @JPNaddavJi, help those in need and reaffirm the importance of social distancing. Let’s make India COVID-19 free,” the Prime Minister tweeted. PM Modi said that whenever the party got the chance to serve the nation, it did so by emphasising “good governance and empowerment of the poor”. “In line with the principles of the party, our workers have toiled to bring positive changes in the lives of the people and also set a new example of social service,” PM’s post read. भाजपा के स्थापना दिवस पर @BJP4India के सभी कार्यकर्ताओं को बहुत-बहुत शुभकामनाएं। इस अवसर पर उन सबको मेरी विनम्र श्रद्धांजलि, जिन्होंने अपने खून-पसीने से पार्टी को सींचा। उनकी वजह से ही भाजपा को आज देशभर में करोड़ों भारतीयों की सेवा करने का अवसर मिला है। #BJPat40PM Modi extended his wishes and greetings to BJP workers across the nation and thanked them for working hard for the party’s cause. The Prime Minister also extended greetings on the occasion of Mahavir Jayanti. “Happy Mahavir Jayanti to all countrymen. His life based on truth, non-violence, renunciation and austerity will always remain an inspiration for everyone,” PM Modi posted. This comes a day after the nation carried out the Prime Minister’s call to light diyas and candles in their houses at 9 pm for 9 minutes in solidarity amid the coronavirus crisis. Scores of people switched off their residential lights to stand in unity against the coronavirus pandemic. शुभं करोति कल्याणमारोग्यं धनसंपदा ।शत्रुबुद्धिविनाशाय दीपज्योतिर्नमोऽस्तुते ॥ pic.twitter.com/4DeiMsCN11The number of Covid-19 in the country has crossed the 3,500 mark. India entered the 13th day of the 21-day lockdown on Monday which will end on April 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/our-workers-have-toiled-to-bring-positive-changes-pm-modi-extends-greeting-on-40-years-of-bjp/story-WjQzO0gbsbq7X2r47t0zHO.html
06-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Wuhan, once epicentre of Covid-19, gets ready for life after lockdown and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 AM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Wuhan, once epicentre of Covid-19, gets ready for life after lockdownChina reported 30 new cases of coronavirus disease Covid-19 on Sunday, including five locally transmitted infections, even as nine of the 13 administrative districts of virus-hit Wuhan city were declared ‘low-risk areas’ signifying a gradual return to normalcy, officials said.Read more. Will districts with no Covid-19 cases be first to be unlocked?Curbs on movement and commercial activity could be relaxed first in districts with no coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, officials in multiple states have said, offering some pointers about how a staggered return to normal activity could work after April 15, when the nationwide lockdown is scheduled to end. Read more. 2 more soldiers killed, 5 terrorists gunned down in J-K’s KupwaraTwo more soldiers of the Indian Army lost their lives as the force foiled an infiltration bid along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kupwara district in an operation in which five terrorists were killed on Sunday. Read more. Covid-19: What you need to know todayLet’s look at some numbers. The number of Covid-19 cases in the world was 1.25 million on Sunday night, and the number of deaths stood at 68,000. That works out to a fatality rate of around 5%. But, like all aggregates, this number is not representative. Read more. ‘Was it Diwali?’: Sonam Kapoor shocked as firecrackers go off during 9pm 9 min call, Taapsee Pannu says they felt ‘it’s a rave’As the entire county lit candles on Sunday to show solidarity with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s 9pm 9 minute call amid coronavirus spread, the bursting of firecrackers in some cities was a matter of surprise. Several Bollywood celebrities including Taapsee Pannu, Sonam Kapoor and Richa Chadha registered their objection to the same on Twitter. Read more. Apple donated over 20 million masks, also working on custom face shields: Tim CookApple CEO Tim Cook earlier today updated the company’s progress on providing medical gear to hospitals. Cook said Apple has so far sourced over 20 million masks globally through its supply chain. Apple is also working on custom face shields for medical works. Read more. Mahavir Jayanti 2020: Significance and history of the dayMahavir Jayanti is one of the most important festivals in Jainism, and it celebrates the birth anniversary of the 24th Tirthankara Mahavir. It was on the 13th day in the month of Chaitra in 599 BCE or 615 BCE that Mahavir was born, according to the Digambar and Swetambara school of Jainism respectively, in Kundagram. Read more. Drew McIntyre conquers the ‘Conquerer’ Brock Lesnar at WWE WrestleMania 36WWE Champion Brock Lesnar faced a daunting threat in the form of 6’5, 265 pounds Drew McIntyre. The ‘Scottish Psychopath’ is thought to be the next big thing in the WWE and for that to happen, he had to overcome the ‘Beast Incarnate’. Read more. Sunday 9pm 9 minutes: When hope had the last laugh I OpinionIndia showed her support for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s 9pm 9 minutes initiative as people across the country switched off lights in their homes and came to their balconies with diyas and candles. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-wuhan-once-epicentre-of-covid-19-gets-ready-for-life-after-lockdown-and-all-the-latest-news/story-kRINCAVSiWYye8nsBKtHUK.html
06-04-2020||India||Over 30% of India’s total Covid-19 infections could have Markaz link, cases cross 3,500: Key developments||Coronavirus cases in the country have jumped beyond 3,500. On Sunday, the Ministry of Health updated the number of coronavirus cases in the country to 3,577. The figure includes 3,219 active cases and 274 patients who have been cured. As many as 83 people have died from Covid-19 so far. On Sunday evening, scores of citizens switched off their residential lights and lit up diyas and candles for 9 minutes at 9 pm in solidarity amid the coronavirus outbreak. India entered the thirteenth day of the 21-day lockdown on Monday. Here are the key developments:1. India is likely to start rapid antibody testing on Thursday, with people in high-risk areas (containment zones), “large migration gatherings” and evacuation centres expected to be the first to get undergo this simple blood test that checks the presence of antibodies created by the body to fight the Sars-Cov-2 virus.2. The number of deaths from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) topped 100 on Sunday as the total infections crossed 4,000 – 503 of them in Delhi, state figures show.3. About 21,200 people linked to a gathering of the Tablighi Jamaat in the Capital’s Nizamuddin Basti, which has emerged as a hot spot of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), have been quarantined in India, according to government officials. The number includes 2,000 foreigners.4. More than 50 doctors and other healthcare workers have tested positive for the coronavirus disease across India, putting the spotlight on their vulnerability and the possibility of hospitals emerging as high-risk places to contract the infection.5. Odisha recorded the highest single-day surge in positive Covid-19 cases on Sunday with 18 cases being reported from the state capital Bhubaneswar hours after the government allayed fears of community transmission. From 21 cases till Saturday, the number of positive cases surged to 39 on Sunday.6. Four more people, who attended the Tablighi Jamaat’s events, tested positive for Covid-19 in Uttarakhand on Sunday, taking the number of cases in the state from 22 to 26.7. As of Sunday morning, at least 1,023 cases in 17 states and Union Territories, or over 30% of India’s total Covid-19 infections, could be linked to the mid-March gathering that has prompted authorities to launch a complex exercise to trace the footsteps of those who fanned out across the country.8. Nearly the entire top brass of Madhya Pradesh’s health department is under quarantine after 11 of the department, including two Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers and the director of health services, have tested positive for Covid-19 since Saturday.9. A Covid-19 positive case in Maharashtra’s Nashik district, which came to light on March 30, has forced Asia’s largest onion trading market, Lasalgaon, to suspend operations, affecting supplies, an official of the market said.10. As many as 62 new positive cases for Covid-19 were reported in Telangana on Sunday, taking the cumulative number of positive cases in the state to 333.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-30-of-india-s-total-covid-19-infections-could-have-markaz-link-cases-cross-3-500-key-developments/story-SN02uZAyswD5MAxGQBbvmN.html
06-04-2020||India||Tripura Congress leader who filed complaint against CM accused of forgery||A case was lodged against a veteran Congress leader in Tripura for using national emblem on his letterhead.Senior Congress leader Gopal Roy had filed a complaint against Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb, accusing him of spreading fake information regarding the spread of coronavirus.Roy claimed that the chief minister on Tuesday told a press conference that 19 coronavirus cases were detected in Manipur and 16 in Assam.In reality, the Congress leader asserted, Manipur had only two cases and Assam one on Tuesday.Roy sought appropriate action against the chief minister for allegedly spreading “fake information”.However, an advocate, Arabinda Deb, on Sunday filed a complaint with the police charging Roy with forgery and criminal conspiracy to malign the image of the chief minister.“We got the complaint against Gopal Roy on Saturday late night. The complaint was lodged by an advocate of West Tripura District Court who charged Roy under Section 120(b) (criminal conspiracy) and 469 (forgery) of Indian Penal Code. It is cognizable offence,” said officer in-charge of New Capital Complex (NCC) police station.The advocate, in his complaint, accused Roy of using national emblem to malign the chief minister.“The complaint was received at West Superintendent of Police office on Saturday. It came to us this evening (Sunday). Inquiry is going on. For such complaints, we need to get permission from the magistrate. The process has started. Case is not registered yet,” the officer in-charge of the police station said. Roy later told the media that the police searched his house without warrant. “It is a plot to murder me. This happened as I had filed complaint against chief minister. I will knock the door of high court,” the Congress leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-congress-leader-who-filed-complaint-against-cm-accused-of-forgery/story-GdZv2kDv3VTaD3VqADJx6K.html
06-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Odisha’s Ganjam district to fine people for not wearing masks||With more and more Covid-19 cases being reported in the state, Odisha’s Ganjam district has made it compulsory for anyone venturing outside to wear masks.The coastal district of Ganjam on Sunday made it compulsory for people out on the streets to wear masks as part of the preventive measures to fight against deadly coronavirus disease, which has claimed 83 lives and affected more than 3200 people across the country.“If anyone is coming outside without mask, they will be penalised with Rs 1000 in the urban areas and Rs 500 in the rural area. Use cotton clothes mask, handkerchief or scarf to cover nose and mouth,” Vijay Amruta Kulange, Ganjam district collector, said.Also read: Odisha posts highest single-day jump in Covid-19 cases after govt denies community transmissionAt least 400 women self-help groups in Odisha have made more than one million masks for distribution among people. The SHGs—under the Odisha government’s Mission Shakti programme—make around 50,000 masks every day, as part of its efforts to help the state government in its fight against Covid-19.The order for wearing masks came as Ganjam district sealed off a village in which migrants from Bhubaneswar returned recently. Matia Sahi village in Baghalati gram panchayat under Kukudakhandi block was sealed after reports of the presence of at least 130 migrants from the state’s capital city, said Shinde Dattatraya Bhausaheb, sub-collector of Berhampur.Also read: After recovery, Odisha’s first Covid-19 patient urges people not to panicMovement of people and vehicles in or out of Matia Sahi has been restricted until further orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-odisha-s-ganjam-district-to-fine-people-for-not-wearing-masks/story-uanjBQSFbb5YbCQTAJZYOL.html
06-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Maharashtra bans entry of people without masks to Mantralaya||Amidst the rising number of coronavirus cases in Mumbai, the Maharashtra government on Sunday announced that it was banning the entry of people without masks to Mantralaya.Issuing an official order, the state government stated that the people without masks will not be allowed to enter the Mantralaya.The decision is also applicable to all the employees of the state government who are currently asked to come to office, said an official.The state government has been functioning on five per cent workpower since the last two weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-maharashtra-bans-entry-of-people-without-masks-to-mantralaya/story-iwwPTn02QptNtoTiCUKLPN.html
06-04-2020||India||Coronavirus: Advertisement placed on OLX to ‘sell’ Statue of Unity, case filed||A case was registered against an unknown person in Gujarat for placing an online advertisement to “sell” the Statue of Unity in Kevadiya in Narmada district for Rs 30,000 crore to meet the government’s expenses for hospitals and medical infrastructure to fight the coronavirus outbreak.The memorial to Sardar Patel, at 182 metres, is the world’s tallest such structure and has attracted several lakh people since it was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2018.“Some unknown person placed an advertisement on OLX on Saturday stating he needs to sell the Statue of Unity for Rs 30,000 crore to meet the requirement of money to buy hospitals and healthcare equipment,” a Kevadiya police station official said quoting the FIR.“The memorial’s authorities came to know of the issue after a newspaper ran an article, and approached police. A cheating and forgery case was registered under IPC, Epidemic Diseases Act and Information Technology Act,” Inspector PT Chaudhary said.Soon after it was posted, the advertisement was taken off the website.“Despite him not being authorised to sell government property, this unidentified person posted the advertisement on OLX to defame the government and mislead people,” stated a release from the chief administrator of the Statue of Unity.Such an advertisement hurts the sentiments of the several crore people who idolise Sardar Patel, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-advertisement-placed-on-olx-to-sell-statue-of-unity-case-filed/story-Ocd47BZqQikPQnZtCnOwtL.html
06-04-2020||India||4 more Tablighi Jamaat attendees test positive for Covid-19 in Uttarakhand||Four more people, who attended the Tablighi Jamaat’s events, tested positive for Covid-19 in Uttarakhand on Sunday, taking the number of cases in the state from 22 to 26. Out of the 26 Covid-19 patients in the state, there are 18 people who were at the congregation of the Tablighi Jamaat in Nizamuddin Markaz in March and elsewhere. The Uttarakhand police on Sunday warned that residents of the state, who last month attended a gathering at Tablighi Jamaat headquarters in Delhi that has since emerged as a Covid-19 hotspot, will be booked for ‘murder’ and ‘attempt to murder’ if they fail to report to the authorities by April 6 and in the meantime infect others with the disease.Dr Rashmi Pant, additional chief medical officer of Nainital, confirmed that one Tablighi Jamaat member from Kaladhungi area of the district tested positive for the deadly virus on Sunday.According to health officials, the patient from Nainital had attended a religious congregation in Moradabad and not in Delhi’s Nizamuddin Markaz and five members of his family were quarantined on Sunday after he tested positive.Also read: Uttarakhand cops fight coronavirus on streets, wives at home, making masksDr Dinesh Chauhan, additional chief medical officer of Dehradun district, said that three new cases of Covid-19 were reported from the district on Sunday.“Three Jamaat attendees tested positive for coronavirus on Sunday. The attendees and their close contacts have been quarantined and their health status is being monitored,” said Dr Chauhan.He added that the report of an American citizen who tested positive first on March 23, came out positive again on Sunday.On Saturday, six people who had attended Tablighi Jamaat attendees had tested positive from Nainital and Haridwar and on Friday, six attendees had tested positive from Dehradun and Udham Singh Nagar.Also read: Uttarakhand villagers seal their villages to check spread of Covid-19 Nainital district administration has also quarantined 46 family members of Jamaat attendees who were tested positive for Covid-19. Apart from this, dozens of families have been home quarantined in Banbhulpura area of Nainital, said officials.“To prevent community transmission of coronavirus we have taken this strict action in Banbhulpura. As a precautionary measure we have quarantined 46 family members of five Jamaat attendees who tested positive,” Sushil Kumar, in-charge of Banbhulpura police station, said.They have been quarantined in different hotels and some at home.Entire village quarantinedWith rising cases of coronavirus disease in the state, Champawat district administration has quarantined an entire village, Gudmi in Banbasa area, on Sunday. The village is home to around 700 people, said officials.HS Hayanki, chief medical superintendent of the district hospital in Champawat, said a resident of the village working in US Nagar was found to have symptoms similar to those of coronavirus disease.The official said he had walked from Pant Nagar till his village after the lockdown and was suffering from the symptoms, thus the whole village has been quarantined.(With inputs from Ankur Sharma)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-more-tablighi-jamaat-attendees-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-uttarakhand/story-UHdUaTSQVKVtUlzH2vvPBP.html
06-04-2020||India||‘First nation to celebrate a pandemic’, TMC stings Sunday’s ‘9pm 9-min’ show||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew and Trinamool Congress youth wing chief Abhishek Banerjee on Sunday night criticised the way Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s light-out call for 9 minutes at 9pm was observed and asked if the government was preaching isolation or destruction. In Kolkata, firecrackers burst at several places right after 9pm, following which the police launched a crackdown and arrested 98 people. “With the firecrackers, fancy diyas & sky lanterns, we have become the first ever Nation to celebrate a pandemic #COVID19 I am also contemplating how many actually followed the norms of #lockdown to gear up for this. What was being preached: self-isolation or self-destruction? (sic)” Abhishek Banerjee wrote on Twitter late on Sunday night. On Saturday, Mamata Banerjee had refused to comment on the Prime Minister’s call for switching off the lights for nine minutes in a show of solidarity with those fighting the battle against Covid-19 from the front.Also read: What you need to know today“If someone wishes to participate, it’s up to him and her. What do I have to say?” she had said when journalists asked her about Modi’s announcement. Incidentally, in a tweet posted an hour before 9pm on Sunday, TMC Rajya Sabha leader Derek O’Brien wrote without referring to the event that the Centre needed to take nine urgent steps.“We need to take these 9 urgent steps to fight the #COVID19 challenge,” O’Brien wrote in a tweet that accompanied a photo of a burning candle.Also read: Will districts with no Covid-19 cases be first to be unlocked?Meanwhile, the Raj Bhavan on Sunday was all decked up with candles as Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar observed the light-out event. “Raj Bhavan Kolkata at 9 PM was lighted with Candles and Diyas with all electric lights off in the entire premises. Governor Dhankhar and First Lady Sudesh Dhankhar lighted up with Candles and Diyas Raj Bhavan in response to the visionary call @narendramodi (sic),” Dhankhar tweeted on Sunday night.A 55-year-old railway employee who tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday and was admitted at a hospital in Siliguri died on Sunday, marking the second death in the region and eighth in the state. The state government said 80 people have tested positive till Saturday night, out of whom 49 are active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-nation-to-celebrate-a-pandemic-tmc-stings-sunday-s-9pm-9-min-show/story-q0g5YlI8qyrn9mFEQONdxO.html
06-04-2020||India||With bidi factories closed amid Covid-19 lockdown, 15 lakh labourers in Bengal district face crisis||Till two weeks ago, Shyara Bibi and her daughter together earned Rs 152 a day by rolling a thousand bidis at their home in Imamnagar area of West Bengal’s Murshidabad district. On Sunday morning, the homemaker said she was not sure how to provide two square meal to her family.Ever since the government announced lockdown to contain the Covid-19 pandemic, more than 15 lakh people linked directly or indirectly to the district’s bidi industry—considered the biggest in the state—are now dependent on food provided by the state and non-government organisations. “To help the dairy industry, the state has permitted sweet shops to stay open for four hours. Is the administration not aware of our plight?” Mohammad Jamaluddin, a wage labourer, asked.“It is impossible to survive on paltry savings and limited ration. The government must allow bidi production to save people from starvation,” he said.Also read: Railway employee becomes second person to die in north BengalIn certain pockets of Murshidabad, entire families depend on bidi making, people from the industry said. There are more than 100 factories in the district’s Jangipur sub-division alone. Bidis from Murshidabad are sold in many states. “More than eight lakh people are directly associated with the production in Shamserganj and Suti police station areas. There are families that earn up to Rs 500 a day by rolling bidis. These people have not made a penny since the lockdown began,” Emani Biswas, a bidi merchant from the Suti area, said.A factory owner, who did not wish to be identified, said the problem will not be solved even if the government allows production locally.“Bidis are sent to other states on trains. Until train services resume it is impossible to sustain production,” he said.Some factory owners have extended help to the poor workforce but most said they will not be able to pay any wage under the present circumstances.Jakir Hossain, Trinamool Congress legislator from Jangipur and minister of state for labour, owns a bidi factory himself.“I have taken up the responsibility to provide food for more than 20,000 people in my constituency. I know that lakhs of labourers are facing a crisis. Our government has taken some measures to solve their problem,” said Hossain.Also read: Man killed in clash over setting up of quarantine centre in Bengal“With no production and sales, it is virtually impossible to pay these people their daily wages. If the government orders some relaxation, I will surely ensure that the labourers adhere to social distancing guidelines,” he added.Abul Hasnat Khan, the president of West Bengal State Bidi and Tobacco Labourers Federation, said more than 22 lakh labourers attached to the bidi industry across West Bengal are unemployed during the 21-day lockdown. “We have demanded the release of their unpaid wages next week. We have also received allegations that in many places they are not getting free ration,” Khan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-bidi-factories-closed-amid-covid-19-lockdown-15-lakh-labourers-in-bengal-district-face-crisis/story-muRYCfONIbkuvwox6lpoGO.html
06-04-2020||India||Rain, thunder likely over northern India||Two western disturbances (WD) will impact the north-western region from April 6 to 9, according to India Meteorological Department. Officials said the disturbances will bring rain and thundershowers in the western Himalayas and northern plains.Due to the back-to-back WDs, the maximum temperature is also likely to fall by 2 to 3 degrees Celsius for a few days even after the WDs move away. Delhi may receive mild rains but Punjab and Haryana will get moderate rain and thundershowers. According to IMD’s Sunday bulletin, a WD is impacting the western Himalayan region now and another fresh WD is likely to impact the region from April 9 onwards. “Both of these systems are likely to affect weather across northwest India from April 6 with peak during April 7 to 9, with scattered to fairly widespread rain/thundershowers likely over western Himalayan region during April 7 to 9 and over Punjab and Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi on April 7,” the bulletin said.Thunderstorms, hail and gusty winds are also likely over many parts of northwest India during this period. Scattered to fairly widespread rainfall and thunderstorm is also likely over northeast India during April 8 and 9 and squall over Assam, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura on April 7 and 8.“The present WD has started impacting Jammu and Kashmir and Madhya Pradesh. We can feel the impact in Delhi-NCR on April 7 when light rain, thunder and gusty winds blowing at about 30 to 40 kmph is likely. We are hoping that the temperature will increase after April 10, reaching about 36 to 37 degree C. The maximum temperature may drop marginally before that because of the WDs. The impact of the WDs reduces substantially in this season but this year, there has been an unusually high number of WDs in winter also,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.“WDs are always there but they move northwards in summer. Occasionally, they also come southwards. This year anyway, the impact of WDs has led to a lot of rain in the plains,” said K Sathi Devi, head, national weather forecasting centre. RK Jenamani, senior scientist at the centre, said this year the country is seeing chains of WDs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-thunder-likely-over-northern-india/story-Tw0BbacOFWevUiwv8wUzoM.html
06-04-2020||India||Wearing masks in public places may contain virus spread: Study||Wearing surgical masks in public spaces may help limit the transmission of viruses, including the one that causes coronavirus disease or Covid-19, according to a new study, the latest in a growing body of research in favour of masks to stop the deadly contagion. The study was published in the journal Nature Medicine on Saturday days after a high-level US scientific panel said the Sars-Cov-2 virus that caused Covid-19 is airborne and can be spread through speech or breathing – contradicting previously held belief that it spreads largely through close contact. Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicSars-Cov-2 is part of the coronavirus family, which also caused the 2003 Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome epidemic. Scientists at the University of Maryland found in laboratory experiments that the masks “significantly” reduced the amounts of airborne viruses from infected patients.Coronavirus was detected in respiratory droplets and aerosols in 3 of 10 and 4 of 10 of the samples collected without face masks, respectively but did not detect any in respiratory droplets or aerosols collected from participants wearing face masks.Donald Milton, one of the authors of the paper, cautioned that the results merely suggested that surgical masks may only limit the extent of transmission and not protect wearers from infection. “In normal times we’d say that if it wasn’t shown statistically significant or the effective in real-world studies, we don’t recommend it,” he said. “But in the middle of a pandemic, we’re desperate. The thinking is that even if it cuts down transmission a little bit, it’s worth trying.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wearing-masks-in-public-places-may-contain-virus-spread-study/story-uBPn8ffKoDBsgsjBBiRFXL.html
06-04-2020||India||21k with links to Jamaat event quarantined||About 21,200 people linked to a gathering of the Tablighi Jamaat in the Capital’s Nizamuddin Basti, which has emerged as a hot spot of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), have been quarantined in India, according to government officials. The number includes 2,000 foreigners.As of Sunday morning, at least 1,023 cases in 17 states and Union Territories, or over 30% of India’s total Covid-19 infections, could be linked to the mid-March gathering that has prompted authorities to launch a complex exercise to trace the footsteps of those who fanned out across the country.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe foreigners’ register maintained by the Jamaat headquarters, also known as the Markaz, has been seized by the Delhi Police’s crime branch. Also, the Jamaat head Maulana Saad has been booked for defying restrictions on public gatherings. Police stations in other states, too, have registered cases under relevant laws.In an operation that began on March 29 and ended on March 31, the police and health authorities evacuated over 2,300 people, including about 250 foreigners, from the Jamaat’s headquarters in the Capital. They were taken to hospitals and quarantine centres. Of the 503 positive cases in Delhi till Sunday evening, 320 were linked to the Jamaat markaz, which also has a large following in states such as Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Rajasthan.As Jamaat workers were agitated when authorities moved in to vacate the six-storey building on March 28, national security adviser (NSA) Ajit Doval put to the test his relationship with the influential Darul-Uloom, Jamiat-e-Ulema Hind and Al-Hadees to convince the Tablighi leadership. It was only after that the Jamaat workers came out and boarded the buses lined up for them.The home ministry has already blacklisted and cancelled the visas of 960 foreigners from over 40 countries who participated in Jamaat activities in India. As HT reported last week, most of them came to the country on tourist visas when they should have applied for conference or missionary visas.Faced with legal proceedings, some foreigners linked to the Jamaat were also found trying to escape India through special flights being run to evacuate Malaysian and Indonesian nationals. On Sunday, Indian immigration officials stopped Jamaat workers from boarding such flights at the Mumbai, Delhi and Chennai airports.Questions are also being raised on whether due diligence was followed while giving tourist visas to Jamaat workers by Indian missions abroad, and how such a large movement escaped the knowledge of law enforcement agencies. Similar Jamaat congregations have been blamed for driving up cases in Malaysia and Pakistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/21k-with-links-to-jamaat-event-quarantined/story-cZ2XlQYES0mEOObtXykXhP.html
06-04-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Let’s look at some numbers. The number of Covid-19 cases in the world was 1.25 million on Sunday night, and the number of deaths stood at 68,000. That works out to a fatality rate of around 5%. But, like all aggregates, this number is not representative. Covid-19 cases have now been identified in 181 countries. But there are huge variations. At one end, among countries that have seen a substantial number of cases (say, at least 10,000) is Italy. The number of cases in the country was 124,632, with 15,362 deaths. That’s a fatality rate of 12.32%. At the other end is Germany, with 96,092 cases and 1,444 deaths, a fatality rate of 1.5% (last week, this was at around 0.8%, so it has almost doubled).Every other country with a substantial number of infections falls in this range. France, with 89,953 infections and 7,560 deaths has a fatality rate of 8.4%; Spain with 126,168 cases and 11,947 deaths has a fatality rate of 9.5%; Switzerland, with 20,505 cases and 666 deaths, has a fatality rate of 3.2%. The UK, with 41,903 cases and 4,313 deaths has a fatality rate of 10.3%. And the US, with 311,536 cases and around 8,500 deaths, a fatality rate of 2.7%.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicIt’s possible to layer the rates with qualitative information. Germany, we know, has been aggressive with testing. Italy, Spain and the UK have not. The US was slow to start but has since become better. Clearly, aggressive testing, while it might highlight more cases (a data point at least some countries seem averse to), simply serves to grow the denominator — pushing fatality rates down. That’s important because it sends out the message that Covid-19 can be beaten.It is not clear whether geography (temperature, humidity) matters. There have been some studies, but none conclusive. It’s one of the three things that could save India — the other two being the lockdown, and the virus mutating into a less virulent strain in the country. Gender seems to be a factor when it comes to mortality (women have an advantage). As does age (older people are at greater risk). And, as one would expect, health workers are at great risk, given just how infectious Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, has proven to be — this, after initial reassurances from WHO that there was no human-to-human transmission, and by WHO and the surgeon general of the US that masks were not required. With the benefit of hindsight, aggressive screening (especially at entry points), large-scale testing, the use of masks, social distancing, and early lockdowns may well have halted (or at the least, slowed) the spread of the pandemic. It’s a lesson to remember for next time — and yes, there will be a next time.India ended Sunday with 4,198 cases and 114 deaths. Testing has now become more widespread and aggressive in clusters and containment zones, at least in a few states. And it will become even more widespread (and quicker) when some states start using the antibody test kits they have been allowed to procure.The number of cases in India crossed 1,000 on March 28, and 2,000 on April 1, so it doubled in four days, and has quadrupled in eight days. All told, the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi has thus far been responsible for at least 1,000 cases and more than a dozen deaths. Subtract those numbers, and the Indian numbers are still relatively low.Sunday was also the 12th day of the ongoing 21-day lockdown in the country. A document put out by the government on Saturday, and the Prime Minister’s reference to a phased exit from the lockdown in a meeting with chief ministers last week seem to suggest that restrictions will continue in at least some parts of the country — clusters and containment zones, for instance. It’s too early to infer anything from the Indian numbers, but the trajectory of infections in other countries suggests a peak, a plateau and then a fall. But only widespread testing can tell us when we have peaked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-pRTxqCE3CD9YlKDwxqW0fO.html
06-04-2020||India||Odisha posts highest single day jump in Covid-19 cases after govt denies community transmission||Odisha recorded the highest single-day surge in positive Covid-19 cases on Sunday with 18 cases being reported from the state capital Bhubaneswar hours after the government allayed fears of community transmission.From 21 cases till Saturday, the number of positive cases surged to 39 on Sunday as 16 cases were reported from Bomikhal area of the city that has been declared as a containment zone since Friday night with entry and exit points sealed. On Friday, three brothers of the area living in a duplex apartment tested positive for Covid-19 sparking fears of community transmission after which the Bhubaneswar municipal administration sealed the area.The state government said the number of Covid-19 positive cases have surged in Bhubaneswar during the last 3 days. “Residents of the temple city are urged to take responsibility, stay indoors and work from home. During these challenging times we request people to remain calm. All possible contacts of the Covid positive cases shall be traced, isolated and tested. That is the only way to contain further transmission. Every citizen can break the chain by staying indoors,” the Twitter handle of the state health and family welfare department said.Incidentally, the surge in positive cases was reported hours after chief secretary Asit Tripathy clarified that community transmission of the disease is yet to happen in Odisha due to the lockdown and social distancing measures undertaken.“As the travel history of the fifth Covid-19 positive patient, a 60-year-old man with co-morbidity conditions was not found initially, we were scared of seeing more positive cases due to community spread. But, we contained it by sealing the area and enforcing a shutdown in Bhubaneswar, Cuttack and Jajpur. We have actively contained the Covid-19 hotspots during the 48-hour shutdown and hope to continue the same in the near future. The local administration has been empowered to implement the closure of possible infection hotspots for containment of the deadly virus,” said Tripathy.The chief secretary further said through door-to-door surveillance in the containment zones and meticulous planning, tracking of contacts of the positive cases, the findings established that the infection of Covid-19 was brought from outside the state.The state government’s optimism in containing the spread of the virus, however, did not last till evening, when a staggering 16 cases were reported from Bomikhal, a small locality with more than 3000 houses. “Cluster containment has been put in place and house to house survey is going on. All suspects and contacts shall be isolated and tested. Citizens are urged not to panic and stay indoors,” health department officials said.Doctors said the surge in community transmission may have begun in Bhubaneswar and in the next few days the cases would jump. “We are yet to see the peak. There would be more cases from clusters in newer districts. The government needs to contain areas and go for massive testing. The 3T of testing, tracing and treating is the only solution. More number of medical colleges should be roped in for tests,” said Prof Binod Patro, a professor of community medicine in AIIMS, Bhubaneswar.Health secretary NB Dhal said state-owned Odisha State Medical Corporation Limited has been ordered to supply triple layers of surgical masks for all field workers doing surveillance work, staff providing essential services, and ambulance drivers. He asked the Municipal Commissioners, Collectors and Chief District Medical officers to provide triple layer surgical masks to people under quarantine at home and in facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-posts-highest-single-day-jump-in-covid-19-cases-after-govt-denies-community-transmission/story-vOIhk4yheWxHyk3WXCvW4H.html
06-04-2020||India||Zoos find new ways to feed animals amid curbs||With slaughterhouses shut in some states and supply of red meat scarce, a direct fallout of the pan-India lockdown for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) , some zoos in India have made their own arrangements, including setting up in-house abattoirs and feeding lions and tigers chicken instead of buffalo meat. But the lockdown has had another effect on the zoo inmates. With no visitors over the past few days and the ambience tranquil, some animals are behaving in a “stress-free manner”, zookeepers have noticed. Some are even mating, a sign that the animals are feeling relaxed, zoo directors said. Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicWhile the National Zoological Park in Delhi has got special permission from the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) — the slaughterhouses come under its jurisdiction — to slaughter buffalo calves inside the zoo premises, the lions and tigers at the animal safari of the Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP) in Mumbai are being fed chicken.“The Ghazipur slaughterhouse has been shut. We have got special permission to slaughter buffaloes inside the zoo premises to feed the lions and tigers. On an average, each animal needs around 7-8 kilos of meat every day. Smaller carnivores such as foxes and wolves are being given chicken,” said Suneesh Buxy, director of Delhi Zoo.There are at least 160 recognised zoos in India; Karnataka has the maximum number with 15. More than 56,800 animals, including exotic species, and endangered Indian ones, are kept in these zoos across the country.Following the closure of the Deonar abattoir in Mumbai, SGNP authorities have been feeding chicken to the lions and tigers of the animal safari since March 26.“From Thursday, the abattoir has agreed to supply frozen beef {buffalo meat} to SGNP, which was meant for export purposes. From March 22 to 26, we had reserve stock of beef so there was no issue but thereafter animals were being provided only chicken as there was no other option,” said Sunil Limaye, additional principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife west), Maharashtra.On March 23, the Central Zoo Authority of India (CZAI), the apex body for all zoos in India, sent a letter to the states acknowledging that some zoos were “facing severe hardships in getting supply of food, drinking water and health care of wild animals in captivity due to restrictions” imposed for the containment of Covid-19. CZAI requested all states that such activities be specified as “essential services” and they be exempted from any restrictions.The Arignar Anna Zoological Park in Chennai, the largest zoo in India, has its own fodder farm where para grass, cowpea, calopo and sorghum, among other items, are grown for herbivores.“Meetings were held with suppliers to ensure that there is no shortage of meat during the lockdown. We have enough medicines in stores,” said Sudha Ramen, deputy director of Anna Arignar Zoological Park.The Alipore Zoo in Kolkata, the oldest of them all, is running smoothly and hasn’t faced any problem. Dry food like grams, rice and dal to prepare khichdi for monkeys had already been stored while suppliers have ensured that there will be no shortage of meat, fish, milk and fruits. With hardly any disturbance and noise as no visitors are allowed, animal keepers and zoo staff in various zoos said that the animals seemed to be in playful mood, more relaxed, and behaving in a stress-free manner.“The bear has become extremely curious and is moving around in search of insects. It is digging and jumping from one end to another. At the avian enclosure, there is a significant increase in nesting seen. Overall animals are less stressed and displaying their natural behaviour,” said Sanjay Tripathi, director of Veer Mata Jijabai Bhosale Udyan or Byculla Zoo.In the National Zoological Park, the zoo’s biological assistant has also observed certain behavioural changes“Some animals have started mating, which they usually don’t. The fox, which was hardly seen during the day, has started coming out. The animals are more relaxed, the zookeepers reported,” said Buxy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zoos-find-new-ways-to-feed-animals-amid-curbs/story-FFeLpMIj5mGaabURcXLKVO.html
06-04-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 toll hits 100; Delhi infection tally 503||The number of deaths from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) topped 100 on Sunday as the total infections crossed 4,000 – 503 of them in Delhi – with the central government pegging the doubling rate of the pathogen’s spread at 4.1 days, a figure it said would have stood at 7.4 in the absence of the Nizamuddin cluster.Sixteen fresh deaths and 514 new infections were reported on Sunday, the 12th day of a national lockdown that has been put in place to break the chain of infections. “Our focus is that we chase the virus, rather than the virus chasing us,” health ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal said during a news briefing.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe recent spike in infections has largely been propelled by the detection of hundreds of patients who attended the congregation of the Tablighi Jamaat, a Muslim missionary group, in New Delhi’s Nizamuddin Basti last month in a violation of several restrictions. Cases linked to the meet have been reported across 17 states and Union Territories so far.In Delhi, the number of Covid-19 cases climbed to 503 and the death toll rose to seven, with 58 fresh cases and one death being reported. The cases included 320 people who took part in the religious congregation in Nizamuddin. A 52-year-old man admitted at the Maharaja Agrasen hospital was the seventh person to die in the national capital.“If the Tablighi Jamaat incident had not taken place and we compare the rate of doubling — that is in how many days the cases have doubled, we will see that currently it is 4.1 days (including Jamaat cases) and if the incident had not taken place and additional cases had not come, then the doubling rate would have been 7.4 days,” Agarwal said.Eight Malaysian attendees of the congregation were on Sunday offloaded from a special chartered flight to Malaysia from Delhi.In Tamil Nadu, 86 people, including 85 returnees from the Tablighi Jamaat meet, tested positive on Sunday, taking the total number of cases in the state to 571. Sunday was the fifth straight day the state witnessed a sharp rise in the number of positive cases linked to the Nizamuddin congregation.Experts say that the nationwide lockdown, one of the few weapons against the highly contagious infection that has killed 67,000 worldwide, will not achieve its objective if the positive cases originating out of such clusters are not contained in time.In Mumbai, eight people died of Covid-19, while the number of positive cases in the financial hub increased by 103 to touch 433, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said. This took the total number of deaths in Mumbai to 30, the highest in the country.The Union health ministry said that 505 new Covid-19 cases and 15 deaths were reported since Saturday and the total Covid-19 cases were 3,577, with the death toll being 83. However, a tally by Covid19india.org that was cross-checked by HT, showed that the number of cases stood at 4,198, with 114 deaths. There is a lag in the Union health ministry’s data when compared to that of states. Officials say this is because of procedural delays in state-wise cataloguing of cases.An official of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said that Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, is not airborne. “If it was an airborne infection, then in a family whoever has a contact they all should come positive because they are living in same surrounding as the patient and the family is breathing the same air. When someone is admitted in hospital, other patients would have got exposure (if it was airborne) but that is not the case,” said Raman R Gangakhedkar, head of epidemiology and communicable diseases at ICMR. ICMR has issued an advisory that said spitting in public places could enhance the spread of Covid-19. On the question of rapid antibody tests, Gangakhedkar said test kits should be available by Wednesday.The country’s apex biomedical research organisation on Saturday released an advisory on how and where to use the rapid test, which can determine the immunity of an individual and help people get back into the workforce. The advisory includes people in high-risk areas (containment zones), large migration gatherings and evacuation centres. A task force constituted to review the testing guidelines did not open up rapid testing to the private sector.At the briefing, Agarwal said cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba held a meeting with district magistrates, superintendents of police, chief medical officers, state and district surveillance officers, state health secretaries, district health secretaries and chief secretaries to review the situation.District officials shared strategies on how they delineated containment and buffer zone, how they carried out door-to-door survey through special teams and how through telemedicine and call centres people who came from foreign countries were monitored.Covid-19 cases have been reported in 274 districts (till Sunday afternoon) and the cabinet secretary requested all DMs to maintain uniformity in their response and establish a crisis management plan, he said.The government said all states were asked to put in place a district-specific containment strategy in place based on the detailed large outbreak control plan issued by the health ministry on Saturday. “Surveillance and contact tracing has been our main focus, and we will continue to put emphasis on that,” said Agarwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-toll-hits-100-delhi-tally-503/story-ecTdvXh8RNvLri5zgc23sL.html
06-04-2020||India||Hospitals may become hot spots as cases among health care staff rise: Report||Over 50 doctors and other healthcare workers have tested positive for the coronavirus disease across India, putting the spotlight on their vulnerability and the possibility of hospitals emerging as high-risk places to contract the infection.Across the world, many healthcare workers have been infected; some while treating Covid patients and others through unknown sources. In the epicenter of the disease, China, a paper had warned on as early as February 7 – when the country had 34,546 cases – that hospitals could become the disease hotspots.The study, published in The Journal of the American Medical Association, found that 41% of the 138 Covid-19 cases examined for it were likely person-to-person hospital-associated transmissions.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe authors of the paper, doctors at the Zhongnan Hospital in China’s Wuhan, studied 138 hospitalised patients with confirmed Covid-19 cases at the hospital from January 1 to January 28, 2020. The study said that “presumed hospital-related transmission was suspected if a cluster of health professionals or hospitalised patients in the same wards became infected and a possible source of infection could be tracked”.A Lancet study on March 21 reported that figures from China’s National Health Commission show that more than 3,300 healthcare workers had been infected as of early March.Such person-to-person transmissions in hospital clusters were also observed during the 2013 Middle East Respiratory Syndrome outbreak in Saudi Arabia, a study published in The New England Journal of Medicine in 2013 said. The study, ‘Hospital Outbreak of Middle East Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus’, found that of the 23 cases of MERS-CoV infection reported in the eastern province of Saudi Arabia between April 1 and May 23, 2013, as many as “21 were acquired by person-to-person transmission in hemodialysis units, intensive care units, or in-patient units in three different health care facilities”. In Spain, of the 40,000 Covid-19 cases reported till March 24, the country’s health ministry, said that 5,400 – nearly 14% -- involved medical professionals. Cases in Spain have more than tripled since, with 130,759 cases on Sunday, according to the Johns Hopkins Coronavirus Resource Centre, and 12,418 deaths. In an article published in the New England Journal of Medicine Catalyst on March 21, doctors from the Papa Giovanni XXIII Hospital in Bergamo in Italy’s Lombardy region, which is among the worst-hit regions in Europe, said, “Our own hospital is highly contaminated.” The paper drew attention to the dire conditions in which the medical staff are working in the country. “Most hospitals in the region,” the doctors said in the paper, “were overcrowded, nearing collapse while medications, ventilators oxygen and PPE [Personal Protection Equipment] are not available.”According to Medscape, as many as 61 doctors and healthcare workers have succumbed to the virus in Italy till March 31. Till Sunday, Italy has reported 124,632 confirmed cases and 15,362 deaths. Highlighting that hospitals may be the main carriers of the infection “as they are rapidly populated by infected patients, facilitating transmission to uninfected patients”, the doctors said ambulances and personnel ferrying patients to the hospitals may also become vectors of the virus.In their paper, the doctors warned that such hospital personnel, who get the infection from patients or contaminated hospital equipment, were probably carrying the contagion back into the community.The most contaminated zones in hospitals were ICUs, (31.9%), obstetric isolation wards specialised for pregnant women with novel coronavirus pneumonia or NCP (28.1%), and isolation wards for NCP (19.6%), according to a yet-to-be peer-reviewed meta-analysis of 32 studies published in MedRxiv, a pre-print server for health sciences. The most contaminated objects, the study said, are self-service printers (20.0%), desktop/keyboard (16.8%), and doorknob (16.0%). Both hand sanitizer dispensers (20.3%) and gloves (15.4%) were the most contaminated PPE.The Italian doctors called for replacing centralised, hospital based and patient-centered care with community-centred, telemedicine, to “avoid unnecessary movement and release pressure from hospitals”.Of the over 50 doctors and healthcare workers that have tested positive for the disease in India over the last two weeks, many were not involved in treating Covid-19 patients. These included a doctor at the Delhi State Cancer Institute and a resident doctor of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi, and his nine-month pregnant wife. All three tested positive last week.“Indian hospitals have been adequately equipped so far. The doctors and medical staff are well aware which is why they are taking all PPE and hygiene guidelines seriously. But controlling this pandemic needs cooperation of the government and the public, which also includes medical staff. If a patient hides his/her history or symptoms, it will lead to more infections and situations like what happened at Ganga Ram where over 100 doctors have been quarantined. However, we will need more PPE and more equipment in the coming weeks, because if hospitals start becoming spreaders of the contagion like it did in Italy, the situation could get much worse very quickly,” said Dr Dhiren Gupta, a senior consultant at New Delhi’s Sir Ganga Ram Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hospitals-may-become-hot-spots-as-cases-among-health-care-staff-rise/story-adYwXLKdyDmyeDrvJKwPjM.html
06-04-2020||India||Coronavirus at Asia’s largest onion market sparks govt concern||A corona positive case in Maharashtra’s Nashik district, which came to light on March 30, has forced Asia’s largest onion trading market, Lasalgaon, to suspend operations, affecting supplies, an official of the market said.Panic spread far and wide, prompting six villages adjoining Lasalgoan to bar the entry and exit of people from outside, according to the official. These villages are the main source of labour and are also home to traders who transact in the market. This disrupted supplies across the country. The Lasalgoan market is now set to open on Tuesday, the official said.“We at Lasalgaon have decided to resume trading on Tuesday (April 7). The district collector ordered the shutdown because the corona positive case was a major bakery supplier who regularly supplied pav (Indian bread) to the entire area,” said Narendra Wadhwane, the secretary of the Lasalgaon agriculture produce market committee or APMC. Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicAPMCs are state-regulated bodies that run wholesale markets in the country under the APMC Act.“Onion supplies to rest of India are down 35% due to closure of the financial year in March, lack of labour due to the lockdown and the emergence of the corona case in Nashik. I hope we will have adequate labour when we resume operations,” he said.According to the government note, Maharashtra officials have complied a list of all onion traders and suppliers and shared the list to counterparts in various states so that they could directly get in touch with supply agents.While Lasalgaon, a crucial nationwide supplier of onions, shut down due to the coronavirus scare, neighbouring Pimpalgaon, another onion trading hub, had been nearly idle since March 26, Wadhwane said.“Too many things coincided. Two cultural events, Gudi Parva and Amawasya, had resulted in diminished trading in the last week of March. The corona case then totally cut off labour,” said Prakash Kumawat, the assistant secretary of the APMC market. According to the market’s chief Wadhwane, of the 17 APMC markets in Nashik, which is part of a supply chain serving various trading points in the country, only two were open briefly — Lasalgaon and Chandwar. “Without labour, wholesale buying and selling came to a halt,” he said. He said traders were able to send 40% of shipments. According to a government note accessed by HT, the principal secretary of agricultural marketing recommended market committees to tell farmers to bring harvest pre-packed in gunny backs to speed up trade. “These gunny bags come in various capacities, mostly 50kg packs. So it’s easy to load in the absence of weighmen,” said Wadhwane.However, Wadhwane said farmers did not have access to gunny bags. Every establishment was closed due to the corona scare. “Since the lockdown, 1,650 truckloads of onions have been dispatched by traders of Nashik district to various parts of the country, which has helped in maintaining in steady supplies,” the government note said. According to Wadhwane, that’s about 35% less than usual supplies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/virus-at-asia-s-largest-onion-market-sparks-govt-concern/story-AvyAllPwEcastaiewOqfOI.html
06-04-2020||India||Chhattisgarh police curtail counter-Maoist ops||The lockdown imposed to check the spread of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic has forced the Chhattisgrah police to recalibrate and scale down their anti-Maoist operations, top police officers said on Sunday. The officers said the approach is to have fewer “dedicated offensives” against the Left-wing extremists based on specific intelligence inputs.Chhattisgarh police chief D M Awasthi said only four anti-Maoist operations have been conducted since the lockdown came into force on March 25. “Earlier, we used to have 15 to 20 such operations in 10 days.” He added there are many reasons for planning fewer operations. Awasthi said bigger operations need backups like helicopters and medical teams, which may be difficult to arrange due to the lockdown. “I have given instructions to officials that operations will only be planned when there is pinpoint intelligence of Maoist movements and that big movement of security forces should be avoided.”Over 65,000 personnel, including 48 battalions of central forces, are deployed in the Maoist stronghold of Bastar, which is spread over 39,117 sq km across seven districts and links Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, and Jharkhand.According to police estimates, about 5,500 members of the Maoists’ political and military wings are holed up in the jungles of Bastar apart from their foot soldiers.“The anti-Maoist operations have reduced by 50% in my district. Only dedicated operations are still going on by the Special Forces and it is very difficult now to push other forces into the jungles for big operations,” said a police superintendent posted in one of the districts of Bastar requesting anonymity.He said in the absence of regular traffic during the lockdown, vehicles of security forces would become easier targets for the Maoists. Even inside the jungles, there is no movement of people, thereby making the entry of security forces more difficult, he added. “The silence along roads and jungles can be dangerous for security forces. All tribal villages have imposed lockdown and there is barely any movement in jungles. Venturing out could be dangerous,” the officer said.Another police officer, who did not want to be named, said the security forces are facing shortages of essential items and getting supplies quickly is becoming difficult because of the Maoist threat. “It has created some resentment among the lower rung personnel,” a third police officer said. The officers also said that the killing of 17 jawans in Sukma in an ambush by Moaists a day after the lockdown was enforced has also taken a toll on the security personnel. Many are also worried about their families.“Many of the jawans are from rural areas in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, and Odisha and are worried about their families. Some of them have also applied for leaves as they want to visit families. We have cancelled all leaves due to the lockdown which has created some resentment,” the officer said.All three police officers quoted above said in such times mobilising security personnel for operations could have an adverse physiological impact. “The jawans are being counselled by their seniors,” said one of the officers. Experts said intelligence-based operations are important and should continue in Bastar to dominate the Maoists.“This is a valid argument that police forces are more exposed on roads during this lockdown because no other vehicles are allowed but police superintendents should continue intelligence-based operations and area domination of the jungles. Police should also take care of the mental health of their personnel,” said Prakash Singh, a former Chhattisgarh police chief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-police-curtail-counter-maoist-ops/story-K4sInhF2rXHAjEMlLel6wI.html
06-04-2020||India||Vigilant Jaipur Police monitors lockdown from coronavirus war room||Jaipur: A large hall on the first floor of the Jaipur Police Commissioner’s office, near the government press, is buzzing despite the 21-day national lockdown. On the left, it has three rows of eight workstations, each with three computer screens. About 30 other screens are mounted on a wall in front. The people who inhabit this workspace are tracking every movement, mapping every activity, on Jaipur’s streets by going through the feed from more than 800 CCTV cameras, and 15 drones hovering over the walled city. Any suspicious or illegal activity is flagged, and immediately reported to the concerned police station concerned. To the right, an additional 16 screens are tracking calls made to the police.This is the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) war room set up by the Jaipur Police.“We monitor live feed from cameras across the city. One-hundred-and-fifty of the 800 them are PTZ (pan-tilt-zoom) cameras that can rotate 360 degrees. The rest are fixed cameras,” said Adarsh Choudhary, additional superintendent of police and one of the three officers in charge of the war room.With the help of these cameras and drones, Jaipur Police are ensuring compliance of the lockdown in the city and the curfew in the walled city areas. One-hundred-and-seventy-six cameras are in the walled city alone, and 22 of them are PTZs. Constables in plainclothes monitor rotate the PTZ cameras for better views, if needed. The drones fly over rooftops to detect any illegal activity, such as gatherings of more than five people, in narrow and congested lanes.“The drone footage is also monitored by respective police station areas,” said Jitendra Singh Rathore, station house officer of Manak Chowk police station, which is on a gateway to the Ramganj area, which was the first to be put under curfew after a 45-year-old man tested positive for Covid-19 on March 26. At least 20 of his family members also tested positive later, sparking fears of widespread local transmission.The areas that fall under seven police stations in the walled city – Ramganj, Kotwali, Manak Chowk, Brahmpuri, Nahargarh and Galta Gate – have been under curfew since March 28.“Our cameras are in the marketplace and at other prominent locations. We can track activities on main roads with them. For lanes and bylanes, we needed more eyes in the sky to keep track, especially because of the curfew,” said Ajay Pal Lamba, additional commission of police (law and order).Lamba, who led the police action against Asaram Bapu in 2013 as deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Jodhpur West, also gets drone footage on his mobile phone (He keeps checking it intermittently even as he is speaking to this reporter).There were some reports of people rushing to their rooftops to see the whizzing drones flying over them but the police had no problem with that. “As long as they stay indoors and maintain social distancing, we have no problem,” Lamba said.In the war room, three additional SPs are in charge in three shifts – 6am to 2pm, 2pm to 10pm and 10pm to 6am. The call facility has two PRI (primary rate interface) lines that can handle 60 calls at a time. Four more screens on the left wall display all calls in progress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/empowered-group-hits-ground-running-to-contain-pandemic/story-QgGXS2ID5OlEjxKGijAr6I.html
06-04-2020||India||Minister congratulates power grid for ‘great job’ during lights out||Union power minister (Independent Charge) R K Singh Sunday night congratulated power grid operators for dong “a great job” during the nine-minute lights out at 9 PM flowing Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s appeal to switch off lights and light candles or diyas in a symbolic drive to mark the fights against coronavirus..“National grid operator POSOCO and the national, regional and state load despatch centres did a great job with support from all generators; NHPC, NEEPCO, THDC, SJVNL, BBMB, NTPC, all state gencos and IPPs, Transcos and Distribution companies and their officers and staff,” Singh said according to ANI.The minister said voltage was kept stable during the period of the lights out.“Demand went down from 117300 Megawatts at 2049 hrs to 85300 MW till 2109 hrs; a reduction of 32000 MW. Then it started increasing. Frequency was maintained within a band of 49.7 to 50. 26 Hz, which means voltage was kept stable,” he said.Singh, along with the Power Secretary and other senior officers monitored the power grid operations from National Power Monitoring Centre in Shram Shakti Bhawan in Delhi during the period of lights off.The minister said there was huge response to Prime Minister’s call to switch off lights.On Saturday, the power ministry had clarified that the PM’s call for switching off lights would not cause instability to the power grid amid concerns over a possible grid collapse.The demand for power has dropped 30% demand due to the absence of commercial activity in the wake of the nationwide lockdown, and there were fears that the Prime Minister’s call could encourage people to switch off everything, reducing demand even more.A drop in demand could have resulted in a sudden change in grid frequency, leading to a potential blackout.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/minister-congratulates-power-grid-for-great-job-during-blackout/story-NBcAVLj94KttzdpO55dOBM.html
06-04-2020||India||Shortage of safety equipment crippling states’ Covid-19 containment efforts||In India’s two biggest states -- Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra that have nearly a thousand cases between them -- health officials admitted to a shortage of PPE, saying that private companies had expressed their inability to provide the kits early because of an increase in demand. This is because of a sudden increase in cases, the officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said. Admitting the shortage, UP health secretary, Amit Mohan Prasad said 31 units in the state had started manufacturing kits and that the government had also placed orders with other companies. He did not provide any break-up of the kits needed and procured by the government. A doctor in King George’s Medical University in Lucknow, the largest hospital in the city, has been infected. Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicIn other states such as Bihar, a large number of health workers have been provided with only masks, gloves and sanitisers -- and not coveralls. “To tide over the shortage of PPE kits, we have requested our doctors to utilise the kits rationally,” said Sanjay Kumar, Bihar’s principal secretary, health. The situation is no different in Madhya Pradesh’s biggest Covid-19 hot spot Indore, where only half of the health workers have been provided with proper kits. “Only 20 to 30% of around 55,000 to 60,000 health workers have been provided with proper kits in the state,” said MP’s health department employees’ association leader Laxminarayan Sharma. In the state, eight more health workers and staff tested positive on Sunday. All these officers used to meet one another in meetings held in the state secretariat and the health directorate and monitor implementation of the measures undertaken by the government across the state. At least 50 other officers, including head of the health department, are in self quarantine.State Commissioner of health services, Faiz Ahmad Kidwai, said, “We are providing PPE kits to health workers as per guidelines of government of India. Currently we are getting supplies from certain companies including some companies based at Indore. We are trying to get about 1.5 lakh kits in the coming days.”The northern states of Punjab, Haryana and Uttarakhand and the Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Chandigarh have placed orders with private companies for the kits but haven’t received them yet. A health worker each in Chandigarh and J&K and two in Haryana have tested positive for Covid-19. Also Read: How Delhi answered PM Modi’s call to fight ‘coronavirus darkness’In Punjab’s Patiala and Amritsar districts, nurses protested outside hospitals, alleging a shortage of kits even though the official spokesperson for Covid-19, Rajesh Bhaskar, denied the charge. The Punjab cabinet has authorised additional chief secretary Vinni Mahajan to buy kits and masks for medical staff from manufacturers in the state and elsewhere. Haryana minister Anil Vij said tenders had been floated to get the kits. The eastern states of Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal have also reported a shortage of kits even though local manufacturing has started. Bihar has been supplied 16,700 PPE kits against its demand for 960,000 kits. Another 21,000 PPE kits are in transit. Jharkhand has 13,000 kits as against the demand of 21,000. Kumar said they were tapping all possible sources to get the kits. Jharkhand’s health minister, Banna Gupta, said the state government had placed orders with various companies. “We have also requested the central government to ensure supply of the kits but they are not listening to us,” Gupta said.West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has also blamed the Centre although governor, Jagdeep Dhankhar, had claimed that there were enough kits with the state. Doctors in several hospitals in the state have protested and refused to report for work citing inadequate safety equipment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shortage-of-safety-equipment-crippling-states-covid-efforts/story-tnHeIzKP8NNy9vRclzcgzH.html
06-04-2020||India||Coronavirus Update: PM Modi’s lights off call gets ‘huge response’, sharp dip in power demand||The Centre said on Sunday that the national response to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call to switch off lights for nine minutes at 9pm was huge and power demand dropped by 32 GW, more than double of what officials had anticipated.The Union power ministry said the sharp dip in demand was handled well by engineers deployed across the country. The ramping up of demand and supply went back to 110 GW “smoothly”, the ministry said. Concerns had been expressed that a dramatic drop in supply followed by a quick surge may trip or damage the power grid.“Huge response to Hon’ble Prime Minister’s call to switch off lights and light a lamp as a show of national solidarity in the fight against. The demand went down from 117300 Megawatts at 2049 hrs to 85300 Megawatts till 2109 hrs; that is a reduction of 32000 Megawatts,” power minister RK Singh said.  शुभं करोति कल्याणमारोग्यं धनसंपदा ।शत्रुबुद्धिविनाशाय दीपज्योतिर्नमोऽस्तुते ॥ pic.twitter.com/4DeiMsCN11Officials aware of the development said power generation was lowered to keep the grid frequency in check and directions were issued to avoid load shedding. “Generation will be kept slightly lower than load so that when load is thrown off at 9pm, the frequency would not be on the higher side,” a senior government official said. According to national load dispatcher POSOCO (Power System Operation Corporation), the total domestic lighting load reduction had been pegged at 12-13 GW. Singh and senior officials from the power ministry were monitoring the health of the grid from the National Power Monitoring Centre in Shram Shakti Bhawan, New Delhi. In a clarification issued earlier in the day, the ministry had said the PM’s directive – aimed at building solidarity against Covid-19 and encouraging frontline workers and the poor -- was only to switch off domestic home lights between 9.00pm and 9.09pm.“Indian Electricity Grid is well designed to handle such kind of load variation with several in- built levels of control and safety mechanisms to absorb any kind of frequency changes. all adequate arrangements and standard operating protocols are in place to maintain grid stability. all States/UTs/ Local bodies have been advised to keep the street lights on for public safety,” the ministry said. The power grid has seen a 30% reduction in demand due to the absence of commercial activity in the wake of the lockdown.The essence of grid management is load balancing over time (in this case, 15-minute intervals), and a drop in demand could have resulted in a sudden change in grid frequency, leading to a potential power blackout. According to power ministry data available for April 2, peak demand stood at 125.8 GW, which is 25% lower than 168.3 GW for the same day last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-s-call-gets-huge-response-sharp-dip-in-power-demand/story-uYrmOMLgTfQOXGsgk2KycN.html
06-04-2020||India||Will districts with no Covid-19 cases be first to be unlocked?||Curbs on movement and commercial activity could be relaxed first in districts with no coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, officials in multiple states have said, offering some pointers about how a staggered return to normal activity could work after April 15, when the nationwide lockdown is scheduled to end. India has over 4,000 Covid-19 cases and infections have been doubling at a rate of 4.1 days, federal officials said on Sunday, adding that they discussed with states a “containment strategy” that hinges on identifying and cordoning off hot spot areas.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic“We held a video conference today with heads of all districts to orient them with our containment strategy, which focuses on districts reporting large number of cases such as Bhilwara, Agra and Gautam Budh Nagar. Officials from these districts also shared their insights,” said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary of the Union health ministry, at the daily briefing in New Delhi.This strategy could be crucial to lifting the three-week lockdown in force since March 25 without risking a resurgence of the disease. As on Sunday, cases have been reported from 274 of the country’s 718 districts. Twenty-one of the 230 districts in 9 states are considered hot spots. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in a conference call on Thursday with chief ministers from across the country, had asked states to pitch in with ideas on how the curbs can be relaxed in a phased manner.Officials in three states – Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Haryana — said they were in favour of first relaxing curbs in districts that are at present free of infections. “There would be ban on entry of people from the Covid districts into these ones,” said a senior official involved in the containment plan in Rajasthan. This may be the first phase of the easing, the official said, adding that the second would cover the districts with relatively few patients. The final phase of easing would then include high containment districts. Around half of Rajasthan’s 33 districts have no case.Non-essential public gatherings, such as those for religious and political reasons, and the reopening of public places such as malls and cinema halls and educational institutions, may take some more time, the official added. A senior official in the Haryana government, who asked not to be named, said the state is in favour of following a similar strategy, but a majority of the districts — 14 of 22 — may need to live with a longer lockdown since they have several cases. “All will depend on how these districts recover in the next 10 days,” this person said, identifying key NCR cities such as Gurugram, Faridabad and Palwal, which account for 57 of 76 cases, as those where the curbs could continue. In Maharashtra, officials said a lockdown was likely to continue in most urban areas for a couple of weeks more. “I see lockdown extending beyond April 14 in urban areas,” said state health minister Rajesh Tope, adding that these had seen significant infections.Maharashtra accounts for the highest number of infections in the country with at least 700 cases, and concerns have been mounting in recent days over the disease spreading to densely populated areas such as state capital Mumbai’s Dharavi area.In Uttar Pradesh, 47 of the 75 districts are without a reported Covid-19 infection. “The good news is there is no indication of community spread in UP even though many cases are linked to Tablighi Jamaat,” said an official from a key government office overseeing the containment efforts. Three containment facilities will be created in all districts with positive cases, this official added. Agriculture and allied industries in the state, such as flour mills and the sugarcane industry, as well some industries that are far from urban areas are likely to be allowed to resume operations. Key NCR cities such as Noida and Ghaziabad, and state capital Lucknow, are unlikely to return to normal levels of activity, officials said. Punjab, which was the first state to impose curfew on March 21, may continue with lockdown in most parts, but issue curfew passes to allow harvesting from April 15. Rabi harvest would be procured from villages, and some industrial activity in Jalandhar and Ludhiana may be allowed in staggered manner with social distancing rules in force. “A final call will be taken on April 12 or 13,” said Suresh Kumar, Punjab chief minister’s chief principal secretary.The state is in favour of opening all farm markets to allow farmers to sell their produce; it wants office and business establishments to be allowed to function with staggered timings; and restoration of some interstate transport services, said Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy, advisor to chief minister on public affairs. Reddy added that the state will likely send in its suggestions to the PM by April 8.Kerala has allowed leaf plucking and other activities in sprawling tea estates of Idukki and Wayanad, but with strict riders. “We have given strict instruction to keep social distancing when they work. The district administration and labour officers of the area will monitor this,” said chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. The decision came after some establishments threatened to close their units permanently.(Pankaj Jaiswal in Lucknow, Surendra Gangan in Mumbai, Sachin Saini in Jaipur, Ranjan in Bhopal and Navneet Sharma and Hitender Rao in Chandigarh contributed to this story).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-districts-with-no-cases-be-the-first-to-be-unlocked/story-alkm4rgl6nk1Bb7IiIjxsM.html
06-04-2020||India||Anti-malaria drug is the best bet against Covid-19 until a cure is created||A cheap, safe and widely available drug that has been used to treat malaria for at least a century has emerged as the most sought-after medicine in the world after preliminary trials from China said it boosted recovery and lowered the severity of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), which has sickened 1.2 million and killed 65,000 around the world within four months.India on Saturday completely banned the export of hydroxychloroquine, of which it is the world’s biggest producer, even as President Donald Trump urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to send the medicine to the United States, which has reported at least 300,000 cases and close to 8,500 deaths.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicA blanket ban on the export of hydroxychloroquine and its active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs), which are the chemicals used to manufacture the drug, will help India stockpile and ramp up production at very short notice. India has approved the use of the drug as prophylaxis to protect health workers and close contacts of Covid-19 patients from infection.What majorly boosted the global demand for hydroxychloroquine were the results of a small placebo-controlled clinical trial in China that demonstrated the anti-malarial drug shortened the duration and reduced the severity of cough, fever and pneumonia in patients with mild and moderate disease. Hydroxychloroquine also prevented the illness from worsening in patients given the drug, compared to the placebo group, said the study, which was published on medRxiv, which publishes studies before peer-review to expedite access to new research.A placebo-controlled trial is done with two groups of patients, one of which is given a placebo with no drug action, while the drug is tested on another group. This method rules out bias in the outcome and ensures the drug’s effects are actually caused by the treatment and not external factors.Since the Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, is about four months old, clinicians worldwide have been depending on experimental therapies using existing drugs in different permutations and combinations to treat symptoms and stop disease progression.Repurposing medicines with established safety and drug action on the human body is the fastest way to treat new diseases against which there is no clinically proven treatment. It allows clinicians and public health specialists to begin treatment until drugs and vaccines with specific action against Covid-19 are approved. China, France, South Korea, Italy and now the United States are using antimalarials with some success to treat people severely ill with Covid-19 even though to a recent paper published in the Annals of Internal Medicine said “data to support the use of hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine are limited and inconclusive”. It added there was an urgent need for well-done, randomised clinical trials to test potential therapies, including hydroxychloroquine.No drug has been approved to treat Covid-19, which leads to potentially fatal complications in about 5% of the people infected. India has approved the combination of two antiviral drugs used to treat HIV, lopinavir and ritonavir (400 mg and 100 mg, respectively), to treat Covid-19, but the first major study of Covid-19 treatment published in the New England Journal of Medicine (NEJM) found it did not work on severely ill patients in China. “Treatment with lopinavir-ritonavir was not associated with a difference from standard care in the time to clinical improvement,” concluded the study based on randomised, controlled trial on 199 hospitalised patients in China.Globally, there are 332 registered clinical trials, of which 188 are open for recruitment and 146 trials are preparing to recruit, found review of clinical trial registries as of March 24, published in the scientific journal, The Lancet. Most of these trials are taking place in China, South Korea, and high-income countries in Europe and North America. In the absence of an evidence-base therapy, there is a critical need for large, multi-centric controlled clinical trials in limited-resource settings. India’s Empowered Committee on Covid-19 Response is boosting national innovation in the development of vaccine, drugs and diagnostic kits in the country. India is part of the World Health Organization’s multi-country solidarity trial to study potential treatments for Covid-19 to be conducted in Asia, South Africa, Europe, and the Americas. A Covid-19 Therapeutics Accelerator was launched on Friday to bring together global multidisciplinary expertise and clinical trial capacity to accelerate multicentre trials of the safety, efficacy, and effectiveness of drugs and vaccines. But until we have a specific drug, therapy or vaccine against Covid-19, drugs like hydroxychloroquine are the best bets to treat and protect patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/healthwise-using-anti-malaria-drugs-to-treat-and-protect/story-7CpCOklOgvPdDTBSWGdOPP.html
06-04-2020||India||CBSE asks its schools to inform students about PM’s Sunday call||With Prime Minister Narendra Modi giving a call to light candles at 9 pm on Sunday for nine minutes, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has asked schools affiliated to it to spread awareness about the event among their students. The HRD ministry also wrote a letter to states to this effect.The CBSE letter also informed schools about the usefulness of the Aarogya Setu app, developed in public-private partnership to help people in assessing their risk of catching the coronavirus infection. The letter by Joseph Emmanuel, CBSE’s director, academics, advised schools to inform their teachers by 5pm about the PM’s call.A similar letter was sent by HRD ministry joint secretary Maneesh Garg to states. It suggested that an action-taken status should be conveyed to the ministry. An HRD spokesperson said Garg’s email was only meant to inform students to download the app and participate in the lighting of lamps. “There is no coercion on anyone to do the same. As schools are closed, there is no question of monitoring of attendance. The action taken report asked from state education officers is to ensure that they have further disseminated the information,” said the spokesperson.Read: Decision on reopening schools, colleges to be taken on April 14: HRD ministerAfter PM Modi’s appeal to people to light candles or flash mobile lights on Sunday for nine minutes, the HRD ministry suggested that students should take part in the initiative. The ministry, however, said there should not be an assembly in colonies.The ministry also suggested students build immunity by following suggestions by the Ayush ministry, which has suggested having chyawanprash, drinking herbal tea or milk with turmeric powder and practising yoga, among other things.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbse-asks-its-schools-to-inform-students-about-pm-s-sunday-call/story-zS1phCUwCKxRjyw1bStWjI.html
06-04-2020||India||India Inc awaits fiscal push from Centre to keep afloat||As businesses around the country reel under the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown it has necessitated, business owners, executives and experts are looking to the government to do enough to keep companies afloat and healthy and, more importantly, to ensure that they do not engage in mass retrenchments.The government has hinted at a fiscal package – but is yet to announce one – and 11 days into the three-week lockdown to stop the spread of the pandemic, everyone is beginning to get just a little restive. “The US has announced a package that is 10% of its GDP; the UK 15%; what have we done?” asked a senior executive at a large Mumbai based fund who asked not to be named. Sure, the US package also includes cheques to individuals, but it does have payments to businesses, especially the worst affected by the pandemic.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicOfficials in the finance ministry said on condition of anonymity that the ministry is monitoring the economy and will respond to any need, but declined to comment on a relief package.There is broad agreement that the Indian economy will expand at its slowest pace in years in 2020-21. Fitch Ratings expect it to grow by 2%, the slowest in 30 years. The minority view is that it could actually contract. Nomura Global Market Research expects it to, by 0.5% for the calendar year 2020.And unless there’s a strong incentive for employers to not lay off people, they will, a human resources consultant said on condition of anonymity. France, for instance, started off by deferring tax payments and payroll charges companies pay the government for the month of March. It is said to be mulling a larger bailout for firms.“At the top, support needs to be provided for the employers -- they need liquidity support. This can be facilitated through deferral of tax liabilities, exploring guarantee modalities for credit enhancement in working capital loans allowing higher limits of borrowing, direct benefit transfer by way of 25% salaries to registered enterprises with employees registered under EPF for companies with a specified turnover limit for a period of two to three months. This will limit layoffs or provide succour where layoffs are there,” said Ranen Banerjee, leader-Economic Advisory Services, PwC India.India has announced a relief package for the most vulnerable – food and cash payments totaling 1.7 lakh crore – and relaxed some statutory requirements for companies. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has also strongly addressed the liquidity needs of the financial system (by effectively releasing Rs 3.74 lakh crore of liquidity), and ensured its stability.But India has not offered the kind of direct relief to companies, especially large employers, that some other countries have announced. Nor has it announced relief for the salaried class – in the absence of any relief to companies, the HR consultant said companies could cut workforce “to the bone”.Deepak Sood, the secretary general of industry body the Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry said an immediate stimulus package of “$100 billion to $120 billion will help revive all sectors in the country”.The consensus among most people HT spoke to is that more than sector-specific relief, generic relief – deferred tax, even tax holidays, and other such – is what is needed now. “Businesses should not be allowed to become bankrupt during this period of crisis. The government should defer tax payments of Q1 -- both direct and indirect tax payments – by a quarter,” said Chandrajit Banerjee, director general of industry body Confederation of Indian Industry (CII). The industry body has also suggested that the government could provide a waiver for all provident fund and gratuity payments by employers for one year if the employer does not retrench or remove more than 10% of its workforce.Even that may not be enough. CII released s snap poll of member-CEOs on Saturday that showed most companies expect revenues to fall more than 10% and profits to decline more than 5% in Q4, FY20 and in Q1, FY21. And one in four CEOs anticipate job losses, with 47% seeing cuts of up to 15% and another 32%, 15-30%, CII added. “We are looking for a larger package of at least 2-3% of GDP,” Banerjee added.“The time has come for government to consider direct infusion or investments – on the lines of Troubled Assets Relief Programme (TARP, which the US announced after the 2008 crisis) -- targeted at specific sectors, which are majorly impacted,” said Manish Aggarwal, partner and head, Infrastructure M&A and Special Situations Group, KPMG in India. He added that many countries have already announced several rounds of economic packages to aid businesses, workers and health care systems.The government will need money for this and that can come from sale of “tax free bonds, revising fiscal deficit targets and fast-tracking monetization of operating assets” in infrastructure.There’s even been some talk of “helicopter money” in some countries, including the US – a reference to the central bank or the government directing a huge amount of money to individuals and companies. The US central bank has pretty much signaled this with its chair, Jerome Powell saying that the US central bank will “not run out ammunition” to revive the economy. RBI governor Shaktikanta Das, too, said last week that the Indian central bank would do whatever it takes to combat the crisis.Experts are convinced that this should broadly cover two areas. Banerjee of PwC said: “At the bottom (of the pyramid), cash doles and food distribution will have to continue for at least three to six months and be gradually phased out.”DK Srivastava, chief policy advisor of EY India, added: “A major stimulus package is expected early in the new financial year. It will be needed as soon as the economic lock down ends and normal economic activities resumes. At that time demand will have to be supported through fiscal measures and these measures would supplement the already announced substantial monetary measures. The extent of fiscal stimulus in the first instance could be at least three times the magnitude of the relief package of INR 1.7 lakh crore which amounted to nearly 0.9% of GDP.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-inc-awaits-fiscal-push-from-centre-to-keep-afloat/story-DKnuHJoETIW8Xf39XlHQ3K.html
06-04-2020||India||Covid-19: ‘Spike in J&K cases due to aggressive testing, tracing’, says Governor GC Murmu||Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) has seen a spike in coronavirus cases recently with the number of confirmed Covid-19 cases rising to 70. Two people have died from the infection while three were cured. Lieutenant Governor Girish Chandra Murmu, however, says this is because of an aggressive testing and tracing strategy. In an interview to Hindustan Times, he outlined the steps taken by the government to contain the pandemic: Q: Coronavirus cases in Jammu and Kashmir have risen in the past few days. Is contract tracing emerging as a big challenge for you, especially as many people have come from outside the country?A: Screening of all individuals coming from outside was initiated on March 4. Till now, nearly 18,000 travellers and persons in contact with the suspected and positive cases with travel history abroad have been put under surveillance. Out of these, 10,694 are in home quarantine, 65 in hospital isolation, 622 in hospital quarantine, 4109 in home surveillance and 2187 with travel history abroad have completed their 28 days surveillance period. Till date, 1084 samples have been sent for testing of which 1010 tested negative, 70 positive (17 from Jammu division and 53 from Kashmir division) with the number of deaths at 2. The government has undertaken an aggressive contact tracing and testing campaign — that is why there is surge in the number of confirmed positive cases.Q: Have you sought the assistance of army and paramilitary forces in controlling the situation?A: No direct assistance of army and paramilitary forces has been currently sought to control the situation, though the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) is deployed with the local police to assist in maintaining the restrictions during the lockdown. We have isolation and quarantine facilities in army hospitals across the UT. We have requested the army to provide additional isolation facilities of 500 beds each in J&K.Q: You have also started declaring Red zones in some parts of the UT? How alarming is the situation in those areas?A: To take precautions and contain the spread of Covid-19, 38 villages across J&K have been declared as Red Zones, where complete restrictions have been enforced for movement of people. All essential commodities are being provided to the residents of these zones. The situation in these areas is not alarming but extra precaution is being taken. Around 900 people of the UT are suspected to have participated in the Tablighi Jamaat conference in New Delhi from March 14 to March 21. Of these, 550 have been identified and quarantined and the survey and verifications for the remaining is on. We have intensified contact tracing campaign of the people who had this congregation at Delhi and are conducting 100% testing of such people and their contacts.Q: Videos are in circulation in social media showing police using force on residents, doctors, and even government officials to enforce a strict lockdown. Have you advised the police to refrain from such acts?A: J&K police is directly assisting the administration. People are exhibiting restraint and discipline during the current situation. Police is strictly controlling the situation as well as providing all necessary help and co-ordination, including distribution of ration to the needy.Q: Given the pandemic, is there any plan to restore 4G internet services for better connectivity and information dissemination?A: Currently, 3G facility by certain identified telecom providers with adequate precautions is available. The administration ensured that people did not suffer due to the internet blockade by making available internet facilities in the office of district magistrates.Q: There have also been demands to release prisoners on humanitarian grounds. Have you arrived at any decision in this regard?A: A committee has been constituted headed by chairman, state legal authority, to consider the release of prisoners on parole or interim bail depending upon the nature of the offence. Jammu and Kashmir Temporary Suspension of Sentence, Rules, 2020, have been notified, and the Director General of Police, Prisons, has been empowered to grant parole or furlough to specific category of prisoners on the recommendations of jail superintendents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spike-in-j-k-cases-due-to-aggressive-testing-tracing-governor/story-woM6RmiqqDDevd3x7LkEgL.html
