07-04-2020||India||1.03 mn people in over 26k shelters: Centre tells SC||New Delhi As many as 26,476 relief and shelter camps across the country are housing 1.03 million migrant workers and other needy people during the Covid-19 lockdown, according to a status report submitted by the central government before the Supreme Court on Tuesday.Of the 26,476 camps, 22,567 are being run by governments of various states and Union territories and 3,909 by non-government organisations (NGOs). Government-run camps house around 630,000 and NGO camps some 400,000 . Additionally, food camps operated by various governments are feeding 8.4 million people.The status report was filed on a plea filed by activists Harsh Mander and Anjali Bhardwaj seeking payment of minimum wages to all migrant workers, who are either employed by companies or contractors or self-employed. The three-week lockdown enforced on March 25 forced an exodus of such workers, mainly daily wagers, from the cities to the hinterland on concern that their livelihoods were at work.When it comes to government- run relief camps, Kerala tops the chart with 15,541 such camps that are currently functional. The south Indian state, which reported the first coronavirus cases in the country, houses 302,016 people in these camps, the report said.Maharashtra, which is the state with the highest number of Covid patients, is next in the list with 4,532 relief camps. Only 1,135 of these camps are government-operated and the remaining 3,397 are run by NGOs.These 4,532 camps in Maharashtra house more than 447,000 people. NGOs run camps sheltering more than 373,000 people and the government has camps housing 73, 492.Uttar Pradesh, the most populous state in the country, has 2,230 government-run camps housing 100,000 people. Delhi has 102 government relief camps which shelter 4,788 people.Mander and Bhardwaj had pointed out in their petition that migrant workers are unable to earn their wages because of the ongoing 21-day nationwide lockdown enforced by the government to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.The centre, in its status report, told the court that the petition was bereft of any facts and was based on newspaper reports. The petitioner, the centre stated, is in “complete and blissful ignorance” of the huge exercise being undertaken by the central government as well as by the state governments in cooperation with each other to deal with coronavirus pandemic.“A reading of the petition clearly reflects that the petitioner wanted to file the petition and therefore, he has filed the petition without undertaking ay exercise to gather true and correct facts from the statutory authorities or from anyone else. Such attempts under the garb of public interest litigation jurisdiction deserve to be deprecated by this Hon’ble Court”, the centre’s response said.The bench headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde, after going through the centre’s report, expressed its inclination to refrain from interfering with the matter which it considered was within the domain of the executive.CJI Bobde asked advocate Prashant Bhushan who was appearing for the petitioners, as to why wages have to be paid when the workers were being housed and fed.Bhushan pointed out that all migrant workers were not in relief camps. He also pointed out that their families were dependent on the money sent home by the workers.The court asked Bhushan to go through the government’s report before making his arguments and posted the case for hearing on April 13.The status report by the central government also gave details about the food camps that are currently functional in various states.The national capital has 1,379 government food camps and 256 NGO-run food camps. The government food camps feed more than 1.2 million people. Additionally, NGO-run food camps feed more than 100,000 people in the city, the report said.Uttar Pradesh has 2,558 food camps (893 government-run and 1,665 NGO-run) providing food to more than 1 million people.Jharkhand has 1,432 food camps (government and NGO) and Haryana has 1,433 NGO-run food camps. Karnataka has 691 government food camps; the figure is 712 for Rajasthan.“The central government and all state governments are doing their best, strategizing all human resources and other resources to come out of this unprecedented global crisis”, the status report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-03-mn-people-in-over-26k-shelters-centre-tells-sc/story-i6LQKdus8c0bInUAvnnkZM.html
07-04-2020||India||Political row after migrant worker dies in Karnataka||Bengaluru A political controversy has broken out in Karnataka over the death of a woman migrant worker who walked 240km under the scorching sun to get back home.Gangamma, a resident of Sindhanur taluk in north Karnataka’s Raichur district, worked as a labourer in Bengaluru but lost her job when the nationwide lockdown was clamped on March 25, said a district administration official. Along with many other migrant labourers, she boarded a tractor heading to Raichur district on March 30 but the vehicle was stopped at the Tumakuru toll gate, roughly 240km from her native district, the official added.Gangamma, along with the other workers, decided to walk to their villages from the toll gate but were again stopped by police near Bellary town, where the local police took them to a rehabilitation centre on April 2. By then, Gangamma had walked for hours under the searing sun with little food and water, and she fell ill. She passed away at the Vijaynagar Institute of Medical Sciences on April 5, the official added.The state government condoled her death and announced compensation for her family. “ In lockdown circumstances woman Gangamma who was walked to her native place has passed away. This is very unfortunate and painful. We are investigating the matter and I have directed officials to provide compensation to her family,” chief minister BS Yediyurappa tweeted.But the Opposition blamed the state administration for the death. Senior Congress leader and former Bellary MP VS Ugrappa condemned the government’s role in providing food and essentials for the poor. “It is unfortunate that this woman had to die due to hunger. There is huge gap between what the government has announced on paper and implementation on the ground. Banging vessels and lighting lamps will not fill hungry stomachs. The state government has failed in its responsibility.”Bellary district information officer Ramalingappa denied that the woman died due to hunger. “She had walked all the way from Tumkur and was ill. We provided all facilities to her including food and when she became sick, was admitted to the hospital. It is unfortunate that she passed away.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/political-row-after-migrant-worker-dies-in-karnataka/story-CuhCwoNhQuyjNKhJGbw0HM.html
07-04-2020||India||7 states are yet to implement Centre’s ration quota plan||New Delhi: The Union government is carrying out the largest movement and distribution ever of foodgrains to states in the wake of the coronavirus lockdown through the Food Corporation of India (FCI), official data shows.Railways are carrying record freight from a network of state-held granaries — 150,000 tonne worth of shipments daily in contrast to a normal average of 80,000 tonne daily in the pre-lockdown period, data from consumer affairs ministry showed. The Centre is ferrying additional foodgrains after finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan package, which doubled food ration quota under (from 5kg per person under the National Food Security Act to 10kg) for the next three months. The additional 5kg is being distributed free.However, seven states -- Andhra Pradesh, Arunachal, Chandigarh, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Karnataka and Manipur -- haven’t yet implemented the doubling of ration quota, prompting federal authorities to send repeated advisories to them, an official familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity. “The movement of foodgrains is unprecedented. Given the quantities and rakes recorded by us, we think this is the largest exercise to be carried out ever,” an official of the consumer affairs ministry said, asking not to be named. In addition to meeting the regular requirements of foodgrains as mandated by the Food Security Act, the Food Corporation of India FCI is sending out wheat and rice directly to states without holding the otherwise mandatory e-auctions. Such quantities are being sold to states at open market sale rates to ensure continuous supply of food grains, the official added. “Wheat shipments are also being sent to meet the requirements of manufacturers of wheat flour and other wheat products based on the assessment of requirements done by district magistrates,” the official said. FCI has allotted 138000 tonne of wheat for such commercial processing in 13 states and 132,000 tonne of rice to eight states under this model.The Centre wants to distribute most of its old stocks because its granaries are overflowing and this will help it make space for the new harvestsSeveral states have delayed implementing the doubling of ration quota. “We want to exhaust our existing stock of food grains before we lift the free grains quota given by Centre. As of now we don’t have any problem of ration,” said Jokey Angu, Arunachal Pradesh’s secretary of food and civil supplies.Jharkhand submitted its plan to the Centre on Tuesday.The state’s food, public distribution and consumer affairs department director Sanjay Kumar said: “We have told the Centre that since for April and May regular foodgrain quota is being distributed to beneficiaries, we will distribute the additional free foodgrains of two months, total 10 kg, next month in May. The remaining 5kg will be distributed in June.”A senior food department official from Karnataka, HR Vijay Kumar, said Karnataka has distributed the total foodgrains due for April and May in April itself from its own quota. The Centre has offered foodgrains for the months of May, June and July, he said. In May, the state will be distributing foodgrains due for May and June from the Centre’s quota. A spokesperson for the Chhattisgarh government said it was opting for moving surplus rice from the state’s stocks to the Centre’s stock and claim the subsidy since it is a rice surplus state. Andhra Pradesh’s supplies commissioner Kona Sasidhar said Food Corporation of India authorities have refused to release additional rice immediately, asking the state to exhaust its existing stocks first . (With inputs from Guwahati, Hyderabad, Raipur and Ranchi. )||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7-states-are-yet-to-implement-centre-s-ration-quota-plan/story-CS1LCJwHXjOC5LfrpbkjOM.html
07-04-2020||India||Two more cases in Dharavi, ministers visit slum cluster||Mumbai: Two more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Dharavi on Tuesday, taking the total number of cases of the coronavirus disease in Asia’s largest slum to seven. The two were the 80-year-old father and 49-year-old brother of a 30-year-old woman who tested positive on Saturday, said Kiran Dighavkar, assistant commissioner of Mumbai’s G/North Ward where Dharavi is located. “In tracing of high-risk contacts it was found that they are the father and brother of the 30-year-old woman.”All three patients are residents of Dharavi’s Dr Baliga Nagar area. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has already sealed Dr Baliga Nagar, where Dharavi’s first Covid-19 patient, a 56-year-old garment shop owner, was detected last month. He succumbed to the virus. The colony he lived in has eight buildings with 308 flats and 91 shops, which have all been sealed. All 29 high-risk contacts of the two Covid-19 patients detected on Tuesday are being tested and essential supplies like food and medicines will be provided to them by the BMC, which has quarantined 3,250 residents of the densely populated slum in the Rajiv Gandhi Sports complex in Dharavi. On Tuesday, state health minister Rajesh Tope, and and local MLA and school education minister Varsha Gaikwad visited the quarantine facility in the sports complex and the Dharavi police station to assess the situation. Tope and Gaikwad discussed the outbreak of the deadly virus in Dharavi with the police and civic staff Shiv Sena Lok Sabha MP Rahul Shewale wrote to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday, urging him to impose a strict lockdown in the entire Dharavi area. “Lockdown is necessary because of the high population density in the area. In addition to that, civic body should take all the hospitals in Dharavi and convert them into a quarantine centre,” he said. Shewale also suggested that BMC enhance its Covid-19 testing capacity and every person in the slum be tested for the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-more-cases-in-dharavi-ministers-visit-slum-cluster/story-imDtWQ2V5lklZTnYlrqWzK.html
07-04-2020||India||After salary cuts and MPLADS fund freeze, MPs to lose 30% of constituency allowance||After a 30% salary cut and the freezing of access to the Members of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS) fund for two years, the MPs of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha will now have to also forfeit a total of ₹27,000 per month from their constituency allowance and office allowance.This is the first time in the recent history of Parliament that the allowances of MPs, which have seen a steady rise in the past, have been reduced. While all MPs have supported their salary cut as the country looks for ways to raise resources to fund efforts to contain the coronavirus disease, many have raised questions about taking away the MPLADS fund for two years.The Joint Committee of Parliament, which looks into salaries and allowances of MPs, has recommended a 30% cut in the constituency allowance and a Rs 6,000 reduction in the office allowance. An MP is entitled to ₹ 70,000 per month to meet constituency-related expenses and another ₹60,000 as the office allowance. An MP is also entitled to ₹2000 as daily allowance for attending Parliament sessions or committee meetings apart from official accommodation, water and electricity supply and a special allowance to buy laptops or computers.The Committee has decided to deduct ₹21,000 from each member’s constituency allowance and ₹6,000 from their office allowance. These deductions will be applicable from April 1, along with their salary deductions.While the MPs will now get ₹14,000 towards stationery as against ₹20,000 earlier, there will be no cut, however, in the remaining ₹40,000 of the office allowance, which is meant for engaging personal assistants.Parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi tweeted in support of the decision. “I welcome Gazette notifications issued from LS & RS Secretariats regarding 30% reduction in Constituency Allowance & Stationary allowance for MPs & 30% reduction in constituency Allowance for Ministers. Initiative is a good beginning for augmenting resources for fighting COVID-19,” he tweeted. Congress MP Manish Tewari tweeted, “History and not too far in future is very unkind to leaders who play on the fears of people. Parliament has passed a 32 lakh crore budget. We are in week one of the New Financial year. This is nothing but a power grab. Sad that @ombirlakota & @MVenkaiahNaidu signed of on it.”On Tuesday, Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla accepted the recommendations of the Joint Committee for the cuts in allowances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-salary-cuts-and-mplads-fund-freeze-mps-to-lose-30-of-two-allowances/story-uPuU9LbydGxy897j7J43HN.html
07-04-2020||India||AIIMS asks staff to reuse masks four times||The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) New Delhi has asked its staff to reuse their N-95 respiratory masks at least four times in order to make their quota of the gear last longer, bringing into focus fears of shortage of personal protective equipment (PPE) that is crucial for front line health care workers tending to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients.The direction, issued through a circular released on Tuesday, was followed by a set of guidelines that appeared to acknowledge that the reusing was not ideal, while at the same time telling staff how the devices must be disinfected after each use. “It is imperative that in accordance with evidence-based scientific literature, these N-95 masks are to be disinfected by individual users (by keeping them in open after use or by other methods) and re-used at least four times each, whereby these will suffice for about 20 days,” the circular said. Doctors and nurses at the country’s premier medical institute are allotted a particular quota of PPEs, which in the case of N-95 masks is five. With an average shift lasting 8-12 hours, the guidelines suggest they reuse each mask four times to last a total of 20 days.“We will shortly share the protocol for disinfecting the masks with everyone; N-95 masks do not need to be thrown away after one use,” said Dr DK Sharma, medical superintendent of the hospital, before the conflicting guidelines were issued.Doctors at the institute slammed the directive. “We have been writing to the administration about the shortage of PPE and N-95 masks since March. Not only have we not received any concrete answers on how they are dealing with the shortage, they have now issued guidelines for using the masks four times. How is a doctor supposed to carry the infected mask home? How are they individually supposed to disinfect it? This should happen at the hospital level to curtail the spread of the infection and even then only when there is no other option available,” said Dr Srinivas Rajkumar T, general secretary of Resident Doctors’ Association at AIIMS.The guidelines that were later released by AIIMS said: “Currently, decontamination of PPE for purposes of reuse is not recommended, primarily because of concerns that decontamination would degrade the performance especially of the respirator (N-95 masks)”.But, the document went on to say, “as an extraordinary last resort method in the event of imminent shortage of PPE”, the devices must be disinfected in bulk: the PPE is to be collected in ‘red bags’ used for biomedical waste, hung on a clothesline in a sealed room, and decontaminated using diluted hydrogen peroxide vapour. “The circular does not clarify whether the same will be applicable for people working in the Covid-19 wards and those screening the patients for respiratory symptoms – as they are at a higher risk of carrying the disease home with the masks. If we are at this stage even before community transmission has begun, what will happen when there is a deluge of patients? This will take active doctors out of duty,” said Dr Srinivas.Similar directions have been issued by the United States’ Centre for Disease Control, but that has come after many American hospitals reached near-capacity. The United States leads the world in number of Covid-19 infections with close to 400,000 cases. In comparison, India has a little over a tenth of that number.The World Health Organization rules do not address the issue of how many times an N-95 mask must be worn, but advises against wearing one respirator for more than four hours since it could lead to discomfort. A group of researchers from Stanford University’s School of Medicine reviewed various decontamination measures and said hydrogen peroxide and ultraviolet radiation could disinfect the masks but they could not determine whether filtration and material strength would remain intact after repeated use.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiims-asks-staff-to-reuse-masks-four-times/story-MlUFDckpCFWBCOQQtOzqVM.html
07-04-2020||India||‘Your cats are safe’: Maneka Gandhi assures after tiger tests Covid-19 positive||BJP MP Maneka Gandhi on Tuesday posted a video message saying a cat could not get or give coronavirus and there was no need for people to abandon them after it emerged that a tiger in a zoo in the United States was infected with Covid-19.Gandhi, a prominent animal rights activist said, “A cat is not a tiger, there is no relationship, there is as much relationship a dog has with a wolf.”Maneka’s video appeal follows the revelation that a tiger in the Bronx zoo in the US had tested positive for coronavirus sparking fears around the globe that the disease could spread to the animal kingdom. Indian authorities have sounded alerts for all tiger habitats in India and have advised continuous monitoring of the animals for any abnormal behaviour and isolation for sick animals among other measures to prevent possible human to animal transmissions.Gandhi seemed to be responding to speculations on social media that domestic animals like cat, if they pick up the Covid-19 infection, could also further spread the contagion among unsuspecting humans.“Your cats are completely safe to be around, so allow people to feed them, allow them in every colony, they are a great asset,” Maneka Gandhi appealed in the video.Gandhi’s post seemed to have started a debate with some questioning the basis of her claim and cited a study that has not been peer-reviewed to suggest that anti Sars-Cov-2 antibodies were detected in cats.Gandhi responded to the challenge by saying that a “scientific approach” was needed at the hour and not “hysteria”. She put out a series of tweets to support her point, one of them referring to a WHO advisory on the matter.“It’s been months since the spread of #COVID19 started. Lakhs of humans have it, thousands have died. Not 1 out of 50 million cats across the world (except some mythical cat in Belgium) have been infected. WHO has put out an advisory saying that cats can neither get nor give it,” one of her tweets said.Several Indian states have alerted officials to take measures to safeguard the animals in zoos, national parks, sanctuaries etc.A veterinary officer with the Jammu and Kashmir wildlife department Ranjit Katoch said the department is following the protocol issued by the Central Zoo Authority and monitoring animals round-the-clock.She said mammals like carnivores, especially cat, feral and primates were among the animals that were carefully being monitored.Authorities in the Sunderbans, home to the rare Bengal Tigers, were also monitoring the behaviour of all 88 tigers round the clock, said officials quoted by PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/your-cats-are-safe-maneka-gandhi-assures-after-tiger-tests-covid-19-positive/story-GV3W5QzdPUhvYA0O9IghMJ.html
07-04-2020||India||ICMR sets up national task force on Covid-19, will also decide on lockdown||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has constituted a national task force for Covid-19 to immediately initiate research studies and identify research priorities for clinical research; diagnostics and bio-markers; epidemiology and surveillance; vaccines and drug development.In a statement released on Tuesday evening, the ICMR said the members have been nominated for each group under the task force and the terms of reference (ToR) for all of them have been decided. The ToR includes identifying research priorities, review evidence, align research with level of outbreak and response; identify and create protocol; develop concept notes and identify partners for implementation.The clinical research group is headed by AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria and its research priority is establishing a clinical research collaborative; group on diagnostics and biomarkers is headed by Dr DA Gadkari, former director of National Institute of Virology, Pune, and its research priority is to periodically advise on testing strategy; Dr DCS Reddy, community medicine expert will head the group on epidemiology and surveillance and its priority is deciding on lockdown or partial lockdown; NK Arora who heads a health research organisation will head the operations research group and Dr Gagandeep Kang, Executive Director, Translational Health Science, and Technology Institute will head the group on vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-constitutes-national-task-force-on-covid-19/story-YxPP2C012gUJxZtv8kCAwK.html
07-04-2020||India||Covid-19 crisis can push 40 cr informal sector workers in India deeper into poverty: ILO Report||The COVID-19 crisis has the potential to push around 40 crore informal sector workers in India deeper into poverty, with the lockdown and other containment measures affecting jobs and earnings, an International Labour Organisation (ILO) report said on Tuesday. India has imposed a three-week lockdown till April 14 to contain the pandemic. As per ILO, India is among the countries less equipped to handle the situation. “COVID-19 is already affecting tens of millions of informal workers. In India, Nigeria and Brazil, the number of workers in the informal economy affected by the lockdown and other containment measures is substantial,” the ILO report released in Geneva said. “In India, with a share of almost 90 per cent of people working in the informal economy, about 400 million workers in the informal economy are at risk of falling deeper into poverty during the crisis. “Current lockdown measures in India, which are at the high end of the University of Oxford’s COVID-19 Government Response Stringency Index, have impacted these workers significantly, forcing many of them to return to rural areas,” it said. The report further said countries experiencing fragility, protracted conflict, recurrent natural disasters or forced displacement will face a multiple burden due to the pandemic. “They are less equipped to prepare for and respond to COVID-19 as access to basic services, especially health and sanitation, is limited; decent work, social protection and safety at work are not a given; their institutions are weak; and social dialogue is impaired or absent,” it added. The ILO also noted that the pandemic is having a catastrophic effect on working hours and earnings globally. The new ILO report highlights some of the worst affected sectors and regions, and outlines policies to mitigate the crisis. It found that the crisis is expected to wipe out 6.7 per cent of working hours globally in the second quarter of 2020 -- equivalent to 195 million full-time workers. Large reductions are foreseen in the Arab states, (8.1 per cent, equivalent to 5 million full-time workers), Europe, (7.8 per cent, or 12 million full-time workers) and Asia and the Pacific (7.2 per cent, 125 million full-time workers). Huge losses are expected across different income groups but especially in upper-middle income countries (7 per cent, 100 million full-time workers). This far exceeds the effects of the 2008-9 financial crisis. The sectors most at risk include accommodation and food services, manufacturing, retail, and business and administrative activities. The eventual increase in global unemployment during 2020 will depend substantially on future developments and policy measures. There is a high risk that the end-of-year figure will be significantly higher than the initial ILO projection of 25 million, it said. More than four out of five people (81 per cent) in the global workforce of 3.3 billion are currently affected by full or partial workplace closures. “Workers and businesses are facing catastrophe, in both developed and developing economies,” ILO Director-General Guy Ryder said. “We have to move fast, decisively, and together. The right, urgent, measures, could make the difference between survival and collapse.” The ‘ILO Monitor 2nd edition: COVID-19 and the world of work’, which describes COVID-19 as “the worst global crisis since World War II”, updates an ILO research note published on March 18. The updated version includes sectoral and regional information on the effects of the pandemic. According to the new study, 1.25 billion workers are employed in the sectors identified as being at high risk of “drastic and devastating” increases in layoffs and reductions in wages and working hours. Many are in low-paid, low-skilled jobs, where a sudden loss of income is devastating. Looked at regionally, the proportion of workers in these “at risk” sectors varies from 41 per cent in the Americas to 26 per cent in Asia and the Pacific. Other regions, particularly Africa, have higher levels of informality, which combined with a lack of social protection, high population density and weak capacity, pose severe health and economic challenges for governments, the report cautions. Worldwide, two billion people work in the informal sector (mostly in emerging and developing economies) and are particularly at risk. Large-scale, integrated, policy measures are needed, focusing on four pillars -- supporting enterprises, employment and incomes; stimulating the economy and jobs; protecting workers in the workplace; and, using social dialogue between government, workers and employers to find solutions, the study says. “This is the greatest test for international cooperation in more than 75 years,” said Ryder. “If one country fails, then we all fail. We must find solutions that help all segments of our global society, particularly those that are most vulnerable or least able to help themselves. “The choices we make today will directly affect the way this crisis unfolds and so the lives of billions of people,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-crisis-can-push-40-cr-informal-sector-workers-in-india-deeper-into-poverty-ilo-report/story-WYNAWNATcnvX3DYM1I7khN.html
07-04-2020||India||With 25 new cases, Delhi now has 550 Covid-19 cases||The national capital reported 25 new cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday to take the tally of infected people to 550 as the countrywide count inched closer to 5,000.“Twenty five more Covid-19 cases were reported in Delhi today. Total number of positive cases in Delhi stands at 550. Out of them 331 cases are related to the Nizamuddin Markaz, 170 cases have foreign travel/contact history and 49 cases are under investigation. Twenty people have been discharged while there have been nine deaths,” the chief minister’s office (CMO) said.Follow coronavirus live updates here. Earlier in the day, the Delhi government said that phone numbers of 1950 people related to Tablighi Jamat have been given to Delhi Police for tracing. All these people were removed from the Nizamuddin headquarter of the Markaz.The Delhi Police has also asked visitors to the Markaz after March 1 to inform police stations in their areas.“After March 1, whoever visited Markaz Nizamuddin should inform their concerned Police stations. If they don’t do so it will be considered as concealment of facts and legal action will be taken against the violators,” said M S Randhawa, Delhi Police spokesperson , according to ANI.He also appealed to hospitals to inform the police if they admit any Covid-19 patient. “I would like to appeal to all hospitals to inform us, health department of Covid-19 authorised hospitals if they admit any Covid-19 positive patient. If this is not followed it will be considered as concealment of facts and legal action will be taken,” Randhawa said.While states have expressed concern over the high number of cases among the Tablighi Jamaat members and their contacts, several opposition leaders have expressed fears that these cases were being highlighted to demonise Muslims. CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury in a letter to President Ram Nath Kovind has asked him to that the Tablighi Jamaat event congregation “cannot be the excuse to target the Muslim community as a whole”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-25-new-cases-delhi-now-has-550-covid-19-cases/story-yMGt1sVXDc2CjHrA8qefzJ.html
07-04-2020||India||India’s 3-week Covid-19 lockdown sees trucking skid to a halt||The world’s biggest lockdown has brought transportation of goods in India close to a halt, even though the Central government has exempted the sector from restrictions to halt the spread of coronavirus.Daily movement of trucks has collapsed to less than 10% of normal levels, according to All India Motor Transport Congress, an umbrella body of goods-vehicle operators representing about 10 million truckers. Road transport accounts for about 60% of freight traffic in India and 87% of its passenger traffic, according to the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways.Trucking has emerged as a major chokepoint in global supply chains from food to medical supplies as governments around the world take ever more stringent steps to contain the pandemic, restricting the movement of vehicles as well as people to drive them. The stoppages in India, where Prime Minister Narendra Modi imposed a three-week lockdown from March 25, are a harbinger of the damage the measures are wreaking on the economy amid forecasts the country could see its first contraction in at least two decades.“Though the government has allowed movement of both essential and non-essential goods, the situation is very different at the ground level,” said Naveen Kumar Gupta, secretary general of AIMTC, the largest grouping of transporters in India. Almost daily clarifications by the government take time to trickle down to officials enforcing the rules, making operations difficult, according to the organization’s president, Kultaran Singh Atwal.The decline in road transport is another major setback for fuel demand in the world’s third biggest oil market, which has already been hit by the collapse in air travel. Fuel sales in March by India’s three biggest state-run retailers shrank by as much as 33%.One of the major problems facing truckers is loading and unloading because of a shortage of labor, according to AIMTC. And with the lockdown shutting highway food establishments and workshops, truckers can’t get the services they need even if they are on the road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-3-week-covid-19-lockdown-sees-trucking-skid-to-a-halt/story-s1E1FhLkIdkr5ZJxzZzyvN.html
07-04-2020||India||5 lessons from Tamil Nadu’s book: How the state is fighting Covid-19||The month of April, though barely a week old, has been brutal for Tamil Nadu in its fight against coronavirus. In a flash, the number of Covid-19 cases soared from 67 at the end of March to 690 as on April 7. Of these, 637 are linked to those returning from the Tablighi Jamaat conference that was held in Delhi in mid-March. Here are five ways in which the government, faced with the prospect of an exponential spread of the virus, has acted to bring the situation under control.Surveillance, containment: Chennai is one among the 10 worst-affected cities in the country, recording at least 149 cases. On April 5, the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) launched a 90-day, door-to-door survey of every household in the city for Covid-19 symptoms. Nearly 16,000 healthcare workers armed with personal protective equipment and trained to ask the right set of questions will visit close to a million buildings in the city to record Covid-19 symptoms and create a disease database, SP Velumani, the minister for Municipal Administration, Rural Development and Special Programme Implementation, said.Those with symptoms would instantly be taken to the closest Covid-19 medical facility. Adhering to what is now referred to as the ‘Bhilwara model’, based on the way that the state authorities locked down Rajasthan’s Bhilwara, one of the first coronavirus clusters to emerge in the country in March, Chennai has already sealed off high-risk areas that reported multiple Covid19 cases. Nine areas of the city that accounted for nearly 20 cases have been declared containment zones. An area within a five-kilometre radius of such neighbourhoods are completely isolated, disinfected daily and citizens are simply not allowed to leave their homes. Health workers survey nearly 3000 houses in each of the nine hotspots every day.Ramped up testing: The government’s testing and isolation efforts, until the Tablighi Jamaat incident, were focused largely on air-passengers and those with a history of overseas travel. Rather than stigmatise the attendees, the government started a helpline towards the end of March so that they could self-identify and seek testing. This has worked in favour of the state: more than 1431 attendees have been traced so far. However, since many are from rural areas, the state has directed its identification efforts there. After the go-ahead from the Indian Centre for Medical Research for using antibody tests which return quicker results, chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami announced on April 5 that the state had placed an order for 100,000 rapid test kits. State health ministry officials said that a bulk of it would be sent to smaller towns and rural areas.Essentials supplied: The effectiveness of lockdown depends in large measure on the state’s ability to deliver essential goods and services to people in a manner that keeps them safe at home. The state’s well-oiled Public Distribution System (PDS), Amma Canteens and welfare schemes have helped no doubt, but the smooth supply of vegetables has been one of Tamil Nadu’s biggest successes in this crisis. The government has set aside Rs 3280 crore for measures such as a Rs 1000 cash support scheme and delivering free rice, lentils and cooking oil through PDS shops. In many parts of the state, local authorities deliver a three-kilo weekly supply kit of vegetables for a nominal Rs 100. To further ease the strain on the healthcare system, the CM has also announced a subsidy of 30% capital investment with a cap of Rs 20 crore for new manufacturers of invasive ventilators, masks, drugs such as hydroxychloroquine, azithromycin and vitamin C tablets. He also announced sops for farmers, including a waiver of cold storage user fee, loans up to Rs 10 lakh to farmer producer firms, as well as exempted traders from paying 1% market fee for procuring farm produce. Farmer cooperatives: Four months ago, Tamil Nadu handed over a large part of the management of fruit and vegetable supply chain to farmer producer companies (FPC). FPCs are for-profit cooperatives that can be formed with 10 or more farmers as shareholders. Its activities can range from production and procurement to marketing and even export. Such cooperatives now run nearly 10 primary processing centers (PPC) in the big horticultural regions such as Krishnagiri and Dharmapuri. Since the FPC are farmer-owned companies, they find it easier to procure vegetables at a price that is fair to both farmers and consumers. There are cold storage facilities at all the PPCs. The farmer cooperatives are now playing a big role in door-delivering pre-packaged five-kilo vegetable boxes for Rs 250 in cities like Chennai and Coimbatore. Gagagdeep Sigh Bedi, Tamil Nadu’s agriculture secretary and agriculture production commissioner has been a big advocate of farm sector reforms in the state. “We invested nearly Rs 480 crore in this PPP scheme and it has come in handy in the time of a huge crisis. The FPCs now account for about 5-10% of Chennai’s daily vegetable supply. The horticulture department has started its own ecommerce door delivery platform a few days ago that makes 1000 deliveries a day in Chennai. We have 3700 mobile vegetable units currently and plan to add 500 each day,” Bedi told HT.Social distancing measures: In order to ease overcrowding in markets, Tamil Nadu converted bus stations in towns and cities into vegetable markets. The state has some 120 farmers markets where farmers can sell their produce directly to consumers. To manage social distancing and avoid chaos and crowding, nearly 60 farmers markets were relocated to bus stands that are now empty because of the lockdown. “The concrete flooring of the bus stands makes it easier to disinfect; bus stands are usually centrally located; and the large open architecture of bus stands make it easier to install disinfectant tunnels and prevent physical contact between people,” Bedi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-lessons-from-tamil-nadu-s-book-how-the-state-is-fighting-covid-19/story-Sl4kD5HZksOIuOTRDm2OeM.html
07-04-2020||India||Nine fresh cases in Kerala, CM demands restoration of MPs fund||Nine fresh cases have been reported in Kerala on Tuesday taking the total number of infected people to 336 even as chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan sought the restoration of the MP local area development scheme (MPLADS) which has been suspended by the union government for two years in the light of pandemic outbreak.Out of nine new cases, two are Nizamuddin-returned Tablighi Jamaat members and four cases were reported from the worst –hit Kasaragode and three from Kannur, both north Kerala districts, said the CM. Vijayan said 1,46, 651 people were under observation in the state and 70 patients were discharged from hospitals.With the situation improving slightly, the CM has announced some concessions to certain sectors-- automobile workshops can be opened for two days in a week, mobile shops and repairing units can open on Sundays. Similarly, electricians with a licence will be allowed to carry out repairs in flats and other units. Earlier the government had allowed tea leaf plucking in estates and farmers to ferry their produce to collection outlets.The CM welcomed the 30% cut in MPs’ salary announced by the Centre but disapproved of the decision to suspend the MPLADS for two years.“Many MPs use this fund to develop their areas. Now they need it more to provide healthcare facilities. The decision is against the federal structure of the country. We want this decision to be revoked,” he said.About the possibility of extending the lockdown period in the state, he said the state will take an appropriate decision after hearing the Centre’s decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nine-fresh-cases-in-kerala-cm-demands-restoration-of-mps-fund/story-a6lEM8WgXplZXT7lyrmo9L.html
07-04-2020||India||Odisha cop dies trying to save cadet from grenade explosion during training||A havildar of the Special Operations Group, Odisha’s elite police force to fight Maoists was killed while trying to save a trainee cadet from a grenade explosion during a training session on the outskirts of Bhubaneswar on Tuesday, a police official said.Havildar Prakash Sahu (35) of Bargarh district was killed when shrapnel pierced his vital organs. The trainee cadet was also injured in the explosion and is now under treatment at a hospital.During the Anti Extremist and Tactics Course of the Cadet Sergeants at SOG Training and Resource Centre in Chandaka area of Bhubaneswar on Tuesday afternoon, 18 cadets were required to practise lobbing live grenades.The training session for new cadets has been on for the last six days. While 17 cadets successfully lobbed the live grenades, the last one became nervous and the grenade slipped from his hand.“After pulling the pin of the grenade, the trainee sergeant was supposed to keep the striker lever pressed in his palm so as not to start the detonation process. However, the cadet got nervous and dropped the grenade releasing the striker lever that set off an explosion …. The havildar who was standing behind the cadet, pushed him away from the scene of explosion and ended up getting hit by the full force of the shrapnel,” said a senior official of the SOG.Sahu and the cadet were immediately shifted to a private hospital in Bhubaneshwar. While the havildar succumbed to his injuries, the condition of the cadet sergeant is stable. Sahu is survived by his wife and a 12-year-old son.The SOG, modelled after the elite Greyhound police commandos of neighbouring Andhra Pradesh was created in 2004 to be a cutting-edge force to counter the Maoist menace.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-cop-dies-trying-to-save-cadet-from-grenade-explosion-during-training/story-s5My8CbhHn1MqIVALvEFkN.html
07-04-2020||India||Coronavirus Latest: India tally close to 5000-mark, Maharashtra goes past 1000||Total number of coronavirus cases in India was inching towards the 5000-mark with a total of 4789 cases registered till late Tuesday evening, including 124 deaths, eight of them coming in the last 24 hours, as per the latest data available with the ministry of health.Maharashtra also became the first Indian state to register over 1000 positive cases as the state administration put the total at 1,018, including 116 fresh cases recorded in Mumbai alone, however, the central government’s figure for the state was still 28 short of a thousand.In some good news, the health ministry said government’s containment efforts in worst-affected clusters was bearing fruit, notably in Agra, Noida, Bhilwara, East Delhi and Pathanamthitta due to the proactive measures taken at the ground level. The health ministry officials also highlighted the importance of the lockdown and social distancing measures in the overall strategy to contain the spread of the pathogen by citing a recent study by ICMR, which in lay man’s terms says that a coronavirus-positive person could have ended up infecting over 400 others had the restrictions not been in place, which have the potential to limit the spread per infected person to 2.5 people. However, there is still no decision on a possible extension to the three-week nationwide lockdown in the light of requests by states like Uttar Pradesh, Telangana, Maharashtra and Karnataka favouring an extension. Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Punjab are also said to be in favour of maintaining the restrictions beyond April 14.In other important developments, the Centre said it had issued guidelines to states to streamline coronavirus disease management by dividing the health facilities into three categories-- Covid Care Centres, Covid Health Centres and Dedicated Covid Hospitals to segregate the management of mild, moderate and severe cases respectively.The country’s testing capacity has also witnessed a gradual increase and the total number of samples tested now stand at 1,07,006 including 11795 samples that were tested between Monday and Tuesday.One hundred and thirty six government labs and 59 private laboratories are authorised to test for Covid-19 at the moment even as rapid tests involving antibody testing have begun and the first set of results ratified by the Pune Lab. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has indicated that his government will ramp up testing along with tracing, treatment, teamwork, and tracking. He cited South Korea’s example to say that mass testing was required to contain the disease before it exploded like in other urban centres in Europe and America. The Delhi government has ordered conventional kits to test 50,000 people and rapid test kits to test 100,000 people and announced that random testing at hotspots will begin soon.According to Worldometre, a website that tracks the total number of coronavirus cases across the world, India has the lowest rate of tests per million—102-- of the population among the top 34 countries battling the coronavirus. Click Here for Latest Reports on CoronavirusHimachal Pradesh and Tamil Nadu decided to follow Centre’s lead as the former slashed the salaries of all public representatives including MLAs and ministers by 30% for the year and also merged the MLA local area development fund for the next two years with the state funds earmarked for Covid-19 containment efforts and the latter ordering the utilisation of Rs one crore from the MLA fund for purchasing medical equipment, drugs and for funding other prevention initiatives against coronavirus.Coronavirus live updates In other important news, states continued to encourage Tablighi Jamaat participants from the March event in Delhi to contact authorities to aid in effective containment measures with the Punjab government giving them (Tablighi workers) a 24-hour deadline to approach the nearest police stations and the Delhi police also issuing a similar order. Authorities in Maharasthra complained that around 50-60 attendees of the event have switched off their phones and were trying to hide in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-latest-india-tally-close-to-5000-mark-maharashtra-goes-past-1000/story-yaJBKb6e8mhfhO6KuHROkJ.html
07-04-2020||India||Covid-19 outbreak: Textile ministry announces new PPE rules||The Union Ministry of Textiles has announced a new regulatory framework for the production of personal protective equipment (PPE) units after reports emerged that Indian manufacturers, who failed laboratory tests, have sold their rejected products to a section of private hospitals.The ministry has laid down new norms, which require a Unique Certification Code called UCC-Covid19 and a tamper-proof sticker in indelible ink specifying details of the manufacturer. The ministry issued a notification to this effect on April 6, saying that the code would apply to both PPE garments and fabric that pass the laboratory tests, as stipulated by the South India Textile Research Association (SITRA) and the Defence Research & Development Establishment (DRDE). The code will record the type of garment, its test procedure and also the date of the test. The certification will be valid for a fixed time frame and both SITRA and DRDE will preserve the sample sent by the manufacturer, said the notification, accessed by HT. The move, ministry officials said, was to tighten the production of PPE units by Indian manufacturers in line with the specifications of the World Health Organisation (WHO) and the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW). Approvals have been given by the Coimbatore-based SITRA, an autonomous body under the ministry, and Gwalior-based DRDE. The notification stated that in case of coveralls a manufacturer needs to print in indelible ink or in tamper-proof sticker detail such as the name of the maker, code, test standard, batch number and order details. A ministry official, on condition of anonymity, told HT that the move was prompted by media reports that some manufacturers, whose products were rejected by SITRA and DRDE, were found to be supplying their units to a section of private hospitals. The ministry’s directive has been sent to states as well.Nihar Ranjan Dash, a joint secretary in the ministry, said that the certification primarily concerns coveralls and fabric provided by certain manufacturers of PPEs. “The directive doesn’t concern masks, as they’re certified by the Bureau of Indian Standards. We relied on imports of masks for all this while, and their specifications were of international standards,” said Dash. The tightening of norms would help Indian manufacturers prepare for the global market, he added. The current capacity of the Indian industry is to manufacture 10,000 PPE units per day, but Dash said that in about three months, the country is likely to produce three lakh units.An official of one of the testing agencies told HT on condition of anonymity that the two specific tests that are applied are the synthetic blood penetration for overalls and bacterial efficiency as far as masks are concerned. “A severe shortage of N-95 masks has been a cause for concern, as there are just a handful of manufacturers in the country,” said the official. Since India began domestic production of PPE in March owing to the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), these two testing agencies have approved 18 manufacturers to produce PPE units with non-woven textiles such as masks and coveralls. Later, the agencies approved 20 more manufacturers of the fabric. Only 50% of the manufacturers passed the test at the outset, the official said. “However, the success rate has come up to 80% now,” he added. M Rajaa of Coimbatore-based Saastha Textiles, one of the approved manufacturers of waterproof, laminated thermoplastic polyurethane and thermoplastic elastomers fabric in knitted, woven and non-woven fabric used in PPE units, told HT that the fabric needs to have a certain type of lamination to ensure that blood and virus do not contaminate a health care worker. “We also need to use only polypropylene virgin material to ensure that the material is protective and some manufacturers are also using reprocessed materials,” said Rajaa. Parag of Sai Synergy, another manufacturer of PPE units, said that the Indian Navy has ordered their products earlier and they always carry a sticker. “The sticker has to be put during the manufacturing process and cannot be put thereafter,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-textile-ministry-announces-new-ppe-rules/story-wAeOmca9W1BrLr8JaAvQ2J.html
07-04-2020||India||As Covid-19 expands footprints, Maharashtra becomes first state to report 1000 positive cases||Maharashtra became the first state in the country to report more than 1,000 coronavirus cases after 150 people tested positive to take the number of Covid-19 patients in the state to 1,018, the state’s health department said.One hundred and sixteen of the 150 new cases were reported from Mumbai.Follow coronavirus live updates here.Pune reported 18 new cases, Ahmednagar, Nagpur and Aurangabad reported three each, Thane and Buldana two each while Satara, Ratnagiri and Sangli reported one each, a health department official said.A dozen more Covid-19 patients died in Maharashtra on Tuesday taking the death toll in the state to 64. Out of the 12 casualties, s ix were in Mumbai, three in Pune and one each in Mira-Bhayander, Satara and Nagpur, health officials said. Across the country, the death toll due coronavirus rose to 124. Thirteen deaths were reported in the last 24 hours according to the Union health ministry’s data updated at 6 PM.There were 508 new cases in the country in the last 24 hours which took the total number of infected people to 4,789, the Union health ministry said.The ministry also said 352 people have been cured and discharged and one has migrated to another country. The total number of cases in the country, include 66 foreign nationals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-covid-19-expands-footprints-maharashtra-becomes-first-state-to-report-1000-positive-cases/story-ot7G964AQSVjqyyRcTGpkL.html
07-04-2020||India||India has low testing rate, needs to scale up surveillance: Analysis||A new analysis by Indian epidemiologists has revealed that the country has one of the lowest Covid-19 testing ratios compared to other affected countries and that its infection containment measures may not be adequate because of this. India has conducted only 47 tests per million population as of April 5, compared to 2,753 in the UK, 4,572 in the US, 8,800 in South Korea and 22,918 tests per million population in the UAE.The analysis also found that in Indian states where testing was more, fatalities were comparatively lower. Kerala, which has the highest testing rate of 276 tests per million population, has one of the least case fatality at 0. 65%. But Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Punjab, West Bengal, and Gujarat have higher case fatality average (of about 3% to 9%) compared to the national average of 2.3%. Testing is also low in these states with about just 15 tests or less per million people. The authors-- Giridhara R Babu, Professor and Head, Life Course Epidemiology at Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI); Tarun Bhatnagar, scientist at ICMR-National Institute of Epidemiology; and Deepa R, a research associate at PHFI; have warned that low testing but high fatality rate states may be missing positive Covid 19 cases.The authors have divided the states into four categories -- states with a high rate of testing and low case fatality (such as Delhi, Kerala and Tamil Nadu) where early diagnosis may be resulting in better outcomes; two states with high testing and yet high fatalities (Maharashtra and Karnataka) where authors are trying to understand if it’s because of elderly patients with co-morbidities; states such as Arunachal Pradesh, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh with low testing and low fatalities; and states such as West Bengal, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh that have less than 20 tests per million but a case fatality rate of 3 to 5%.The authors explained that a lockdown cannot be continued for a very long time. To contain the disease, India will need more surveillance, extensive tracking, testing and isolating cases. “In summary, containment measures need to be improved in all states by increasing the number of tests. Also, syndromic surveillance and symptomatic quarantine measures are useful strategies to improve containment measures. States which have inadequate testing, poor early detection efforts, and higher case fatality will pose greater challenges in the future. If the cases are not detected early, then those who develop complications cannot be referred timely and, therefore, can succumb,” the authors wrote in BMJ Global Health journal’s blogs. The analysis has not been peer-reviewed yet.Since January 24, a little over 100,000 tests have been conducted in India, according to Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) data. ICMR has approved at least 200 labs (both public and private) for testing through RT-PCR machines and is in the process of identifying other government and private labs, research institutes and medical colleges that have the capability and infrastructure to undertake testing for inclusion into the Covid-19 testing network. It is also procuring 0.5 million rapid testing (blood test) kits for mass testing, to be deployed in states where maximum cases are being reported.“We have to look at the cost and availability of tests. We can’t compare ourselves with US, UK or South Korea. One has to realise the size of our country and state of our economy...We have to try and see how much we can expand testing and at the same time isolate and contain clusters carefully. I think we are doing better than many European countries,” said Dr Shobha Broor, senior virologist and former head of the AIIMS department of virology.Authors of the BMJ analysis said it’s important that states make testing and detection data public. “It is more than two months since the first observed COVID19 case was diagnosed in India. We still have minimal data to understand the epidemiological trajectory of COVID 19 in India. The biggest limitation for our analysis is that state-wise testing, detection, and case-specific details are not made available in the public domain.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-low-testing-rate-needs-to-scale-up-surveillance-analysis/story-yRQDOQlTlHOq0sLDHU63IM.html
07-04-2020||India||Assam MLA arrested for communal rant on Covid-19, booked for sedition||The Assam Police on Tuesday booked an opposition MLA for sedition and other offences for allegedly making provocative, communal and false statements on Covid-19 and the treatment of patients in the state.Police said Aminul Islam, the All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) legislator from Dhing in central Assam was picked up from his residence on Monday night and arrested Tuesday morning after interrogation.He had allegedly stated in an audio clip doing rounds in social media that there was a conspiracy to target a particular community in the garb of Covid-19 and those in quarantine could be killed.Follow coronavirus live updates here.“Islam has been arrested under several sections of IPC for charges including criminal conspiracy, spreading disaffection amongst communities etc,” Assam’s Director General of Police (DGP) Bhaskar Jyoti Mahanta said.Islam was produced in a local court in Nagaon on Tuesday and was sent to judicial custody for 14 days.A government release stated that Islam was arrested because of “communal and false comments” made in the clip.He has been booked under sections 120(B)-criminal conspiracy, 124A-sedition, 153A-promoting enmity on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language etc. and 295A - deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings.“We have seized his personal digital accessories (PDAs) and are processing them as per law. We have found several clippings in his mobile, which we will have to test digitally,” the DGP said.In the past few days Islam has posted several posts on social media platforms questioning the government’s handling of the Covid-19 patients and those who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi last month.There are at present 28 positive Covid-19 cases in Assam and 26 of them are linked to the Tablighi Jamaat event.The patients are being treated at several government hospitals across Assam. Many others who came in contact with them have been kept in quarantine facilities.“The quarantine centres are worse than detention centres. I heard that even those who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation one or two months ago have been kept in quarantine and their family members are not allowed near them,” Islam is reportedly heard claiming in the clip, which HT has accessed.Hindustan Times could not verify the authenticity of the clip.Assam has six detention centres lodged inside jails to keep those declared foreigners by foreigners’ tribunals. Another big detention centre, which can house around 3,000 people, is under construction.The legislator allegedly said that people kept in quarantine have not been tested for Covid-19 and are being kept there despite not having any symptoms associated with the disease.“I doubt that these people in quarantine may be killed with some lethal injection and the authorities will claim they died due to coronavirus. There is conspiracy going on to show that these people brought the virus from Nizamuddin Markaz, and kill them inside quarantine facilities,” the MLA allegedly said.Several AIUDF MLAs contacted by HT refused to comment on the matter general secretary (organisation) AIUDF who has the same name as the MLA said the lawmaker’s comments were not the party’s official line.“Islam’s comments at such a time are unfortunate, but those are not the party’s official stand and are his personal views. Hope the government also takes action against elected representatives from other parties who have made sensitive comments about the present situation,” said Md Aminul Islam, the AIUDF general secretary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-mla-arrested-for-communal-rant-on-covid-19-booked-for-sedition/story-S8GNpubNbTdA4cPsTUV7hN.html
07-04-2020||India||Railways plans to make 1000 low-cost PPE per day after DRDO nod||The Indian Railways plans to manufacture 1,000 low-lost personal protective equipment (PPE) such as overalls for doctors and paramedics per day after its samples made by Northern Railways were tested and approved by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) authorities.The national carrier will deploy around 17 of its workshops to begin production of 1,000 such protective overalls per day. Plans are also afoot to supply 50% of these PPEs to other medical professionals across the country, the ministry said. “Indian Railways has taken up the in-house production of PPE type overall on a mission mode. A DRDO laboratory recently cleared overalls produced by its Jagadhari workshop. Approved design and material will be used for making this protective overall by other workshops under different zones,” the ministry said on Tuesday.The material for the overall will be procured from Punjab, as it is located near the Jagadhari workshop in Haryana. The Indian Railways is aiming to produce three sets of overalls per sewing machine per hour for as many days as required in its production units and workshops, the ministry said. “It may be noted this internal effort of Indian Railways is over and above a centralised request projected to the government and also indicated to HLL Lifecare Limited (HLL) through indent,” the ministry added.HLL, the government’s nodal agency for medical procurement, had pointed out an acute shortfall of supply of equipment due to high demand and logistical constraints since the ongoing 21-day nationwide lockdown was enforced on March 25 to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. The state-run company had also written to the Indian Railways citing the supply crunch. The country is facing a massive shortage of PPE for doctors treating Covid-19 patients. The Delhi government had last week also accused the Centre of not responding to the shortage of the PPE in the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-plans-to-make-low-cost-ppe-after-drdo-nod/story-sW4ZCPHN9kgf6OVx2IIj6J.html
07-04-2020||India||Steady rise in Covid-19 cases in Andhra, Telangana||The twin Telugu-speaking states of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh (AP) have been experiencing a steep rise in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive cases since the last week of March.Telangana and AP have recorded 11 and four deaths, respectively, to date. The combined count of Covid-19 positive cases stood at 673 till Monday night. Telangana reported its first double-digits figure of 13 on March 18, when eight Indonesians, who visited Karimnagar town after attending the Tablighi Jamaat meet in Delhi in March, tested Covid-19 positive.The mid-March congregation has turned the Jamaat headquarters at Nizamuddin into a Covid-19 hot spot.Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao told reporters on Monday night that out of 364 Covid-19 positive cases recorded so far, only 50 belong to the state, including 30 who returned from abroad recently and then infected 20 of their family members. Of these 50, 35 have recovered and discharged from hospitals and the rest are on the road to recovery, the CM said.The CM said the state saw a spike in Covid-19 positive cases after the Nizamuddin event. A total of 314 new cases were reported in the second phase, including 11 deaths. “Of these 314 people, 308 are still undergoing treatment and the remaining six have been discharged,” he said.The CM said that the state authorities have identified 1,089 Jamaat attendees so far. Besides, another 265 people, including 93 family members of the Jamaat attendees, have been traced and tested for Covid-19. “It was found that over 1,000 of those who attended the Nizamuddin event weren’t infected. While the test results of the rest would be known in a couple of days,” the CM said.The state authorities were also on the lookout for another 3,017 people who might have indirectly come in contact with these Jamaat attendees, he added.Andhra Pradesh, too, has seen a similar upswing in Covid-19 positive cases after the Jamaat attendees returned home. The state, which reported its first double-digits figure of 11 Covid-19 positive cases on March 26, crossed the three-figure mark within six days on April 1, when it reported 113 cases.By Monday night, the number of Covid-19 positive cases has shot up to 309, including five who have recovered and discharged from hospitals.Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy held a review meeting on Tuesday afternoon, where the state health department officials said that out of 304 Covid-19 positive patients undergoing treatment in hospitals, 280 are linked to the Jamaat meet, including their primary contacts.The state government has identified 1,085 people who attended the Jamaat event. The tests were conducted on 997 attendees and 194 tested Covid-19 positive.“Another 2,400 people were identified to have come in contact with them, including their family members, relatives, friends and others who travelled with them from Delhi to Andhra Pradesh. Of them, 84 tested Covid-19 positive,” the officials told the CM. The authorities conducted tests on 205 people who had returned from abroad and 11 of them tested Covid-19 positive. Another six persons were infected among the 120 who had come in contact with people with recent foreign travel history. While seven tested Covid-19 positive among the 134 who showed symptoms of the viral disease, the officials added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/steady-rise-in-covid-19-cases-in-andhra-telangana/story-0Up74k9GaTerNL7vETJHKJ.html
07-04-2020||India||How Centre’s smart cities command centres are monitoring Covid-19 hotspots||The Centre has begun using integrated command and control centres designed for Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led smart cities mission for surveillance and monitoring of Covid-19 affected districts across states. States have converted the smart cities command centres into ‘war rooms’ for real time data monitoring using the central data dashboard to provide up-to-date information about the status of coronavirus cases in different administrative zones of their cities, officials aware of the development said. The war rooms are also being used for tracking people under quarantine and suspected cases. States with highest reported Covid-19 positive cases, say, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Kerala, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh among others are using the command centres for CCTV Surveillance of public places, geographic information system (GIS) mapping of coronavirus positive cases, GPS tracking of healthcare workers. “Centre is coordinating with the states through our central command centre at Nirman Bhawan in New Delhi. States are also using it for predictive analytics (Heat Maps) for virus containment across different zones of the city. We are also doing real-time tracking of ambulances and disinfection services,” a senior government official said.The Centre is using Smart Cities for collaborating with the district administration, district police and city administration to monitor the suspected cases of COVID-19. Centre aims to use smart infrastructure for developing predictive analytics using heat maps and taking action in monitoring the movements (using geo-fencing) as well as periodic health status of suspected cases. “States are also using it for providing virtual training to doctors and healthcare professionals, providing medical services through video conferencing, tele-counselling and tele-medicines. Leveraging this technology, Smart Cities are collaborating with medical practitioners in the city to provide online medical consultation facilities to citizens. The guidelines issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) in collaboration with NITI Aayog and the Indian Medical Council, allow doctors to write prescriptions based on telephonic, textual or video conversations — chat, images, messaging or emails. People certified medical practitioners without the need to go out of the house, reducing the risk of COVID-19 spread,” the official said. “All the operators are given daily tasks to monitor quarantine citizens, passengers who came from abroad recently and resolve general queries regarding Covid-19,” the official added.This comes at a time when the Centre is mulling to resume movement and commercial activity in districts with no coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases. In an interaction with chief ministers on Friday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi told the states to formulate a “common exit strategy” to ensure “staggered re-emergence of the population” once the lockdown ended.The empowered group on COVID 19, led by Niti Aayog, is also seeking support from international organisations like the WHO and the UN for providing technical support in monitoring and surveillance systems. According to officials aware of the development, a meeting of the empowered group with the UN is also scheduled Tuesday. Monitoring at state level In Maharashtra, the highest affected state with 868 reported cases thus far, local administrations like the Pune Smart City Development Corporation Limited (PSCDCL) has collaborated with Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to develop an integrated data dashboard. “Each case of the city has been mapped using geo-spatial information systems and city administration is monitoring the areas and creating buffer zones where patients were diagnosed positive with COVID-19 infection,” an official said. Using heat-mapping technologies and predictive analytics, the city administration is developing a containment plan and the containment zones get reflected on the dashboard. The healthcare operations at the city’s Naidu Infectious Disease Hospital are tracked at this facility. The Smart City’s integrated dashboard also monitors the quarantine facilities and tracks the health of suspected patients and their contacts placed under home quarantine.Tamil Nadu, with 621 reported COVID 19 positive cases, has deployed a team of doctors at the integrated command centres to monitor 250 people under quarantine each. “In Chennai, 25 doctors are engaged in ICCC, they had given 250 quarantine people each to guide their counterparts and give them moral and psychological support. They will also refer necessary medicines, if required. In Vellore, 118 suspects are mapped with individual health experts for advice. The contact details and medical history are shared and necessary advice given to the suspects,” the official said. In the smart cities of Uttar Pradesh the command centres are being used for tracking health services across the state. The state has 308 positive cases thus far. “In centres like Kanpur Smart City, Aligarh, Varanasi etc itracking of health services from the ICCC is being done. Telemedicine is offered through video conferencing facilities launched by the city administrations. In Aligarh, Doctors are deployed at Aligarh Smart City Integrated Command and Control Center (ICCC) during 11- 8 pm to enable telemedicine and video conferencing facility through a dedicated Whatsapp number,” the official said. Madhya Pradesh has also deployed a team of doctors at the command centres for counselling and monitoring. The state has 256 positive reported cases thus far. In Bhopal, the integrated command and control centre (ICCC) is being used as a helpline and tele-counselling centre for citizens. Medical officers are stationed at ICCC in different shifts to assist during any situation. “In Ujjain smart city centre, two doctors are stationed at the centre for 24 hours duration to take video conferencing/ telephone calls from the citizens and give appropriate advice based on the symptoms. Forty Medical Mobile Units (MMU) are operationalized to distribute medicines to people based on prescriptions by doctors. In Jabalpur, dedicated Rapid Response Team (RRT) and Mobile Action Unit (MAU) are present on ground ward-wise who coordinate with officials present at ICCC regarding screening, ambulance, quarantine etc.” the official said. Medical teams are stationed at the command centres to provide any immediate medical attention to through the helpline. “Trained professionals resolve the queries raised by citizens at an initial level and these calls are then connected with a designated doctor. This counselling process is reducing the panic among citizens/callers. The doubtful citizens are being encouraged to consult a doctor,” the official said. In Gujarat’s Gandhinagar smart city contact details of grocery stores for all sectors are also provided. The Surat Municipal Corporation has published an online dashboard for providing the overall statistics on tested, confirmed, active, recovered and death cases, the dashboard provides the trends and patterns on the spread of COVID-19 within city, in terms of cumulative cases (each day), number of new confirmed cases reported, age-wise distribution of cases, zone-wise distribution and gender-wise distribution. Spatial mapping of affected areas is also being provided. The first lot of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government’s ambitious Smart Cities Mission, aimed at developing 100 citizen-friendly and self-sustainable urban settlements, will be measurable only by 2021, when the first 20 of them are completed. Under the mission, setting up of integrated command and control centres (ICCC) for each city is a vital step. The ICCCs are designed to enable authorities to monitor the status of various amenities in real time. It was initially aimed to control and monitor online water and power supply, sanitation, traffic movement, integrated building management, city connectivity and Internet infrastructure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-centre-s-smart-cities-command-centres-are-monitoring-covid-19-hotspots/story-gHWui8G3q5mmuMHldKuvFK.html
07-04-2020||India||How Centre is using smart cities project to monitor Covid-19 hot spots||The Centre has begun using integrated command-and-control centres (ICCCs) designed for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ambitious National Smart Cities Mission, an urban renewal and retrofitting programme, for real-time surveillance and monitoring of coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-affected districts across the country.States have converted the smart cities’ ICCCs into war rooms for real-time data monitoring using the central data dashboard to provide information about the status of Covid-19 positive cases in various administrative zones of these cities, the officials aware of the development said. The war rooms are also being used for tracking people under quarantine and suspected Covid-19 cases. Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Kerala, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh are among the states that are using the command centres for closed-circuit television (CCTV) surveillance of public places, geographic information system (GIS) mapping of Covid-19 positive cases and global positioning system (GPS) of healthcare workers. “The Centre is coordinating with the states through our central command centre at Nirman Bhawan in New Delhi. States are also using it for predictive analytics (heat maps) for virus containment across different zones of their respective cities. We’re also doing real-time tracking of ambulances and disinfection services,” a senior government official said.The Centre is collaborating with district administration, police and civic authorities to monitor suspected Covid-19 cases. The government aims to use the infrastructure for developing predictive analytics using heat maps and taking action in monitoring the movements such as geo-fencing and running periodic health checks on those who are suspected to be suffering from Covid-19. “States are also using it for providing virtual training to doctors and healthcare professionals, providing medical services through video conferencing, tele-counselling and tele-medicines. The Smart Cities Mission technology is leveraging the technology to collaborate with doctors across these designated cities to provide online medical consultation facilities to the people. The guidelines, issued by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) in collaboration with NITI Aayog and the Indian Medical Council, allow doctors to write prescriptions based on telephonic, textual or video conversations — chat, images, messaging or e-mails. The risk of the spread of Covid-19 is vastly reduced, as many doctors, who aren’t in the frontline of combating the viral outbreak, don’t need to step out of their homes,” the official said. “All the operators are given daily tasks such as monitoring quarantined citizens and passengers who came from abroad recently and also answering frequently asked questions regarding Covid-19,” he added.The initiative comes at a time when the Centre is considering to resume movement and commercial activity in districts, where no Covid-19 cases have been reported to date after the ongoing 21-day nationwide lockdown enforced since March 25 to contain the Covid-19 is lifted. In an interaction with chief ministers on Friday, PM Modi told the states to formulate a “common exit strategy” to ensure “staggered re-emergence of the population” after the lockdown is done away with.The empowered group on Covid-19, led by Niti Aayog, is also seeking support from international bodies such as the World Health Organisation (WHO) and the United Nations (UN) for providing technical support in monitoring and surveillance mechanisms. A meeting of the empowered group with the UN is scheduled to be held on Tuesday, according to the officials aware of the development. How states are monitoringIn Maharashtra, which has reported 891 Covid-19 positive cases and 52 deaths to date, local administrations such as the Pune Smart City Development Corporation Limited (PSCDCL) has collaborated with Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to develop an integrated data dashboard. “Each case of the city has been mapped using geo-spatial information systems and the authorities are monitoring the areas and creating buffer zones where patients were tested Covid-19 positive,” an official said. The city administration is developing a containment plan by using heat-mapping technologies and predictive analytics, as the earmarked zones are constantly getting updated on the dashboard. For instance, Naidu Infectious Disease Hospital’s activities are being tracked through this mechanism. The dashboard also monitors the quarantine facilities and tracks the health of suspected patients and their contacts placed under home quarantine.Tamil Nadu, which has reported 621 Covid-19 positive cases to date, has deployed a team of 25 doctors at an ICCC and each of them has been tasked to keep a watch on 250 quarantined people. “In Chennai, 25 doctors are engaged in the ICCC. Each of them has been asked to monitor 250 quarantined people and give them moral and psychological support. They will also prescribe medicines, if required. In Vellore, 118 Covid-19 suspects are mapped with individual health experts for advice. Their contact details and medical history have also been shared. Besides, they’re being counselled regularly,” the official said.Similarly, in Uttar Pradesh, the ICCCs are being used for tracking health services across the state. UP has reported 308 Covid-19 positive cases so far.“The ICCCs keeping a tab on health services in Kanpur, Aligarh, Varanasi etc. Tele-medicine is offered via video-conferencing facility. In Aligarh, doctors are deployed at the ICCC between 11 am and 8 pm to enable telemedicine and video-conferencing facility using a dedicated WhatsApp number,” the official said. Similarly, Madhya Pradesh (MP) has deployed a team of doctors at the ICCCs for counselling and monitoring. The state has reported 256 Covid-19 positive cases so far. In Bhopal, the ICCC is being used as a helpline and tele-counselling centre for local residents. Medical officers are working there in shifts to attend to people’s healthcare needs. “In Ujjain, two doctors are stationed at the ICCC 24x7, who are talking to people over the phone or video-conferencing facility and giving them health tips real-time based on their symptoms. The authorities have operationalised 40 Medical Mobile Units (MMU) to distribute prescribed medicines to people. In Jabalpur, dedicated Rapid Response Team (RRT) and Mobile Action Unit (MAU) are present on the ground across civic wards to coordinate with ICCC officials regarding screening, ambulance, quarantine etc.” the official said. Medical teams are stationed at ICCCs to provide any immediate medical attention via the helpline. “Trained professionals resolve the queries raised by the public at an initial stage and then these calls are connected to a designated doctor. The counselling helps to reduce panic among the callers. The doubtful cases are being encouraged to consult a doctor,” he said. In Gujarat’s Gandhinagar, the contact details of grocery stores for all the sectors have been provided to local residents. While the Surat Municipal Corporation has published an online dashboard that provides a consolidated count of those people who have tested Covid-19 positive and deaths along with those who are either suspected or recovered from the viral outbreak. The dashboard provides the trends and patterns of the spread of Covid-19 across Surat. The civic authorities also tabulate the latest available data such as the distribution of cases on the basis of age, gender and zones.The first lot of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government’s Smart Cities Mission aims to develop 100 citizen-friendly and self-sustainable urban settlements, which will be measurable only by the next year when the first 20 of them are completed. Under the mission, the setting up ICCCs for each city is a vital step. The ICCCs are designed to enable authorities to monitor the status of various civic amenities in real-time. Initially, it was aimed to control and monitor online water and power supply, sanitation, traffic movement, integrated building management, city connectivity and also internet infrastructure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-centre-is-using-smart-cities-project-to-monitor-covid-19-hot-spots/story-qxu3fj0H6eeT5qvIqgUSgI.html
07-04-2020||India||‘Report within 24 hours or...’: Punjab to Tablighi Jamaat attendees in state||Punjab government on Tuesday served an ultimatum to all members of the Tablighi Jamaat in the state who may have attended the Nizamudding religious event in Delhi to report to the nearest police station in the state within 24-hours or be ready to face criminal prosecution, said news agency ANI.Punjab’s Information & Public Relations Department issued a government order carrying the deadline to follow up on efforts to make the attendees disclose their status to the administration. The Jamaat has emerged as one of the largest clusters of coronavirus infection across the country with close to one-third of all the infections linked to it.The police claim to have traced 445 Jamaat participants, leaving 22 of the total 467 Jamaat workers who had arrived in Punjab after attending the Delhi event in March.12 out of the 350 samples belonging to the Jamaat members are said to have tested positive while 111 samples have reported negative. The results for 227 tests were still awaited, said the Punjab government spokesperson quoted by the agency.According to the Central government statement on Monday, at least 1,445 cases out of over 4000 positive Covid-19 infections across the country, were linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi. Over 9,000 people had attended the religious gathering in Delhi’s Nizamuddin in March, the government had said.Uttar Pradesh government said on Tuesday that a total of 314 people have been found positive in the state so far including the 168 linked to the Jamaat.The Central government has claimed that India’s coronavirus containment strategy had largely been successful except for the setback from the Jamaat cluster. In a related development, Arvind Kejriwal led Delhi government said on Tuesday that phone numbers of 1950 people related to Tablighi Jamat have been given to Delhi Police for tracing. All these people were removed from the Nizamuddin headquarter of the Markaz.While states have expressed concern over the high number of cases among the Jamaat members and their contacts, several opposition leaders have expressed fears that Tablighi Jamaat cases were being highlighted to demonise the Muslim community.CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury has written to the President requesting him to ensure that the Tablighi Jamaat congregation incident is not made into an excuse to target the Muslim community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-punjab-sets-24-hr-deadline-for-tablighi-jamaat/story-qEa8n4ZKvYKQR6uk7vSczL.html
07-04-2020||India||IRCTC cancels bookings till April 30 on 3 privately run trains, offers refunds||Railways on Tuesday cancelled bookings up to April 30 for three privately operated trains amid the uncertainty over the extension of the 21-day national lockdown ending April 14.The railways cancelled bookings for Tejas Express between Ahemdabad-Mumbai and Delhi-Lucknow along with the Kashi Mahakal Express that runs from Varanasi to Indore. Passengers will be given a full refund.Fresh bookings for these three trains will also remain suspended till April 30, said IRCTC spokesperson.The decision came despite indications that the national transporter may have begun preparing plans to resume passenger and mail express train services post the lockdown, however, the ministry denied this reports.“Certain media reports have come on a post lockdown “restoration plan” with train details, frequency etc. It is to clarify that no such plan regarding the resumption of passenger services has been issued. All concerned would be duly informed about any further decision in this regard,” the ministry said on Twitter on Saturday. Indian Railways had earlier cancelled all bookings made for the period of lockdown and offered passengers full refunds. It, however, had clarified that bookings made for travel after the lockdown period were not affected.Coronavirus live updates All interstate, suburban and metro services run by Indian railways are suspended at the moment and only transportation of goods is taking place. The focus of the railway ministry has shifted currently to using the railway infrastructure for augmenting the national effort against coronavirus. About 2500 coaches have been converted into quarantine and treatment facilities to cater for over 4,000 Covid-19 patients if the need arises.Railways have also opened up its hospitals to treat coronavirus patients and also decided to manufacture up to 1000 PPE (personal protective equipment) every day which could be supplied to the medical professionals at the forefront of the battle. Click Here for Latest Reports on Coronavirus||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railway-cancels-bookings-till-april-30-on-3-privately-run-trains-offers-refunds/story-eeaqsXSNVErV5rp5Bkx1aO.html
07-04-2020||India||‘We have a solution to treat Covid-19 through Ayurveda’, claims AYUSH minister Shripad Naik||Union AYUSH Minister Shripad Naik has expressed confidence that Covid-19 can be treated with Ayurveda, adding that in the absence of scientific validation, the ancient Indian medicinal stream has only been used as a preventive measure during the current crisis.He also reasserted his controversial claim that Prince Charles was cured of Covid-19 with Ayurvedic treatment and added that the heir to the British crown is denying it because Ayurveda is not accepted in the West. Naik had earlier said that a Bengaluru-based practitioner had treated Charles.Prince Charles has denied it because he might be having some problems in admitting it. His country does not recognize Ayurveda, Naik said in an interview to PTI.“It was obvious for him to refuse. I am hundred and one percent sure that he got cured because of Ayurveda,” the minister said. He did not say if there was a specific Ayurvedic medicine that purportedly cured Prince Charles or if he benefitted from a holistic Ayurvedic approach.Naik said that once scientific validation of some formulas in Ayurveda is done, the country would be ready to treat Covid-19 patients with it.When other systems like allopathy have failed, we have a solution to treat COVID-19 through Ayurveda, he said.The minister also alleged that a lobby was hindering the usage of Ayurveda as an effective medicine to treat novel coronavirus in the country.He said his ministry has been following up with Prime Minister Narendra Modi as Ayurveda has a solution for coronavirus, which is not offered by other streams.“We have been asked for scientific validation for the Ayurvedic formula. But we must understand that scientific validation of Ayurveda has been done thousands of years back.It is a stream of medicine that has been passed on from one generation to other.”He did not say how the validation would have been done thousands of years ago for a disease that is known to have come into existence only last year. There is no known cure for COVID-19, which is caused by a novel coronavirus known as SARS-CoV2 that was first observed in Chinas Wuhan province in late 2019. Scientists and pharma companies all over the world are working fervently to create the first vaccine or first cure for the disease.The central government will have to notify the Ayurvedas formula to treat coronavirus. We have put up our claim before the PM after which he has acted and a task force has been formed, he said.Naik said that coronavirus attacks the immune system.“If you boost the immunity system, then the virus cannot attack you. It also affects your respiratory system. We have a solution to improve respiratory system.” Strictly speaking, the coronavirus SARS-CoV2 does not attack the immune system but attacks the respiratory system, leading to the disease. However, most of the damage in COVID- 19 disease is caused by the immune system, which unleashes a massive defence to stop the virus from spreading. In the process, millions of immune system cells attack the virus and infected lung tissues but end up wreaking havoc on the entire lung. This leads to shortness of breath, dry cough and other complications, leading to in some cases death.The minister added that there is 60 to 70 per cent control on spread of coronavirus in India due to home remedies prescribed in Ayurveda, Siddha, and Unani.“Lakhs of people are currently taking advantage of it, he said. But he provided no details of where the people are benefitting from the Ayurveda cure or if any hospitals are running regulated programmes in this regard.India is the only example where this virus has been controlled. We have already issued advisory to the people on does and donts, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-have-a-solution-to-treat-covid-19-through-ayurveda-claims-ayush-minister-shripad-naik/story-IBlUWmsze36qXPvB1GlfxO.html
07-04-2020||India||Arunachal man crosses into China looking for herbs, returns after 19-day detention||A 21-year-old man from Arunachal Pradesh who crossed over to China in search of herbs last month and was detained by Chinese authorities was brought back after 19 days on Tuesday after the Indian Army intervened.Togley Singkam had reportedly crossed over to the Tibet autonomous region of China on March 19 while collecting herbs along the Indo-China border area in the remote Upper Subansiri district of Arunachal Pradesh along with two other friendsHe was picked up the same day Chinese security agencies while his friends managed to escape.“When the incident came to light, the Indian Army immediately swung into action and approached the Chinese side using the established border management mechanism,” the army said in a statement on Tuesday.“Owing to peace and tranquillity in the region and the bonhomie that has developed between both the border guarding forces, Singkam was handed over to the Indian Army on April 7,” it added.According to the army, the youth has been placed under quarantine in view of the Covid-19 outbreak and will be handed over to his family after 14 days. Arunachal Pradesh has reported one coronavirus case so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indo-china-bonhomie-helps-arunachal-man-s-return-after-19-day-detention-for-crossing-border/story-yUyPuHG5kt0zjc5TW4eVMO.html
07-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Odisha declares containment zones, screen people over Jamaat event||Authorities in Odisha have ramped up Covid-19 screenings and declared several areas as containment zones after nearly 70 people came back to the state from the Tablighi Jamaat’s events in Delhi’s Nizamuddin, which has emerged as a hotspot for the coronavirus disease.The Union health ministry announced on Monday that 30% of the Covid-19 cases in India could be traced to a gathering held by the Tablighi Jamaat, a religious group of a fast-growing proselytising Islamic movement that was started in 1926 by Islamic scholar Maulana Muhammad Ilyas. Of the 4067 Covid-19 cases in the country, 1445 were linked to the congregation in March in Delhi’s Nizamuddin Markaz. Officials in Odisha have said 68 people, including African nationals, had gone to the Tablighi Jamaat’s Delhi headquarters from the state and 28 came back. Out of the 28 three, including a postman who had attended the religious congregation and returned home, have tested positive for the virus.This prompted chief minister Naveen Patnaik to urge all those who had attended the meet in New Delhi, to come forward and self-register with the government helpline on Covid-19.“Corona is currently the biggest threat to the human race and to beat it we all need to come together to beat it,” Patnaik said.“Only through awareness, we can break the chain of coronavirus. While there is no need to panic but we do need to be careful. Your cooperation will for the betterment of your own family and the human race,” he said.Three Muslim brothers living in an apartment in the Bomikhal area of Bhubaneswar tested positive last Friday, as the state’s total cases surged from five to 20 on a single day. Soon after, Bhubaneswar municipal authorities sealed off the entry and exit points of the area and started active surveillance of people who had come in close contact with the brothers. On Sunday, 15 other Muslims who lived in the same area tested positive for Covid-19, even as Odisha saw the highest single-day surge in positive cases, taking the total to 39. It is not yet clear whether the three brothers or any of their family members attended the congregation, but officials admitted that the current focus of the government was to scrutinise Muslim majority areas and make them undergo Covid-19 screening tests.In the last four days, the Odisha government has announced 10 Covid-19 cluster containment zones around the state including four in Bhubaneswar. Most of these containment zones have sizeable Muslim populations. “Though we are still not sure how many attended the congregation, the aim is to take the swab samples of as many people in these zones and test them,” said a senior official of the state government’s health surveillance team.The areas include Bhadrak town, Bhubaneswar’s Jadupur locality and also Brahmabarada, a village in Jajpur district where the Tablighi chief Maulana Saad had addressed a meeting between February 29 and March 3 this year. In all these containment areas, screening procedures are being followed vigorously but the state health department has refused to share the number of swab samples they have taken in these zones so far.Health department officials also said they are facing problems in collecting samples from such areas as personnel were scared of getting infected by the coronavirus.“Everyone is in panic mode. One can’t force health workers to visit the area if they are unwilling,” an official said.Mohammed Moquim, Congress MLA from Barabati-Cuttack, said he has been urging community leaders to get tested.“The virus is the enemy of humanity and anyone who has attended the Jamaat in Delhi should come forward to get tested,” he said. Even though the chief minister and Subroto Bagchi, Odisha government’s chief spokesperson on Covid-19, have urged people not to ostracise those who have tested positive or give the pandemic a religious colour, some Muslim leaders admitted that of late they are being viewed with suspicion.“We are urging all our community members to come out and report whether they attended the Jamaat. But unfortunately, the entire community is being vilified thanks to one-sided debates in a few news channels,” Mohd Shahnawaz, president of Jama Masjid Bhubaneswar, said.“In Odisha too, we can sense some sort of unease when people see our community members,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-containment-zones-odisha-tests-for-covid-19-cases-among-minority-dominated-areas/story-4VXG4Tx3Liu9LY0hkxWdtN.html
07-04-2020||India||Tamil Nadu’s youngest Covid-19 patient, 10-month-old baby, recovers||A ten-month-old infant, the youngest in Tamil Nadu to test positive for Covid-19 was discharged from a Coimbatore hospital on Monday, has recovered after a 14-day treatment. The child acquired the infection from his 29-year-old mother who works as a doctor for the Southern Railways.On March 29, the 29-year-old woman was admitted in ESI Hospital, Coimbatore along with the baby, her 58-year-old mother and the family’s domestic help. The doctor tested positive after treating a 63-year-old man in a railway hospital in Erode. He had travelled along with two Thai nationals who had tested positive for Covid-19 earlier in March.“First, the mother tested positive so we thought all other people in the family should also be tested so we admitted them and took a swab test,” the dean of the ESIC Hospital Dr. A. Nirmala told Hindustan Times. “At that time the child was found to be positive. He was allowed to be in the same room as his mother since both of them had tested positive. We closely observed both mother and child and provided counselling services to the mother as well.”In India, the number of Covid-19 cases has been lowest among the age group of 0 to 20 years, while the maximum number of cases has been reported among those between 21 and 40 years. The casualty rate has been highest in those above 60 years, due to existing co-morbid conditions like diabetes, hypertension and other issues, according to data released by the government last week.The team of doctors treating the 10-month-old infant knew that if the baby was immunologically competent, secondary problems would not arise. They continued to closely watch the child for other symptoms. “Meanwhile, we were treating the patient with required medicines and also giving nutritional food for baby and members of the family,” the dean said.“We kept a close watch on the baby and treated him with antibiotics for elevated temperature. We could not put the baby on hydroxychloroquine like we did for the adults. But since the baby was immunised for all other infections, it could have helped (him) get a good immunity.”All patients were fed a diet of porridge and fruit. “As a baby we took a lot more care of him, he didn’t develop any abnormal symptoms. Finally took the swab test for the family members. All except the doctor’s mother turned out to be negative. We discharged the doctor, the child and the maid, but the 58-year-old mother is still under treatment,” Nirmala said. Hydroxycholoroquine which is commonly used to treat malaria, arthritis and lupus, among other ailments, has been in the eye of a storm after United States president Donald Trump on Monday warned of retaliation if India did not supply the drug as asked. India, the largest manufacturer and exporter of the drug, initially banned exports on March 25 to ensure adequate domestic supplies. On Tuesday, the Centre decided to allow exports, depending on availability, after stockpiling enough for domestic use.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-s-youngest-covid-19-patient-10-month-old-baby-recovers/story-awOruBogbm4ZAAbLgWJfsL.html
07-04-2020||India||Uttarakhand police deploy ‘Yamraja’ to remind people coronavirus is deadly||In an interesting move, Uttarakhand police have hired a theatre artist to dress up as Yamraja, the Hindu god of death, with the purpose of creating awareness about the Covid-19 virus in Haridwar and to request the residents of the ‘holy city’ to stay inside their homes during lockdown to avoid getting infected. Senthil Avoodai K Raj, senior superintendent of police, Haridwar, said the artist has been working with the police for the last two days. “We have been trying our best to implement the lockdown in a proper manner with the help of various measures. And we came out with the idea take help of an artist dressed up as Yamraja, a symbol of death, to spread awareness among the public about the deadly virus,” said Senthil. “Death is lurking around us in the form of coronavirus. And this dressed up Yamraja helps people to understand the seriousness of this crisis and why they should not venture out and flirt with the deadly virus,” he said.The artist dressed up as Yamraja is moving with the cops on duty in city’s Kotwali police station area and asking the residents to not come out of their homes.Click Here for Latest Reports on Coronavirus“The artist is making people aware by delivering dialogues in Yamraja’s style on public announcement system. He is also getting the attention of the public who are appreciating the effort by the police as it is for people’s safety,” said Senthil adding “This fight could only be won together.”Coronavirus live updates||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-police-deploy-yamraja-to-remind-people-coronavirus-is-deadly/story-KmtzSB80BlqjwZKCAb2iPN.html
07-04-2020||India||Centre may extend Covid-19 lockdown: What have some states said against withdrawing restrictions||Several states in the country have approached the Centre to extend the 21-day lockdown, which is supposed to be in place till April 14, sources in the government said on Tuesday.A senior government official confirmed to HT that the Centre was mulling over it as several states have come forward with request against withdrawing nationwide lockdown, which was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 24.Sources said the lockdown could be extended for at least till the end of this month.India has reported 114 Covid-19 related deaths across the country and a jump of 354 coronavirus disease cases taking the tally to 4421.Here what states, including Telangana and Maharashtra, have said:Madhya Pradesh“The lives of people are more important, the economy can be built again but if people die, how will we bring them back? That is why, if the need arises we will extend the lockdown, a decision will be taken based on the situation,” chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said, according to news agency ANI.TelanganaChief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao has cautioned that if the lockdown is lifted it could cost lives and that it is the reason the country has seen very few cases.“It is true that the country’s economy has taken a beating during the lockdown period. Telangana, too, suffered heavily – our revenue was just Rs 6 crore in the last six days, against the expected revenue of Rs 2,500 crore. But we can always revive the economy once this crisis is over, but we cannot bring back the lives of the people who could die in large numbers if the lockdown is lifted,” he said.He said it will be difficult to control people if the lockdown is lifted.“All the efforts we had put in all these days, braving financial loss, would go waste if the situation comes back to square one due to the lockdown being eased,” Rao said.RajasthanChief minister Ashok Gehlot said the lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus has to be lifted in phases and not as soon as the 21-day period ends on April 14.“We cannot withdraw lockdown immediately. It has to be done in a phased manner, that is what I feel,” Gehlot said at a press briefing through video conferencing.KarnatakaState medical education minister Dr K Sudhakar hinted that the lockdown could be extended beyond April 14th in the state’s ‘red zones’. The state has identified parts of capital Bengaluru, Mysore, Nanjangud, Gauribidnur, Bidar and Mangalore as ‘red zones’ as they account for a bulk of the positive cases in the state. Sudhakar said while speaking to the media that they would consult with the Centre and other relevant officials and the state might take a call to lift the lockdown in the ‘red zones’ only in phases.Assam Assam’s health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma has also hinted towards extending lockdown in the state.“If the lockdown is lifted by April 14 or 20, we will face challenges,” Sarma was quoted as saying by a local news portal. Sarma added that the challenge would be to quarantine all the people stranded outside Assam who will come back as soon as the lockdown order is lifted. Uttar PradeshAwanish Kumar Awasthi, the state’s additional chief secretary (home), said that following the recent spike in Covid-19 cases, the lockdown in the state is likely to continue.“The state government wishes to make it clear that the lockdown is not likely to be lifted until there is a single coronavirus case in the state. The lifting of the lockdown means UP has become coronavirus free,” Awasthi said at a press conference in the state capital.PunjabSuresh Kumar, Punjab chief minister’s chief principal secretary, has also pointed that the lockdown is expected to continue in most parts but issue curfew passes to allow harvesting from April 15.“A final call will be taken on April 12 or 13,” Suresh Kumar said on Sunday.MaharashtraState health minister indicated last week that the government may extend the lockdown by a couple of weeks, especially in Mumbai and other urban areas of the state.“Lifting it fully in a city like Mumbai is unlikely,” health minister Rajesh Tope said on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-may-extend-covid-19-lockdown-what-have-some-states-said-against-withdrawing-restrictions/story-OidykD4k3aRxlvzFiPyPsN.html
07-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Lookout notice in Sundarbans for tigers coughing while swimming||Forest officials in the Sundarbans, along with the Border Security Force and police, are on the lookout for tigers which show signs of breathlessness and coughing while swimming across rivers. The animal could be a possible Covid-19 suspect.The Sunderban is the world’s largest mangrove delta and the only mangrove forest inhabited by tigers. As the mangroves are largely impenetrable, tigers are usually spotted on the river banks and when they cross the rivers and creeks from one island to another. “Patrolling on boats has been increased to look out for tigers that show signs of Covid-19, such as breathlessness. The BSF and police have also been asked to keep a watch,” said Ravi Kant Sinha, chief wildlife warden of West Bengal. On Monday, the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) had directed all tiger range states to observe tigers with symptoms of Covid-19 such as dry cough or laboured breathing. The advisory came after a tiger at the Bronx zoo in New York was detected with coronavirus. It was the first instance of a tiger being infected with the deadly disease.As the Sundarbans delta is located along the Indo-Bangla border, the Border Security Force and police, who also patrol the delta in their own boats, have also been asked to look out for tigers which are found to be panting while crossing rivers from one island to another.“Our men are patrolling the area. We have been asked to alert the forest department if we spot any tiger with symptoms such as dry cough, breathlessness and running nose,” said SS Guleria, BSF deputy inspector-general (South Bengal Frontier). Out of the 2967 tigers in India, Sundarbans has around 90 tigers in its one national park and five wildlife sanctuaries. The Indian part of the Sundarbans forest spreads over 4,200 sq km comprising 48 islands crisscrossed by rivers. Unlike other forests, boats are the only means of patrolling this delta. “We have around 1,200 camera traps which have been kept on standby on boats and floating stations. Around 30 double cylinder boats are operating in the field. If we get any information about any suspect tiger, our teams will move in and camera traps will be set up in that area,” said a senior official of the Sundarbans Biosphere Reserve who did not want to be named.The state forest department has already stopped all kinds of tourism in the Sundarbans, which is known for its Royal Bengal Tiger and estuarine crocodiles, among other animals.West Bengal is among the top three states in the list of casualties caused by human-tiger conflicts in India. At least 30 people have been killed by tigers between 2017 and 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lookout-notice-for-tigers-running-out-of-breath-while-swimming-across-rivers-in-sundarbans/story-YJlGPiYEzFHyYTC3zel95O.html
07-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Cluster containment showing results, says govt as 354 more test positive||The total number of Covid-19 cases in the country has risen to 4,421 with 354 new cases since Monday, the Union health ministry said Tuesday.The virus has claimed eight live since Monday.At the daily briefing, joint secretary, health Ministry Lav Agarwal said the government’s cluster management programme to contain the spread of coronavirus in hotspots is paying off.“Government has been adopting a strategy for cluster containment and for outbreaks that are amenable to management. This strategy is producing positive results, especially in Agra, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Pathanamthitta, Bhilwara and East Delh,” Aggarwal said.Follow coronavirus live updates here.Rajasthan’s Bhilwara district has particularly been in the news for its ‘ruthless containment’ model. The district which was once among the 10 coronavirus disease (Covid-19) hot spots in the country, before a three-pronged attack that involved isolating the district, a screening strategy in city and rural areas and quarantine and isolation wards followed by monitoring mechanism for rural areas allowed the government to get a grip on the spread of coronavirus.Aggarwal also cited an ICMR study to underline that failure to practise social distancing could extract a very high price.“A recent ICMR study shows that if one Covid-19 patient does not follow lockdown orders or practice social distancing, then the patient can infect 406 people in 30 days,” he said.As part of the government’s efforts to boost medical facilities, the railways have prepared 40,000 isolation beds in 2,500 coaches.“Indian Railways has prepared 40,000 isolation beds in 2,500 coaches. They are making 375 isolation beds daily and this is going on across 133 locations across the country,” Agarwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-cluster-containment-showing-results-says-govt-as-354-more-test-positive/story-eEdSSkRvkhk0iLa0QAfRfJ.html
07-04-2020||India||Covid-19 +ve patient who violates lockdown can infect 406 people, says govt||One coronavirus positive person can infect 406 persons in 30 days in the absence of preventive measures like lockdown or social distancing but with up to 70% measures in place, the number of infections per positive person comes down to a maximum of 2.5 people, the government said on Tuesday citing the latest report.“If we consider R-Naught to be 2.5 then one positive person can infect 406 people in 30 days-- if the lockdown and social distancing measures are not followed, but if the social distancing and lockdown measures are reduced by 75% then that one infected person will only be able to infect 2.5 persons,” said Lav Aggarwal, joint secretary, health ministry.R-Naught or R0 is a measurement to depict the rate of infection of any disease. It is an epidemiologic term that describes the virus’ reproductive number.Agarwal said R-Naught for coronavirus is between 1.4 and 1.5 as per one study by the scientific body, ICMR.The government also said that no decision on the extension of lockdown has been taken yet and appealed against any speculation amid conflicting reports on the matter.“These are discussions related to social media, honorable SC has ordered against speculations which may lead to panic among citizens. As soon as any decision on the matter is made, we will convey that to you,” Agarwal said.He added that a total of 326 infected people have recovered so far while the total number of positive cases climbed to 4421on Tuesday with the reporting of 54 new cases and 8 deaths in the past 24 hours. The total number of casualties due to Covid-19 stood at 117.In another important announcement, Agarwal said the cluster containment strategy and outbreak management plan was giving positive results in places like Noida, Bhilwara, Agra, Pathanamthitta and areas of East Delhi, which were among the disease hotspots.The health ministry official added that technology was being used successfully in smart cities like Pune, Surat, Bengaluru and Tumakuru for surveillance, tracking, management of home quarantine, predictive analysis using heat map, telemedicine etc.“Smart Cities are using technology to manage Covid-19 in surveillance, contact tracing, home quarantine management, information dissemination, training, predictive analysis using heat maps and counseling,” said Agarwal.Coronavirus live updates He added that the health ministry has come out with a very important guidance document for the appropriate management of Covid-19 positive cases and suspects which has demarcated three classes of facilities to be set up, namely, Covid Care Centres, Dedicated Covid Health Centres and Dedicated Covid Hospitals for the management of mild moderate and intensive care respectively.He added that the Indian Railways have turned over 2500 coaches into 40,000 beds for treatment of positive patients as part of the country’s preparedness to deal with a possible quick spike in cases.Click Here for Latest Reports on Coronavirus||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-covid-19-case-can-infect-406-in-30-days-in-absence-of-lockdown-warns-govt/story-0fN81eJdNyJfNoPaLENg5N.html
07-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: 160 members of Uddhav Thackeray’s security team quarantined and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19: 160 members of Uddhav Thackeray’s security team quarantinedAbout 160 members of Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackery’s security team have been quarantined in Bandra East and their swab samples have been taken for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) test, civic health officials said on Tuesday.Read more here.In PM Modi’s hydroxychloroquine export order, a Covid-19 message to the worldEven before President Donald Trump warned India of possible retaliation if the ban on export on hydroxychloroquine was not lifted on Monday, the Modi government had communicated to all countries including US about the change in the policy to facilitate supply of critical drugs through institutionalised channels.Read more here.Covid-19: Centre may extend lockdown after Apr 14 as states, experts make requestThe Centre is mulling extending the 21-day lockdown, which will end on April 14, till the end of the month after many states and experts made a request for it, sources in the government said on Tuesday.Read more here.World Health Day 2020: Milind Soman asks fans to meditate everyday during lockdownThere is a lot of uncertainty all over the world with regards to the coronavirus outbreak and its aftermath. People’s health, the future of the economy and how long would it take to control this disease- these are questions all of us are wondering about continuously, especially since we are all cooped up within the confines of our homes.Read full story here.‘Spectators are important, but...’: Harbhajan Singh on when and how IPL should be heldSeasoned India off-spinner Harbhajan Singh believes IPL should only go ahead when things are brought under control. The BCCI postponed the 13th edition of the Indian Premier League (IPL) and pushed back its start to April 15 due to the outbreak of coronavirus.Read full story here.Airtel offered the best video experience, Jio leads in 4G availability: OpenSignalOpenSignal on Tuesday released its latest report on mobile network experience in India. According to the mobile analytics company, Airtel fared better than the rivals in terms of video experience, voice app experience, download speed experience, and latency experience. Read full story here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-160-members-of-uddhav-thackeray-s-security-team-quarantined-and-all-the-latest-news/story-cJLbVhnB3WNMnpnU0ssQ8J.html
07-04-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown could be extended by 2 weeks, say officials after GoM meet||The Centre is leaning towards extending the ongoing three-week lockdown announced to contain the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) at least till the end of this month, a senior government official said on Tuesday, while also pointing out that several states have suggested backing such a move.The Union health ministry, however, clarified that there was no decision on extending the nationwide lockdown yet, asking people not to speculate.The sweeping restrictions, including ban on public transport as well as commercial rail and air travel, came into force on March 25 and were set to end on April 14. Only people involved in the delivery of essential services, such as health care, are allowed to function in this period. States such as Uttar Pradesh, Telangana, Maharashtra and Karnataka have suggested they were not in favour of lifting all restrictions after April 14 and conveyed to the Centre that the pandemic will be easier to contain if the lockdown were to continue. Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh too have favoured an extension of the lockdown.Earlier in the day, a group of ministers led by defence minister Rajnath Singh met at his residence to discuss various issues that would have to be factored in once the lockdown was lifted. “The ministers were very clear that even if the lockdown is lifted, travel restrictions will remain,” said the official quoted above.It was for the fourth time that the group met. Singh and home minister Amit Shah usually head these meetings. On Tuesday, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman too attended the discussions, along with 14 other ministers. The talks focused on what form of travel should be allowed. “Trains and buses will not be back to normal,” said the official. “Air traffic will also be disrupted. The public should expect a slow, staggered return to a new normal.’’A key concern flagged in the meeting was that the farming sector was struggling. The ministers discussed the challenge amid apprehensions that the harvest season would face a major setback.“The ministers were briefed that the special concessions for agriculture were not filtering down. The labourers were too scared to go back to work,” said a second official. In the same way, the lack of resources was also impacting the supply of medicines. While there was no shortage of drugs, said this official, there was a shortage of people to transport them.The official said Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be conveyed the key deliberations at Tuesday’s meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/expect-a-slow-return-to-a-new-normal-officials-on-covid-19-lockdown/story-epp7urRD2gUdWSt0DeVjZL.html
07-04-2020||India||23 new Covid-19 cases with Tablighi Jamaat link in Haryana push count to 119||All 23 new Covid-19 cases detected in Haryana on Tuesday are connected to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation held in Delhi last month. With this, the total number of positive cases in the state has reached 119.According to the health department’s bulletin, of the 23 patients, 16 are in Nuh and the remaining seven in Faridabad.With this, Nuh has the maximum 30 coronavirus cases followed by Palwal with 26, Faridabad 21; Gurugram 18; Karnal five; Panipat four; Ambala and Sirsa three each; Bhiwani and Panchkula two each; Charkhi Dadri, Kaithal, Rohtak, Hisar and Sonepat; one each.The bulletin said that 15 of the total infected people have been cured and discharged so far from across the state. Of the 15 discharged, nine are from Gurugram, three from Panipat and one each from Faridabad, Palwal and Sonepat.A total of 15,626 people are under surveillance, while 2,285 samples have been sent for testing so far. Of the total samples, 1,697 tested negative and the report of 469 is awaited.The bulletin said that two deaths have been reported in the state so far, one each at Rohtak and Karnal, while a resident of Ambala died at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh.Of the total 119 confirmed cases, six are from Sri Lanka, one each from Nepal, Thailand, Indonesia and South Africa. Forty-five people are from other Indian states such as 11 from Uttar Pradesh, six from Tamil Nadu, four from West Bangal; five from Kerala; seven from Bihar; three each from Maharashtra and Jammu; two from Telangana; and one each from Punjab, Karnataka, Chennai and Assam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/23-new-covid-19-cases-with-tablighi-jamaat-link-in-haryana-push-count-to-119/story-MLgDxD3L8D8R5BacQqWtnO.html
07-04-2020||India||In Gehlot’s praise for ‘Bhilwara model’, a message for fight against Covid-19||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday said that the model adopted by his government in checking the spread of coronavirus in Bhilwara, has set standard in fight against the pandemic.He added that the first case in Rajasthan was reported on March 2, 2020, and strict measures were taken in the state on the very first day.“The Bhilwara border was sealed on March 19 after we found a doctor being corona positive and it is becoming a learning ground now. In Bhilwara, 3,000 teams were formed that reached 32 lakh people. We reached nearly six lakh homes and screening was done,” Gehlot said while addressing a press conference through video conferencing.The chief minister further said that the same Bhilwara model will be replicated across the state, including in Ramganj in state capital Jaipur, which has become the new Covid-19 hot spot.A 45-year-old man from Ramganj, who returned from Oman via Dubai on March 13, has become a superspreader, transmitting the virus to at least 19 family members and sparking fears of community transmission.Gehlot also said that Rajasthan will start rapid testing of coronavirus in the state within a week as his government has ordered 10 lakh testing kits from China which will be received soon.Bhilwara reported a surge in Covid-19 cases after two doctors got infected with Sars-Cov-2 virus, which later spread to another 25 patients, necessitating a massive screening exercise of the district’s entire 28 lakh population and curfew in the district.With 27 cases, the district was considered the worst hit in Rajasthan and for a few days, at the national level too.Bhilwara, about 250 km south of Jaipur with about 48 per cent of the district’s total 2.8 million people mainly engaged in cultivation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-gehlot-s-praise-for-bhilwara-model-a-message-for-fight-against-covid-19/story-UbM8k907ywn21GkMzCfelO.html
07-04-2020||India||Covid-19: AIIMS Delhi asks its staff to reuse N-95 masks four times||Despite rising coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases among hospital staff in India, the country’s premiere medical college – the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi – has asked its staff involved in direct patient care to use the five N-95 masks allotted to each of them four times so they can be used over 20 days, according to a hospital circular.“It is imperative that in accordance with evidence-based scientific literature, these N-95 masks are to be disinfected by individual users (by keeping them in open after use or by other methods) and reused at least four times each, whereby these will suffice for about 20 days,” the circular reads.The hospital is yet to issue detailed guidelines on how to disinfect the said masks, according to the administration.“We have been writing to the administration about the shortage of personal protective equipment and N-95 masks since March. Not only have we not received any concrete answers on how they are dealing with the shortage, they have now issued guidelines for using the masks four times. How is a doctor supposed to carry the infected mask home? How are they individually supposed to disinfect it? This should happen at the hospital level to curtail the spread of the infection and even then only when there is no other option available,” said Dr Srinivas Rajkumar T, General Secretary of Resident Doctors’ Association at AIIMS.Even before the government has admitted a community spread, at least 34 healthcare workers have been infected in Delhi so far. One of the doctors from the physiology department of AIIMS who tested positive for the infection and passed it on to his pregnant wife and brother was not involved in active care of Covid-19 patients; authorities have been unable to trace a clear history.Around 20 other healthcare workers, who came in contact with a patient who later tested positive for Covid-19, have been quarantined for 14 days.“The circular does not clarify whether the same will be applicable for people working in the Covid-19 wards and those screening the patients for respiratory symptoms – as they are at a higher risk of carrying the disease home with the masks. If we are at this stage even before the community transmission has begun, what will happen when there is a deluge of patients. This will take active doctors out of duty,” said Dr Srinivas.The hospital insists that it is as per current scientific knowledge.“We will shortly share the protocol for disinfecting the masks with everyone; N-95 masks do not need to be thrown away after one use,” said Dr DK Sharma, medical superintendent of the hospital.In its guidelines on using personal protective equipment during Covid-19, the World Health Organization (WHO) says, “Respirators (like N-95 and FFP2) have been used for extended time during previous public health emergencies. This refers to wearing the same respirators while caring for multiple patients who have the same diagnosis. Evidence indicates respirators maintain their protection when used for extended periods. However, using one respirator for longer than four hours can lead to discomfort and should be avoided.”The shifts of healthcare workers in the hospital last between eight and twelve hours. The WHO guidelines do not talk about reuse.With the US scrambling to get supplies as their tally closes in on 370,000, their Centre for Disease Control has said a N-95 mask can be donned multiple times depending on manufacturer recommendation or up to five times, conditional to stringent measures on how the masks are stored and reused.A group of researchers from Stanford University’s School of Medicine reviewed various decontamination measures and said hydrogen peroxide and ultraviolet radiation could disinfect the masks but they could not determine whether filtration and material strength would remain intact after repeated use.Heating the mask at 70 degrees Celsius in kitchen microwave for 30 minutes or hot water vapour for 10 minutes can also help in decontamination, but the study came with the rider: “Please do not heat your masks in a home oven! Our reports do not advocate or advise on practices and suggest that you strictly adhere to your hospital’s policies and procedures.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-aiims-delhi-asks-its-staff-to-reuse-n-95-masks-four-times/story-0pAXppQz7mJEWt6ex2w7uO.html
07-04-2020||India||Covid-19: ‘Lockdown has to be lifted in phased manner,’ says Rajasthan CM||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday said the lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus has to be lifted in phases and not as soon as the 21-day period ends.“We cannot withdraw lockdown immediately. It has to be done in a phased manner, that is what I feel,” Gehlot said at a press briefing through video conferencing.He said a decision on withdrawing the lockdown will be taken after the recommendations of a task force set up in this regard are received.Many state governments are veering around the idea that the three-week lockdown should be extended. On Monday, Telangana chief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao said that lifting the lockdown on April 15 could endanger lives while a top Uttar Pradesh government official said that there was little possibility of the lockdown being lifted.Follow coronavirus live updates here.Rajasthan reported 27 new cases of coronavirus son Tuesday, taking the total number of infected people to 328,Gehlot said the government will start rapid testing in state within a week and that it has ordered 10 lakh testing kits from China.He said Rajasthan has showed the way on how to contain the spread of coronavirus virus by the steps it took in Bhilwara which had become a hotspot of the virus. The same containment model will be replicated across the state, including in Ramganj and Jaipur.“State authorities reached out to six lakh households in Bhilwara and conducted widespread testing there. Rajasthan is among those states which had taken the virus threat seriously and after holding extensive consultations with various stakeholders, the state prepared itself well and has been successful in containing it so far,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-has-to-be-lifted-in-phased-manner-says-rajasthan-cm/story-oJRIUyk6Nk45Q0NTT0bzOP.html
07-04-2020||India||Cops at Uddhav Thackeray’s residence ‘Matoshree’ to be tested for Covid-19||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Tuesday said that police personnel deployed at Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray’s private residence ‘Matoshree’ in suburban Bandra will be tested for coronavirus infection, a day after owner of a tea stall near the bungalow tested positive.Police personnel deployed at the bungalow will be quarantined and replaced as a precautionary measure, Deshmukh said.“The policemen may have consumed tea from the stall. We will screen them and other staffers who were deployed there,” he said.“We will quarantine them to contain the spread, in case they (the security personnel) have been infected,” the home minister told a news channel.The tea vendor was admitted in Jogeshwari-based HBT hospital for COVID-19.However, it is not yet clear how the vendor, who stays inside his small shop, contracted the infection.After the case was reported, civic officials on Monday sprayed disinfectants in the area.Meanwhile, Deshmukh also lambasted people who flout the lockdown norms and step out of their homes for “frivolous” reasons, and warned strict action.“We are keeping vigil. We have issued orders to seize vehicles and 4,000 vehicles have been seized till Monday,” he said.The home minister also asked people living in containment zones not to panic and cooperate with the state government by not stepping out of their homes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cops-at-matoshree-to-be-tested-for-coronavirus-infection/story-IzbiNWvlxn26I4nNFeLHqO.html
07-04-2020||India||Covid-19: 160 members of Uddhav Thackeray’s security team quarantined||About 160 members of Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackery’s security team have been quarantined in Bandra East and their swab samples have been taken for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) test, civic health officials said on Tuesday.The decision was taken after a tea seller close to Matoshree, Thackeray’s residence in Kalanagar, tested positive on Monday. He has been admitted at the Hindu Hriday Samrat Balasaheb Thackeray Trauma Care Municipal Hospital in Jogeshwari.“Around 160 staffers in the CM’s security squad who possibly came in contact with the tea seller have been quarantined for necessary tests,” said Daksha Shah, deputy director of the health department, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).“However, there is no need to panic; this is our protocol to identify possible high-risk and low-risk contacts to avoid further spread of the disease,” said Shah. Following this, the state government has replaced all staffers deployed at Matoshree. The body temperature of all security staffers will be taken on a daily basis.The civic body has also identified four high-risk contacts of the tea seller, including a six-month-old baby, who has been isolated.As a precautionary measure, the security staff of Ramdas Athawale, the Union minister of state for social justice, has been replaced on Tuesday morning. Athawale is a resident of Bandra East.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-160-members-of-uddhav-s-security-team-quarantined/story-0mIoPP9BHb40subeWAKsaJ.html
07-04-2020||India||A 19-member commando team deployed in Mohali to fight Covid-19||Punjab police have come up with a novel concept with the launch of a specialised unit comprising 19 constables trained in all types of emergency responses linked with coronavirus, including making first contact with positive Covid-19 cases, enforcing quarantine, isolation and hospitalisation. The programme is presently being tried out in Mohali district in the state and has aptly been named ‘Covid Commandos’.“The district will have 19 Covid Commandos designated as Covid-19 emergency response team to spearhead coordination and response to persons and areas affected by Covid-19 within Mohali district,” said Kuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police (SSP) Mohali.The chosen members of the Mohali police who will serve as Covid Commandos are physically fit and self-motivated constables who have themselves volunteered to take up the onerous job of Covid-19 control in this moment of extreme exigency, said Chahal.“The commandos will be ready for deployment in a short span of 30 minutes within the entire district,” he added. The deployment of Covid Commandos will safeguard the rest of Mohali police from coming in direct and first contact with Covid-19 positive cases and thereby reduce the chances of police personnel getting infected in the field.The Covid Commandos have been provided with Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) and training on its proper usage, including removal and disposal. They have also been given Go-Bags carrying first aid supplies for a response to emergency situations.“They are trained and motivated to meet the requirement of an on-scene police presence along with health department staff. They have also been trained for handling a non-cooperative positive patient as per the standard operating procedure in place,” added Chahal.Coronavirus live updates Covid Commandos will respond to requests for assistance from the health department and community at large to deal with Covid-19 related cases including, but not limited to, transportation to hospitals, wellness checks and delivery of critical items like medication.“Officers may be required to enforce revised local or regional public health ordinances, such as mandatory quarantines, isolation, or travel restrictions. They may also be required to provide testing and coordinate treatment to limit the spread of COVID-19 within the district,” said Chahal.Click Here for Latest Reports on Coronavirus||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-19-member-commando-team-deployed-in-mohali-to-fight-covid-19/story-cZk0W90JmEzN6BW8978FAL.html
07-04-2020||India||Covid-19 Update: Himachal Pradesh follows Centre, cuts ministers, MLAs salaries by 30%||Following in the footsteps of the Central government, Himachal Pradesh cabinet has decided to slash salaries of most public representatives in the government and the state boards by 30% for a duration of one year and has also suspended the release of the MLA area fund for two years, news agency ANI reported on Tuesday.All the money saved through the cuts will go to the state corpus dedicated to fighting coronavirus in the state, the report added. The decision comes close on the heels of the Centre slashing salaries of all MPs and ministers by 30% and suspending the MPLADS funds for the next two years.Several states including Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Odisha had earlier announced a deferment in payment of a big chunk of March salaries to state employees in an effort to shore up reserves deployed for fighting Covid-19.The Union cabinet’s decision to slash salaries taken on Monday also applies to the Prime Minister, whose 1/3rd of the salary along with that of other MPs for the rest of the year, will now go into the consolidated fund of India to be used to fight the Covid-19 pandemic.The centre brought an ordinance to implement the directive which was a demonstration of the government’s willingness to set an example for others in this time of crisis, union minister for environment Prakash Javadekar had indicated.“Charity begins at home,” Javadekar said while announcing the cuts.The decision by the centre is likely to result in a saving of Rs 7,930 crore, including close to Rs 29 crore that will come from the MPs salaries.MPs get Rs one lakh salary apart from several other perks and privileges which have been left untouched. The President, the Vice President and the governors of states have also decided to take salary cuts.Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla, too, has decided to take a 30% cut in salary.There has been a mixed reaction to the suspension of the MPLAD scheme, with some opposition leaders fearing the stoppage will prevent the serving of the poor and the most affected on the ground level.The decision by Himachal Pradesh government comes amid demands by the Congress government to slash all union budget allocations by around 30% and suspension of all government advertising for the next two years. Click Here for Latest Reports on Coronavirus||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-himachal-ministers-mlas-to-give-30-salaries-for-coronavirus-fund/story-O4V55Zt1A94A533gMM9UOP.html
07-04-2020||India||We don’t intend to slow down training, will ready people for Industry 4.0: Minister Mahendra Nath Pandey||As the country braces for the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on the economy and the job sector, Minister of State for Skill Development and Entrepreneurship, Mahendra Nath Pandey, told HT in an email interview that the focus will be on imparting training and ensuring measures to re-skill and upskill young people. Edited excerpts: How is the ministry meeting the challenges brought on by the pandemic?The ministry has aligned its efforts with the Centre and has extended support to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) by making their National Skill Training Institutes (NSTIs), their hostels and the Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs) in the country available for converting them into quarantine or isolation facilities so that we have enough wards to observe and treat those infected by the virus. We have also shared the details of nearly one lakh candidates skilled in healthcare related sectors through various programmes under the Skill India Mission. These professionals will help in containing the spread of the infection and efficiently manage patients in quarantine and hospital facilities that will be set up in the coming days. Additionally, a list of 2000 healthcare trainers and more than 500 healthcare assessors have also been shared with MoHFW, who can be utilised for services.We have also taken steps to ensure that candidates undergoing apprenticeship training across various establishments do not suffer from the economic impact of the infection. MSDE has notified all establishments under designated and optional trade to pay full stipend to apprentices engaged with them. The government will reimburse stipends to these establishments under National Apprenticeship Promotion Scheme (NAPS) for the lockdown period as per guidelines.What is the number of those who will be reimbursed?Currently there are 24,884 establishments engaging 2.42 lakh apprentices in both designated and optional trade. As per the provision under NAPS, the government reimburses 25% of the stipend amount to be paid to apprentices per month subject to a maximum of Rs 1500 per month. During the lockdown period due to Covid-19 pandemic, the government will be paying approximately Rs 36.30 crore to the establishments who would be claiming reimbursement for engaging apprentices under NAPS during this periodEvery sector is expected to reel under from the impact of the pandemic. There are projections of job losses. How will the ministry ramp up efforts at skilling so that people can be self-reliant?The virus will undoubtedly impact the economy and industries will see sluggish growth, especially in sectors like aviation, tourism and hospitality and automobile. However, we do not intend to slow down the process of training and readying people especially in skills for Industry 4.0 that will definitely gain more in importance once we get over this crisis. We will continue to assess the situation and, in line with the directives provided by the Central Government, extend the necessary support.Our commitment to the people and to the economy remains unchanged; we will gradually speed up the skilling efforts, impart trainings and ensure measures to reskill and upskill young people. Some of our trainees in short-term training programmes and Jan Shikhsa Sansthans have committed themselves to the service of the nation by manufacturing and producing masks and sanitisers, operating from their homes.What is the feedback from your interaction with people on the ground, what is the initial assessment of the lockdown and what has emerged as areas that need focus?Both members of the public and industry feel we need to first control the spread of this deadly virus and then go ahead with the revival work. So far, India has been successful in managing the spread of Covid-19 with measures like lockdown and underlining the importance of social distancing. Of course, there is the concern that the virus is outpacing the economy and it is true to some extent. Industries have suffered, people are worried about their livelihoods and jobs. However, the government has taken deep and preventive measures to address some of these concerns and have promised that livelihoods will be protected.We have seen how even developed countries have been affected by this pandemic and we must learn from these examples and win again this outbreak. At this point, the government’s priority is to save lives and stop the virus from spreading and that is possible only through strict adherence to social distancing, by staying at home. Only then will we be able to flatten the curve.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-don-t-intend-to-slow-down-training-will-ready-people-for-industry-4-0-minister/story-uQLg4fyKyUIKTCY3jjbRdP.html
07-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Centre may extend lockdown after Apr 14 as states, experts make request||The Centre is mulling extending the 21-day lockdown, which will end on April 14, till the end of the month after many states and experts made a request for it, sources in the government said on Tuesday.Just on Monday, Telangana chief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao had said he will appeal to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to extend lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus in the country. It was announced on March 24 by the Prime Minister.Rao also cautioned that if the Covid-19 lockdown is lifted it could cost lives.Before KCR, as the Telangana chief minister is popularly known, a top bureaucrat in Uttar Pradesh also hinted that the lockdown may not be lifted in the state on April 14.A senior bureaucrat in Punjab has also favoured an extension of the lockdown. On Friday, a minister in Maharashtra, the worst-hit state in the country, also said that the restriction should not end on April 14.The lockdown came into effect on March 25, a day after Prime Minister Modi addressed the nation, saying that the step was being taken to break the chain of infection and control the spread of coronavirus disease Covid-19. He also urged people to avoid travel and stay wherever they are.Earlier today, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu said the final week of the ongoing lockdown is “critical” for evolving an exit strategy as data regarding the spread of coronavirus will have a bearing on the decision to be taken by the government.He also appealed to the people to abide by whatever decision is ultimately taken by the government and cooperate with the same spirit that has so far been evident “even if it meant to continue with some degree of hardship still beyond April 14”.“As today marks the completion of two weeks of nationwide lockdown in force since March 25, I thought it appropriate to reach out to the people and the leadership of the country with my views and concerns amidst current efforts to tide over the crisis caused by the outbreak of coronavirus,” Naidu said in a statement.The lockdown, acknowledged by experts as a necessary preventive measure, has disrupted economic activity and caused an exodus of migrant workers from cities towards their villages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-thinking-of-extending-covid-19-lockdown-after-april-14-as-states-experts-make-request-report/story-QNQD7oAIeeKs9oNjCA2GdP.html
07-04-2020||India||Alleged middleman Michel bail plea over Covid-19 denied; you are in a separate cell, says judge||The Delhi High Court on Monday dismissed the bail application of Christian Michel, alleged middleman in the AgustaWestland scam, who had moved court seeking release from Tihar jail on the grounds of the spread of coronavirus pandemic.Justice Mukta Gupta said that the petitioner is lodged in a separate cell with only two other prisoners and thus, is not in a barrack or dormitory where there are a number of prisons.“It is not the case of the petitioner that any of the two inmates residing with him are suffering from Covid-19 pandemic. Hence, the apprehension of the petitioner also because of the vulnerable age and overcrowding in jail that he is likely to contact Covid-19 which may be detrimental to his health, is unfounded,” the judge said.Michel is in judicial custody from January 2019 and has been lodged in Tihar jail for 16 months now. He was extradited by the CBI from Dubai in December 2018.Appearing for Michel, his counsel Aljo K Joseph and Sriram Parrakat, had submitted Michel has a low immunity level and is aged 59 years. He states that the strength of the prisoners of Tihar Jail is 10,000 whereas presently, around 17,000 prisoners are lodged therein. Thus, because of overcrowding and social distancing not being mentioned, petitioners are prone to catch Covid-19.They also contended that the charge sheet has already been filed and other co-accused have been granted bail.However, the court said despite being a British national, Christian Michel has not been in that country for the last 6-7 years and had to be extradited from Dubai after an inquiry. The judge said he was a flight risk and had no roots in the society.The court had heard the arguments through video conferencing on Monday and had reserved the order.Meanwhile, the Delhi High Court also rejected the bail application of Shivinder Mohan Singh, ex-promoter of Ranbaxy, stating that he is already in isolation and is maintaining social distancing.Justice Mukta Gupta said that even if Singh has to use common facilities like restroom and taking food, the distancing can still be maintained besides maintaining hygiene by use of adequate measures including washing hands etc. to which the petitioner does not state that there is any inadequacy.Singh, through his advocate, had also sought release on the ground that he would be of help to the society in view of his expertise in the healthcare sector. However, the court said that the apex court has already asked Singh to give his suggestions which would be considered by the concerned authorities.“The suggestions have been transmitted to the concerned authorities and if they find feasible and need the co-operation of the petitioner, they would be at liberty to take the same through various means including Video Conferencing as is done in all the cases,” the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/alleged-middleman-michel-sought-bail-plea-over-covid-19-denied-you-are-in-a-separate-cell-says-judge/story-OmArl1ZP8hdVyRV6TwDQAN.html
07-04-2020||India||Odisha records first coronavirus death after 72-year-old Jharpada man tests positive||A 72-year-old man from Odisha’s Jharpada, who died in AIIMS, Bhubaneswar, on Monday, became the state’s first coronavirus disease victim after his swab samples tested positive on Tuesday.The man, who had a history of chronic hypertension, was admitted to All India Institute Of Medical Sciences, Bhubaneswar on April 4 after he complained about respiratory distress. He tested positive for Covid-19 later.Health officials said contact tracing and containment has been started.Authorities in Odisha have ramped up Covid-19 screenings and declared several areas as containment zones after nearly 70 people came back to the state from the Tablighi Jamaat’s events in Delhi’s Nizamuddin, which has emerged as a hotspot for the coronavirus disease.Officials in Odisha have said 68 people, including African nationals, had gone to the Tablighi Jamaat’s Delhi headquarters from the state and 28 came back. Out of the 28 three, including a postman who had attended the religious congregation and returned home, have tested positive for the virus.Chief minister Naveen Patnaik has also asked officials to ramp the testing process by setting up Covid-19 testing centres at MKCG Hospital, Berhampur and VIMSAR Hospitals, Burla. Odisha would increase its sample testing capacity from 300 samples per day at present to 1000 samples in the next five days.There are nearly 30 Covid-19 patients in the eastern state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-records-first-coronavirus-death-after-72-year-old-jharpada-man-tests-positive/story-2KLQOR0UefJLfKk0SPVQQO.html
07-04-2020||India||Coronavirus: Kejriwal shares ‘5T’ Covid-19 plan for Delhi||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said that the government has devised a “5-step plan” after talking to experts to control and tackle the spread of coronavirus in the national capital.Kejriwal called it the ‘5 Ts plan’ and elaborated how it will help the government deal with the coronavirus crisis in days to come.  ‘Testing, tracing, treatment, teamwork, tracking and monitoring’ are the five ‘Ts’ enumerated by Kejriwal in Delhi’s plan against coronavirus.  We have prepared a 5 point plan to make sure Delhi is ready to fight Corona. https://t.co/4sVLLV9QYOThe Chief Minister said that the Delhi administration will conduct testing similar to South Korea. “If you don’t test, you won’t be able to find out which houses have been affected. It’ll go on spreading. South Korea identified every single individual through large scale testings. We are now going to do large scale testings like South Korea,” he said.The Chief Minister said that the administration plans to conduct 1 lakh random Covid-19 tests at city’s various coronavirus hotspots.Today we are going to give 2000 phone numbers of people who were brought out of Markaz to find out if they roamed in the area around Markaz. The areas they went out to, will be sealed & monitored: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal https://t.co/qPph2QTxIU“Tracing is being done well in Delhi. We have also started taking the help of Police. We have given them the phone numbers of 27,702 people to find out if the people, under self-quarantine, are indeed staying at homes,” Delhi CM said.Kejriwal talked at length about the treatment plan for coronavirus patients in the national capital. He said that critical patients with pre-existing ailments like diabetes, cancer, et cetera, will be admitted to hospitals whereas others can be isolated at hotels and dharamshalas.  Patients with heart&liver ailments,cancer,diabetes&above 50 yrs of age will be kept in hospitals. Patients below 50 years&with minor symptoms will be kept in hotels and dharamshalas with all medical facilities. Arrangement of 8000 beds will be made for serious patients: Delhi CM pic.twitter.com/73aQvBvFAjHe said that the government will require an estimated 400 ventilators, 1200 beds equipped with oxygen if there are 30,000 patients in Delhi.  In this manner, if there are 30,000 active cases in Delhi we will have arrangements for them. The hospitals have been identified. 12,000 rooms in hotels will also be taken over in phases if the needs arise: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal https://t.co/VuXk0CmIcMThe Chief Minister emphasised the need for teamwork and active tracking and monitoring of the Covid-19 situation to be able to effectively tackle the crisis. With as many as 523 people testing positive for coronavirus in the national capital, Delhi accounts for the third-highest number of coronavirus cases in the country. 7 people have died from the infection here while 19 people have made a recovery, as per the health ministry’s data.The number of coronavirus cases in the country on Tuesday rose to 4,421 which accounts for 3,981 active Covid-19 cases in the country. 114 people have lost their lives to the deadly contagion while 325 patients have been cured or discharged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-kejriwal-shares-5t-covid-19-plan-for-delhi/story-07kSlwHNPJ9l0YMBhzgZ5N.html
07-04-2020||India||In Sonia Gandhi’s 5 tips to fight Covid-19, one is about PM CARES Fund||Congress president Sonia Gandhi wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday, extending her party’s support to the government’s decision to slash salaries of Members of Parliament (MPs) by 30%, while also listing five suggestions to fight the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Her suggestions included suspending the Rs 20,000-crore Central Vista beautification and construction project and transferring all money under the PM-CARES fund --- set up last month to fight the pandemic --- to the Prime Ministers National Relief Fund (PM-NRF).Gandhi’s letter comes in response to the Prime Minister’s Sunday call seeking suggestions in the wake of the fast-spreading infection caused by the Sars-CoV-2 virus.Watch: 5 points Sonia Gandhi raised in letter to PM Modi on battling COVID-19 “I am writing to convey our support for the decision taken by the Union Cabinet to reduce salaries for MPs by 30%. Austerity measures which can be used to divert much-needed funds to the fight against Covid-19 are the need of the hour. In this spirit, I am writing to offer five concrete suggestions. I am certain you will find value in them,” she said.Gandhi demanded a complete ban on media advertisements --- television, print and online --- by the government and public sectors undertakings (PSUs) for a period of two years, with the exceptions being advisories for Covid-19 or issues relating to public health.“Given that the central government currently spends an average of Rs 1,250 crore per year on media advertisements (not including an equal or greater amount spent by PSUs and government companies), this will free up a substantial amount to alleviate the economic and social impacts of Covid-19,” she added.The Congress chief also sought immediate suspension of the Central Vista project. “At a time like this, such an outlay seems self-indulgent to say the least. I am certain that Parliament can function comfortably within the existing historical buildings. There is no urgent or pressing requirement that cannot be postponed until this crisis is contained. This sum could instead be allocated towards constructing new hospital infrastructure and diagnostics along with equipping our frontline workers with personal protection equipment (PPE) and better facilities.”In her third suggestion, Gandhi sought a proportionate reduction of 30% in the expenditure budget (other than salaries, pensions and central sector schemes) for the central government as well.“This 30% (Rs 2.5 lakh crore per year approximately) can then be allocated towards establishing an economic safety net for migrant workers, labourers, farmers, MSMEs and those in the unorganised sector,” she added. The Congress president also urged Modi to put on hold all foreign visits, including that of the President, the Prime Minister, Union ministers, chief ministers, state ministers and bureaucrats. “Exceptions can be made in case of special emergency or exigencies in national interest to be cleared by the PM. This amount (which is around Rs 393 crore for just the Prime Minister and Union cabinet’s trips in the last five years) can be utilised extensively in measures to combat Covid-19.”In her fifth suggestion, Gandhi demanded transfer of all money under PM-CARES fund to the PM-NRF. “This will ensure efficiency, transparency, accountability and audit in the manner in which these funds are allocated and spent. It seems like a waste of effort and resources to have and create two separate silos for the distribution of funds. I understand that Rs 3800 crore approximately are lying unutilised in the PM-NRF (at the end of FY2019). These funds, plus the amount in ‘PM-Cares’, can be utilised to ensure an immediate food security net for those at the very margins of society,” she said.Gandhi further wrote, “Every single Indian has made great personal sacrifices to fight this disease. They have complied with every suggestion, instruction and decision taken by your office and the Central Government. It is time that the Legislature and the Executive reciprocate this trust and good faith. Please be assured that you have our unwavering support in meeting the grave challenge of Covid-19 facing the country.”This is Gandhi’s fifth letter to the Prime Minister since March 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-welcomes-salary-cut-of-mps-lists-5-tips-to-fight-covid-19/story-cJxAafRmuzrFziCzW84wvM.html
07-04-2020||India||In 5-point letter, Sonia Gandhi asks PM Modi to go into austerity mode||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Tuesday wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, offering five suggestions to tackle coronavirus disease Covid-19.She also asked the Prime Minister to suspend Rs 20,000 crore central vista beautification and construction project forthwith. “Austerity measures which can be used to divert much needed funds to fight against Covid-19 are need of the hour,” the Congress president has said in her letter.She further said that the suggestions are in response to her discussion with the Prime Minister over phone. “In your call yesterday, you very kindly asked me to convey to you any suggestions our party has to meet the grave challenge of Covid-19. It is in this spirit that I write to you.”Among the suggestions, Gandhi has sought complete ban on government advertisements given to the media - TV, print and online - for two years.I am certain that you will find value in these suggestions, Gandhi further wrote in her letter.This comes a day after the Union Cabinet decided to cut the salaries of the Prime Minister, other ministers, and parliamentarians by 30 per cent for a year, and to suspend for two years, a scheme under which parliamentarians get Rs 5 crore a year to spend on developmental work (MPLAD scheme), with all the money saved going into the consolidated fund of India to be used to fight the Covid-19 pandemic.That’s expected to work out to approximately Rs 7930 crore. Of this, a total of close to Rs 29 crore will come from the salaries of MPs.In addition, the President, the Vice President and the governors of states have also decided to take salary cuts.A Member of Parliament is paid a salary of Rs 1,00,000 plus allowances. A member of Parliament would contribute Rs 30,000 per month and Rs 3,60,000 in the year.The salary of the prime minister of India is the same as other MPs. The President of India is paid a salary of Rs five lakh per month while the Vice President is paid Rs four lakh per month. The president, vice president and governors have also volunteered to take a 30% cut. The governors are paid Rs three lakh and fifty thousand each.The Consolidated Fund of India is the fund into which all tax revenues flow, and the one used to make most payments.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had chaired the cabinet meeting and then a meeting of his council of ministers. Both were conducted over video conference.PM Modi had on Sunday reached out to two former presidents and two former prime ministers of India to discuss country’s response to the unprecedented crisis over coronavirus outbreak. The prime minister is also said to have called up Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Samajwadi Party patriarch Mulayam Singh, SP chief Akhilesh Yadav, Trinamool Congress chief and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, Odisha chief minister and BJD supremo Naveen Patnaik, Telangana chief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao, DMK chief MK Stalin and Shiromani Akali Dal patriarch Parkash Singh Badal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-gandhi-sends-5-suggestions-to-pm-modi-to-fight-covid-19-pandemic/story-qoJWiZPeFh95FFNaHmkM1O.html
07-04-2020||India||‘Will conduct one lakh random Covid-19 tests in Delhi’s hotspots’: Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday addressed the media on the prevailing coronavirus situation in the national capital and said that the administration will conduct one lakh random tests for coronavirus in city’s hotspot areas.“Will give police phone numbers of Tablighi Jamaat event attendees to trace, ascertain whether they moved in nearby areas,” Kejriwal said. Kejriwal said that the administration has devised a “5-step plan” after talking to experts to control the spread of coronavirus in Delhi. “This is a ‘5 Ts plan’,” the Delhi CM said. Kejriwal said the first ‘T’ of the ‘5 Ts plan’ is ‘testing’. We have ordered kits for the testing of 50,000 people. The kits have started arriving. We have also placed orders for the rapid test of 1,00,000 people. The deliveries of kits will begin by Friday. Random tests will be done at hotspots. Detailed tests will also be done: Delhi CM https://t.co/U89MbypURe“If you don’t test, you won’t be able to find out which houses have been affected. It’ll go on spreading. South Korea identified every single individual through large scale testings. We are now going to do large scale testings like South Korea,” he said.With as many as 523 people testing positive for coronavirus in the national capital, Delhi accounts for the third-highest number of coronavirus cases in the country. 7 people have died from the infection here while 19 people have made a recovery, as per the health ministry’s data.Two criminal cases have been registered by Delhi Police against members of the Tablighi Jamaat for their conduct at quarantine centres in the national capital, a top Delhi Home Department official on Tuesday.The number of coronavirus cases in the country on Tuesday rose to 4,421 which accounts for 3,981 active Covid-19 cases in the country. 114 people have lost their lives to the deadly contagion while 325 patients have been cured or discharged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-conduct-one-lakh-random-covid-19-tests-in-delhi-s-coronavirus-hotspots-kejriwal/story-y625owdyW79pzU1BqlTDfJ.html
07-04-2020||India||Alarm bells in east Delhi locality as experts suggest limited Covid-19 community spread||Health authorities say they are focusing on four areas within a 4km radius in northeast Delhi’s Dilshad Garden that appear to be reporting a bunch of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases. Experts suggest limited community spread has begun in the area, after reports that in many of these cases the source of the patient’s infection is unclear.Officials have declared these four places as containment areas. Each of them has a focal patient (the person who might have infected others). Three of these containment areas were declared on Monday – two separate blocks of GTB Enclave and one in Dilshad Colony. Officials have been unable to establish travel or contact history of the focal patients in these areas.The developments come amid a debate on whether India has entered the community transmission stage of the pandemic, in which the source of a patient’s infection could not be traced or isolated.“One of the blocks (in GTB Enclave) is linked to a nurse from Delhi State Cancer Institute who tested positive and the other is linked to an old man. We are not sure where he got the infection from,” a senior Delhi government official said, requesting anonymity.On Monday, 10 nurses from the Delhi State Cancer Institute in GTB enclave tested positive for Covid-19, taking the hospital’s tally to 18 (of which two are doctors and 16 nursing staff). After this, the cancer institute decided to test all 48 of its patients.Also read | Covid-19 lockdown could be extended by 2 weeks, say officials after GoM meet“We have sent all samples for Covid-19 testing. If they test negative, patients will be moved to various private hospitals. However, if they test positive, they will be taken to the nearby Rajiv Gandhi Superspeciality Hospital, which is a dedicated Covid-19 centre,” said an official from the Delhi State Cancer Institute.Rajiv Gandhi Superspeciality Hospital is one of the two Delhi government hospitals completely dedicated for treatment of the deadly infection caused by the Sars-Cov-2 virus. At present, there are 85 Covid-19 positive and 164 suspected patients admitted to the hospital.Separately, in the Dilshad Colony containment area, a middle-aged man (the focal patient) with unclear history (meaning no foreign travel or no established contact with a Covid-19 positive case) tested positive for Covid-19.The fourth containment area is linked to two mohalla clinic doctors who practise in Dilshad Garden. (So far, 34 health care workers and hospital sanitation staff have tested positive for the viral infection across Delhi).The J and K blocks of Dilshad Garden were declared containment areas after a 38-year-old woman (the focal patient), who returned from Saudi Arabia on March 10, passed on the infection to at least 11 people, including the two mohalla clinic doctors. Six of them are from the Dilshad Garden area. In the same cluster, officials were not able to establish the source of infection of a patient in Maujpur. This patient did not have any direct contact with the woman who returned from Saudi or the two doctors.“In hot spots, some community spread may be occurring,” said Randeep Guleria, director, the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) and a member of the national task force on Covid-19.Also read | In PM Modi’s hydroxychloroquine export order, a Covid-19 message to the worldAlthough a Union health ministry document late last month said limited community transmission of the Covid-19 disease has begun in India, authorities maintain that the country is not witnessing large-scale community spread.Jacob John, professor emeritus and former head of virology at Christian Medical College, Vellore, said community transmission was happening in the Dilshad Garden containment areas.“Now, we should not focus so much on getting the history of the patient and figuring out where they might have got the infection from…We must focus on keeping people out of hospitals. And, to slow the community spread, everyone must wear masks,” he said.There are four main stages of disease outbreak. Stage I is usually when cases are imported and are not of local origin. Stage II is when there is local transmission, which means a section of people testing positive have come in contact with a positive patient having a travel history. Stage III is community transmission. Stage IV is an epidemic, when there several clusters of the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/alarm-bells-in-dilshad-garden-as-experts-suggest-limited-community-spread/story-2ajevUUPWijDEk1xU3KzGL.html
07-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: India to form clinical research collaborative on Covid-19 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India to form clinical research collaborative on Covid-19India Covid-19 Clinical Research Collaborative Network, a hospital-based clinical research initiative, is in the works to enhance the understanding of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The move will help India-specific treatment protocols and push research and development in the field of drug development for the pandemic. Read more. Covid-19: India eases hydroxychloroquine, paracetamol export restrictionsIndia has partially eased restrictions on the export of anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine and paracetamol, cited by some as key to the fight against Covid-19, to fulfil existing orders and to meet the needs of neighbouring countries.Read more. Will supply paracetamol, hydroxychloroquine to countries badly affected by Covid-19: MEAIndia has said it will supply paracetamol and hydroxychloroquine to countries ‘particularly badly affected’ by the coronavirus pandemic even as US President Donald Trump warned of ‘retaliation’ if the Indian government did not allow the export of anti-malarial drugs. Read more. 2 FIRs against Tablighi workers for spreading disease in hospital, quarantine centreTwo criminal cases have been registered by Delhi Police against members of the Tablighi Jamaat for their conduct at quarantine centres in the national capital, a top Delhi Home Department official on Tuesday.In one case, the police filed an FIR against two Jamaat members, residents of Uttar Pradesh’s Barabanki district, for defecating in front of their room at a Narela quarantine centre.Read more. ‘They were too scared,’ Michael Clarke on why Australian players ‘sucked up’ to Virat KohliFormer Australia captain Michael Clarke believes the current Australian players “sucked up” to Virat Kohli and India so that their million dollar IPL deals could be protected. He went on to add that this led to Australian cricket becoming ‘soft’ which was never a good sign. Read more. Haldi, Moringa, lime water: Here’s how Anushka Sharma boosts her immunityThe actor who is in self-isolation and self-quarantine along with husband, Indian cricket team captain, Virat Kohli keeps sharing her daily agenda with us, and the latest insight she has given us is how she boosts her immunity during the current coronavirus pandemic . Read more. This ‘ghost’ is here to lift your ‘spirits’ amid lockdown blues. WatchPrime Minister Narendra Modi had asked all the citizens to light a candle or diya in solidarity against the dark times brought by the ongoing pandemic.And people answered to it will full co-operation and enthusiasm. But some people took this opportunity to show their creative side in rather quirky ways. Read more. WhatsApp’s new limit on chat forwards to curb misinformation: All you need to knowWhatsApp is limiting frequently forwarded messages to one chat a time in attempts to curb the spread of Covid-19 misinformation. WhatsApp highlights frequently forwarded messages which have been shared five times or more. It is also working on a feature that lets users verify forwarded messages. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-india-to-form-clinical-research-collaborative-on-covid-19-and-all-the-latest-news/story-8HJ3Klks8J91E0MopcOyIL.html
07-04-2020||India||Ex-CM Mehbooba Mufti shifted out of jail after 8 months, remains in detention at home in Kashmir||Mehbooba Mufti, former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir and PDP head, has been shifted to her residence in Srinagar, where she will continue to remain under detention, an official order issued on Tuesday said.The government order said the Peoples Democratic Party leader is being moved from a subsidiary jail on MA Road in Srinagar to her Fairview residence that will serve as a subsidiary jail.Mehbooba Mufti, who was charged under the Public Safety Act, has been under detention since August 5 last year, when the Constitution’s Article 370 was scrapped and Jammu and Kashmir was bifurcated into two Union territories.Mufti’s daughter, Iltija Mufti, tweeted to thank the media and ask for privacy.“My gratitude to the media in Kashmir for their concern & well wishes. May I please humbly request that you give the family privacy as we wait for her to come home today. Please remember this isn’t a release & the house has been declared as a subsidiary jail,” she said.While two other former chief ministers and National Conference leaders, Farooq Abdullah and his son Omar Abdullah, were released earlier, Mufti continues to remain under detention.“@MehboobaMufti must be set free. Shifting her home while continuing to keep her detained is a cop out (sic),” Omar Abdullah tweeted reacting to the news of her being shifted.Mufti’s daughter Iltija Mufti, too, has moved the Supreme Court challenging her mother’s detention and leaders across the political spectrum in J&K have sought the release of Mufti and a host of other political leaders including Bilal Lone, Shah Feasal and Naeem Akhtar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mehbooba-mufti-moved-to-her-house-to-remain-under-detention/story-qOPsX6xpMqD7TGbvEoKVAJ.html
07-04-2020||India||WhatsApp to impose new limit on forwarding to fight fake news||WhatsApp, the American freeware, cross-platform messaging and voice over internet protocol (VoIP) owned by Facebook, announced on Tuesday that it would limit forwards of frequently-forwarded messages to just one chat to stop the spread of misinformation about coronavirus disease (Covid-19).WhatsApp issued a statement, where it said that the new feature would be rolled out from Tuesday. “We wanted to highlight a feature change that WhatsApp is rolling out today to slow the spread of misinformation. Today we are announcing a new limit so frequently-forwarded messages can only be forwarded to one chat at a time. This limit kicks in once a message has been previously forwarded five times or more,” the statement said. Messages that have been forwarded five times are known as frequently-forwarded messages and are marked by two arrows on top. WhatsApp introduced the distinction in January 2019 to impede the virality of messages. The limit will be a global one and will be led with curbs in India. WhatsApp said that the move was aimed at the spread of misinformation about Covid-19. “This is the latest limit that WhatsApp has set, making us one of the few products that have taken steps to constrain virality and place limits on how people can send messages,” the statement added. WhatsApp is also beta-testing a new feature wherein a magnifying glass icon is displayed next to frequently-forwarded messages to allow users to find out more information about them. The feature, WhatsApp said, gives users the option to send the message to a web search leading them to news results or other sources of information. “Double-checking these messages before forwarding may help reduce the spread of rumours. This feature is currently in testing and we’ll keep you updated on the next steps,” the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/whatsapp-to-impose-new-limit-on-forwarding-to-fight-fake-news/story-aSPHQVS4e3oYdpMRjml9gO.html
07-04-2020||India||Covid-19 update- ‘Must help others but…’: Rahul Gandhi weighs in after India eases hydroxychloroquine export||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said on Tuesday Indians should be the first ones to get life-saving drugs moments after the government partially lifted restrictions on the export of hydroxychloroquine and paracetamol in view of the coronavirus pandemic.The ministry of external affairs has said it will supply paracetamol and hydroxychloroquine to countries ‘particularly badly affected’ by the coronavirus pandemic. People familiar with developments said orders from other countries for anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine and paracetamol will be cleared only after meeting all domestic requirements. They spoke on condition of anonymity.Rahul Gandhi also seemed to comment on US president Donald Trump’s warning of ‘retaliation’ if the Indian government did not allow the export of anti-malarial drugs.“Friendship isn’t about retaliation. India must help all nations in their hour of need but lifesaving medicines should be made available to Indians in ample quantities first,” the former Congress president tweeted.Follow latest updates on coronavirus hereMEA said in a statement on Tuesday India will licence paracetamol and hydroxychloroquine in appropriate quantities to all neighbouring countries who are dependent on India’s capabilities. To be sure, it also said that like any responsible government, our first obligation is to ensure that there are adequate stocks of medicines for the requirement of our own people.”It said that India will be supplying these essential drugs to some nations who have been particularly badly affected by the pandemic.“In view of the humanitarian aspects of the pandemic, it has been decided that India would licence paracetamol and HCQ in appropriate quantities to all our neighbouring countries who are dependent on our capabilities,” it said.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage “We will also be supplying these essential drugs to some nations who have been particularly badly affected by the pandemic. We would, therefore, discourage any speculation in this regard or any attempts to politicise the matter,” it added.India had banned the export of anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine on March 25 with immediate effect to ensure sufficient availability of the medicine within the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-must-help-others-but-rahul-gandhi-weighs-in-after-india-eases-hydroxychloroquine-export/story-cLN42oZ5LhoNEQo1XTRquJ.html
07-04-2020||India||Goa to begin 3-day community survey to identify potential Covid-19 patients||The Goa government has announced a community door-to-door survey to be completed in three days in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak. Around 7,000 enumerators will be involved in surveying people across the state for flu-like symptoms and travel histories, Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant announced. The data from the survey, which will be held across three days between April 13 and 15, will then be processed by the Goa health department and accordingly, persons who display flu-like symptoms or those with travel history will be tested for coronavirus and isolated, if necessary. Government employees including health staff, government and aided school teachers will pan out across the state in pairs with a questionnaire that families will be expected to fill. “We are launching a community survey in the whole state. They have been given a format, travel history details, flu symptoms or any other signs symptoms,” Sawant said on Monday, calling on residents to cooperate with the enumerators and give the right information regarding their travel history. The survey is expected to cover everyone, including those living in makeshift camps along the construction sites, beach shack workers, those within industrial estates among others who are not usually covered. The survey is being done as part of a move to lift the lockdown in the week following April 14 when the 21 day period ends. Those who display symptoms or those who have travel history will be subjected to a rapid antibody test which, if positive, will be tested using the more detailed PT-PCR test for the Covid-19. Goa has registered seven persons who tested positive for coronavirus, six of them have travel history but entered the state before the lockdown began. The seventh patient contracted it from his brother who had a travel history. With the state’s borders sealed, the government hopes no new additional patients will be found over the coming eight days. The Goa government also announced a 20% hike in wages for frontline workers at the coronavirus hospital including the sweepers and security guards. The government will also separately lodge those working at the Goa Medical College and Hospital in hotels so that they do not risk infecting their families if they happen to contract the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-to-begin-3-day-community-survey-to-identify-potential-covid-19-patients/story-ywPM45IW7jjahQyRvf2xFO.html
07-04-2020||India||RSS slams Tablighi Jamaat for not calling off event||The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) on Monday in a veiled attack on the Tablighi Jamaat said, the organisers should have been “sensible” and called off the congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin which had in attendance several people with travel history from, Covid-19 affected cases.Addressing the media through video-conferencing, joint general secretary of the RSS, Manmohan Vaidya said all programmes of the Sangh, including the meeting of its highest decision-making body and the annual training programs have been cancelled following the corona pandemic.Responding to a question on the congregation that took place in Delhi even as the government had issued orders preventing large gatherings, Vaidya said there government orders against any public gathering were in force and the organisation should have refrained from congregating.“The spread of the virus has definitely increasing because of the event Tablighi Jamaat organised in the capital. Everyone agrees with that… If their leadership would have taken a decision on time and cancelled it on time it would have been good,” he said.Even as he said that impact of the congregation can be seen on the ground as “figures tell the truth”, Vaidya was quick to point out that the Muslim community in India who is doing its bit to help the government track those who came in contact with the Jamaat.On Sunday the health ministry said the rate of doubling of Corona cases was now 4.1 days, but if the cases linked to the Jamaat would not have happened then it would have been 7.4 days.On Monday Vaidya said that the RSS has taken a decision to call off its training camps for the first time in its history. Earlier the Sangh had cancelled its Pratinidhi Sabha in Bangalore that was scheduled for March 15-17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rss-slams-tablighi-jamaat-for-not-calling-off-event/story-oRvVg6V28CVRIa2vYw0M3N.html
07-04-2020||India||18 healthcare workers of Delhi State Cancer Institute test positive for Covid-19, hospital shut||The Delhi State Cancer Institute (DSCI) has been shut after 18 of its healthcare workers, including two doctors and 16 nursing staff, tested positive for Covid-19 and authorities are trying to shift 19 of its patients to another private hospital.“As a precautionary measure, we have shut down various facilities of the hospital for conducting sanitisation. We are making arrangement to shift our 19 cancer patients to another private hospital. Talks are on with Dharmshila Superspecility hospital,” Dr BL Sherwal, DSCI’s medical superintendent, said according to ANI.“However, before sending these cancer patients to another facility, we are testing them for Covid-19. Cancer patients are immune-compromised patients and are a high-risk group. They tend to catch infection very easily. If their reports come negative, we will shift these patients to another hospital,” Sherwal said while speaking to ANI.Also read: Trump talks of ‘retaliation’ if India turns down anti-malarial drug requestThe hospital authorities also said they are taking care of its healthcare workers infected by coronavirus.“Some of them are admitted at the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital. We are very cautioned about the health of our doctors and nurses and all measure are being taken and their contact tracing has also started,” he said.Last week, a 35-year-old doctor at the institute had tested positive for the coronavirus disease forcing authorities to suspend the hospital’s out-patient clinics to sanitise the premises. Another nurse had also contracted the disease after he came in contact with the doctor. Delhi has reported 549 cases of Covid-19 till Tuesday morning, out of which 19 people have been discharged and seven people have died of the disease. The Union health ministry said India’s tally of Covid-19 cases rose to 4421 on Tuesday morning. Out of the 4421 cases, 3981 are active, 325 people have been cured or discharged and one has move to another county. The death toll stands at 114.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/18-healthcare-workers-of-delhi-state-cancer-institute-test-positive-for-covid-19-hospital-shut/story-u4J1CkEvqOEcscLJiKDdGN.html
07-04-2020||India||China helps India with PPE to fight Covid-19 as cases near 4,500: 10 points||The total number of Covid-19 cases in the country soared to 4,421 as India entered the 14th day of 21-day coronavirus lockdown on Tuesday.There are 3,981 active coronavirus cases in the country while 114 people have lost their lives to Covid-19 contagion. As many as 325 have been cured or discharged across the nation.The maximum number of cases come from Maharashtra which is now inching toward witnessing over 900 total Covid-19 cases.Here are the latest developments:1. India will supply paracetamol and hydroxychloroquine to countries ‘particularly badly affected’ by the coronavirus pandemic.2. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday tweeted on the occasion of World Health Day and urged the citizens to extend their gratitude towards nurses and healthcare workers who are “battling against the Covid-19 menace”.3. China donated 170,000 personal protection equipment (PPE) kits to India on Monday to help the neighbouring country fight the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, the health ministry said.4. India Covid-19 Clinical Research Collaborative Network, a hospital-based clinical research initiative, is in the works to enhance the understanding of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). 5. Delhi State Cancer Institute has been shut after 18 healthcare workers were tested positive for Covid-19.6. In a letter to Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan urged the administration to provide “utmost protection” to nurses and medical staff from Kerala. 7. A person suspected to have the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) can now undergo testing in simple steps at a private lab’s drive-through centre in west Delhi.8. In a bid to intensify the fight against coronavirus, the Uttar Pradesh government has decided to increase testing facilities in the state.9. The Railways has developed a disinfection tunnel at its Loco Shed in Bhusaval, Maharashtra in an attempt to prevent the spread of Covid-19 in the country.10. Chhattisgarh police on Monday booked 16 people, including seven minors, associated with the Tablighi Jamaat in Korba district for hiding their travel details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-helps-india-with-ppe-to-fight-covid-19-as-cases-near-4-500-10-points/story-2u71DYjD45g9joND9uiVCI.html
07-04-2020||India||Chhattisgarh Police to track home quarantined Covid-19 patients via mobile app||The police authorities in Chhattisgarh’s Janjgir-Champa district have developed a mobile application in collaboration with a Noida-based start-up Mobcoder, which is being installed on every person’s cellular phone, who are quarantined at home for 14 days, in a bid to prevent the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Each quarantined person has been asked to upload a selfie on the app on an hourly basis. The surveillance mechanism ensures that the person’s location can be traced, as the app sends out an alert to a local police station if s/he moves out of the stipulated limit of 200 metres from h/his home.The state government has issued a press release, which stated that about 7,000 people are under home quarantine in Janjgir-Champa district. Many of these people have recently returned from abroad or from other Covid-19 affected states in the country.“A special team has developed a new mobile application. If the home-quarantined people turn off their phone or location or internet connection, the app sends out an alert to a local police station,” the release said.Police personnel and medical teams have been trained to use the app to track suspected Covid-19 patients.“We are planning to extend the use of this mobile application to other districts in Bilaspur range,” Dipanshu Kabra, inspector-general of police, Bilaspur range, told Hindustan Times.“We want to respect the privacy of the people who are quarantined at home. The tracking will automatically end after their quarantine period ends,” said superintendent of police (SP) Janjgir Champa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-police-to-track-home-quarantined-covid-19-patients-via-mobile-app/story-GmAk6hBzxfDzM734QYSeuO.html
07-04-2020||India||2 FIRs against Tablighi workers for spreading disease in hospital, quarantine centre||Two criminal cases have been registered by Delhi Police against members of the Tablighi Jamaat for their conduct at quarantine centres in the national capital, a top Delhi Home Department official on Tuesday.In one case, the police filed an FIR against two Jamaat members, residents of Uttar Pradesh’s Barabanki district, for defecating in front of their room at a Narela quarantine centre.In the second, officials at the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan hospital in central Delhi complained that some Covid-19 suspected patients were spitting in the premises.“It was reported that some Covid-19 suspected persons who have been quarantined on the third floor of the hospital’s Emergency building were spitting on the southern side towards the operation theatre,” a senior LNJP doctor said.“The incident is purely a health hazard issue and should be simply treated as such,” the doctor said.Hindustan Times has reviewed the FIRs.Also Watch | Half of UP’s Covid-19 cases linked to Tablighi Jamaat A senior Delhi Police officer said formal cases had been registered against the inmates for their actions that could help spread the disease. The FIRs (First Information Reports) have been filed under the penal code and the Epidemic Diseases Act that was invoked last month by the city government.They had been evacuated from the Tablighi Jamaat headquarters in Nizamuddin Basti, which has emerged as the largest hot spot of Covid-19 in Delhi and across the country.Nearly 30% of the 3,900 Covid-19 infections across the country have been linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi last month that was attended by thousands of its members. After a massive operation to trace the Jamaat workers across the country, the government has placed 21,200 people and their contacts under quarantine.National Security Adviser Ajit Doval had to intervene last month after the Tablighi leadership refused to let the authorities vacate the headquarters. Of the 2,000-odd people who had been put up in the Tablighi headquarters called the Markaz, 24 had already tested positive by then and 200 more showed symptoms. They were all sent to hospitals or quarantine centres across the city, depending on their condition.By Monday evening, 329 of them had already tested positive. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal told reporters that 62% of the 525 confirmed Covid-19 cases in Delhi were linked to the Tablighi Jamaat. Not everyone has been tested yet.Government officials told Hindustan Times that the task to track down possible contacts of the Jamaat members had become a lot more tedious after it emerged that some Jamaat members from outside Delhi were accompanied by women when they came to the city who stayed with their relatives in Delhi. “This means there is a possibility that the Jamaat infection may not be limited to the workers and their immediate family but may have spread to some pockets in Delhi,” a senior government official said.In Delhi, the official said, the confidence of the government that it had been able to isolate all Jamaat members and their contacts would be critical to the decision on the lockdown in Delhi on April 15.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced the 21-day lockdown on March 24 in a televised address to the nation. After PM Modi last week told states to start discussions on how the lockdown should be eased, some states such as Maharashtra and Telangana have called for its extension. The Centre hasn’t taken a call yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-firs-filed-against-tablighi-workers-for-spreading-disease-in-hospital-centre/story-yUMKje6pe2jngL4ASSUVGN.html
07-04-2020||India||War against Covid-19: Uttar Pradesh to ramp up testing facilities||In a bid to intensify the fight against coronavirus, the Uttar Pradesh government has decided to increase testing facilities in the state.The central government on Sunday announced to deploy rapid test kits to speed up coronavirus screening because of the spike in positive cases.Addressing a press conference here on Monday, Additional Chief Secretary, Home, Awanish Awasthi said that in a meeting with senior government officers, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had ordered an increase in testing facilities to speed up the testing of the blood samples of suspected coronavirus cases in the state. Funds will be released from the Covid Care Fund set up by the state government to fight coronavirus, he said. The state government has also decided to upgrade the existing laboratories to BSL-3 category in 10 medical colleges of the state, including LLRM Medical College in Meerut, MLNM Medical College in Prayagraj, MLB Medical College in Jhansi, BRD Medical College in Gorakhpur, UPUMS in Safai, GSVM Medical College in Kanpur, Sanjay Gandhi PGI in Lucknow, KGMU Lucknow, RML Institute of Medical Sciences in Lucknow.The Chief Minister also ordered the establishment of laboratories in 14 medical colleges located in Ambedkar Nagar, Kannauj, Jalaun, Azamgarh, Saharanpur, Banda, Badaun, Noida, Greater Noida, Basti, Ayodhya, Bahraich, Firozabad and Shahjahanpur. These medical colleges do not have testing facilities.Those districts that have hospitals but no medical colleges will have upgraded sample collection centres. The work on the upgradation of the laboratories in the 24 medical colleges will start from Tuesday.The chief secretary, principal secretary, medical education and principal secretary, health and family welfare have been directed to prepare the work plan for the strengthening of the laboratories in the medical colleges, he said. PPE for policemenThe state government has also decided to provide Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) to policemen along with doctors, para-medical staff, health workers and associated staff posted in hospitals and health centres across the state.Awasthi said, police officers and constables have been deployed in coronavirus sensitive areas. They have to conduct searches to locate suspected patients and are deployed outside hospitals and quarantine centres to assist the health department teams in the transportation of patients from various localities to the hospitals. The state government has decided to provide PPE to policemen for protection from coronavirus, he said.31 units across Uttar Pradesh are manufacturing masks, whereas 99 units are producing sanitisers.CM Adityanath has ordered the purchase of PPE from the Covid Care Fund. As many as 410 units in the state have already started producing equipment and protective gear, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/war-against-covid-19-uttar-pradesh-to-ramp-up-testing-facilities/story-Oy5sAzvIFuV3g0q2iiKUZI.html
07-04-2020||India||Will supply paracetamol, hydroxychloroquine to countries badly affected by Covid-19: MEA||India has said it will supply paracetamol and hydroxychloroquine to countries ‘particularly badly affected’ by the coronavirus pandemic even as US President Donald Trump warned of ‘retaliation’ if the Indian government did not allow the export of anti-malarial drugs.“In view of the humanitarian aspects of the Covid-19 pandemic, it has been decided that India would licence paracetamol and hydroxychloroquine in appropriate quantities to all our neighbouring countries who are dependent on our capabilities,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said.“We will also be supplying these essential drugs to some nations who have been particularly badly affected by the pandemic. We would, therefore, discourage any speculation in this regard or any attempts to politicise the matter,” Srivastava said.Also Watch | Donald Trump hints at ‘retaliation’ if India withholds hydroxychloroquine exports India has partially eased restrictions on the export of hydroxychloroquine. People familiar with developments said orders from other countries for hydroxychloroquine and paracetamol will be cleared only after meeting all domestic requirements. They spoke on condition of anonymity.This came hours after Donald Trump requested the lifting of the hold on hydroxychloroquine exports during a telephone call with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday. Trump also warned of retaliation if India did not take up his request to lift the hold on US orders of the antimalarial drug.“I said we’d appreciate you allowing our supply to come out. If he doesn’t allow it to come out, that would be okay but, of course, there may be retaliation,” Trump said. “Why wouldn’t that be?”The orders for the medicine were placed by the United States in March.“I don’t like that decision... I didn’t hear that that was his [Modi’s] decision. I know that he stopped it for other countries. I spoke to him yesterday [Sunday]. We had a very good talk, and we’ll see whether or not that’s his decision. I would be surprised if he would you know because India does very well with the US,” Trump said.India had banned the export of anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine on March 25 with immediate effect to ensure sufficient availability of the medicine within the country.India had allowed exports earlier as well to other countries on humanitarian grounds on case to case basis on the recommendation of the ministry of external affairs. It was also allowed in case of shipments where an irrevocable letter of credit had been issued or in a case where full advance payment has been received by the exporter in India against specific shipment.The task force for Covid-19 has recommended the use of hydroxychloroquine for infections among “asymptomatic healthcare workers involved in the care of suspected or confirmed cases of Covid-19” and “asymptomatic household contacts of laboratory-confirmed cases”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-supply-paracetamol-hydroxychloroquine-to-countries-badly-affected-by-covid-19-india/story-8t0ZzY4eqFfuJjUQhj6WJO.html
07-04-2020||India||Covid-19 update: ‘Report yourselves or face legal action’, Assam tells Tablighi Jamaat attendees||The Assam government has said it will lodge cases against those from the state who attended the Tablighi Jamaat’s religious gatherings in Delhi last month but are yet to report themselves to the authorities.Health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Monday that action will be taken against them under provisions of the Disaster Management Act.Except for one case from Guwahati, all other 25 Covid-19 cases detected in the state till date were those with links to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation.“After receiving data from different sources we had to trace 617 persons from Assam who attended the event and had since returned to the state. We have been able to collect samples from 491 of them who 128 are yet to be located,” Sarma said.On Sunday, the minister held meetings with Tablighi Jamaat office bearers and mosque committees and urged them to furnish details, of all those from Assam who attended the religious congregation in Delhi last month, by Monday.“Action under provisions of the Disaster Management Act will be taken against those who don’t report themselves to healthcare or district authorities by Monday. They will be screened and tested and cases registered against them for wilful disobedience,” said Sarma.Also read: Assam cracks down against fake news; 12 cases lodged, 7 arrestedOn Monday evening, Assam police issued an urgent notice to all people who attended the Nizamuddin Markaz or have been to a state or country affected by Covid-19 recently.“All such individuals are requested to present themselves at the nearest hospital or public health centre by 6 am on April 7. They may also call on Helpline No. 104 for informing the authorities of their presence and condition,” the police notice read.Also read: What you need to know today“If such persons deliberately fail to present themselves by the given deadline or inform authorities strict legal action will be taken against the concerned individuals, their shelterers or those having knowledge of such travel history and have hidden it,” it added.He informed that the state government might start a permit system to control the entry of people into the state once the lockdown restrictions are eased. This he said will be needed to ensure that they are quarantined properly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-report-yourselves-or-face-legal-action-assam-tells-tablighi-jamaat-attendees/story-mknqfKI1y0jlIpukvaQ6aN.html
07-04-2020||India||2 Tablighi Jamaat members among 13 new cases in Kerala||Two Tablighi Jamaat members, who came back from Delhi’s Nizamuddin Markaz event, are among the 13 who tested positive for Covid-19 in Kerala on Monday, taking the total number of infected in the state to 327, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said.Among the 13 fresh Covid-19 cases, nine are from worst-affected Kasaragod in north Kerala—six are foreign returnees and three of them are their contacts.With the highest recovery and lowest mortality rates, the CM said, Kerala is now quite confident of containing the coronavirus pandemic but he cautioned people not to lower the guard at this juncture.At least 142 people in Thiruvananthapuram and 78 in Pathanamhitta were tested negative on Monday. Nearly 62 people were discharged from hospitals after they repeatedly tested negative. Pinarayi Vijayan said 125,000 beds were ready in the state and it will procure more ventilators and Personal protective equipment (PPEs) in coming days. The chief minister expressed shock over reports that some nurses from Kerala have been infected in Mumbai and Delhi hospitals for the want of enough protective gears.“We have information that many nurses from the state tested positive and more than 100 are under observation. This is really shocking. They were not provided adequate protection. How can you wage such a war pushing front-line warriors without the proper equipment?” he asked.He said he has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in this regard and will talk to his counterparts in Delhi and Maharashtra. Nurses from Kerala work in many hospitals across the country. Relatives of these nurses have sought an inquiry into serious lapses in Delhi and Mumbai hospitals.Also read: In Kerala, nurses inspired by Nipah warrior LiniThe chief minister also condoled the death of 18 people from the state who succumbed to Covid-19 in foreign countries— the highest in the United States which recorded eight deaths in three days. He read out their names in the briefing and said the state was helpless to do anything more in such a situation.With the situation slightly improving the state has announced some concessions to certain sectors. Automobile workshops, mobile-repair units, mobile recharging and selling units will be allowed to open one day in a week under strict conditions, the chief minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/south/2-tablighi-jamaat-members-among-13-new-cases-in-kerala/story-I3iLhyEcKcesGFCqkcmf2I.html
07-04-2020||India||‘Take immediate action to alleviate concerns of nurses from Kerala’: Vijayan urges Kejriwal||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan expressed concern over the safety of nursing and medical staff from the state who have tested positive for coronavirus in the national capital. In a letter to Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, Vijayan urged the administration to provide “utmost protection” to nurses and medical staff from Kerala. “We’re hearing the news that some nurses have tested positive for #COVID19 in Delhi. I would like to draw your attention to the situation which has been reported to us regarding the plight of nurses in Delhi,” Vijayan wrote. The letter further states, "I request that immediate action may be taken to alleviate concerns of nurses from Kerala working in Delhi. Concerned officials may be directed to urgently ensure that utmost protection is given to them". https://t.co/zlf23e5hJN“I request that immediate action may be taken to alleviate concerns of nurses from Kerala working in Delhi. Concerned officials may be directed to urgently ensure that utmost protection is given to them,” the letter read. With as many as 523 people testing positive for coronavirus in the national capital, Delhi accounts for the third-highest number of coronavirus cases in the country. 7 people have died from the infection here while 19 people have made a recovery, as per the health ministry’s data.Kerala, on the other hand, stands fifth on the Covid-19 statewise tally with roughly around 400 cases. The number of active Covid-19 cases in the state is 327 coronavirus cases. As per the latest data by the Ministry of Health, Kerala has witnessed two deaths due to Covid-19 while 58 people have successfully recovered.The number of coronavirus cases in the country on Tuesday rose to 4,421 which accounts for 3,981 active Covid-19 cases in the country. 114 people have lost their lives to the deadly contagion while 325 patients have been cured or discharged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/take-immediate-action-to-alleviate-concerns-of-nurses-from-kerala-vijayan-urges-kejriwal/story-s970D1F87pOCnGSswOem3J.html
07-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update- Assam MLA held for spreading false Covid-19 info: Police||An opposition legislator in Assam has been arrested for allegedly making provocative, communal and false statements on the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and the treatment of patients, the police said on Tuesday.Aminul Islam, the Dhing MLA from the All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF), has been booked under relevant Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections and arrested on charges of criminal conspiracy and spreading disaffection among communities, among others, Assam director general of police (DGP) Bhaskar Jyoti Mahanta said.In audio clips that have surfaced on the social media, Islam purportedly said there was a conspiracy to target Muslims on the pretext of Covid-19 and those sent to quarantine could be killed. HT could not independently verify the authenticity of the clips.The police picked up Islam from his residence in Dhing in Nagaon district on Monday night and arrested him on Tuesday morning after interrogation.“He will be produced in court later on Tuesday…We have seized his personal digital accessories (PDAs) and processing them as per law. We have found several clippings in his mobile, which we will have to test digitally,” DGP Mahanta said.In the past few days, Islam allegedly posted several posts on social media platforms questioning the government’s handling of Covid-19 patients and those who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi last month.At present, there are at least 26 Covid-19 cases in Assam and 25 of them are linked to the Jamaat event at the Islamic missionary group’s six-storey Nizamuddin building that has emerged as one of the single-largest source of the deadly infection in India. According to the Union health ministry, of the total 4,067 cases in India as of Monday evening, 1,445 (or about 35%) are linked to the congregation. According to the home ministry, at least 25,500 Jamaat members and people who came in contact with them have been quarantined across India.In one of the audio clips, Islam allegedly said a plan was underway to spread hatred (against people associated with the Jamaat). He purportedly said the condition of quarantine centres was worse than that of detention centres, which are used to incarcerate foreigners illegally staying in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-mla-held-for-spreading-false-covid-19-info-police/story-chZkNRC5WHm6GF5eM1fkoM.html
07-04-2020||India||India to form clinical research collaborative on Covid-19||India Covid-19 Clinical Research Collaborative Network, a hospital-based clinical research initiative, is in the works to enhance the understanding of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The move will help India-specific treatment protocols and push research and development in the field of drug development for the pandemic.The National Task Force on Covid-19, which is a group of technical experts reviewing key decisions regarding the viral outbreak, has recommended establishing the research collaborative that will be coordinated by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the country’s apex biomedical research organisation.“The goal of this network is to develop specific clinical management protocols and further research and development for therapeutics. For this purpose, a central database of clinical and laboratory parameters of hospitalised Covid-19 cases is being created,” said a statement from the ICMR.Also Watch | Pune based start-up develops sanitization unit to disinfect surfaces within 15 minutes All hospitals that are treating Covid-19 patients are being invited to become partners of the network. The research regulator has made public a link https://forms.gle/LHByZkR41UPHqX9FA that needs to be mandatorily filled by those hospitals that are willing to join the network.“This is clinical research primarily using data at the hospital level. It involves all those who are directly dealing with patient management to get a sense of symptoms. Besides, what’s working and what’s not as far as the treatment is concerned,” said a senior scientist at the ICMR.Available data have shown that around 80% Covid-19 positive cases will develop mild symptoms, 15% severe symptoms requiring hospitalisation such as difficulty in breathing, and 5% critical enough needing oxygen or ventilator support.“There is a lot we know so far and a lot more that needs to be known further. The research will keep on evolving. We will get to know new things about the virus and disease pattern with every new research coming out on Covid-19. It’s an ongoing process,” the scientist said. However, registering for the collaborative does not mean a hospital or a laboratory is exempt from providing other patients’ details to the authorities.“It is over and above the usual testing and disease management protocol that need to be followed while dealing with Covid-19 suspected or positive cases,” he added. Hospitals should continue to independently report the data to central and state health authorities in line with the existing guidelines, including local integrated disease surveillance programme units on a real-time basis, the ICMR statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-form-clinical-research-collaborative-on-covid-19/story-qKrd84vPkPUYbk7fqMmB6M.html
07-04-2020||India||Amid Covid-19 crisis, 198 doctors face absenteeism heat in Bihar||Around 198 doctors are in the dock for absenteeism when Bihar has cancelled leaves of health personnel till April 30 in the wake of the coronavirus crisis.The health department issued show-cause notices to 76 doctors, absent from duty on March 31, while it was in the process of issuing notices to another 122 who were absent on April 1 and 2, said officials on Monday.The doctors have been given three days’ time to respond to the show-cause notice.Among the doctors facing the heat are 40 regular and remaining contractual. They also include doctors appointed on contract under the National Health Mission (NHM) and those practising indigenous medicine (Ayush) under the Rashtriya Bal Suraksha Karyakram.The state health department had on March 13 issued an order, cancelling leaves, except study and maternity leaves, of health care personnel till March 31 in the view of the coronavirus pandemic. The department on Sunday issued an order extending the embargo on leaves till April 30.“We have issued show-cause notices to 76 doctors who were absent from duty on March 31, when the government has cancelled leaves of all health care personnel till April 30. They have been given three days’ time to respond to the show-cause notice as to why they should not proceed against relevant sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, and the Disaster Management Act, 2005,” said Sanjay Kumar, Bihar’s health principal secretary.The government could initiate departmental proceedings if the response of the doctors was not satisfactory.The State Health Society, Bihar, (SHSB) had on March 31 carried out the monitoring by calling up the doctors on landline numbers at their designated place of posting. Many of the doctors in the dock are those posted at district hospitals, sub-divisional hospitals, primary health centres and additional primary health centres, said a health department official.On March 17, Bihar enforced the Epidemic Diseases, Covid-19 Regulation 2020, which was invoked under the Epidemic Disease Act, 1897 (Central Act 3 of 1897).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-covid-19-crisis-198-doctors-face-absenteeism-heat-in-bihar/story-sbMB7Y8JGHODCoj3fLVdeM.html
07-04-2020||India||Covid-19 update: India records 4,421 coronavirus cases, death toll touches 114||India reported 114 Covid-19 related deaths across the country and a jump of 354 coronavirus disease cases taking the tally to 4421, the Union health ministry said on Tuesday morning.As the country entered the 14th day of the country-wide lockdown, there 3981 active cases and 325 people have been cured or discharged or have migrated, the health ministry’s data at 9am showed.The health ministry had said on Monday that people above 60 years of age account for 63% of the 109 deaths that have occurred due to Covid-19 in India on Monday, cautioning that pre-existing conditions such as diabetes make the infection deadlier.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The health ministry had released data on the coronavirus disease cases and deaths in the country based on an analysis of 4067 cases and 109 deaths. The trends are similar to reported elsewhere in the world in which show older people are more at risk and more men die from Covid-19 than women.The group of ministers (GoM) headed by defence minister Rajnath Singh will meet in New Delhi on Tuesday to discuss, among other issues, whether the 21-day lockdown clamped to break the chain of coronavirus infections should be extended.Ministers and senior bureaucrats said the meeting of ministers will consider the recommendations of the 11 empowered groups set up to manage various aspects of India’s response to the pandemic. Union home minister Amit Shah will also attend the meeting.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-india-records-4-421-coronavirus-cases-death-toll-touches-114/story-2CpTHbXR0B6KvvtB0MiglK.html
07-04-2020||India||Covid-19 state tally: Cases inch toward 900 in Maharashtra, Tripura reports first patient||As India entered the 14th day of the 21-day coronavirus lockdown on Tuesday, the total number of Covid-19 cases in the country soared to 4,421.As per the data released by the Ministry of Health, there are 3,981 active coronavirus cases in the country while 114 people have lost their lives to the deadly contagion. The good news is that as many as 325 have been cured or discharged across the nation. Here’s a look at statewise breakup of coronavirus cases, fatalities and recoveries in various states. MaharashtraWith 748 Covid-19 active cases, Maharashtra has registered the highest number of coronavirus cases in the country. The state has recorded 45 deaths so far while 56 patients have recovered.Tamil NaduThe southern state has the second-highest number of Covid-19 cases in the country which now stand at a whopping 621. Tamil Nadu has seen 8 recoveries and 5 Covid-19 deaths.DelhiDelhi closely follows with the third-highest number of coronavirus cases in the country. As many as 523 people have tested positive of coronavirus in the national capital. 7 people have died from the infection while 19 people have made a recovery, as per the health ministry’s data.Telangana321 positive cases of coronavirus have been reported from the state so far. 34 people have made a recovery from the virus while seven people have died from Covid-19.KeralaWith 327 coronavirus cases, Kerala is the fifth most coronavirus-affected state in the country. As per the latest data by the Ministry of Health, Kerala has witnessed two deaths due to Covid-19 while 58 people have successfully recovered.RajasthanCoronavirus cases in Rajasthan touched 288 on Tuesday. The state has reported 3 fatalities. 21 patients have recovered from the infection.Uttar Pradesh305 people have been infected from Covid-19 in the state. While 21 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, 3 have died from the infection here.Andhra PradeshThe state has witnessed 226 positive Covid-19 patients and one case of recovery. Three people have died.Madhya PradeshThe state has reported 165 positive cases of coronavirus. 9 people have died from Covid-19 here.KarnatakaThe state has recorded 151 Covid-19 cases and four deaths. 12 people have been cured and discharged.GujaratPrime Minister Narendra Modi’s home state has registered 144 coronavirus cases and 22 recoveries so far. 12 people have died from the infection in the state.Jammu and KashmirThe union territory of Jammu and Kashmir has seen the number of Covid-19 patients rising to 109. Two people have died from the infection while four were cured.Haryana and PunjabThe neighbouring states have 90 and 76 Covid-19 cases respectively. While 6 people have died in Punjab, Haryana has seen one death. Twenty-five people have recovered from Covid-19 in Haryana, 4 in Punjab.91 people have been affected by the Sars-CoV-2 virus in West Bengal. There have been three deaths and 13 recoveries in the state. In Chandigarh, 18 people have contracted the Covid-19 disease. Andaman has recorded 10 coronavirus cases. Chhattisgarh has recorded 10 cases of coronavirus, and 8 people have recovered. In Bihar, 32 people have tested positive for coronavirus, one has died.Assam has reported 26 Covid-19 cases. Uttarakhand has 31 coronavirus patients, five patients have recovered from the infection. Odisha has 21 Covid-19 positive patients, 2 have recovered while Ladakh has 14 patients, 10 people have recovered.Goa has reported seven cases of Covid-19 disease. Himachal Pradesh has 13 cases, one patient has died and two have recovered. Pondicherry has reported five cases, one has recovered. Jharkhand has 4 Covid-19 cases. Two coronavirus cases have been reported in Manipur.States and Union territories with just one positive Covid-19 case include Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram, Tripura.Sikkim, Meghalaya and Nagaland have not reported any Covid-19 case yet.India is under a 21-day nationwide coronavirus lockdown announced by PM Modi to break the chain of Covid-19 infection in the country. The 21-day lockdown will end on April 14.Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-state-tally-cases-inch-toward-900-in-maharashtra-tripura-reports-first-patient/story-EpbygU5Bm3iHenf5YX3UVL.html
07-04-2020||India||Surveillance of wildlife for SARS-CoV-2 reservoirs may give key clues: Scientist||A four-year-old Malayan tiger named Nadia, who tested coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive in New York’s Bronx Zoo on Sunday has raised concerns about the risk of cross-species transmission. But to detect such transmission and the risk of future pandemics, a lot of resources need to be invested in surveillance of animals as well to understand how Covid-19 is impacting them. Uma Ramakrishnan, associate professor, National Centre for Biological Sciences, Bengaluru, and senior fellow, Wellcome Trust, underlined the need to study possible reservoirs of SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19.Q. Is there a chance that the virus will find a new animal reservoir outside China?A. It’s possible, but overall, humans are the most numerous species on earth and currently, the virus is infecting them.Q. How can scientists track animal reservoirs?A. This is a great question! We could. First, conduct a survey among asymptomatic wildlife/possible reservoirs and look for Covid-19 sequences. We would do this most likely in bats because they carry a high burden of viruses. We could also look for situations where bats are in contact with humans such as the bat harvest we have studied in Nagaland. Second, test animals that show symptoms in zoos or the wild. Regardless, what we will need to do is lots of surveillance! This will require lots of fieldwork and sampling, as well as detailed molecular characterisation and testing, and also genome sequencing to better understand the transmission dynamics (where is spillover happening, from which species to which species). This is an exciting field but poorly represented in India. Almost no such work exists. Q. What does the tiger testing positive in Bronx Zoo tell us about the susceptibility of wildlife to the virus?A. Not too much, just that tigers can get infected naturally.The papers that have been published already told us this, but in that case, the cats were infected on purpose. Here, the tiger contracted it possibly from an asymptomatic carrier. What we do not know is how are tigers affected in general. Is there mortality? And, at what rate?Q. What does this mean for wildlife?A. In zoos, contact between humans and captive animals is high. Is this the case at all in the wild? It might be that the chances of transmission are much lower for wild animals (while could be a chain: humans to macaques to tigers, for example), and does this happen? These are all questions that would need to be addressed from both a basic and applied perspective.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/surveillance-of-wildlife-for-sars-cov-2-reservoirs-could-give-important-clues-scientist/story-WOAO9Ya6aiEAVsu74aOHuK.html
07-04-2020||India||Lockdown future and a long war: Covid-19 news from India||A group of ministers will meet today to discuss, among other issues, whether the three-week, nationwide lockdown put in place to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) should be extended. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said the battle against the pandemic will be long, adding that India has been proactive and prompt in its response.Coronavirus case count to guide India’s lockdown futureThe group of ministers (GoM) headed by defence minister Rajnath Singh will meet in New Delhi on Tuesday to discuss, among other issues, whether the lockdown put in place to combat the spread of Covid-19 should be extended -- in the backdrop of comments from administrators in at least four states that they would recommend prolonging it beyond April 14, when it is scheduled to end. Read more.Coronavirus update: A long war ahead but we’ll win it, says PM ModiCategorically stating that the battle against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic will be “long”, and akin to a war situation, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday that India has been proactive and “comprehensive” in its approach to fighting the outbreak, even as he encouraged citizens to take a series of measures to secure themselves and help the vulnerable. Read more.Covid-19: What you need to know todayDr Anthony Fauci, the United States’s top infectious diseases specialist, said on Sunday that between 25% and 50% of people infected with the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, are asymptomatic – one reason why it makes sense to wear masks. Read more.Covid-19 update: States to get 500,000 rapid antibody test kits this weekStates across the country will soon receive half a million antibody testing kits from the Centre, as India embarks on more aggressive testing in so-called containment zones and clusters. Read more.63% of those dead over 60 yrs, shows govt dataIndia’s health ministry on Monday released data on the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases and deaths in the country -- based on an analysis of 4,067 cases and 109 deaths -- reaffirming trends seen elsewhere in the world in terms of age (older people are more at risk) and gender (more men die from Covid-19 than women). Read more.Covid-19 update: The ‘ruthless containment’ model of Rajasthan’s BhilwaraBhilwara district, which was once among the 10 coronavirus disease (Covid-19) hot spots in the country, is now being talked about for its ‘ruthless containment’ model. Read more.Odisha govt makes wearing masks in public mandatory, issues guidelinesThe Odisha government on Monday directed the people of the state to cover their mouths and noses with any available form of masks when going out in public. Read more.How India performs on 6 steps to flatten coronavirus curveThe respected New England Journal of Medicine, in an editorial titled Ten Weeks to Crush the Curve, on managing Covid-19, lists six steps needed to fight the pandemic. At the core of these steps is science, according to US public policy expert and physician Dr Harvey V. Fineberg who authored the editorial. Read moreMPs take 30% pay cut for ayear, local area fund haltedThe Union cabinet on Monday decided to cut the salaries of the Prime Minister, other ministers, and parliamentarians by 30% for a year, and to suspend for two years, a scheme under which parliamentarians get Rs 5 crore a year to spend on developmental work, with all the money saved going into the consolidated fund of India to be used to fight the Covid-19 pandemic. Read more.Bengal jute mills, tea gardens to remain shut till lockdownWest Bengal has decided against allowing jute mills to start operations before the nationwide lockdown ends, heedless of requests to the effect by the Centre. The decision was taken at a state government meeting on Monday to review the lockdown and was conveyed to the jute industry in the evening. Read more.After Bronx tiger tests positive, zoos, reserves put on high alertThe environment ministry on Monday advised the chief wildlife wardens of all states to take immediate steps to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in national parks and tiger reserves, including restricting the movement of people near national parks and sanctuaries. Read more.At least 30% of total Covid-19 cases in country tied to Jamaat eventAt least 1,445 of 4,780 Covid-19 cases in India are linked to a congregation held last month in Delhi at Tablighi Jamaat’s headquarters that has since emerged as a hot spot of the disease, the Union health ministry said on Monday as state governments continued to warn of strict action against those who attended the gathering but have failed to report for testing. Read more.Directorate of health dept found to be Bhopal’s biggest hot spotThe biggest hot spot of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the capital of Madhya Pradesh has been found nowhere else but at the directorate of the state health department, which is tasked with controlling and containing the disease across the state. Read more.Jharkhand doing everything to check pandemic with minimum resources’: CM SorenJharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren says the pace of Covid-19 testing has been slow in his state because of a delay in procuring testing kits and personal protection equipment (PPE) from the Centre. In an interview with Aurangzeb Naqshbandi, he also spoke about his government’s lockdown exit strategy while underlining that a final call will only be taken after assessing the situation on April 15 when the lockdown ends. Read more.At least 30% of total Covid-19 cases in country tied to Jamaat eventAt least 1,445 of 4,780 Covid-19 cases in India are linked to a congregation held last month in Delhi at Tablighi Jamaat’s headquarters that has since emerged as a hot spot of the disease, the Union health ministry said on Monday as state governments continued to warn of strict action against those who attended the gathering but have failed to report for testing. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-future-and-a-long-war-covid-19-news-from-india/story-YoSpzVrsu9JGShUKjvS8OJ.html
07-04-2020||India||West Bengal Governor appeals to Mamata Banerjee to take pay cut||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar has urged chief minister Mamata Banerjee, her council of ministers and the members of legislative assembly (MLAs) to take a pay cut for a year to help the Central government’s bid to tackle the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. “APPEAL MLAs and Ministers in WEST BENGAL @MamataOfficial to take 30% pay cut for a year to boost govt’s Covid-19 efforts,” Dhankhar tweeted early in the morning on Tuesday.He also highlighted the fact that President Ram Nath Kovind, governors, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his council of ministers have already taken a pay cut. “PM, MPs, Union Ministers @narendramodi take 30% pay cut for a year to Covid-19 efforts. President, VP, and Governors also take 30% pay cut for a year,” he tweeted.On March 31, Banerjee had, however, tweeted that she doesn’t take any salary as the Bengal CM or as a lawmaker. “I do not take any salary as an MLA or a Chief Minister and I have also foregone my MP Pension despite being a seven-time Member of Parliament. I come from limited means. My primary source of income is from my creative pursuits, the royalties I generate from my music and books,” Banerjee tweeted last week.On April 2, the Bengal government had announced austerity measures under which no new scheme will be taken up and all construction works will stop except urgent repairs and maintenance for which approval has to be taken from the finance department. The drive has been initiated because of the massive unexpected expenditure to tackle the Covid-19 outbreak across the cash-strapped state.Dhankhar, whose acrimonious relation with the state government has been in news for months, had earlier contributed Rs 10 lakh to the chief minister’s emergency relief fund and Rs 5 lakh to the Prime Minister’s relief fund.Banerjee has also donated Rs 5 lakh each to the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund and the state Emergency Relief Fund to help combat the spread of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-guv-appeals-to-mamata-banerjee-to-take-pay-cut/story-a0svT2yBAP2PUKdqFpIOOK.html
07-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: 16 Tablighi Jamaat members in Chhattisgarh booked for hiding travel details||Chhattisgarh police on Monday booked 16 people, including seven minors, associated with the Tablighi Jamaat in Korba district for hiding their travel details.Police said more people, who helped these people in Korba, will be also booked under relevant sections in the next few days.A 16-year-old boy, who tested positive for Covid-19 on April 4 and admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Raipur, was among those booked on Monday.“A 68-year-old person among them attended the congregation at the Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi last month but had not disclosed his visit. He first stayed for a few days in Kamti area of Nagpur and came to Korba along 15 others,” Dipanshu Kabra, said inspector general of police (Bilaspur Zone), said while speaking to HT.The religious gatherings at the Tablighi Jamaat’s six-storey headquarters in Nizamuddin Basti in mid-March have emerged as the largest hot spot of coronavirus disease in the country.The Jamaat headquarters, also known as Markaz, has been linked to over 1445 infections so far, or about 35% of the total cases in India across 17 states and Union territories, according to the Union health ministry.Also read: Resume interstate traffic after ‘comprehensive broad discussion, Bhupesh Baghel to PMKabra said the Tablighi Jamaat people misled the police and claimed that they reached Korba on March 5 and no one attended the congregation at Nizamuddin.“We quizzed all of them on March 22 and even put them in isolation for precautionary measures but all of them lied about their visit to Nizamuddin. Later, when police investigated, we found that they reached Korba on March 14 and one of them even visited Nizamuddin,” Kabra said.He added that the 16-year-old who is admitted in AIIMS Raipur got infected during this process.Also read: Chhattisgarh police curtail counter-Maoist ops“Some people in the district helped these people in hiding details they will also be booked in the next couple of days,” said Kabra.Police said all the 16, including their head Mohammad Anwar Kamaal, were booked under sections 188 (defying lawful order of a public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act 1897.There are 10 Covid-19 patients in Chhattisgarh and out of which nine have been discharged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-16-tablighi-jamaat-members-in-chhattisgarh-booked-for-hiding-travel-details/story-EHJmf4JtjdFwoKMluxvq9O.html
07-04-2020||India||Odisha govt makes wearing masks in public mandatory, issues guidelines||The Odisha government on Monday directed the people of the state to cover their mouths and noses with any available form of masks when going out in public.“The general public is directed to cover their mouth and nose with any available form of mask while stepping out of house for any purpose. A handkerchief or any other piece of cloth in at least two layers can also be used for the purpose,” said a government order that will come into effect from 7 am on April 9 and will remain in force till further orders.“Disposable/single use masks should be properly disposed of by following due procedure prescribed by Health and Family Welfare Department. Cloth masks should be cleaned with soap/detergent/disinfectant and water and sun-dried for at least 5 hours after every single use. Masks used by one person must not be used by any other person,” the order said.Wearing surgical masks in public spaces may help limit the transmission of viruses, including the one that causes coronavirus disease or Covid-19, a new study published in the the journal Nature Medicine on Saturday had said.The study was published days after a high-level US scientific panel said the Sars-Cov-2 virus that caused Covid-19 is airborne and can be spread through speech or breathing – contradicting previously held belief that it spreads largely through close contact.Earlier, the district administration of Ganjam had made it compulsory for all to wear masks while stepping out. Those not wearing the masks would have to pay Rs 1,000 in urban areas and Rs 500 in rural areas, the district administration said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-govt-makes-wearing-masks-in-public-mandatory-issues-guidelines/story-oBnbL0U0sbQJMCHJI2oE7J.html
07-04-2020||India||Coronavirus: Twelve new Covid-19 cases take Karnataka’s tally to 163||Karnataka recorded 12 more positive cases of coronavirus in the last 24 hours taking the total cumulative number to 163. Mysore district accounted for 7 of the new cases taking the total number in the district to 35, even as Bangalore added three more cases to take its tally to 59. Till now, four people have died due to the dreaded virus in the state while 20 have been discharged after being treated successfully. Among the new cases, four had attended the Markaz event in Delhi’s Nizamuddin.State medical education minister Dr K Sudhakar hinted that the lockdown could be extended beyond April 14th in the state’s ‘red zones’. The state has identified parts of capital Bangalore, Mysore, Nanjangud, Gauribidnur, Bidar and Mangalore as ‘red zones’ as they account for a bulk of the positive cases in the state. Speaking to the media, Sudhakar said that they would consult with the Centre and other relevant officials and the state might take a call to lift the lockdown in the ‘red zones’ only in phases.Bidar police have registered a case against eight Jammatis who had come from Kyrgyzstan and had indulged in religion preaching while travelling on a tourist visa which prohibits it. Cases have been registered against them in Gandhi Ganj police station in the district.Meanwhile, a communal poster was allegedly posted in Koyla near Someshwara in Mangalore. The posters in Kannada have gone viral on social media and had barred traders from a particular community from entering the area ‘to prevent the spread of coronavirus until the current situation eases’.It was alleged that the posters were on the behalf of the majority community in the area. Police are investigating who put up these posters with Dakshina Kannada SP Lakshmi Prasad warning that anybody who tries to incite communal trouble through posters, news and images would face strict action under the law.In another incident in Bidari village of Mudhol taluk, Bagalkot district, three people belonging to a certain community were seen being beaten up in a video which went viral on social media. Speaking to HT on phone, SP of Bagalkot, Lokesh Jagalasar said, “We have registered an FIR and five persons have been detained, we are interrogating them. Preliminary enquiries have indicated that a mixed group of fishermen who were passing by were attacked by some villagers who were concerned about the spread of coronavirus, especially after some Markaz returnees had tested positive. There does not seem to be any communal angle to it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-twelve-new-covid-19-cases-take-karnataka-s-tally-to-163/story-WajWtiXh2bMmzelHnCgIJK.html
07-04-2020||India||Covid-19: West Bengal FM urges Nirmala Sitharaman to release state’s Revenue Deficit Grant in 3 installments||West Bengal Finance Minister Amit Mitra on Monday wrote to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman urging to release the entire sum of Revenue Deficit Grant provided by the 15th Finance Commission to the state of Rs 5,031 crores in three installments.Mitra said the states will continue to face financial stress in a situation where revenue receipts are drying up, while the expenditure to tackle the COVID 19 crisis.“In order to tide over this critical situation, we had made a request for advance release of the Revenue Deficit Grant provided by the 15th Finance Commission, where we urged you to release the full amount of the grant during the months of April, May and June 2020,” Mitra said in the letter.He said in the case of West Bengal, this release will amount to Rs 5,013 crores in three installments of Rs 1,671 crores, for each of the three months of April, May and June, respectively.“But we are dismayed that the Centre has released only an amount of Rs 417 crores for the month of April, in a routine manner without taking into cognizance the unprecedented COVID-19 crisis,” he added.The state finance minister also highlighted the proposal sent by the Chief Minister to the Prime Minister of raising the FRBM limit from 3 per cent to 5 per cent for this fiscal year, 2020-21.“May I urge that the proposals may be urgently put in place so that the State has some resources to fight the menace of COVID-19 and implement welfare measures for the people, especially poor farmers, the unorganized workers and micro and small enterprises, who among others, have been so badly impacted,” Mitra added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-west-bengal-fm-urges-nirmala-sitharaman-to-release-state-s-revenue-deficit-grant-in-3-installments/story-Mnu9upepredIE7zunx9FSM.html
07-04-2020||India||Covid-19: India eases hydroxychloroquine, paracetamol export restrictions||India has partially eased restrictions on the export of anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine and paracetamol, cited by some as key to the fight against Covid-19, to fulfil existing orders and to meet the needs of neighbouring countries.People familiar with developments, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said existing orders from other countries for hydroxychloroquine and paracetamol will be cleared only after meeting all domestic requirements.The external affairs ministry said the two drugs will also be supplied in “appropriate quantities” to all neighbouring countries dependent on India’s capabilities.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here India, the largest producer of hydroxychloroquine, initially banned exports of the drug on March 25 to ensure adequate domestic supplies. Rules were tightened on April 4 by barring exports of hydroxychloroquine and formulations made from it from special economic zones (SEZs) and export-oriented units (EOUs). Such bans don’t usually apply to SEZs and EOUs, which are meant to promote exports.Also Watch | Donald Trump hints at ‘retaliation’ if India withholds hydroxychloroquine exports However, US President Donald Trump and Brazil President Jair Bolsonaro have called on India to permit the supply of the drug to cope with Covid-19 cases in their countries. On Monday, Trump also spoke about “retaliation” if India didn’t lift its hold on US orders.Also read: Coronavirus case count to guide India’s lockdown future“There has been a partial lifting of the ban, and hydroxychloroquine and paracetamol exports will continue to be restricted,” said one of the people cited above who declined to be named.“Depending on availability of stocks of hydroxychloroquine after meeting domestic requirements, existing orders will be cleared,” the person said.The department of pharmaceuticals under the ministry of chemicals and fertilizers and the external affairs ministry will decide on allocations on a case-to-case basis, depending on the humanitarian situation related to the Covid-19 pandemic, the people said.External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said paracetamol and hydroxychloroquine “will be kept in a licenced category and their demand position would be continuously monitored”. He added, “However, the stock position could allow our companies to meet the export commitments that they had contracted.”Also read: Trump talks of ‘retaliation’ if India turns down anti-malarial drug requestSrivastava said India has decided to “licence paracetamol and hydroxychloroquine in appropriate quantities to all our neighbouring countries who are dependent on our capabilities” because of the humanitarian aspects of the pandemic.“We will also be supplying these essential drugs to some nations who have been particularly badly affected by the pandemic,” he added.Trump, who has repeatedly advocated the use of hydroxychloroquine to fight Covid-19 despite opposition from some of his top advisers, told a White House briefing on Monday that there could be “retaliation” if India turns down his request to lift the hold on US orders.The US president had requested the lifting of the hold on hydroxychloroquine exports during a telephone call with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday. The US had placed orders for the medicine in March.“I said we’d appreciate you allowing our supply to come out. If he doesn’t allow it to come out, that would be okay but, of course, there may be retaliation. Why wouldn’t that be?” Trump said.Click here complete coronavirus coverage“I don’t like that decision,” Trump said, referring to India’s move to bar exports of hydroxychloroquine. “I didn’t hear that was his [Modi’s] decision. I know that he stopped it for other countries. I spoke to him yesterday [Sunday]. We had a very good talk, and we’ll see whether or not that’s his decision. I would be surprised if he would you know because India does very well with the US.”Trump also reiterated his long-standing grievances on trade issues with India, saying: “For many years they’ve been taking advantage of the US on trade. So I would be surprised if that was the decision. He’d have to tell me that.”Brazilian President Bolsonaro, facing tremendous pressure at home for his handling of the Covid-19 crisis, too, said he had sought supplies of hydroxychloroquine from India. “I asked the PM of India for his support in continuing the supply of pharmaceutical inputs for the production of hydroxychloroquine. We will spare no effort to save lives,” he tweeted.The people cited above said more than 20 countries from around the world have sought supplies of hydroxychloroquine from India. The new partial easing of the ban will offer a way out in coping with this situation, but only after ensuring there are adequate supplies to meet domestic needs, the people said.External affairs ministry spokesperson Srivastava said the Indian government’s first obligation was ensuring “adequate stocks of medicines for the requirement of our own people”. Temporary steps were taken to restrict exports of a number of pharmaceutical products and a comprehensive assessment was made of possible requirements under different scenarios, he said.“After having confirmed the availability of medicines for all possible contingencies currently envisaged, these restrictions have been largely lifted. The DGFT has notified lifting restrictions on 14 drugs [on Monday],” Srivastava said.In view of the enormity of the Covid-19 pandemic, India has maintained the world community “must display strong solidarity and cooperation” and this approach has guided New Delhi’s evacuation of nationals of other countries, he said.The Indian Council of Medical Research has said: “Hydroxychloroquine is found to be effective against coronavirus in laboratory studies and in-vivo studies. Its use in prophylaxis is derived from available evidence of benefit as treatment and supported by pre-clinical data.” India’s National Taskforce for Covid-19 has recommended the use of hydroxychloroquine for infections among “asymptomatic healthcare workers involved in the care of suspected or confirmed cases of Covid-19” and “asymptomatic household contacts of laboratory confirmed cases”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-india-lifts-restrictions-on-24-drug-exports-amid-coronavirus/story-UN7jWbEu8Myjr9MjAxLO2N.html
07-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: On World Health Day, PM Modi extends gratitude to those ‘battling the Covid-19 menace’ and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 AM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.On World Health Day, PM Modi extends gratitude to those ‘battling the Covid-19 menace’Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday tweeted on the occasion of World Health Day and urged the citizens to extend their gratitude towards nurses and healthcare workers who are “battling against the Covid-19 menace”.United Nations’ secretary-general António Guterres also posted a video message on the occasion and said that the healthcare workers and nurses make everyone proud and instil inspiration. Read more. Trump talks of ‘retaliation’ if India turns down anti-malarial drug requestPresident DonaldTrump on Monday spoke of “retaliation” if India turned down his request to lift the hold on US orders of an antimalarial drug, which he has touted as a “game-changer” in the fight against the coronavirus despite its untested efficacy, resulting from a blanket ban on export of certain medicines. Read more. Coronavirus case count to guide India’s lockdown futureThe group of ministers (GoM) headed by defence minister Rajnath Singh will meet in New Delhi on Tuesday to discuss, among other issues, whether the lockdown put in place to combat the spread of Covid-19 should be extended -- in the backdrop of comments from administrators in at least four states that they would recommend prolonging it beyond April 14, when it is scheduled to end. Read more. UK PM Boris Johnson moved to ICU as coronavirus symptoms ‘worsen’Prime Minister Boris Johnson is in ICU as a precaution should he require ventilation to aid his recovery, officials said, after day-long speculation about the extent of his health after he was moved to the hospital on Sunday night, 10 days after testing positive for coronavirus. Read more. How India performs on 6 steps to flatten coronavirus curveThe respected New England Journal of Medicine, in an editorial titled Ten Weeks to Crush the Curve, on managing Covid-19, lists six steps needed to fight the pandemic. At the core of these steps is science, according to US public policy expert and physician Dr Harvey V. Fineberg who authored the editorial. So, how does India perform on each of the six steps. Read more. Delhi government steps up fight to contain coronavirus in 7 zonesWith the number of Covid-19 cases rising in the national capital—20 new cases were reported on Monday taking the tally to 523—the Delhi government on Monday declared three new containment areas, taking to seven, the total number of such zones in the city. More will likely be declared, a senior official said. Read more. Shah Rukh Khan, Priyanka Chopra to be part of Lady Gaga’s One World: Together At Home live event to raise funds for Covid-19: reportBollywood actors Shah Rukh Khan and Priyanka Chopra will be part of a global effort to raise funds to tackle Covid-19 to be organised by World Health ORganisation (WHO). The event will see other international stars such as Lady Gaga and Elton John join as well. Read more. This day that year: Sanath Jayasuriya slams 17-ball 50, but Pakistan win titleThe Singer Cup tri-series played between India, Pakistan and Sri Lanka in Singapore in 1997 was yet another opportunity for the newly crowned world champions Sri Lanka to showcase their prowess in front of their Asian rivals. The tournament belonged to the hard-hitting opening batsman Sanath Jayasuriya, who had slammed the then fastest ODI century in 48 balls in the tournament. Read more. 15 quotes to read and share celebrating the wealth that is health on World Health DayThe world battles a global pandemic and one of the biggest health crisis of all times, it is time to prioritise our physical and mental well-being at all costs. As the World Health Day is upon us and this year WHO is honouring the contribution of nurses and midwives who are making the world a healthier place by helping in fighting the coronavirus crisis. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-on-world-health-day-pm-modi-extends-gratitude-to-those-battling-the-covid-19-menace-and-all-the-latest-news/story-SUHRbXP4on5kzynDLIODlI.html
07-04-2020||India||On World Health Day, PM Modi extends gratitude to those ‘battling the Covid-19 menace’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday tweeted on the occasion of World Health Day and urged the citizens to extend their gratitude towards nurses and healthcare workers who are “battling against the Covid-19 menace”.“Today on #WorldHealthDay, let us not only pray for each other’s good health and well-being but also reaffirm our gratitude towards all those doctors, nurses, medical staff and healthcare workers who are bravely leading the battle against the COVID-19 menace,” PM Modi tweeted. The Prime Minister also reiterated the importance of maintaining social distancing in the fight against coronavirus.PM Modi also hoped that the day will inspire people to focus on their personal fitness and health.  Today on #WorldHealthDay, let us not only pray for each other’s good health and well-being but also reaffirm our gratitude towards all those doctors, nurses, medical staff and healthcare workers who are bravely leading the battle against the COVID-19 menace. 🙏🏼“This #WorldHealthDay, let us also ensure we follow practices like social distancing which will protect our own lives as well as the lives of others. May this day also inspire us towards focusing on personal fitness through the year, which would help improve our overall health,” PM’s tweet read.  This #WorldHealthDay, let us also ensure we follow practices like social distancing which will protect our own lives as well as the lives of others. May this day also inspire us towards focusing on personal fitness through the year, which would help improve our overall health.United Nations’ secretary-general António Guterres posted a video message on the occasion and said that the healthcare workers and nurses make everyone proud and instil inspiration. Guterres said that the world is grateful to all health workers who are putting up a fight against coronavirus. “World Health Day this year comes at a very difficult time for all of us. We are more grateful than ever to all of our health workers fighting the #COVID19 pandemic. You make us proud and you inspire us. We stand with you and we count on you,” Guterres tweeted. World Health Day is celebrated every year on April 7. This year’s World Health Day theme is dedicated to honouring the indefatigable work of nurses and midwives across the globe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-world-health-day-pm-modi-extends-gratitude-to-those-battling-the-covid-19-menace/story-aUxrPWmScvS8DYW31WTAKI.html
07-04-2020||India||Amid lockdown, Shimla gets respite from monkey menace||Since the 21-day national lockdown started on March 25 to control the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), there have been reports from different parts of the country of a rise in animal sightings -- leopards, deer, elephants -- in big cities (a trend similar to several other countries where lockdowns were imposed).Shimla, however, has a different story to tell. Twelve days into the curbs, about 1,900 simians who have made the Himachal Pradesh capital their home -- often to the chagrin of officials, residents, and tourists -- are conspicuous by their absence.According to experts and the local administration, few people on the streets has led to the lack of food, prompting many of these simians to either move to nearby forests, or to villages on the periphery of the city. Most langurs have headed into the forest in search of food, while several rhesus monkeys have chosen to head to villages on Shimla’s outskirts. These simians are largely herbivorous in the city, living off gifted food and leftovers, but become omnivores when in the forest, feeding on rats and insects. “This is a temporary phase. they will be back once the bustle of the town returns. Over the years, the monkeys developed commensal habits by feeding on garbage, food waste on the streets, or by raiding homes,” said Rajesh Sharma, Shimla’s divisional forest officer, wildlife. Commensalism, which results from long-term biological interaction, is where members of one species gain benefits while those of the other species are neither benefited nor harmed.The most striking fallout of Shimla’s missing monkeys is on the Hanuman temple in Jakhu Hills that was overrun with simians The temple’s priest who performs rituals in the absence of devotees these days, says he has not come across the sight he’s seeing these days in his four decades at the temple. “At any given time, about 500 monkeys would roam in and around the Jakhu temple, but now they have simply vanished,” says Anil Thakur, a local who lives near the temple and runs a travel business..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-lockdown-shimla-gets-respite-from-monkey-menace/story-gHcLt3EnxcshwJhobqaF3O.html
07-04-2020||India||Directorate of health dept found to be Bhopal’s biggest hot spot||The biggest hot spot of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the capital of Madhya Pradesh has been found nowhere else but at the directorate of the state health department, which is tasked with controlling and containing the disease across the state. Four more employees from the directorate tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday, said officials, adding to the 15 officials from the facility, including two IAS officers, who had tested positive over the past few days. Among those infected include principal secretary, health services, director, National Health Mission, two additional directors, a joint director, and four deputy directors.The test reports of several other people at the centre are still awaited, amid allegations -- yet unsubstantiated -- at the centre that some of those infected hid their symptoms, leading to the spread.As a result of the outbreak in state’s anti-Covid headquarters, about 150 employees in the directorate are now in self-quarantine, said three officials aware of the matter who asked not to be named. The control room in the directorate is almost dysfunctional, one of the officials said.“At this time, certain Apps have been handy for us. We interact with each other through video conferencing with the help the apps and monitor the situation in the entire state. Those who have been found positive are also trying to contribute to managing the administrative affairs,” said a second official from the facility.A third official said that work was continuing. “The only problem is the lack of effective communication. A new person who takes over will take some time to understand the situation. All the government of India advisory first comes to the directorate and then its is communicated to the district and block level,” the third official added.At the same time, however, allegations were flying through the state administration about whether the outbreak could have been contained.According to a leader of the Health department’s employees’ association, the sons of at least two senior officials had concealed that they recently travelled to the US, which is now the country worst affected by Covid-19. “The officials continued to visit the secretariat and the directorate and also attend meetings with other top and junior officials. They were seen suffering from cold and cough,” he said, asking not to be named.Another employee at the centre said that since some of the officials who went to Indore several times on procurement trips should have stayed in home quarantine rather than coming to the directorate building. Indore is a certified Covid-19 hot spot that accounts for 151of the 256 cases reported in the state till Monday evening.In light of these charges, the state administration issued a statement on Sunday night, saying that all precautions were taken and there was no oversight. “In none of the advisories issued by the central government there was any advisory against travel to the US. The principal secretary’s son returned on March 16 and his medical examination was conducted at the international airport at New Delhi. He remained in self-quarantine till March 30, and doesn’t have any symptoms. On the principal secretary testing positive on April 4, the samples of other family members were sent for a test and no one were found having symptom of coronavirus,” the statement issued by the department of public relations of MP government said.When contacted, additional director, health, Sapna Lovanshi said: “All the department officials and employees are discharging their duties with dedication while following the norms of social distancing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/directorate-of-health-dept-found-to-be-bhopal-s-biggest-hot-spot/story-i6idIWWeGsNjY5rg5pZ5EM.html
07-04-2020||India||At least 30% of total Covid-19 cases in country tied to Jamaat event||At least 1,445 of 4,780 Covid-19 cases in India are linked to a congregation held last month in Delhi at Tablighi Jamaat’s headquarters that has since emerged as a hot spot of the disease, the Union health ministry said on Monday as state governments continued to warn of strict action against those who attended the gathering but have failed to report for testing.Officials in states like Odisha and Madhya Pradesh said a few attendees have turned out to be super-spreaders of the disease. A person, who attended a congregation in Bhopal where certain attendees of the Jamaat congregation in Delhi were also present, spread the virus to 18 members of his family and turned a housing society in Bhuvaneshwar into a Covid-19 hotspot, according to an Odisha health official.A person, who attended the Jamaat event in Delhi, is believed to have spread the disease to another 16, who attended the Bhopal congregation, including the Covid-19 positive person from Bhuvaneshwar, according to an official of the Bhopal district administration. Three people linked to the Jamaat have been identified in Uttarkhand for having spread the disease to another 28 in the state. “All [28] persons tested positive for Covid-19 did not attend the Nizamuddin [Delhi] congregation [of Jamaat]. Many of them got the virus from the attendees,” said a Uttarakhand health department official, who did not wish to be named. As on Monday, 708 people in the state have been found to have been linked to the Delhi congregation. The Union home ministry said at least 25,500 Jamaat followers and people who came into their contact have been quarantined across India. “In Haryana, five villages have been sealed after it was found that some foreign nationals linked to the Jamaat had stayed in those villages,” said Union home ministry joint secretary Punya Salila Srivastava.Tamil Nadu recorded 50 fresh positive cases on Monday. They include 48 people, who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi last month, state health secretary Beela Rajesh said. A total of 621 people in the state have tested positive for Covid-19 while four have died.The Assam government on Monday warned Jamaat followers to report to authorities or face legal action. Health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said action will be taken under the Disaster Management Act, which provides for up to two years in prison. Except for one, all other 25 Covid-19 positive cases detected in the state are linked to the Jamaat congregation in Delhi.“After receiving data from different sources, we had to trace 617 persons from Assam who attended the [Delhi] event and had since returned to the state. We have been able to collect samples from 491 of them while 128 are yet to be located,” Sarma said.Of the 278 Covid-19 positive cases in Uttar Pradesh, 138 are linked to the Delhi event, said additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi. He added police have identified 1,499 Jamaat members and quarantined 1,205 of them. Awasthi said their samples were being sent for tests.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said the Covid-19 cases in the national capital had reached 523. They include 330 linked to Jamaat.The Gujarat police on Monday said they have so far identified and traced 126 people from the state, who had attended the Delhi congregation of the Jamaat. Around 12 of them have tested positive. Gujarat has so far reported more than 140 Covid-19 cases and 12 deaths.A case was registered against 16 people, including seven minors, associated with Tablighi Jamaat in Chhattisgarh’s Korba district on Monday for allegedly hiding their travel history and resisting medical screening, police said. A 16-year-old boy, who tested positive for Covid-19 on April 4 and is admitted to a hospital in Raipur, is among them, they said. Authorities at the Narela Quarantine Facility in New Delhi have approached the police against some Tablighi Jamaat attendees for allegedly misbehaving with sanitation and health Staff. As per the complaint, two persons allegedly defecated in the corridor area of the facility.Meanwhile, an FIR has also been registered against some of the attendees admitted to the LNJP Hospital in Delhi for allegedly spitting towards the Operation Theatre. The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh on Monday in an attack on the Tablighi Jamaat said the organisers should have been “sensible” and called off the congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin.Addressing the media via video-conferencing, joint general secretary of the RSS Manmohan Vaidya said: “The spread of the virus has definitely increased because of the event Tablighi Jamaat organised in the capital… If their leadership would have taken a decision and cancelled it on time it would have been good.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-least-30-of-total-covid-19-cases-in-country-tied-to-jamaat-event/story-OyDtc8YqvixYLQTdFifRBM.html
07-04-2020||India||China donates 170,000 PPE kits to India to help fight Covid-19||China donated 170,000 personal protection equipment (PPE) kits to India on Monday to help the neighbouring country fight the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, the health ministry said.Domestic supply of an additional 20,000 PPE will begin soon. Altogether, these 190,000 kits will be distributed to hospitals and health facilities. This will add to the 387,000 PPE already available in the country.The development comes amid a debate over whether India has enough PPE kits to arm its frontline health care workers who are working round the clock to contain the spread of the fast-spreading infection.In addition, 200,000 domestically produced N95 masks are being sent to various hospitals, the health ministry statement said, adding that about 1.6 million such masks are already available. A large part of the fresh supplies will be sent to states with comparatively higher number of cases such as Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Delhi, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Rajasthan.“The commencement of foreign supplies marks a major milestone in our efforts to procure personal protection equipment for the battle against Covid-19,” the ministry said.It added that an order for 8 million complete PPE kits was placed before a Singapore company. Also, negotiations are in final stages with a Chinese platform for placing an order of 6 million complete PPE kits, which will also include N95 masks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-donates-170-000-ppe-kits-to-india-to-help-fight-covid-19/story-QjqZ3U21OXmzol1L3koAiN.html
07-04-2020||India||Everything new that is coming to WhatsApp||According to WABetaInfo, the guys who track new additions via updates on WhatsApp, the Facbook-owned messaging app has recently submitted a new update through the Google Play Beta Program bringing the version up to 2.20.117. 📝 WhatsApp beta for Android 2.20.117: what's new?This update has a lot of hidden tracks about new features under development: Advanced Search Mode, Protect Backup and New Auto-Download rules!https://t.co/MirJrnwfl7NOTE: Those features will be available in future.The new update brings with it a bunch of additions we are going to see on WhatsApp in the future and are all currently under development. There are no dates for when these updates are going to be launched yet. However, these are the new features coming to WhatsApp soon: Bug fixes This update fixes a critical bug that caused the app to crash. WhatsApp was crashing because there was a missing library called libcurve25519.so. WhatsApp couldn’t find this dependency and it crashed, the new update will fix this bug. Advanced Search messages In the WhatsApp beta for iOS 2.20.30.25 WhatsApp has enabled the Advanced Search Mode feature, that allows users to quickly find any type of media easily - be it GIFs, documents, pictures, links etc. In this new 2.20.117 beta, WhatsApp has started to work on the same feature for Android. It’s still under development and this feature will be available in a future update.Also Read: Fact check: Is the govt spying on your WhatsApp messages? PIB clears it outProtect backupThere were some reports about the possibility of protecting your backup on Google Drive using a passcode on the 2.20.73 beta update. The feature is still under development, but the incoming update of WhatsApp has introduced a field where you can paste your password.Please note, the password is not saved in WhatsApp or Facebook servers, so if you lose the password you cannot recover your chat history from the backup.The feature too will be available in the future.Also Read: WhatsApp to impose new limit on forwarding to fight fake newsNew auto-download rules You can configure auto-download settings through WhatsApp Settings > Chats Settings. However, with the new update, WhatsApp is introducing a new rule that will be enabled by default in the next updates. Frequently forwarded images, videos, documents and voice messages will be never automatically downloaded from WhatsApp any more. This feature is still under development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/apr-7-everything-new-that-is-coming-to-whatsapp-new/story-oN6v1gGzQW8izP60X7JupJ.html
07-04-2020||India||Govt keeps watch on onion prices after Lasalgaon shuts operations||The consumer affairs ministry is monitoring prices of essential commodities, including that of onion, after a coronavirus positive case in Maharashtra’s Nashik led to a shutdown of Lasalgaon, Asia’s largest onion trading hub. A Covid-19 positive case came to light in Nashik on March 30, forcing suspension of operations in Lasalgaon, which subsequently affected the supplies. However, an official of the market said the operations in most onion markets in Nashik will resume on Tuesday.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic“We, at Lasalgaon, have decided to resume trading on Tuesday (April 7). The district collector ordered the shutdown because the corona positive patient was a major bakery supplier who regularly supplied pav (Indian bread) to the entire area,” Narendra Wadhwane, the secretary of the Lasalgaon agriculture produce market committee or APMC, said on Sunday. While markets in Nashik are closed, onion supplies from Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh have continued. “Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh account for over nearly two-thirds of late kharif onion crop, which is the crop that has hit markets now, said Shirish Jamdade, a horticulture department official in Pune.APMCs are state-regulated bodies that run wholesale markets in the country.According to a government note, state officials have compiled a list of all onion traders and suppliers and shared the list to counterparts in various states to facilitate supplies. The principal secretary of the state agricultural marketing recommended market committees to tell farmers to bring harvest pre-packed in gunny backs to speed up trade. “Since the lockdown, 1,650 truck load of onions have been dispatched by traders of Nashik to various parts of the country, which has helped in maintaining in steady supplies,” the government note said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-keeps-watch-on-onion-prices-after-lasalgaon-shuts-operations/story-kVWfeBCD7fINRBWAv4PL4K.html
07-04-2020||India||Courts to conduct hearings through video calls, says SC||The Supreme Court on Monday issued a slew of directions to courts across the country to facilitate hearing of cases through video conferencing, a step which it said was essential to ensure that court premises do not contribute to the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).A three-judge bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI), SA Bobde, said that hearings in congregation must become an exception during the lockdown period and taking steps towards that end is a matter of duty and not an exception.“Until appropriate rules are framed by the high courts, video conferencing shall be mainly employed for hearing arguments whether at the trial stage or at the appellate stage”, the top court ordered in a suo motu (on its own) case registered by it based on a letter written by senior advocate Vikas Singh.Singh, in his letter, had suggested modalities to reduce person to person contact and the gathering of advocates inside the Supreme Court.The bench, which also comprised justices DY Chandrachud and L Nageswara Rao, said that in view of the unprecedented and extraordinary outbreak of a pandemic, it is necessary for courts to respond to the call for social distancing and ensure that court premises do not contribute to the spread of Covid-19.“The Supreme Court of India and all high courts are authorized to adopt measures required to ensure the robust functioning of the judicial system through the use of video conferencing technologies”, the court stated in its order passed under Article 142 of the Constitution.Article 142 of the Constitution empowers the top court to pass orders to do complete justice in cases before it.The Supreme Court, under complete shutdown due to the outbreak of the pandemic, has been hearing only extremely urgent cases since March 25 via video conferencing without the personal presence of lawyers. Any examples of cases heard? The apex court said on Monday that the high court in each state would be at liberty to work out the modalities for the use of video conferencing after taking into account the peculiarities of the judicial system in the state concerned and the public health situation in that state.The district courts which fall under the administrative supervision of high courts will have to adopt the mode of video conferencing prescribed by the high court in question, the top court ordered.Video conferencing, the court said, should be mainly employed for hearing arguments. When it comes to examination of witnesses and recording of evidence, consent of both parties should be obtained before using video conferencing to do the same.“If it is necessary to record evidence in a court room, the presiding officer shall ensure that appropriate distance is maintained between any two individuals in the court”, the court ordered.The court concerned should also maintain a helpline to ensure that any complaint with regard to the quality or audibility of the feed is communicated during the proceeding or immediately after its conclusion.No such grievance, the court said, will be entertained at a later stage.The court also took into account the concerns of those litigants who do not have the means or access to video conferencing facilities. In such cases, the court will have to notify and make available the facilities for video conferencing for such litigants.“If necessary, in appropriate cases, courts may appoint an amicus-curiae and make video conferencing facilities available to such an advocate,” the apex court added.Further, the presiding officer of a court will have the power to restrict entry of persons into the court room or the points from which the arguments are addressed by the advocates. However, no presiding officer shall prevent the entry of a party to the case unless such party is suffering from any infectious illness.“..where the number of litigants are many the presiding officer shall have the power to restrict the numbers. The presiding officer shall in his discretion adjourn the proceedings where it is not possible to restrict the number,” the court clarified.The top court also asked the Department of Justice and National Informatics Centre (NIC) to take note of the problems which the apex court had faced on April 3, when there was a problem with internet connectivity during the hearing of a case through video conferencing.The Director General of NIC, who was present for the hearing, told the bench that three things are required for video conferencing: good broadband connection; good devices; and observance of social etiquette and conduct of people, where if one person is speaking, others must put their devices on mute.Attorney General KK Venugopal said the NIC must look into the aspect as to which is the most efficient and cheap application that could be used for video conferencing by all lawyers across the country.The apex court adjourned the matter for four weeks stating that the directions issued by it will remain in force until further orders are passed.“This cannot be seen as a temporary issue. Technology is here to stay”, CJI Bobde remarked.[With PTI Inputs]||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/courts-to-conduct-hearings-through-video-calls-says-sc/story-89OsWrARmgncVP0MpoqZCJ.html
07-04-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Dr Anthony Fauci, the United States’s top infectious diseases specialist, said on Sunday that between 25% and 50% of people infected with the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, are asymptomatic – one reason why it makes sense to wear masks. And British PM Boris Johnson was, on Sunday evening, hospitalised (for tests, the announcement said), 10 days after he was found positive, highlighting just how bad the situation in the country is (51,608 cases as of Monday evening, with 5,373 deaths). While the UK gave up on its building “herd immunity” approach early, the hospitalisation of Johnson, a prominent votary of that theory, highlights just how foolish and wrong it was. And Fauci’s comment underlines the imperative of wearing masks – something many experts initially advised against. In hindsight, there’s nothing as dangerous as a little science in dealing with a new virus such as the one that causes Covid-19.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe big focus for India this week will be containment and enhanced testing, at least in the containment zones. Of the 4,780 cases as of Monday, 31% are from top five cities, 41% from the top 10, and 51% from the top 20. Parts of Mumbai and Delhi have been declared containment zones. Also Read: How India performs on 6 steps to flatten coronavirus curveAccording to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), around 500,000 of the 800,000 antibody testing kits it has ordered will arrive by April 8. States have also independently ordered these kits. The plan is to use them to test aggressively in containment zones using the protocol already established by ICMR. In Delhi, a private laboratory also launched drive-through testing . India will need more such – to repeat what is perhaps the most-used line in 20 editions of this column. India needs to test more.Also Read: Coronavirus case count to guide lockdown futureThat will likely turn up more cases, but it will also reduce two key ratios – the proportion of those who test positive to the total number tested, and the fatality rate.The week starting April 8 (when the use of antibody tests is expected to begin) will be critical for India, then; it’s also a week when the Prime Minister and the federal government team overseeing India’s response on the pandemic will have to take a call on the nationwide lockdown which is scheduled to end on April 14. Also Read: Hydroxychloroquine could become bone of contention between Trump and IndiaSome states are already believed to be veering towards an extended lockdown, and the thinking in New Delhi is that there should be one, at least in the clusters and containment zones. But there are other issues to be decided as well. Will interstate movement be allowed freely or will there be restrictions? What of air and rail travel? And what of retail stores and businesses?. The answers to many of these questions will depend, at least to some extent, on the data that emerges from the antibody tests. The decision will also have to factor in the economic impact of the lockdown, not just on people in the so-called unorganised sector and daily wage labourers, but also on businesses, large and small. On Monday, Japan announced an economic stimulus package of $988 billion to support struggling households and businesses . India has announced one, focused on cash transfers and food, aimed at the most vulnerable, but needs to do more to help businesses.On Monday, the number of cases worldwide stood at 1,323,641, with 73,608 deaths, and the number of cases in India 4,780, with 130 deaths. Monday’s fresh cases were similar to the increase in infections reported a day earlier. Meanwhile, work on a vaccine continues apace, both around the world and in India. But the timeline for one remains the same – not before the middle of 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-OKtUsIJzzJv2WRgc3eOY8K.html
07-04-2020||India||Covid-19: ‘Greatly respected’ Indian doctor dies in UK||Jitendra Kumar Rathod, who gained medical qualifications from Bombay University in 1977, moved to the UK and worked for years in the National Health Service (NHS), has died after being infected by coronavirus, officials in Wales said on Monday night. The Cardiff and Vale University Health Board said: “It is with profound sadness that we must inform you that Mr Jitendra Rathod, Associate Specialist in Cardio-thoracic Surgery at the University Hospital of Wales, has passed away”.Indian doctors and nurses are among frontline NHS staff dealing with thousands of patients in hospitals across the UK. Doctors who qualified in India are the second largest group employed in the NHS, after those qualifying in the UK.The board added: “He died early this morning on our General Intensive Care unit after testing positive for Covid-19. Jitu had worked in the Department of Cardio-thoracic Surgery since the mid-1990s and came back to UHW in 2006 after a brief stint abroad”.“He was an incredibly dedicated surgeon who cared deeply for his patients. He was well-liked and greatly respected by one and all. He was a very compassionate and a wonderful human being. His commitment to the specialty was exemplary,” the board said in a tribute.Rathod is survived by his wife and two sons.The number of people dying of coronavirus in the UK rose on Monday to 5,373, most likely including many of Indian origin from the 1.5 million strong Indian community. The NHS does not disclose the ethnicity of the dead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-greatly-respected-indian-doctor-dies-in-uk/story-60WkFw4AtzLQDcBqA3DvIJ.html
07-04-2020||India||Just 14 robberies as Delhi’s crime rate dips in lockdown||Delhi Police are in the middle of an extremely rare respite from all kinds of crime starting March 22, when stringent measures were put in place to stave off the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), before a nationwide lockdown took effect three days later. The police maintaining a higher profile outdoors to enforce the lockdown, and fear of the virus, has helped. Not a single case of abduction (of adults) or extortion has been reported since the lockdown. Crimes such as robbery, snatching, kidnapping (of minors) and theft have dropped significantly compared to the situation before the police and the state government enforced the complete lockdown in Delhi on March 22, when the nation observed a “Janta Curfew” on the Prime Minister’s call. Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicOn March 22, Delhi Police imposed prohibitory orders under section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, banning the assembly of four or more persons across the city. It was the first time in four decades that prohibitory orders had been issued for the whole capital city. On March 25, the three-week nationwide lockdown kicked in.The city police’s crime data in the three weeks (March 1 to March 21) before the lockdown period and after that(March 22 to March 31), accessed by Hindustan Times, shows that there has been an unprecedened reduction in all types of crime across the city. Sample this – between March 1 and March 21, 63 persons died in road accidents. At least 1,600 road accident deaths are reported each year – an average of around four deaths every day. The number of road accident deaths in Delhi each year is at least three times the level in Mumbai and Bengaluru. But between March 22 and March 31, there were only eight deaths. Public and most private transport vehicles have gone off the roads for the duration of the lockdown, explaining the dip.There is a dip in vehicle thefts too – on an average around 140 vehicles are stolen every day. Between March 1 and 21, 2486 vehicles were reported stolen, but after the prohibitory orders came into force, the vehicle stolen data was 409.There has been a significant drop in kidnappings -- at least 100 abductions are reported every week in Delhi. There were 325 cases in the first three weeks of March but after March 21, the total number of kidnappings reported was 43. While the city reports around 2,000 abduction cases every year, there has not been a single case of abduction since March 22(Between March 1 and 21, there were 29 abduction cases). “The numbers are coming down for the first time in decades. Let me give you an example. Kidnapping cases in Delhi are usually of minor girls who are kidnapped by their friends or neighbours. That also includes many cases of elopement. Now with everyone home and people practising social distancing, kidnapping cases have come down drastically,” a senior police officer, who did not wish to be named, said .Incidents of snatching, one of the most common crimes in Delhi, has decreased for the first time. There are typically around 150 snatching cases every week – there were 474 cases between March 1 and March 21 -- but after March 22, police have recorded only 49.With traffic thin and the roads empty, some criminals do go about their work. Rakesh Rana, a cinematographer from Kakrola had just stepped out of an ATM kiosk in Outer Delhi after withdrawing money when the city’s infamous bike-borne snatchers struck. “It was dark when I left the ATM. Two men on a motorcycle came out of nowhere and snatched my cell phone. All shops in the area were closed so there were no people around. Those bikers took advantage of the dark and the open road. Before I could react, they were gone. The empty roads helped them flee,” he said. Lawbreakers have also turned to new ways of committing crimes.On Friday, a milkman was arrested in South Avenue for allegedly smuggling liquor inside milk canisters. All liquor shops are closed in Delhi. Borders have also been sealed. Within Delhi, only those supplying essential services and products (milk included) are exempted from prohibitory orders. A police officer who is probing the case said, “The man is a Bulandshahr resident and was smuggling liquor posing as a milkman. He had the milk canisters fitted on his bike. He even managed to cross police barricades without being stopped. He had bought the liquor from Haryana and had planned to sell it in Uttar Pradesh.”Perhaps Delhi’s situation can be best described by a viral photograph on social media, which shows a policeman with a sanitiser bottle placed in his holster instead of a gun.Police say criminals are also wary of Covid-19 and have suddenly gone incognito. Last week, the video of a group of alleged gangster inside Tihar was widely circulated in social media, in which they are heard complaining about cleanliness inside the prison. The prisoners were heard talking about how scared they were of Covid-19. While Delhi’s criminals seem to be homebound in this lockdown period, police personnel across the city are now working to feed the hungry and the homeless. The police helpline – 011 23469526—for Covid-19 requests has received 474 calls from people who said they were starving and had no money.The police control room vans, which are the first respondents to crime, are also doubling up as ambulances. Since March 23, the police vehicles have rushed at least 143 pregnant women to hospital. Additional commissioner of police MS Randhawa, who is the police’s spokesperson, admitted that incidence of crime had come down drastically. The officer said police are focusing on feeding the hungry and transporting people to hospital.“Our officers are on the roads across the city to ensure the lockdown. Crimes have definitely come down. At every police station, our officers are working to feed the hungry citizens. Our officers have tied up with NGOs and Good Samaritans and are feeding the underprivileged every day. We will also ensure that the low crime rate remains the same in the days to come,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/just-14-robberies-as-delhi-s-crime-rate-dips-in-lockdown/story-Cg0rWWQfknuNc9wG7N14zI.html
07-04-2020||India||Delhi lab starts ‘drive-through’ Covid-19 test||Fill out an online form, drive to the designated collection centre, display your identity proof, roll down your car window, tilt your head back to allow the collection of swab samples from your throat and nose, and leave – a person suspected to have the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) can now undergo testing in these simple steps at a private lab’s drive-through centre in west Delhi.The central government has so far allowed about three dozen private lab chains to detect Covid-19 cases, a move experts say is important to ramp up testing to flatten the curve of the disease. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), however, allows only symptomatic people with travel history, health care workers, people with severe respiratory illnesses, and people in direct contact with confirmed cases, to be tested. Those approaching the private facilities need a doctor’s prescription under these guidelines to qualify for testing.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicOn Monday, the Punjabi Bagh branch of Dr Dangs Lab -- one of the eight private labs approved in the city -- organised a dummy run of its drive-through facility. Interviews and interactions with suspected cases were not possible in view of privacy and safety concerns.The process of drive-through testing begins at home, where a symptomatic person can use the lab’s website to fill out an online form with personal details, preferred date of sample collection, details of the doctor recommending the test, and clinical symptoms. The person also needs to submit the registration number, make and colour of the car they intend to use.Once the appointment is booked and online payment made, the lab makes a confirmation call and sends an e-mail with the details of the process.The facility is set up along a 100-foot stretch of the street outside the lab located in Punjabi Bagh’s West Central Market. The entry and exit points are controlled by iron chains manned by security guards. Multiple signs are fixed along this stretch to guide the suspected patients through the process.When the car arrived at the centre for the dummy run on Monday, a guard tallied the driver’s identity and registration plate with the form submitted online. The car’s parking lights had to be switched on – these instructions are e-mailed after the booking. While the guard lowered the iron chain to let the car through, a sanitation worker in a coverall sprayed the path with disinfectant. No words were exchanged.The car drove into a 15ft × 6ft rectangular painted patch, while a technician – wearing personal protective equipment (PPE) – approached the driver with a placard that instructed him to lower the window, tilt his head back, and allow the collection of swab samples from his throat and nose. The technician tore out a swab from a packet, collected a sample from the nose for about five seconds, and placed the swab in a cylindrical container. The process was repeated with the throat.The dummy patient rolled up the car’s window, as the guard lowered the iron chain to allow him to drive away. The sample collection process took less than five minutes.Another technician then wrapped the samples with cotton gauze, placed them in a larger cylindrical plastic container, which was stored in a thermocol box padded with ice packs. This process took another five minutes. Not more than two people are allowed to occupy a car at the time of testing. If the car driver is not the patient, he or she must sit on the right side of the rear seat to facilitate the collection of swab samples. Patients receive their results through email and phone within 36 hours. The cost of the test is ~4,500. To be sure, since the collection centre ran a mock collection process, an actual test was not performed for the purpose of this news report.Arjun Dang, chief executive officer of Dr Dangs Lab, said that the drive-through facility was looking at serving 25-35 patients per day, with 20 minutes assigned to each patient. “It will operate from 8.30am to 4.30pm, but we may increase the timing if the demand increases,” he said, adding that about a dozen people had registered for the tests since appointments opened late Sunday afternoon.Zoya Brar, CEO and founder, CORE Diagnostics, a private lab that has ICMR approval, said: “I appreciate that Dr Dangs has replicated what has been done in South Korea and other places to expand testing. On our end, we are focused on providing home collection since that is the lowest exposure for the patient to the outside world. We do this by default for all cases.”While one other private lab chain said they were assessing the process to begin a similar testing procedure, another lab did not comment on the matter. A third lab said it had no immediate plans of starting a drive-through testing facility. Public health experts say that wide and aggressive testing along with social distancing is the only way to control the outbreak of the new disease. A massive testing effort, largely by drive-through centres, has been touted as a major reason why South Korea has been able to slow the spread of the highly contagious disease, which has killed at least 71,000 people worldwide. At one point in March, South Korea had the second largest outbreak after China, but the country has since managed to flatten the curve of the infections. After an initial delay, the US has also begun wide drive-through testing to control the pathogen that has infected over 330,000 people in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-lab-starts-drive-through-covid-19-test/story-IbIzEEExFdvqxKWbaKYYrI.html
07-04-2020||India||In times of Covid-19, doctor-turned-politicians lend a hand||For Sanjay Jaiswal, the day begins with a rushed breakfast and a quick round of exercise before he sets out for the hospital. This is where he receives calls from those seeking medical advice or examines patients. In between, the president of the BJP’s Bihar unit also fields calls from party workers and bosses in Delhi.Jaiswal says it has helped that the government permitted doctors to advise patients on the phone.“Earlier, there was no permission for doctors to conduct consultations through tele-medicine, but now conditions have been relaxed by the MCI and we can at least see our patients online or speak to them on the phone,” the Lok Sabha member from Bihar’s West Champaran constituency said.Jaiswal said he volunteered to be deployed for coronavirus patients at his hospital that has set up a 140-bed isolation ward.“We have requisitioned PPEs (personal protection equipment) and cardiac monitors; since there is a shortage all across,” he said.Another doctor turned MP, Anil Jain, who is also the BJP general secretary has been monitoring the situation on the ground in Haryana and Chandigarh. A consultant surgeon with the Apollo Group, Jain has not been practising medicine after taking oath as an MP.But in view of the pandemic, the Rajya Sabha MP said he does have people reaching out to him for advice.“I hear their concerns and tell them what to watch out for and when to rush to the emergency,” said Jain, underscoring that he hadn’t restarted practising medicine.Jain says he is focussed on logistics on the ground to ensure hospitals have supplies and patients are being looked after. “We are making sure that patients who need dialysis, for instance, are being looked after. While the pandemic has affected regular services, we are ensuring that treatment is not stalled,” Jain said.Former minister and Gautam Buddh Nagar MP Mahesh Sharma has also been focussing on the hospital chain that he runs near Delhi. An aide of the BJP said he was examining patients as well.In Bhutan also, Prime Minister Lotay Tshering is known to practice medicine on weekends, In Ireland Prime Minister Leo Varadkar has re-registered as a medical practitioner and intends to work one shift a week to help out during the coronavirus crisis, his office said on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-times-of-covid-10-doctor-turned-politicians-lend-a-hand/story-kLj8CCuNM7S71YGOy4ZCOK.html
07-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: A long war ahead but we’ll win it, says PM Modi||Categorically stating that the battle against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic will be “long”, and akin to a war situation, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday that India has been proactive and “comprehensive” in its approach to fighting the outbreak, even as he encouraged citizens to take a series of measures to secure themselves and help the vulnerable.In an address to the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) workers on the 40th foundation day of the party, the PM made five specific appeals to the cadre — to provide rations to the poor; wear and distribute face covers; organise letters of gratitude to frontline workers; get people to download the government’s Aarogya Setu App, which is both an information and tracking tool; and encourage citizens to donate to the PM-Cares fund. The PM said that India’s efforts to battle the pandemic set an example and was appreciated globally, including by leaders with whom he spoke. “India is among those countries which took the threat of the coronavirus seriously and began a comprehensive battle against it when there was time, even though so little was known about the disease. It took several decisions and we implemented it based on expert advice.” The remarks come in the wake of the Opposition, particularly the Congress, alleging that the government’s response was delayed.Questioning the pace of testing in the country, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted on April 4: “India is simply not testing enough to fight the Covid19 virus. Making people clap & shining torches in the sky isn’t going to solve the problem.”Outlining the measures taken by his government on Monday, Modi said the Centre introduced thermal screening for international passengers, evacuated Indian citizens who were stuck abroad, took the “difficult decision” of stopping all global flights to India, and prepared the medical infrastructure to deal with the pandemic. “The support of state governments has also ensured the effectiveness of these decision,” said the PM. The remark was seen as a signal of political outreach to other parties. The PM has held two video conferences with chief ministers and on Sunday, he called up top Opposition leaders to brief them on efforts being made to battle the outbreak. “India has worked comprehensively and rapidly,” he said on Monday. Modi also praised citizens for their sense of discipline, service and maturity during the ongoing lockdown, and referred to people switching off lights — and lighting candles and lamps — on Sunday night. “We saw the collective power of 1.3 billion people... it has prepared citizens for a long battle. I say this after careful consideration — this is a long battle, we can’t get tired, we can’t get defeated.” There was only one resolve, the PM emphasised — of defeating the pandemic. Turning specifically to the BJP workers, the PM said that he had five specific appeals. One was to provide rations to the needy. “Millions of BJP workers are engaged in providing ration. I want you to make this a major campaign. Bind all social organisations in one framework. And ensure not a single poor person is hungry.” He emphasised that while doing this, workers must cover their faces — and to make it a habit. His second appeal to workers was to produce such face covers and gift them to five to seven people each. The PM’s third appeal to workers was to go to 40 homes in their polling booths, and prepare and get five sets of letters of gratitude. These letters — meant for doctors, nurses and paramedical staff; police personnel; sanitation staff; government staff engaged in essential work; and bank and postal staff personnel — should then be distributed to the concerned individuals for whom it was meant within the area. His fourth appeal to workers was to get 40 people each to install the Aarogya Setu app and fill their details. This would give them relevant health information and also help them keep track of interactions with positive Covid-19 cases, he said. And finally, the PM asked workers to contribute themselves, and get 40 individuals to contribute to the PM-Cares fund. “During wars, women used to give their jewellery; even the poor used to give their meagre savings. Think of this situation as a war. It needs the same spirit of donation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-long-war-ahead-but-we-ll-win-it-says-modi/story-kPVqlMP2uVrxEpCMEC3zhK.html
07-04-2020||India||Coronavirus case count to guide India’s lockdown future||The group of ministers (GoM) headed by defence minister Rajnath Singh will meet in New Delhi on Tuesday to discuss, among other issues, whether the lockdown put in place to combat the spread of Covid-19 should be extended -- in the backdrop of comments from administrators in at least four states that they would recommend prolonging it beyond April 14, when it is scheduled to end. According to at least half-a-dozen ministers and senior bureaucrats Hindustan Times spoke to, the meeting of ministers, which will also be attended by Union home minister Amit Shah, will consider the recommendations of the 11 empowered groups set up to manage various aspects of India’s response to the pandemic. None of the people wished to be identified ahead of a decision which, many of them stressed, could be taken as late as the weekend, and depend on how the numbers stand then. Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe 62 districts that account for 80% of all cases, however, will most probably continue to be in lockdown, one of the people said. That includes parts of Delhi and Mumbai, a second person added. Also Read: How India performs on 6 steps to flatten coronavirus curveOne of the big questions before the group will be lives versus livelihoods, according to Niti Aayog member Dr Vinod Paul, who is also the head of one of the 11 empowered groups. “There is no decision yet on how the lockdown will be lifted,’’ he said. “We are assessing the cost of the lockdown economically with the lives that need to be saved.’’But voices in favour of an extension came hard and fast on Monday, from the chief secretary of Uttar Pradesh, India’s most populous state, the chief minister of Telangana, and a senior bureaucrat in Punjab. On Friday, a Maharashtra minister too spoke in favour of an extension. Also Read: Hydroxychloroquine could become bone of contention between Trump and IndiaThe ministerial group will have to weigh this against concerns about the economic cost of a lockdown and the impact of a continued lockdown on daily wage workers and the unorganised sector. According to one of the ministers HT spoke to, in all likelihood, units in less populated and relatively remote areas, may be allowed to reopen -- as long as most of their workers lived in and around the unit. “There is also major pressure from foreign companies to start India operations with reduced staff,’’ said a third official. The ministers will also consider a plan on staggered opening of industries from the department of promotion of industry and internal trade, the third official added. This person said that the group is unlikely to spend much time on the status of IT companies, which seem to have made adequate WFH (work from home) provisions. But the group is expected to consider the status of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), which are hurting badly, HT has learnt. “There is a wide ranging deliberation and consultation that is on now regarding the model to be followed after 14 April. The empowered groups are deliberating on their domains of focus. The IITs and other institutions of research are examining models too. This perhaps is the best way to bring about the most comprehensive and effective model.” said (retd) Lt Gen Syed Ata Hasnain of the National Disaster Management Authority and a member of one of the empowered groups.A second minister said that there were concerns about the migrant workforce, and how to get them back to work. “One proposal we have is that factory owners sign commitments saying they will maintain social distancing in the workplace and create a safe environment. If they do, then we will allow those factories,” he said, adding that the nearly two million daily wage workers stranded in quarantine centres were also at risk.A lot now depends on how the case numbers stack up in the week ahead. “If they see a sudden hike, then the lockdown will be extended despite the grim economic scenario,’’ said a third minister.“The Prime Minister has asked ministries and departments to prepare their plans. Respective ministries and departments have to prioritise, for example, the agriculture ministry will have to think of how to facilitate farmers in the harvesting season. Procurement will be another focus. But, it is a cautious approach, a graded plan is required. We cannot ignore the fact that the threat of Covid-19 is still there,” a finance ministry official said . A fourth minister pointed out that the Prime Minister will take a final call after also consulting with the states. “Unlike other decisions... this has to be one which involves consensus, he said.Also Read: Covid-19 update: States to get 500,000 rapid antibody test kits this weekSome states seem to be veering towards an extension. Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao said India should not lift the nationwide lockdown, “at least not entirely”, until the outbreak is brought further under control. “At least some of the restrictions should stay for a bit more. Otherwise, India will not be able to handle things if the lockdown is hastily lifted,” he said in comments to media.In Uttar Pradesh, too, a top state government official said the lockdown may not be lifted after April 14, when the current three-week restrictions are set to end.“Covid-19 positive cases in the state are increasing daily...The state government wishes to make it clear that lockdown is not likely to be lifted till there is a single coronavirus case in the state. The lifting of the lockdown means UP has become coronavirus-free,” Awanish Kumar Awasthi, additional chief secretary, home, said at a press conference in Lucknow.Punjab, which was the first state to impose a curfew on March 21, is expected to continue with the lockdown in most parts, but issue curfew passes to allow harvesting from April 15. “A final call will be taken on April 12 or 13,” Suresh Kumar, Punjab chief minister’s chief principal secretary, said on Sunday.Last week, a minister in Maharashtra indicated that the government may extend the lockdown by a couple of weeks, especially in Mumbai and other urban areas of the state.“We are expecting a fall in positive Covid-19 cases by April 15. We will have to extend the lockdown period by a few more weeks. Lifting it fully in a city like Mumbai is unlikely,” health minister Rajesh Tope said on Friday.While the airline sector and Indian Railways are getting ready to restart operations, officials in the aviation and rail ministry confirmed that there is no confirmation yet that this will happen on April 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/case-count-to-guide-lockdown-future/story-2aMDAuae0sDUBqCmUxoUkO.html
07-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Entry of animals and birds in quarantine area can pose risks, says Govt||Entry of animals and birds in a quarantine area can pose a serious risk of infection spread, say the government’s latest guidelines on such facilities where suspected coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients are housed.A separate section on the prevention of the deadly infection in the health ministry document released on Sunday stresses that animals and birds should be prevented from entering a quarantine area, and security personnel should stop any undesired movement, including those by humans. “Separate fence needs to be raised around the building to prevent entry of animals, especially dogs, monkeys and even birds if possible. Well-informed and trained security personnel need to be deployed all around the building on 24*7 rotation basis to monitor the facility and to avoid entry of undesired persons or animals and even birds for eating any food remains or droppings inside the area,” read the document.Concerns have been raised over whether the infection caused by the Sars-CoV-2 virus can be transmitted between animals and humans; there are reports of a pet cat in Belgium and two dogs in Hong Kong getting infected. Additionally, in quarantine homes, there is a risk that animals could take contaminated stuff, especially leftover food items, outside the facility and spread the infection.“The guidelines have been drafted as per the best practices followed globally regarding infection control during an outbreak of this nature. As it is an evolving situation, all previously issued guidelines can be modified based on the change in data to meet norms of the current available evidence,” a senior health ministry official said. A team of experts has done a thorough risk assessment with respect to probability of infection from not just movement of people but also animals and birds in the area.It is mandatory to have a special map of the facility prepared to outline the details of movement of health care and other personnel around the quarantine area and in the building so as to reduce the probability of fresh infections, according to the government’s guidelines. “To ensure that all health care personnel use personal protection equipment (PPE) as per guidelines, they need to be properly trained and assisted during wearing of PPE {personal protective equipment}. Separate areas to be earmarked for PPE donning and doffing. Compliance for same should be ensured by a nodal officer,” said the health ministry official quoted above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/entry-of-animal-and-birds-in-quarantine-area-can-pose-risks-govt/story-SSJZFEp9Clfvc4lIEaepWN.html
07-04-2020||India||After Bronx tiger tests positive, zoos, reserves put on high alert||The environment ministry on Monday advised the chief wildlife wardens of all states to take immediate steps to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in national parks and tiger reserves, including restricting the movement of people near national parks and sanctuaries.This was in response to the report of a Malayan tiger testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 in New York’s Bronx zoo.Is it far-fetched to imagine that wildlife in national parks or outside could be infected with Covid-19? No. In fact, scientists have flagged that information on potential animal hosts of the virus is crucial to deal with the pandemic. This is because the virus could find new hosts, which can infect other animals or lead to the re-emergence of the disease in humans. This kind of possible cross-species transmission of infection can be dangerous, they said.A few reports of pet cats and dogs testing positive have surfaced in the past couple of months from Belgium and Hong Kong but a Malayan tiger testing positive (first infection in a wild animal after outbreak) has got many scientists worried about the potential of new animal reservoirs for SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, outside China.“Inter species transmission is extremely worrisome, whether it be from pangolins, bats, civets or tigers. Clearly mammals are vulnerable but we don’t know enough at this point. From the science so far, it appears that there are multiple strains evolving and the potential to find new reservoirs exist,” said Krithi Karanth, Chief Conservation Scientist at Centre for Wildlife Studies and Adjunct Associate Professor, Duke University (USA).“Human activities, specifically consumption of wild meat, wildlife trade, habitat change and fragmentation, are leading to increasing contact between people and wildlife. Multiple zoonotic diseases have emerged, resulting in transmissions between wildlife, domestic animals and people. Covid-19 is perhaps the most destructive example,” she added.On Monday, the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) also directed states to observe tigers for symptoms like dry cough or laboured breathing through direct observation and camera trapping, careful handling of post mortem of dead tigers in consultation with state veterinary officials and safeguarding of staff with personal protective equipment (PPE), among others. NTCA has asked states to send samples of suspected cases to laboratories approved by the Indian Council for Agricultural Research.The Central Zoo Authority of India (CZAI) also issued an advisory to all zoos in India, asking them to remain on high alert and monitor animals for any abnormal behaviour. Samples of any suspect animals, if any, have to be sent to animal health institutes to initiate Covid-19 testing, the advisory added. “Sometime in the past at an unknown time the SARS-CoV-2 crossed over to humans through an intermediate host. But we haven’t found that host animal. Cross-species transmissions happen all the time. The case of the tiger getting infected in Bronx tells me a few things. First, that there is a lot of infection in New York. Second, we should study if cross-species transmission is happening. Best would be to sequence the virus in the tiger and the humans working close to the tiger and to see the variables. We must also study the tiger very closely to see how long and how much virus it is shedding, and finally investigate if the human got infected by the tiger or vice versa. A body of knowledge on this is very important at this point,” said a senior virologist, who declined to be named because of government advisories on not commenting on Covid-19.This can be done with more tests in labs and natural conditions, scientists said. “I’m not sure we have enough evidence to say that the Covid-19 virus has several potential animal reservoir hosts based on current spillback (transmission from humans to animals) evidence. We need to do a lot more testing and lab experiments to see if any other species can maintain reservoir host status for this virus. Thus far, all we know is that a few cases of spillback have been observed. What are the consequences of this? Does the animal get sick? Is it able to transmit the virus via the same routes (aerosol or droplets)? These are all questions that need further investigation,” said Abi Tamim Vanak, fellow, Wellcome Trust and senior fellow at Ashoka Trust for Research in Ecology and the Environment.“We do not know much about the condition of the animals inside the forests, There is a possibility of tigers contracting the infection. So we have asked field staff to observe the animals very carefully and look for signs of Covid-19 while conducting post mortem,” said AK Nayak, member secretary, NTCA.Several scientific studies in the past have shown how coronaviruses are common among several wild species, including bats, pangolins, racoon dogs, masked palm civet, monkeys and mice. According to United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), 75% of all emerging infectious diseases in humans are zoonotic and that these zoonotic diseases are closely interlinked with the health of ecosystems.While scientists have been stressing on the impact of loss of biodiversity, a new study estimated that there has been a 71.5% reduction in large forest patches (> 10,000 km sq) in Central India and the Western Ghats if the existing size of forest patches are compared to a scenario that excludes land taken up by infrastructural projects. The study, by scientists from the Foundation for Ecological Research, Advocacy and Learning (India), Centre for Wildlife Studies (India), University of Goettingen (Germany) and Columbia University (US), was released on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-bronx-tiger-tests-positive-zoos-reserves-put-on-high-alert/story-GOQ8BCR9q2Jbr5roJoCopL.html
07-04-2020||India||Covid-19 update: States to get 500,000 rapid antibody test kits this week||States across the country will soon receive half a million antibody testing kits from the Centre, as India embarks on more aggressive testing in so-called containment zones and clusters. “We have ordered about 500,000 rapid testing kits that we should get by April 8 or 9, and will be deployed in states as per the requirement,” said Raman R Gangakhedkar, chief, epidemiology and communicable disease, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).According to an ICMR advisory, rapid testing kits (for antibody tests or blood tests) need to be deployed in areas where mass testing is required, such as evacuation camps, large cluster areas, and camps for migrant workers. But, the kits being provided may not be enough, with state governments estimating that they need at least two million kits to test health workers and others who are at the forefront of the nationwide effort to combat the spread of Covid-19, and also people in clusters and containment zones. Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicIndia has about 2.2 million health workers, according to Census 2011.To meet the requirement, states have asked the Centre for more and also placed orders with private firms to provide as “many kits as possible” . Some states such as Andhra Pradesh, Kerala and Telangana have placed orders with firms in South Korea and Hong Kong for antibody test kits. Kerala, Maharashtra and Rajasthan have already started conducting antibody tests using kits procured from private firms and the ICMR. The tests in most states will be free of cost at government run institutions, and nominally priced at private labs, state government officials said. India has used the RT-PCR, or reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction, test on nasal or throat swab samples of suspected patients to test for Covid-19. These tests can take between 12-24 hours to show results. In comparison, the rapid antibody tests identify disease-fighting antibodies in blood samples and can deliver results in 45 minutes to two hours.However, since antibodies are usually detectable only after around 7-10 days of being infected by the virus, such tests could throw up false negatives – an infected person may appear normal in the blood test. And they may also throw up false positives -- people who had the infection, but have since been cured (and who, therefore, possess the antibodies required to be immune). To avoid such false negatives, the ICMR, which is overseeing the country’s testing regime, has asked both government and private laboratories to stick to RT-PCR tests for diagnostic purposes and has allowed antibody tests only in the containment areas and clusters. For now, the ICMR has permitted states to also use the rapid antibody test kit used for tuberculosis patients for Covid-19 patients also. Last week, the health ministry identified 20 Covid-19 containment areas and 22 potential hot spots in the country.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said 100,000 rapid testing kits will be available with the state government by Friday and the mass testing will start. He added that Covid-19 testing has also been ramped up in the state with 500 tests being done every day. “From next week, 1,000 tests will be conducted per day.”Mumbai, another Covid-19 hotspot, is gearing up for conducting mass tests too. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to conduct at least 1,000 rapid tests every day but is handicapped by the unavailability of test kits. A senior health official said: “We have given orders to procure the kits but so far no one has responded. Once we get enough testing kits, we will start mass testing.” TP Lahane, director of Director of Medical Education and Research (DMER), said: “We are working on the policy; then the testing will start.”Uttar Pradesh has placed an order of 500,000 antibody test kits with the ICMR, according to Rukum Kesh, director general of health services. “If required, we will order more,” he said, adding that tests of health workers will be conducted first. On Monday, the number of infections in the state touched 305.According to Dr C N Manjunath, chief nodal officer for the Karnataka government task force to combat Covid-19, the state has placed an order for 1 lakh antibody test kits which it expects to receive on April 12. Manjunath added that another 10,000 kits have been ordered from a Pune based company, Mylabs Discovery Solutions Pvt Ltd, which will deliver them on April 7. “Till then, we have sufficient stock. Till date, we have tested nearly 10,000 people and once the additional kits come we will scale this up rapidly and we will be testing nearly 80,000 people in the next three weeks.”Both Andhra Pradesh and Telangana have placed orders for 500,000 kits each. Andhra Pradesh’s special chief secretary (medical and health), KS Jawahar Reddy, said the kits could cost around Rs 20 crore. “We have placed an order with a couple of firms in Hong Kong. We are also trying to tap sources in South Korea and Taiwan. But it will take some time to procure them,” he said. The Goa government has partnered with a private company to get the antibody testing kits and will start the free tests from Tuesday. State Health Minister Vishwajit Rane said the test kits will help roll out mass testing for “Tier-II” suspects -- secondary contacts and those who are home quarantined. However, some states, such as Bihar and Odisha, are still assessing the number of kits needed to roll out rapid tests.“There are chances of false negative in the rapid test. What do you then?” asked Bihar’s principal secretary, health, Sanjay Kumar, adding that Bihar is was waiting for a response from the ICMR on how many kits the state can get. Odisha’s director health Shalini Pandit said it has not been decided whether rapid antibody tests would be done in the state. Madhya Pradesh’s health commissioner, Faiz Ahmad Kidwai, said the state will go ahead with the rapid testing once the kits are procured. The ICMR is also ramping up Covid-19 tests and has increased its testing capacity to 25,000 tests in a day in two shifts, Gangakhedkar said. Close to 200 government and private labs are authorised to conduct the Covid-19 diagnostic test.Union health ministry joint secretary, Lav Agarwal, said that all the states have been asked to form a district-specific containment plant even for districts that have no reported cases so far. “Our strategy is to remain proactive and overprepared to deal with any eventuality.” (With inputs from health bureau and state bureaus)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-to-get-500-000-rapid-antibody-test-kits-this-week/story-kpWma2HPrKfsxdVf8CFSlK.html
07-04-2020||India||Maharashtra tally 868 with 120 new cases, 34 deaths in Mumbai||Maharashtra recorded 120 more coronavirus (Covid-19) cases on Monday, taking the total number of infected people in the state to 868, with Mumbai’s tally rising by 68 cases to 526. The death toll in the state, too, rose to 52, with seven more Covid-19 related fatalities on Monday. Mumbai alone has recorded 34 deaths.According to the state health department data, around 85% (752) of Covid-19 cases and 92% (48) of the deaths have been reported from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and Pune district. This has led authorities to aggressively pursue cluster containment plans to combat the spread of the virus.The MMR – Thane, Navi Mumbai, Kalyan-Dombivali, Ulhasnagar, Mira-Bhayander, Bhiwandi-Nizampur, and Vasai-Virar – excluding Mumbai has recorded 85 cases and nine deaths. Pune has reported 141 cases and five deaths.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicIn Mumbai, where the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has earmarked 226 containment zones, Worli is the worst-hit area. Eleven fresh cases were recorded on Monday in Worli, taking the area’s tally to 68.In Mumbai, a containment zone is categorised when even a single person from any area is tested positive for Covid-19. The patient’s family and the building are identified as a cluster zone and at least four to five adjoining buildings on all sides are mapped in the containment zone, depending on the area’s population density. The greater the population density, the wider the radius of containment zone, a BMC health official said.In Worli Koliwada, after a BMC sweeper tested positive on April 2, civic health staffers have screened more than 50,000 people, said BMC officials. From Monday, the BMC initiated a second survey of all homes in the area, with the help of doctors.“The number of cases in this particular area is increasing. So we have imposed a strict ban on movement. We are rigorously tracking high-risk and low-risk contacts,” said BMC commissioner Praveen Pardeshi.Civic health officials said a team of four members identified containment zones in the area to conduct door-to-door surveys for suspected patients. Beyond the containment zones, the BMC has surveyed buffer zones, where the virus might have spread. As part of this survey, 320 high-risk contacts have been identified and quarantined at the local Potdar Hospital for 14 days.According to BMC protocol, families and immediate neighbours of positive patients are tested, as they are considered high risk. Other residents in their neighbourhoods are considered low risk and are asked to be under home quarantine. They are also asked to keep a tab on their symptoms. Residents of adjoining buildings in the containment zones are also surveyed. Entry and exit from a containment zone are restricted and severe lockdown protocols are put in place.State health minister Rajesh Tope indicated the state government would have to take additional “precautions” with respect to lifting the lockdown in Mumbai and Pune. He hinted that the lockdown in Maharashtra may not be lifted after April 15 and said that nobody should assume that things would come back to “normal” after that.“There is a protocol to follow on how to lift the lockdown. We have case studies of countries lifting the lockdown. The Centre, too, will send us advisories regarding this. We will study the situation between April 10 and April 15… Nobody should think the lockdown will be lifted completely. We will have to take all precautions. Wherever there are more cases, like in Mumbai and Pune, we will have to take additional precautions. So, nobody should assume things will be back to normal after April 14,” Tope said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-tally-868-with-120-new-cases-34-deaths-in-mumbai/story-0PXx3eSNDfrlitobDC71EM.html
07-04-2020||India||‘Animal trials for the Covid-19 vaccine will be critical’: Krishna Ella||Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech announced last week that it is working on developing a nasal drop vaccine for Covid-19. Animal testing has begun in the US in collaboration with virologists at the University of Wisconsin-Madison and vaccine developer FluGen. Bharat Biotech’s chairman and managing director Kishna Ella spoke to Rhythma Kaul about trials for the new vaccine, how the animal testing phase will be crucial, the delivery mechanism, and the challenges that vaccine manufacturers face in India. Edited excerpts:What is this vaccine against Covid-19 that you are developing?We have got a total command over the pandemic vaccines; be it H1N1, Chikungunya, Zika,we have always chipped in when required. Our vaccine CoroFlu will build on the backbone of FluGen’s flu vaccine candidate M2SR. Based on an invention by the University of Wisconsin-Madison virologists and FluGen co-founders Yoshihiro Kawaoka and Gabriele Neumann, M2SR is a self-limiting version of the influenza virus that induces an immune response against the flu. Kawaoka’s lab will insert gene sequences from Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes the disease Covid-19, into M2SR so that the new vaccine will also induce immunity against the coronavirus. The refinement of the CoroFlu vaccine concept, and testing in laboratory animal models at UW-Madison, is expected to take at least three months. Bharat Biotech in Hyderabad will then begin production scale-up for safety and efficacy testing in humans. CoroFlu could be in human clinical trials by July.Why did you move to the US for trials? For Covid-19, we thought we should have the best experts in the world. Kawaoka is the best person in the influenza programme in the world. There is no second and third in the world on influenza, if you ask me. Why the area of influenza is important is because both influenza and Covid-19 follow the same pattern of infection -- you cough, it goes through the nasal and mouth route into the lungs. For this sort of respiratory pathogen, the lungs are the target, which is why mucosal immunity is very important for this kind of pathogen. The animal model trial is on. Our animal trials are going to be delayed because we have to establish safety and efficacy, but human trials will be very fast. It will take at least three months to do animal trials to establish the safety properly. Then Phase 1 is only a one dose vaccine with 30 days’ trial. Phase 2 we don’t have to do because the same platform (nasal route) has already established the concentration required already in humans - so it can be minimised. Then for Phase 3, we need to have 1,000 people, and that is going to be another 45 days of trial in India. Human trial is going to be very short; the worry is only the animal trials as we want to establish the safety and efficacy, which is extremely critical.Why a nasal vaccine?We want to use the same route that this pathogen uses - the nasal route. The ideal vaccine in a pandemic should have an easy delivery mechanism that can reach easily villages; even an anganwadi worker should be able to give it to the villagers. Look at the polio vaccine, it’s a great success because of the oral drop; it reached the last mile because of easy delivery of the vaccine. Similarly, nasal drop will work better. Also, the safety of the platform has been established in humans already. In the US, Phase 2 (human trials) trial of the influenza vaccine (company FluGen) has already completed. Safety of the platform is proven, so we can rely on the platform for use in human beings. So if the safety is proved in 3 months, we will go ahead, but if there is an animal problem then we may not even pursue the product further because the safety of people is most important. If you reach the human trials level, what category will you be looking at recruiting in India?While recruiting candidates later for human trials, our priority will be doctors and health care workers and police personnel, since they are at the forefront in India. It has to be in India because the country of origin has to approve the results. Phase 1 and phase 3 trials will be with them.What are the challenges vaccine manufacturers face in India?In a pandemic situation, everyone asks, when is the vaccine ready, why are you delaying, what is the capacity, when is the launch, what is the price etc. What we should actually talk about is long-term fundamentals such as innovation in India, start-ups in India; what do we need for all these biological scientific companies to sustain themselves; are reagents easily available in 24 hours because speed is of utmost importance for any start-up. We rely heavily on foreign countries for raw material, and even small things at times are not available in India. The correct animal model (a special type of mice) required for testing is not available in India. It is available in the US, and they will give priority to their country first or Europe next, so what kind of research can you do in vaccines? It is very tough. So what we did in this case is that we funded the animal trials at the University of Wisconsin. We need to build small islets of infrastructure in this country, which is what China did. They created infrastructure first, here we create institutes first.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/animal-trials-for-the-covid-19-vaccine-will-be-critical-krishna-ella/story-0RTIhdVC9APh0kpPE3JVNL.html
07-04-2020||India||How India performs on 6 steps to flatten coronavirus curve||The respected New England Journal of Medicine, in an editorial titled Ten Weeks to Crush the Curve, on managing Covid-19, lists six steps needed to fight the pandemic. At the core of these steps is science, according to US public policy expert and physician Dr Harvey V. Fineberg who authored the editorial. “And with enough intelligence about the enemy — where the virus lurks, how quickly it is moving, where it is most threatening, and what its vulnerabilities are — we can begin to re-energize the economy without putting additional lives at risk,” he wrote in the piece published on April 1.So, how does India perform on each of the six steps1. INSPIRE AND MOBILISE THE PUBLICIndia has done reasonably well on this, as evident in the response to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call to cheer health care workers for five minutes (at 5 pm) on March 22, and light a lamp or shine a torch (after switching of all lights), for nine minutes at 9 pm on April 5. A collective action such as this connects people, said an expert. “Asking people to light diyas and candles helped them reconnect with society and break the monotony of being locked down for three weeks. It’s used in therapy to build resilience to help people cope with adversity,” said Dr Rajesh Sagar, professor, department of psychiatry, All India Institute of Medical Sciences New Delhi.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicAnd for a country such as India, where people have trouble with queues, the kind of discipline shown in terms of adhering to the lockdown and social distancing when shopping for essentials is remarkable, although there have been some exceptions. “You beat a pandemic by collectivism, not individualism, and what we saw on Sunday night is remarkable. The lights-out on Sunday was a remarkable display of the power of messaging, the power of social connectedness, the sense of community, and of camaraderie and togetherness across socio-economic groups,” said Dr Samir Parikh, director, Fortis Mental Health Programme.But mobilisation must be taken beyond society to include research, technology, manufacturing and academia to develop vaccines, drug therapies, diagnostics kits and personal protection equipment, the NEJM article adds. “This epidemic has to be stopped by intelligence and speedy action. For that, we need to use the best and more appropriate technology to empower all people. Aarogya setu is the bridge that connects you, in this epidemic, to our health system... The more users, the more effective our pushback will be,” tweeted Dr K VijayRaghavan, principal scientific advisor to the government of India, referring to the app launched by the government.2. ESTABLISH UNIFIED COMMANDIndia has done well on this too. It was quick to enforce the provisions of the Disaster Management Act, ensuring a unified response to the pandemic. There is a central command, with technical experts advising the government, but the decisions are still enforced by the states, customising them to the needs of each neighbourhood and district, all of which are at various stages of the epidemic. “Target responses to specific places and times, deploy and redeploy limited national supplies where they can do the most good, and learn from experience as we go,” NEJM said.3. MAKE MILLIONS OF DIAGNOSTIC TESTS AVAILABLEIndia hasn’t done well on this. It must scale up tests to identify and isolate the infection. Mass testing worked for South Korea and Germany. Rapid antibody tests for population screening should be expanded from outbreak areas to identify those who have had mild disease, recovered and developed immunity (and who can, therefore, return to work). This will be a game-changer in restarting parts of the economy quickly and safely, esperts say. This is why the antibody tests India will start using later this week are important. The protocol for their use, and the fact that some state governments have procured their own kits, will help widen testing.  4. SUPPLY HEALTH WORKERS WITH PERSONAL PROTECTIVE ELEMENT ( PPE) AND EQUIP HOSPITALS TO CARE OF THE SEVERELY ILL India’s performance on this is patchy. It has ordered 7.5 million PPEs, of which 1.75 lakh have arrived from China, but they need to reach health workers urgently, many who are infected at very early stages of the pandemic. “All staff, including health care providers and hospital administrators, need urgent training in infection-control and biomedical waste-disposal disposal. With several health staff getting infected across hospitals in several states, contamination because of poor infection-control is often as big a problem as shortage of PPEs,” said a public health specialist, requesting anonymity.In addition, India has sought to mobile 48,000 ventilators too. Ample supplies of PPE (personal protective equipment) should be standard issue to every health worker who is in the front lines caring for patients and testing for infection. “We wouldn’t send soldiers into battle without ballistic vests; health workers on the front lines of this war deserve no less,” said the editorial in NEJM.5. DIFFERENTIATE THE POPULATION INTO FIVE GROUPS AND TREAT ACCORDINGLYWhile the number of infected in India isn’t high enough to warrant this, there has been some level of differentiation. Testing and quarantine policies have to be different for those at high risk of infection, those presumed to be infected (persons with symptoms who initially test negative), those who have been exposed, those who is not known to have been exposed, and those who have recovered from infection and are immune.Quarantining people with symptoms till results come and hospitalising those with severe illness till they test negative at least thrice is happening in India, but there needs to be a clearer home-quarantining policy for people with mild symptoms and wider antibody testing for those who have recovered and are now protected. Some states have identified dedicated Covid hospitals and hotels to board health workers, but the implementation remains inconsistent.6. LEARN WHILE DOING REAL-TIME, FUNDAMENTAL RESEARCHIndia was quick to set up a highly qualified technical committee to advise it on its approach to combating the virus, but it hasn’t listened to all its recommendations, although it is understood that the initial idea for a lockdown did come from the committee.  Decisions to shape the public health response and to restart the economy should be guided by science, including when people can start working, and when schools, airlines, hotels, restaurants, and entertainment venues be reopened, said the NEJM editorial. But India needs to partner more closely with academia to build accurate predictive models for the emerging infection to improve preparedness.“If we persist with half-measures against the coronavirus, we risk saddling the economy with a long-term and avoidable burden of anxious consumers, illness, higher medical costs, and constricted business activity,” said Dr Fineberg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-india-performs-on-6-steps-to-flatten-the-curve/story-IRBgnsvxlB4l7mTX44pxjO.html
07-04-2020||India||MPs take 30% pay cut for ayear, local area fund halted||The Union cabinet on Monday decided to cut the salaries of the Prime Minister, other ministers, and parliamentarians by 30% for a year, and to suspend for two years, a scheme under which parliamentarians get Rs 5 crore a year to spend on developmental work, with all the money saved going into the consolidated fund of India to be used to fight the Covid-19 pandemic. That’s expected to work out to approximately Rs 7930 crore. Of this, a total of close to Rs 29 crore will come from the salaries of MPs. According to an official, an MP gets a Rs one lakh salary and Rs 3 lakh and 60 thousand will be the annual contribution of every MP including the prime minister, other ministers, and parliamentarians. Another Rs 7900 crore will come from the Member of parliament Local Area development Scheme.In addition, the President, the Vice President and the governors of states have also decided to take salary cuts.Separately, Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla too has decided to take a 30% cut in salary for the year starting April 1. “Charity begins at home,” Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar said while announcing the cuts. “Cabinet has approved an ordinance amending the Salary, Allowances, and Pension of members of Parliament Act, 1954.” The cut is effective for the salary of 2020-21. Opposition MPs welcomed the salary cuts but there was a mixed reaction to the suspension of the MPLAD scheme, with some saying it would prevent them from caring for their constituents in need. “As an MP who represents a predominately rural constituency I fully support the 30% cut in my salary. However the suspension of MPLADS is a bit of an overstretch. At this time of grave humanitarian distress that will get only worse in the months ahead.MPLADS is a targeted & nimble instrument to customise micro level interventions to alliviate distress. I think MPLAD Funds need to be restored.Plz re-think it once again. It is a knee jerk reaction much like the lockdown at a 4 hour notice. It will hurt poor most,” said Congress MP Manish Tewari.His party colleague Jairam Ramesh, however, expressed different views.“I welcome the decision on MPLADS. I have been arguing for long that the approximately Rs.7000 crore given to MPs & MLAs annually for development works should be used as a corpus for State funding of elections,” Ramesh said.Congress leader Randeep Surjewala said his party supported the cut in MPs’ salaries. He, however, added that suspending the MPLADS was a disservice and will undermine the role of an MP.CPI(M) leader Sitaram Yechury said there is enough evidence that COVID 19 is best fought at the state and local level. By suspending MPLADS, government is taking away expenditure which would have attended to unique requirements of an area. This centralization goes against federalism, development and will weaken our fight, claimed Yechury.If there is no money with the government why doesn’t it abandon the Central vista project in Delhi, Yechury asked.A member of parliament is paid a salary of Rs 1,00,000 plus allowances. A member of Parliament would contribute Rs 30,000 per month and Rs 3,60,000 in the year.The salary of the prime minister of India is the same as other MPs. The President of India is paid a salary of Rs five lakh per month while the Vice President is paid Rs four lakh per month. The president, vice president and governors have also volunteered to take a 30% cut. The governors are paid Rs three lakh and fifty thousand each.The Consolidated Fund of India is the fund into which all tax revenues flow, and the one used to make most payments.Significantly, only the salary, and not the pension and allowances of the MPs will be reduced.Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired the cabinet meeting and then a meeting of his council of ministers. Both were conducted over video conference. .Responding to a question on whether the salaries of MLAs would also be slashed, Javadekar said this decision can only be taken by the states.Political scientist Nilanjan Sircar said that the economy was not doing well even before coronavirus so certainly some cuts had to be made in order to fund the response to the pandemic.“That being said, it clear that when the first place you are going to is cutting MPLADS, given the tenor of all the policies that we have seen especially in the elections since 2019, I think it is genuinely pointing towards far greater political and economic centralization in the system,” he said.Sircar added that while the fight against coronavirus necessitates some steps in funding but the question was whether this is the right one. “Taking a salary cut for MPs perhaps is okay, but I do think suspending, given that MPs especially have very little political freedom. There is anti-defection, they cannot vote against their parties, so this one area in which even those who were not necessarily connected to the ruling could distinguish themselves,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mps-take-30-pay-cut-for-ayear-local-area-fund-halted/story-ug973X308pqAnr69I3uREP.html
07-04-2020||India||Tripura reports first case of Covid-19, becomes 5th state in Northeast to be affected||Tripura reported its first Covid-19 case when a 45-year-old woman tested positive on Monday, a senior official of the state’s health department said. The woman had recently returned from Assam. She is now in an isolation ward at a government hospital in Agartala. “The patient has been confirmed to have been affected by Covid-19. She has been isolated at GBP Hospital,” Family Welfare and Preventive Medicines Director Dr. Radha Debbarma said. Follow coronavirus live updates hereChief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb took to his Twitter asking for calm and urging citizens to stay home during the lockdown.“Alert! First # COVID-19 positive case detected at Tripura. The patient is from Udaipur. Don’t Panic, we are taking proper care of the patient. Stay Home Stay Safe,” he tweeted. Alert!First #COVID19 positive case detected at Tripura. The patient is from Udaipur.Don't Panic, we are taking proper care of the patient.Stay Home Stay Safe.Update at: 8PM / April 6West district magistrate Dr. Sandeep Mahatme issued a notice to the rapid response team members to prepare a list of doctors, nurses, paramedical staff and other patients at the hospital who came in contact with the Covid-19 patient and her family members by tonight. Tripura became the fourth state in the Northeast after Manipur, Mizoram and Assam to report coronavirus.A total 7665 people with travel history have completed 14-day observation periods so far. Currently, 115 people are under institutional quarantine and 2443 people are under home quarantine in Tripura.Two hundred and twenty three samples were collected and tested till now. All of them were negative. The woman who tested positive on Monday was not part of these tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-reports-first-case-of-covid-19-becomes-4th-state-in-northeast-to-be-affected/story-mqU9OUxOob5ygpytm9mPbO.html
07-04-2020||India||Covid-19: BMC seals area around Uddhav Thackeray’s residence as tea seller tests positive||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and the Mumbai Police on Monday sealed off the Kalanagar area in Bandra East, home to chief minister UdhavThackeray, after a tea vendor tested positive for Covid-19Authorities have taken the incident seriously as Thackeray’s security staff including his bodyguards and police personnel deployed at his residence Matoshree frequent the tea stall which is nearby. The tea seller tested positive after showing symptoms like cough, fever and cold for the last four days. He was admitted at the Hindu Hriday Samrat Balasaheb Thackeray Trauma Care Municipal Hospital in Jogeshwari. Follow coronavirus live updates here.As a precautionary measure, BMC has sealed the entire area and imposed restrictions on all kind of movement. It has posted a notice in the area, warning that action will be taken against violators. “The tea seller was not feeling well for the last four days. On Sunday he was admitted to hospital and had undergone the test. He tested positive for novel coronavirus and has been kept in an isolation ward.” said Dr Daksha Shah, deputy director, health department of the BMC.The BMC quickly deployed a fire brigade team on the spot to disinfect the entire region.Around 50 personnel from the chief minister’s staff including his bodyguards, gardening staff, police forces deployed at Matoshree daily are believed to have visited the tea stall. A close aide of CM Thackeray said the staff members who used to visit the tea stall are being examined for any symptoms and will be kept under quarantine. As per protocol each and every person who came in contact with the tea vendor will be tested for possible symptoms, said Shah.Out of 868 people who have tested positive for coronavirus in Maharashtra, 120 new cases were recorded on Monday and 68 of them from Mumbai alone.A total of 52 people have died of coronavirus in the state so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-bmc-seals-area-around-uddhav-thackeray-s-residence-as-tea-seller-tests-positive/story-kbVj5tAhsLncFgcsrsIEjI.html
07-04-2020||India||‘People may die if lockdown is lifted’: KCR asks PM to extend lockdown||Telangana chief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao on Monday said he will appeal to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to extend Covid-19 lockdown.The 21-day lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus in the country came into effect on March 25 and is set to end on April 14.But chief minister Rao cautioned that if the lockdown is lifted it could cost lives. Follow coronavirus live updates here.“It is true that the country’s economy has taken a beating during the lockdown period. Telangana, too, suffered heavily – our revenue was just Rs 6 crore in the last six days, against the expected revenue of Rs 2,500 crore. But we can always revive the economy once this crisis is over, but we cannot bring back the lives of the people who could die in large numbers, if the lockdown is lifted,” he said.He said it will be difficult to control people if the lockdown is lifted. “All the efforts we had put in all these days, braving financial loss, would go waste, if situation comes back to square one due to the lockdown being eased,” Rao said.“The lockdown is the reason the country is saved and has seen very few cases. A country like India has to be careful otherwise it will become uncontrollable. The economy will get hurt but at least we are not seeing deaths like Italy, Spain and the US,” KCR said, adding that he had suggested to Prime Minister Narendra Modi that the curbs be extended for two more weeks.“At least some of the restrictions should stay for a bit more. Otherwise, India will not be able to handle things if the lockdown is hastily lifted,” he said.Earlier on Monday, a top Uttar Pradesh bureaucrat also hinted that the lockdown may not be lifted in the state on April 14.Telangana has so far recorded 334 positive cases. Thirty three of them have recovered while there have been 11 casualties.Last week, Rao announced massive pay cuts for ministers, MLAs and government employees amid shrinking revenue. The government did not say how long the pay cuts would remain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-cm-says-will-appeal-to-pm-modi-to-extend-covid-19-lockdown/story-22saPUXU8scaLZZf2UWbNM.html
07-04-2020||India||Five army commandos, 5 terrorists killed in LoC ‘hand-to-hand’ battle||In a dark day for the army’s Special Forces (SF), five commandos belonging to an elite unit were killed in action along the Line of Control in Kashmir’s Keran sector on Sunday during an intense close-quarter battle with an equal number of terrorist infiltrators who were all eliminated, three officers familiar with the details said on Monday on condition of anonymity.The bodies of the commandos and the terrorists were found barely two to three metres from each other, said the first officer cited above.In a statement issued on Monday, the army said all five terrorists were killed in “an intense hand-to-hand battle.”“The Indian Army launched a daring operation at the LoC and engaged Pakistani-supported infiltrators in a close-quarter battle in heavy snow, neutralising the entire infiltrating batch of five. Four soldiers under the command of a junior commissioned officer from one of the most professional Para SF units were heli-dropped near the LoC after information on the infiltrators was received,” the army said.Three of the commandos were killed at the encounter site while two succumbed to their injuries while being airlifted to a military hospital.The army began hunting for this batch of terrorists on April 1 when they infiltrated into Kashmir with ground troops reporting footprints near the LoC fence that was covered under snow, said the first officer cited above.The army’s search teams made contact with the terrorists and engaged them in firefights four times between April 1 and April 4 before the commandos from 4 Para (SF) were called in to take over the operation and hunt the intruders, he said.Commandos from 4 Para (SF) carried out key missions during the 2016 surgical strikes against terror pads in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir. The strikes were India’s first direct military response to the attack on the Uri army base in September 2016 that killed 19 Indian soldiers and was carried out by Pakistan-based terrorists.’.“Based on visuals from unmanned aerial vehicles, the SF troops were staged forward to the nearest battalion headquarters by air as the location was winter cut off (due to heavy snow),” said the second officer cited above.At the crack of dawn on Sunday, the five commandos began tailing the infiltrators following their footmarks on the snow. Several hours later, the footprints indicated that the infiltrators had gone towards a nallah and were hiding there.“The SF men split into two squads and approached their target stealthily to prevent the terrorists from escaping,” said the third officer cited above. And that’s when tragedy struck.“One of the squads didn’t realise that they were on a cornice. The complete snow block collapsed taking the squad leader and the two scouts down all the way to the nallah where the terrorists were sitting... It led to a close-quarter battle at almost point blank range,” the officer said. The two commandos in the other squad rushed to provide support to their comrades who were locked in an intense close-quarter fight with the terrorists. In the ensuing engagement, the five commandos were successful in killing all the infiltrators but at the cost of their own lives.“Despite the fall, the commandos killed all the terrorists because of their superior training standards,” the officer said.The army on Monday identified the fallen commandos as Subedar Sanjeev Kumar from Himachal Pradesh, Havildar Davendra Singh from Uttarakhand, Paratrooper Bal Krishan from Himachal Pradesh, Paratrooper Amit Kumar from Uttarakhand and Paratrooper Chhatrapal Singh from Rajasthan.Army sources said while the world was fighting the Covid-19 pandemic with all its might, Pakistan was focused on abetting terrorism.“Pakistan and its army are fomenting terrorism in India to hide its failure to fight Covid-19. The Indian Army is not only fighting Covid with utmost professionalism both in India and in neighbouring countries but it is also concurrently defeating Pakistan’s evil designs along the LoC and in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir,” the sources said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/five-commandos-5-terrorists-killed-in-loc-hand-to-hand-battle/story-w3gdmbBaVjXNDHVd7pBKSP.html
07-04-2020||India||Stop entry of monkeys, birds in quarantine facilities: Govt guidelines||Entry of animals and birds in a quarantine area can pose a serious risk of infection spread, say the government’s latest guidelines on such facilities where suspected coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients are housed.A separate section on the prevention of the deadly infection in the health ministry document released on Sunday stresses that animals and birds should be prevented from entering a quarantine area, and security personnel should stop any undesired movement, including those by humans. “Separate fence needs to be raised around the building to prevent entry of animals, especially dogs, monkeys and even birds if possible. Well-informed and trained security personnel need to be deployed all around the building on 24*7 rotation basis to monitor the facility and to avoid entry of undesired persons or animals and even birds for eating any food remains or droppings inside the area,” read the document.Concerns have been raised over whether the infection caused by the Sars-CoV-2 virus can be transmitted between animals and humans; there are reports of a pet cat in Belgium and two dogs in Hong Kong getting infected. Additionally, in quarantine homes, there is a risk that animals could take contaminated stuff, especially leftover food items, outside the facility and spread the infection.“The guidelines have been drafted as per the best practices followed globally regarding infection control during an outbreak of this nature. As it is an evolving situation, all previously issued guidelines can be modified based on the change in data to meet norms of the current available evidence,” a senior health ministry official said. A team of experts has done a thorough risk assessment with respect to probability of infection from not just movement of people but also animals and birds in the area.It is mandatory to have a special map of the facility prepared to outline the details of movement of health care and other personnel around the quarantine area and in the building so as to reduce the probability of fresh infections, according to the government’s guidelines. “To ensure that all health care personnel use personal protection equipment (PPE) as per guidelines, they need to be properly trained and assisted during wearing of PPE. Separate areas to be earmarked for PPE donning and doffing. Compliance for same should be ensured by a nodal officer,” said the health ministry official quoted above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stop-entry-of-monkeys-birds-in-quarantine-facilities-govt-guidelines/story-0Xr7QExed0OA80QqbSOmpI.html
