08-04-2020||India||20 Covid-19 hotspots across Delhi sealed; govt makes wearing of masks mandatory||The Delhi government on Wednesday announced that it has sealed 20 Covid-19 hotspots across the national capital and no movement of people will be allowed in those areas. Till date, Delhi has recorded 669 positive coronavirus cases with 93 cases being reported today. The death toll in the national capital stands at nine but no new deaths have been reported in the last 24 hours, according to government data. The state government has also made wearing of masks mandatory for people going out to buy essential commodities.The Covid-19 hotspots that will be sealed in Delhi are:“A total of 20 hotspots have been identified in Delhi and were sealed. Nobody will be allowed to enter or exit these areas,” Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Wednesday. These areas include:1. Entire street affected near Gandhi Park, Malviya Nagar2. Entire street affected of Gali No 6, L 1 Sangam Vihar, New Delhi.3. Shahajahanabad society, plot no 1, Sector 11, Dwarka.4. Dinpur Village5. Markaz Masjid and Nizamuddin Basti6. Nizamuddin West (G and D block) areas.7. B Block Jhangirpuri.8. H. No 141 to H. No 180, Gali no. 14, Kalyanpuri Delhi9. Mansara Apartments, Vasundhara Enclave, Delhi10. 3 Galis of Khichirpur including Gali containing H. No. 5/387 Khichirpur Delhi11. Gali No 9, Pandav Nagar, Delhi 110092.12. Vardhaman Apartments, Mayur Vihar, Phase I, Extension, Delhi13. Mayurdhwaj Appartments, I P Extension, Patparganj, Delhi14. Gali no. 4, from H. No. J- 3/115 (Nagar Dairy) to H. No. J- 3/108(towards Anarwali Masjid Chowk), Krishan Kunj Extension, Delhi15. Gali No. 4, from H. No J- 3/101 to H. No. J - 3/107 Krishan Kunj Extension Delhi.16. Gali No. 5, A Block (From H No. A- 176 to A-189), West Vinod Nagar Delhi 110092.17. J & K, L and H pockets Dilshad Garden18. G, H, J, Blocks old Seemapuri19. F- 70 to 90 block Dilshad Colony20. Pratap Khand, Jhilmil Colony.The chief minister said the decision had been taken to prevent the spread of the coronavirus infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/20-covid-19-hotspots-across-delhi-sealed-govt-makes-wearing-of-masks-mandatory/story-AOfXPqHxtC5i6hWrsK3RHO.html
08-04-2020||India||Abrupt end to curbs not possible: PM||“It’s not possible to lift the lockdown abruptly,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi said at a meeting with the floor leaders of political parties in Parliament in the strongest message yet from the government that the nationwide, three-week lockdown it clamped to fight the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) will not be lifted in its entirety when it ends on April 14. “Nobody is saying that lockdown should be lifted. I will talk again to CMs. But as of now, the mood is that entire lockdown lifting is not possible. For us, lockdown is the only way to save our people,” Modi added in the video conference. The Prime Minister is scheduled to have a video conference with chief ministers on Saturday, his third such meeting with the heads of state governments since India declared the lockdown starting on March 25. Over the past 72 hours, several chief ministers have called for at least a partial extension of the lockdown; and the group of ministers headed by defence minister Rajnath Singh that is leading India’s response to the pandemic has also recommended that even if the lockdown was lifted, the travel bans must remain.The floor leaders who attended the meeting were Congress’s Ghulam Nabi Azad and Adhir Chowdhury, DMK’s TR Balu, Trinamool’s Sudip Bandopadhyay, Samajwadi Party’s Ramgopal Yadav, Shiv Sena’s Vinayak Raut, Lok Jan Shakti Party’s Chirag Paswan, CPI (M)’s Elamaram Kareem, Biju Janata Dal’s Pinaki Misra, among others. In his meeting with the floor leaders, Modi also said that while there is tremendous pressure on resources (during this lockdown period), India is one of the few countries where the spread of the coronavirus is still under control. India ended Wednesday with 5,885 infections and 178 deaths. “I am regularly talking to chief ministers , district magistrates and experts. Nobody is telling me to lift the lockdown. We need strict rules to maintain social distancing.”“India has a social emergency-like situation. In this situation, we have to take unprecedented decisions from time to time. And today, I am grateful to all of you for taking all the decisions in a positive approach, keeping in mind the requirement of the country. In the future too, we may have to take such hard decisions,” Modi added. Floor leaders present in the meeting raised the issue of the suspension of the MP Local Area Development Scheme for two years, suggested setting up a task force comprising Union ministers and chief ministers, give financial packages to the states, scrap the ₹25,000 crore central vista redevelopment and said that food should also be available to those who do not have Aadhaar or ration cards.The suspension of the scheme has become politically controversial, with opposition MPs saying that this will prevent aid from reaching those who need it most in their constituencies. Trinamool Congress floor leader Sudip Bandopadhyay said, “We are ready to forgo our salaries. But the MPs get a very good opportunity to work at the grassroot level through the MPLAD fund.”On Monday, the Union Cabinet suspended the scheme for two years, and said the amount (roughly ~5,900 crore) would be transferred to the Consolidated Fund of India and spent on India’s effort to fight Covid-19. Several floor leaders demanded that the government must pump in money to the states as they are in the forefront of the fight against Covid pandemic. While Bandopadhyay requested Modi to release the dues including those from the GST collection and sought a higher fiscal limit under the FRBM (Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management) act, CPIM’s Elamaram Kareem demanded an increase in the debt ceiling as a % of states’ GSDP (Gross State Domestic Product). Leader of the Opposition in Rajya Sabha, Ghulam Nabi Azad, called for a special financial package for the most affected states.Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar raised the Nizamuddin Markaz issue and insisted that it is not appropriate to blame any community.DMK leader TR Baalu said the financial measures announced by the central government so far were inadequate and urged Modi to release ₹10,000 in two equal instalments for all the BPL families. The CPIM wanted ₹5,000 distributed in all Jandhan accounts to help the poor.Azad also suggested that top priority should be accorded to providing adequate personal protection equipment (PPE), ventilators and masks besides insurance cover for doctors, nurses and health workers who are facing acute shortage of such gears.The Prime Minister also hailed the unprecedented unity that has emerged across the political spectrum over the crisis. “I want to thank the state governments once again. Centre and states are working in tandem keeping in mind the requirements and that is the reason that the states, the Centre and the political parties are working together without any prejudice.”“The Prime Minister told the meeting he is happy that parties have risen above politics and come together in national interest in this hour of crisis and assured that he will try and implement the suggestions put forth by various leaders,” Azad said.Modi said: “Be it the person in lowest or the highest strata of the society, everyone is doing their bit to fight against corona. It’s a big thing in this country of 130 crore people. The sense of belonging which the father of the nation Mahatma Gandhi used to speak of, today, we can see its deep impact in our daily lives.” We have been trying to take quick decisions and today India is one of the few countries in the world where spread of this virus is still under control. We also have to keep in mind that every day, situations are changing,” he said.“As per our communications with the districts and also the experience of the global situation teaches us that for us, lockdown is the only way for us to save the lives of our citizens.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/abrupt-end-to-curbs-not-possible-pm/story-shmJk7uLRjkgoIrWXTgumM.html
08-04-2020||India||Bengal’s beedi-making hub reels from lockdown shock||Berhampore: A day after chief minister Mamata Banerjee exempted the state’s beedi industry from lockdown, saying it was question of livelihood for millions, nothing changed in Murshidabad district, Bengal’s biggest beedi-making hub.The ongoing 21-day lockdown has hurt the 1.5 million people in the district who depend, directly or indirectly, on the bidi industry . They have been living off their savings, and food provided by the state and non-government organisations. In certain pockets of Murshidabad, entire families depend on beedi making. Workers are paid Rs 152 for every thousand beedis they roll. The raw material are supplied by factory owners through ‘munshsis’ (agents). The munshsis also collect the beedis. There are around 100 factories in the district’s Jangipur sub-division alone. On Wednesday, the munshsis were nowhere to be seen, said beedi makers who were enthused by Banerjee’s announcement. Anwar Hussain, a beedi maker at Uttar Chachonda village said: “We thought things would change after the chief minister’s announcement. But today we came to know that production will not start. I don’t know how I will run my family.”Approximately 2.2 million people in West Bengal are directly associated with beedi making and 95% of the total production is sent to other states, said people in the beedi trade. With no way to transport beedis across borders, most factories remain shut. Abul Hasnat Khan, president, West Bengal State Beedi and Tobacco Labourers Federation said, “The chief minister’s announcement will help less than 1% of the bidi makers. She did not consider the fact that all big factories send their products to other states. With no trains and interstate transport, the consignments cannot be sent.”“Moreover, the big factories employ around 250 people. It is not possible to start production maintaining social distance,” Khan added.Niponjeet Biswas, owner of Jeet Bidi Factory sees another problem.  “Most of the factory owners have adequate tobacco and leaves of kendu trees (in which the tobacco is rolled) in stock but we need regular supply of coal to toast the beedis. We need packaging labels, thread. Also, it is literally impossible to store the beedis for a long time. If we can’t sell what is the point in starting production?”Trinamool Congress Lok Sabha member from Jangipur , Khalilur Rahaman, who is in the beedi trade said, “If we cannot sell in other states it is impossible to start production. We are trying to find a solution to honour the initiative of our chief minister and help the poor labourers.”Nazir Hossain, a munshi, said, “We were optimistic about Banerjee’s announcement. After talking to several factory owners I have realised that production will not start till the Union government allows movement of trucks from West Bengal to other states.”“Several beedi-laden trucks from West Bengal are stranded in other states due to the lockdown. No beedi merchant with sizeable business will start production till the Centre gives its nod,” Hossain added.Secretary of Aurangabad-Dhulian Beedi Merchants Association Raj Kumar Jain said: “We welcome the much needed initiative of our chief minister. A lion’s share of Murshidabad’s beedis are sent to Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Delhi, Assam, Haryana and states in south India but neither the Centre nor any of these states have allowed any exemption for production or transportation of beedis. Also, the state administration has not issued travel passes for munshis and labourers. Without passes they cannot move even inside the district.”Minister of state for labour Jakir Hossain, who owns a beedi factory said, “Our chief minister has taken a humanitarian decision for the sake of millions. I will appeal to the Centre to reduce the goods and services tax (GST) on beedis and allow consignments to be transported to other states.” The GST on total sale value of both beedis and cigarettes is 28%, Jain said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-s-beedi-making-hub-reels-from-lockdown-shock/story-2cbA9FLOEhjIbjdfr7zVWK.html
08-04-2020||India||Cannot decide trends on absolute numbers, says ICMR||New Delhi: The higher number of deaths related to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) reported from Maharashtra could be a “chance event” as the number of overall fatalities is small, and a trend cannot be decided merely on the basis of mere absolute numbers, said the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Wednesday.As of Wednesday Maharashtra had reported 1,135 cases and 72 deaths while the second worst-hit state Tamil Nadu 738 infections and eight fatalities. Overall India has recorded 178 deaths and 5,872 cases. “You cannot merely decide on the basis of absolute numbers. That is not the right way,” said Dr RR Gangakhedkar, the chief of epidemiology and communicable diseases wing of the ICMR, which is India’s top medical research body.The Union health ministry separately said the government is taking aggressive measures wherever required in Maharashtra in view of a large number of cases being reported. “In Pune and Kolba region, door-to-door screenings are being conducted. About 35 square kilometre area is being covered to look for people with co-morbid conditions and those with any travel history. The same screening strategy is being used in Kerala’s Pathamuttom village. The government has come up with a detailed technical plan for different stages of Covid-19 management,” said the ministry’s joint secretary, Lav Agarwal.He added if the number of cases is rising, the government’s preparations are also increasing proportionally to break the chain of Covid-19 transmissions. “Our technical war room is monitoring the situation very closely, and is equipped to track even ambulances on a real-time basis, apart from keeping a watch on people under home quarantine etc.”Agarwal denied reports about the shortage of the anti-malaria drug, hydroxychloroquine, in the country, calling them untrue. “There is no shortage of the drug in the country. It will be made available to whoever needs it. Those being given the medicine currently by the government is just a section of people. It is not recommended for everyone, and should not be taken without prescription,” said Agarwal.India has approved the use of hydroxychloroquine as prophylaxis to protect health workers and close contacts of Covid-19 patients. A small placebo-controlled clinical trial in China demonstrated the anti-malarial drug shortened the duration and reduced the severity of cough, fever and pneumonia in patients with mild and moderate forms of the Covid-19 disease. This has majorly boosted the global demand for hydroxychloroquine of which India is the world’s biggest producer. India has partially eased restrictions on the export of hydroxychloroquine and paracetamol to fulfil existing orders and to meet the needs of neighbouring countries but only after building its own stockpile. The Union human resource development ministry has also developed training modules to orient doctors, nurses, paramedics, technicians, volunteers being deployed for the Covid-19 related surveillance and management. “All these people will be provided with necessary resources on field. This is a part of the government’s larger preparedness plan,” Agarwal added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cannot-decide-trends-on-absolute-numbers-says-icmr/story-gVJQcItzLUVGPE7hcYfVZI.html
08-04-2020||India||CII calls for fiscal support worth ₹4.5 lakh crore for Indian industries||New Delhi: The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) has called for a fiscal support package equivalent to 2-3% of gross domestic product (GDP), or around Rs. 4.0-to- 4.5 lakh crore for industry in addition to the Rs 1.7 lakh crore the government has earmarked to ease economic distress caused to the poor by the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. The industry grouping asked the government not to expend its firepower all at once given the likelihood that the crisis will not go away anytime soon. CII, which also addressed ways to restart the economy after the national lockdown imposed to check the spread of the pandemic ends, urged the government to set up an empowered group of ministers to plan, review and address implementation challenges. Inter-departmental task forces led by the chief secretaries should be formed at the state level too for the same job, it said in recommendations submitted to the government . “Since we are not going to see the end of the crisis soon, the government should not spend all its firepower at once. The coronavirus pandemic has been the biggest disruption to the world economy ever since the 2008-09 global financial crisis,” CII director-general Chandrajit Banerjee said. “While India entered the 2008 crisis coming off years of strong growth, the story is different this time around, with the economy going through a slowdown pre Covid. It is our considered judgement that the impact is severely adverse and the best estimates of GDP growth for the current fiscal would be no more than about 2% with a downward bias,” Banerjee said.Banejree said the government should extend additional support to “people at the bottom of the pyramid” thorough cash transfers and . Support to industry could come through the banking system, he said. The Covid-19 outbreak and the three-week nationwide lockdown enforced to promote social distancing and prevent its spread is expected to take a heavy toll on Asia’s third-largest economy, which had already been in the midst of a slowdown when the pandemic hit. In the annual budget presented on February 1, the government estimated that economic growth in the year to March 2020 would slow to 5%, the slowest pace in 11 years, from 6.8% the previous year  The economic crisis will affect the lowest strata and the informal sector in the economic pyramid disproportionately, the CII said in its report to the government. The industry grouping asked the government to provide cash transfer amounting to Rs 2 lakh crore to Jan Dhan account holders “Considering the size of the population and very little social security for the unorganised sector, the impetus required will be much larger than 2% of GDP,” said Sandeep Shah, partner, NA Shah Associates LLP,. “Countries like the UK are talking about +10% of GDP impetus. The impetus will have to be in areas of making goods and services cheaper in the hands of consumers by substantially reducing the GST {Goods and Services Tax}, excise duty on petroleum/ electricity. The state governments will also have to chip in by reducing the stamp duty and fees for real estate.” “The impetus cannot be incremental but something which will allow all round economic activities. Any lopsided growth will accentuate the problem of unemployment,” he added..To address the immediate economic distress in the wake of the lockdown, and ensure food and cash reaches the marginalised segments of society, the government announced Rs 1.7 lakh crore package last month,under a new scheme called the Pradhan Mantri Gareeb Kalyan Yojana (PMGKBY).Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced a series of measures, which focused on additional food transfers at no cost, additional cash for vulnerable segments, concessions on government schemes aimed at helping households reduce their expenditure, and support those in the frontline of the battle against the pandemic. The primary beneficiaries of these measures include those below the poverty line, farmers, women, elderly citizens, the physically challenged, and workers in both the unorganised and organised sectors.The CII has undertaken a contact programme with over 8,000 member-companies, directly and indirectly, to assess the issues faced by them and the overall economic impact of the pandemic and the consequent shutdown that started on March 25.“Our estimates are that the economy would need a credit expansion of 14-15 %. Additionally, support through banks would allow the government a leverage of 5-6 times, mitigating the fiscal impact,” Banerjee said. The support should include working capital enhancement and support for payment of wages to all industry and special reconstruction terms loans for micro, small and medium enterprises(MSMEs) and stressed sectors.The CII has also asked the government to ensure safeguard measures for the migrant workforce to return to work. For the re-start to be organized, safe and sustainable, various issues related to health and safety, logistics, migrant workers and coordination between various agencies of the government also need to be addressed, it said.To get the migrant workers, who have left the cities and gone back to their homes in the countryside, back to their places of work, the government should undertake an aggressive messaging campaign on the preparedness of the official machinery and industry for the restart, the CII said. It should facilitate their return through issue of e-passes and by arranging special transport. It has also recommended a Covid-19 insurance scheme for migrant workers for three months, saying a part of the cost for it could be borne by the government and part by industry.For addressing supply hurdles, the CII said that the government needs to facilitate the seamless movement of goods and services across the country and key interventions need to be taken. Seamless transportation of goods and material across the country is a prerequisite for a smooth restart, it said. This is also harvest time and the logistics sector has a key role in transporting farm produce across India. “Drivers and other workers engaged in the sector should be issued e-passes by local authorities, those with e-passes should be allowed to travel to their place of work. Special transport could be arranged from clusters from where large number of workers come, to clusters where they come to work, with all the safety protocols in place. Dhabas on highways should be allowed to open, so that the required basic amenities are available to the truck drivers en route,” it said. Hindustan Times reported that nearly 600,000 truck drivers transporting supplies had been stranded en route since the first week of the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cii-calls-for-fiscal-support-worth-4-5-lakh-crore-for-indian-industries/story-UBMxw1SPMloQxb2QLpomXN.html
08-04-2020||India||In Haryana’s Jind, man shot at for telling sarpanch’s son to wear mask||The husband of a sarpanch in a village in Haryana’s Jind district on Wednesday allegedly shot at a man who objected to his son moving about in the village without a mask to contain the spread of coronavirus, police said.In his complaint to the police, Deepak (24), of Dhimana village said that the he was patrolling with other youths on the village outskirts to restrict the movement of outsiders.“Suddenly two youths from our village - Sandeep and Deepak Kumar came there on a motorcycle. When I asked them to wear masks to as a preventive measure to avoid spread of Covid-19, they threatened me of with dire consequences. Around 9 pm, Sandeep’s father Sunil alias Sunila and Manjeet Kumar of our village intercepted me on the outskirts of the village and Sunil pumped bullets into my chest,” he said. Sadar Jind SHO Dinesh Kumar said Deepak was undergoing treatment at PGIMS, Rohtak.“We have registered a case of attempt to murder against Sunil, Manjeet, Sandeep and Deepak Kumar. A hunt is on to nab the accused,” he said. Haryana has so far reported 147 positive cases of coronavirus.On Wednesday, the Uttar Pradesh and Delhi governments ordered residents to compulsorily wear masks while going out of their houses. In Maharashtra, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) made wearing masks mandatory for citizens of Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-haryana-s-jind-man-shot-at-for-telling-sarpanch-s-son-to-wear-mask/story-Sha2b9JIK3BFzyYXDWZ8xK.html
08-04-2020||India||IIL-Hyd joins in as Indian scientists race to developCovid-19 vaccine||Indian scientists are scrambling to develop a vaccine against Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), with the Hyderabad-based Indian Immunologicals Limited (IIL), a subsidiary of the National Dairy Development Board (NDDB), joining the frantic global race. IIL has partnered with Australia’s Griffith University to develop the vaccine through an “approach” that looks promising, according to the organisation.“This is a significant cross-continental collaboration,” the chairman of the NDDB and IIL Dilip Rath told HT. Scientists from IIL and Griffith University will jointly develop a “live attenuated Sars- CoV-2 vaccine” or Covid-19 vaccine using the “latest codon de-optimization technology”A live-attenuated vaccine is one where the target virus is considerably weakened but still alive, just enough to trigger immunity but cause no harm. “Codon de-optimization technology” is a popular method of developing vaccines that allows manipulation of the constituents of a virus’s genetic code called “codons”, according to the US Centers of Disease Control. IIL is a major entity in the human vaccine market in the country, supplying human paediatric and rabies vaccines. IIL is also a supplier of paediatric vaccines to the country’s state-run universal immunization programme.In India, vaccine manufacturer Bharat Biotech is working on developing an intra-nasal drop vaccine against Sars – CoV-2 in collaboration with the University of Wisconsin-Madison and vaccine firm FluGen. The Pune-based Serum Institute is also working on a coronavirus disease vaccine.Public institutions and private firms in the US, China and Europe are already conducting early trials on a vaccine. “Development of a Covid-19 vaccine has become a matter of national pride. It’s conceptually not a very difficult thing to achieve but takes time,” said Dr Ashok Kayal, a former professor of neurology at Gauhati Medical College and Hospital. According to Rath, IIL is looking at the “codon de-optimization technology” because scientists from both India and Australia see it to be promising for developing a vaccine for “prophylactic, active, single dose immunization against coronavirus in humans, with an enhanced safety profile”. The vaccine is expected to provide long-lasting protection, he said.In an email response, Professor Suresh Mahalingam of Menzies Health Institute Queensland, Griffith University, said: “As this vaccine will be a live attenuated vaccine, it is expected to be highly effective by providing very strong cellular and antibody immune responses against the virus.” A live-attenuated vaccine has a proven track record for economical, large-scale manufacturing and a well-known regulatory approval pathway, Mahalingam added.Most scientists agree that the coronavirus crisis will come to an end either with a costly so-called “herd immunity” or with a vaccine. Herd immunity occurs when a population develops collective immunity against a disease by simply battling it but this stage comes after the disease strikes about 80% of the population, potentially causing thousands of deaths. New technology in genomics and greater international coordination have resulted in speedier discovery of vaccines. Yet, it remains a long-drawn out process because vaccines undergo rigorous testing in animals and humans. After completing the research, the vaccine strain will be transferred to IIL and the vaccine maker will work with India’s drug regulator, the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation, to conduct clinical trials.IIL is already working with Griffith University for development of a Zika virus vaccine, which is currently at pre-clinical toxicology testing stage. The codon de-optimization technology has been successfully employed to reduce the virulence of several RNA viruses including Enterovirus C (Poliovirus), HIV type 1 and Zika virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iil-hyd-joins-in-as-indian-scientists-race-to-developcovid-19-vaccine/story-kzBFEMpebB8vVrBLf7i59K.html
08-04-2020||India||13 Covid-19 hotspots in Ghaziabad to go under total lockdown from midnight||There was a flurry of panic buying of essential commodities in Ghaziabad on Wednesday evening after the Uttar Pradesh government announced that certain Covid-19 hotspots in Ghaziabad and Noida will be completely sealed off till April 15. Thirteen hotspots in Ghaziabad, including Pasonda village, Vasundhara Sector 2B, Oxy Homez in Bhopura, will be sealed off completely.The Uttar Pradesh administration has issued a list of areas to be put under a complete lockdown in Ghaziabad. The total lockdown will be effective from midnight on April 15—Wednesday. The restrictions in these pockets will be stricter than those under the lockdown already in place.The state government’s decision to totally seal coronavirus hotspots in 15 districts of UP to stop the spread of the infection triggered panic buying as earlier news reports incorrectly mentioned that entire districts will be sealed off. Local people also complained that they were charged exorbitantly for vegetables and other food items.The Covid-19 hotspots that will be sealed in Ghaziabad are:A total of 13 hotspots have been identified in Ghaziabad, which will be sealed off entirely for traffic from midnight on April 15. Not even members of the media, which falls under the essential services category, will be allowed to move around in these areas after midnight. The localities include:1. Nandgram, 2. KDP Ground (Rajnagar Extension)3. Saviour Society, 4. B-77 G5 Shalimar Garden Extension, 5. Pasonda, 6. Oxy Home (Bhopura), 7. Vasundhara (Sector 2B), 8. Sector 6 (Vaishali), 9. Girnar Society (Kaushambi) 10. Naipura (Loni) 11. Mussoorie area 12. Ghatu Shyam Colony 13. An area in Muradnagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/13-covid-19-hotspots-in-ghaziabad-to-go-under-total-lockdown-from-midnight/story-kGQqdOkfDm3y2kBO1phytK.html
08-04-2020||India||Covid-19 in India: Abrupt end to curbs not possible, says PM Modi||“It’s not possible to lift the lockdown abruptly,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi said at a meeting with the floor leaders of political parties in Parliament in the strongest message yet from the government that the nationwide, three-week lockdown it clamped to fight the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) will not be lifted in its entirety when it ends on April 14. “Nobody is saying that lockdown should be lifted. I will talk again to CMs. But as of now, the mood is that entire lockdown lifting is not possible. For us, lockdown is the only way to save our people,” Modi added in the video conference. The Prime Minister is scheduled to have a video conference with chief ministers on Saturday, his third such meeting with the heads of state governments since India declared the lockdown starting on March 25. Also read | ‘Talking to CMs, none asked me to lift the lockdown’: PM Modi at all-party meetOver the past 72 hours, several chief ministers have called for at least a partial extension of the lockdown; and the group of ministers headed by defence minister Rajnath Singh that is leading India’s response to the pandemic has also recommended that even if the lockdown was lifted, the travel bans must remain.The floor leaders who attended the meeting were Congress’s Ghulam Nabi Azad and Adhir Chowdhury, DMK’s TR Balu, Trinamool’s Sudip Bandopadhyay, Samajwadi Party’s Ramgopal Yadav, Shiv Sena’s Vinayak Raut, Lok Jan Shakti Party’s Chirag Paswan, CPI (M)’s Elamaram Kareem, Biju Janata Dal’s Pinaki Misra, among others. In his meeting with the floor leaders, Modi also said that while there is tremendous pressure on resources (during this lockdown period), India is one of the few countries where the spread of the coronavirus is still under control. India ended Wednesday with 5,885 infections and 178 deaths. “I am regularly talking to chief ministers , district magistrates and experts. Nobody is telling me to lift the lockdown. We need strict rules to maintain social distancing.”“India has a social emergency-like situation. In this situation, we have to take unprecedented decisions from time to time. And today, I am grateful to all of you for taking all the decisions in a positive approach, keeping in mind the requirement of the country. In the future too, we may have to take such hard decisions,” Modi added. Also read | ‘Not possible to lift lockdown on April 14’: PM Modi hints at all-party meetingFloor leaders present in the meeting raised the issue of the suspension of the MP Local Area Development Scheme for two years, suggested setting up a task force comprising Union ministers and chief ministers, give financial packages to the states, scrap the ₹25,000 crore central vista redevelopment and said that food should also be available to those who do not have Aadhaar or ration cards.The suspension of the scheme has become politically controversial, with opposition MPs saying that this will prevent aid from reaching those who need it most in their constituencies. Trinamool Congress floor leader Sudip Bandopadhyay said, “We are ready to forgo our salaries. But the MPs get a very good opportunity to work at the grassroot level through the MPLAD fund.”On Monday, the Union Cabinet suspended the scheme for two years, and said the amount (roughly ~5,900 crore) would be transferred to the Consolidated Fund of India and spent on India’s effort to fight Covid-19. Several floor leaders demanded that the government must pump in money to the states as they are in the forefront of the fight against Covid pandemic. While Bandopadhyay requested Modi to release the dues including those from the GST collection and sought a higher fiscal limit under the FRBM (Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management) act, CPIM’s Elamaram Kareem demanded an increase in the debt ceiling as a % of states’ GSDP (Gross State Domestic Product). Leader of the Opposition in Rajya Sabha, Ghulam Nabi Azad, called for a special financial package for the most affected states.Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar raised the Nizamuddin Markaz issue and insisted that it is not appropriate to blame any community.DMK leader TR Baalu said the financial measures announced by the central government so far were inadequate and urged Modi to release ₹10,000 in two equal instalments for all the BPL families. The CPIM wanted ₹5,000 distributed in all Jandhan accounts to help the poor.Azad also suggested that top priority should be accorded to providing adequate personal protection equipment (PPE), ventilators and masks besides insurance cover for doctors, nurses and health workers who are facing acute shortage of such gears.The Prime Minister also hailed the unprecedented unity that has emerged across the political spectrum over the crisis. “I want to thank the state governments once again. Centre and states are working in tandem keeping in mind the requirements and that is the reason that the states, the Centre and the political parties are working together without any prejudice.”“The Prime Minister told the meeting he is happy that parties have risen above politics and come together in national interest in this hour of crisis and assured that he will try and implement the suggestions put forth by various leaders,” Azad said.Modi said: “Be it the person in lowest or the highest strata of the society, everyone is doing their bit to fight against corona. It’s a big thing in this country of 130 crore people. The sense of belonging which the father of the nation Mahatma Gandhi used to speak of, today, we can see its deep impact in our daily lives.” We have been trying to take quick decisions and today India is one of the few countries in the world where spread of this virus is still under control. We also have to keep in mind that every day, situations are changing,” he said.“As per our communications with the districts and also the experience of the global situation teaches us that for us, lockdown is the only way for us to save the lives of our citizens.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-lockdown-abrupt-end-to-curbs-not-possible-pm-modi/story-cXUG4oDy9NlTYZOiS2JgsL.html
08-04-2020||India||HCQ assurance kept, India seeks US help for cutting-edge Covid-19 test equipment||Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla on Wednesday requested the Trump administration for support to get access to cutting-edge Covid-19 testing equipment. Shringla made the request in a telephone conversation with his counterpart US Deputy Secretary of State Stephen E Biegun, people familiar with the development said.Shringla’s phone call is a follow-up to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s conversation with US President Donald Trump on Saturday last. Foreign Minister S Jaishankar had touched base with Secretary of State Mike Pompeo on April 6.Officials did not elaborate on the equipment that India seeks to access.“There was an exchange of views on the current situation with respect to the spread of Sars-CoV-2 and the associated challenges,” a person aware of the development said.“Both sides discussed ways to further enhance their cooperation to counter and control the pandemic including through the development of novel therapies and prophylactics against Covid-19,” the person said. They also spoke about ensuring availability of essential medicines, diagnostic and medical equipment, and sharing of best practices and information.India had this week eased restrictions on the export of hydroxychloroquine and paracetamol to fulfil existing orders. The relaxation was made after New Delhi received requests from nearly 20 countries including the United States and Brazil.India has approved the use of hydroxychloroquine as prophylaxis to protect health workers and close contacts of Covid-19 patients. A small clinical trial in China had indicated the anti-malarial drug reduced the duration and severity of cough, fever and pneumonia in patients, leading to a boost in demand for the drug||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hcq-assurance-kept-india-seeks-us-help-for-cutting-edge-covid-19-test-equipment/story-CE3n55AyZjqM2Nzjr4K04K.html
08-04-2020||India||22 Covid-19 hotspots to go under complete lockdown from midnight in Noida||The Uttar Pradesh government on Wednesday announced it will completely seal Covid-19 hotspots across 15 districts in the state in an attempt to check the coronavirus infection from spreading further. The authorities have prohibited people in these places from stepping out of their houses to buy even grocery or other essential items. All houses in these hotspots will be checked and sanitised. Arrangements will be made for carpooling to ferry those people linked to the supply of essential commodities in these areas The Uttar Pradesh administration has issued a list of areas to be put under a complete lockdown in Gautam Budh Nagar (Noida). The total lockdown will be effective from midnight on April 15—Wednesday.The Covid-19 hotspots that will be sealed in Noida are:1. Sector 412. Hyde Park, Sector 78 and Supertech Capetown Sector 743. Lotus Boulevard, Sector 1004. Alpha-1 in Greater Noida5. Nirala Green Shire Sector 2, Greater Noida and Patwari village6. Logix Blossom County and Paras Tierra in Sector 137 and Wazidpur7. ATS Dolce Zeta-1 in Greater Noida8. Ace Golf Shire in Sector 1509. Sector 27 and 2810. Omicron-3, Sector 3, in Greater Noida11. Mehak Residency, Achega in Greater Noida12. Jay Pee Wish Town in Sector 12813. Sector 4414. Village Vishnoi, Dadri15. Sector 3716. Village Ghodi Bacheda17. Stellar Mi Omicrom 3 in Greater Noida18. Palm Olympia, Gaur City-2, Greater Noida West19. Sector 22, Chauda Village20. Grand Omaxe, Sector 93B21. Sector 5 and 8, JJ colony22. Designer Park in Sector 62.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/22-covid-19-hotspots-to-go-under-complete-lockdown-from-midnight-in-noida/story-KzpAjLvlzPX9vq7oOHqQoN.html
08-04-2020||India||Jaish commander killed in encounter in Sopore in Kashmir||A local Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) commander was killed in a gun battle with security forces in north Kashmir’s Sopore town on Wednesday, police said.The encounter started in the morning and raged for the entire day. On Tuesday night, army, police and the CRPF had launched a joint operation in Gulabad Arampora locality in the main Sopore town after the forces had received an input about presence of terrorists in the area.As the operation began late last night, the area around the locality was completely sealed and army and police had installed lights to prevent militants from escaping under the cover of darkness. In the morning, forces and terrorists began to exchange fire which continued till late afternoon. One militant was killed in the initial gunfight and was identified as a local who lived barely three kilometers away from the encounter site.A police spokesman said that Sajjad Nawab Dar was neutralized in the gunfight. “The operation was launched on a credible input the operation was launched at Arampora, two to four terrorists were present in the area.’’Dar (23), who was the commander of Jaish-e- Mohammad had joined terror group two years ago, the spokesman said.The Jaish leader had allegedly threatened and intimidated peace loving citizens of Sopore and nearby areas, he said.“He explored the opportunities to assault security forces and VIP rallies through his overground workers (OGWs) and also motivated local youth for grenade attacks against security forces in return of monetary benefits,” he said.In the morning mobile internet was also suspended in the area and people were prevented from going near the encounter spot. One house in which militants were hiding was completely damaged in the encounter.This is the third encounter in Kashmir in less than a week including one on the Line of Control (LoC) in which five para commandos died and five terrorists were killed at Keran. The bodies of the militants have been buried at Jumgund forests after the DNA samples were taken. Three families in south Kashmir have claimed that among the five slain militants in Keran operation three are their kin who went missing in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaish-commander-killed-in-encounter-in-sopore-in-kashmir/story-O9dgrhVIwjL5Dp3fkypSsI.html
08-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Cops, states duty-bound to protect medical professionals, says SC and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Cops, states duty-bound to protect medical professionals fighting Covid-19, says SCThe Supreme Court on Wednesday directed the states to provide adequate security to medical professionals engaged in combating coronavirus pandemic and said that the police and the state administrations were duty-bound to protect the healthcare professionals who were likely to be unnerved and fearful after the recent incidents of attack and misbehaviour, said a news agency. Read moreWith no transport, lockdown exemption a damp squib in Bengal’s bidi hubA day after chief minister Mamata Banerjee exempted the state’s bidi industry from lockdown saying millions out of job needed help, there was no sign of euphoria or activity on Wednesday in Murshidabad district, Bengal’s biggest bidi-making hub. Read moreCentre warns against disclosing identities of Covid-19 patientsThe advisory comes following a spike in coronavirus cases after a Tablighi Jamaat meet at the group’s headquarters in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area last month that led to instances of people taking to social media social media to blaming Muslims for the spread if disease. Read moreBritain’s Johnson ‘responding to treatment’ but remains in intensive careBritain’s Prime Minister Boris Johnson was “responding to treatment”, his spokesman said Wednesday, as the 55-year-old leader spent a third day in intensive care battling the coronavirus. Read moreDoesn’t speak much but communicates enough: Robin Uthappa picks best captain he has played underIndia batsman Robin Uthappa picked the best captain he has played under and surprisingly it was neither Rahul Dravid nor MS Dhoni - the captains under whom he has played majority of his international cricket. Read moreA look at PlayStation 5’s new DualSense controller: All hail this stormtrooperWe are yet to see the PlayStation 5 but Sony has jumped the gun and unveiled the controller for its next-gen console. The new DualSense controller, that comes with strong Stormtrooper vibes (which we love), marks a big departure for Sony’s controller design over its 25-year history of PS consoles. Read moreZoa Morani provides health update post coronavirus diagnosis: ‘The medicines are working’Actor Zoa Morani, who has tested positive for the coronavirus, along with her sister and father, has said that she is responding to treatment. Zoa and her sister Shaza are the daughters of film producer Karim Morani. Read moreNeena Gupta in a green tracksuit and sneakers at home is goals for comfort dressingThe actor is not only popular for her extraordinary acting skills but also for her outstanding sartorial choices. From off-shoulder quirky blouses paired with sarees to cor-ords, short skirts to flowy dresses, pantsuits to boho separates, there is nothing she can’t pull off. Read moreCorgi photobombs live telecast with adorable smile, netizens want her as an anchorThe worldwide lockdown has forced many to work from home including many journalists, and let us tell you, it’s not at all easy breezy. From a shirtless dad walking nonchalantly into a live recording to kids disrupting a live broadcast, the Internet knows everything about the woes of a journalist. Read moreWatch: Is young India at greater risk of coronavirus disease?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustantimes-cops-states-duty-bound-to-protect-medical-professionals-says-sc-and-all-the-latest-news/story-6aRmIsZBCs1u7DMTwKX4KI.html
08-04-2020||India||Arvind Kejriwal orders compulsory use of masks to check spread of Covid-19||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday declared that anyone stepping out of their houses will have to wear masks as the number of Covid-19 cases in the country crossed 5,200.“Wearing of facial masks can reduce the spread of corona virus substantially. Therefore, it has been decided that facial masks will be compulsory for anyone stepping out of their house. Cloth mask shall be eligible too,” Kejriwal announced on Twitter. Wearing of facial masks can reduce the spread of corona virus substantially. Therefore, it has been decided that facial masks will be compulsory for anyone stepping out of their house. Cloth mask shall be eligible too.Delhi became the third state in the country on Wednesday to pass such an edict after Maharashtra which ordered the use of masks in Mumbai and Uttar Pradesh made it compulsory for people across the state.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.While Kejriwal did not specify any penal action for not wearing masks, Uttar Pradesh said there could be legal action against those ignoring the order. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) in a circular warned of arrest under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for failure to wear masks while moving in public places.Less than an hour after Kejriwal’s announcement, his deputy Manish sisodia said action will be taken against people not following the order.Last month, the Centre declared masks and sanitisers as essential commodities till the end of June in its efforts to battle the spread of coronavirus and to contain the hoarding or overpricing of these itemsClose to people have tested positive for coronavirus in Delhi so far. The numbers had spiked following the Tablighi Jamaat event in Nizamuddin area last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arvind-kejriwal-orders-compulsory-use-of-masks-to-check-spread-of-covid-19/story-mWnZg4xHi9FeV0oNzjv1wO.html
08-04-2020||India||Maharashtra reports 8 coronavirus deaths, 117 positive cases in a day||Maharashtra, which has registered the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the country so far, reported 117 new cases of the deadly coronavirus on Wednesday taking the state count to a staggering 1,135 patients, state Rajesh Tope said. Of the 117 new cases reported on Wednesday, 72 are from the capital city Mumbai. The death toll in the state has reached 72 with eight deaths being reported today.“With the new 117 cases, the state’s tally is 1,135 now. The death toll has also increased to 72 with 8 new deaths,” the health minister said.Mumbai city has reported 72 cases followed by 36 testing positive in Pune. A 64-year-old male patient from Dharavi died at KEM Hospital today due to coronavirus, marking the second death from Asia’s largest slum, a statement from BMC said.The number of coronavirus patients in the country touched 5,274 with Union health ministry data revealing that 773 fresh cases had been reported across states in the last 24 hours. As many as 149 people have died so far after testing positive for the deadly pathogen.Talking about strategies initiated in Maharashtra, which has also registered the highest number of deaths so far, Lav Aggarwal, Joint Secretary, Health Ministry said a door-to door survey is being conducted in a 35 square kilometer area in Pune Central and Kondhwa region as part of which teams of health workers are checking on people with co-morbidities like diabetes and hypertension and if they had contact with an infected patient or any history of travel abroad.“In Pune district, the central region of Pune and Kondhwa area has been sealed effectively and a door-to-door survey of homes located across 35 sq km area is being carried out. The team is also checking people with co-morbidity like diabetes and hypertension apart from travel history and contact tracing,” a state health ministry statement read.Maharashtra has reported the most coronavirus deaths at 72, followed by Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh at 13 each and Delhi at 9. Telangana, Punjab and Tamil Nadu have reported seven fatalities each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-records-117-new-covid-19-cases-state-count-touches-1135/story-e1pAI40cY10O1RBCxw5vTO.html
08-04-2020||India||With no transport, lockdown exemption a damp squib in Bengal’s bidi hub||A day after chief minister Mamata Banerjee exempted the state’s bidi industry from lockdown saying millions out of job needed help, there was no sign of euphoria or activity on Wednesday in Murshidabad district, Bengal’s biggest bidi-making hub.Ever since the government announced lockdown to contain the Covid-19 pandemic, more than 15 lakh people linked directly or indirectly to the district’s bidi industry are dependent on their paltry savings and food provided by the state and non-government organisations. In certain pockets of Murshidabad, entire families depend on bidi making. The workers are paid Rs 152 for rolling a thousand bidis. Raw materials are supplied by factory owners through ‘munshsis’ (agents). The munshsis also collect the bidis and distribute in markets. There are more than 100 factories in the district’s Jangipur sub-division alone. On Wednesday, the munshsis were nowhere to be seen, said bidi makers who had seen a ray of hope in Banerjee’s announcement from the state secretariat. Anwar Hussain, a bidi maker at Uttar Chachonda village said, “We thought things would change after the chief minister’s announcement. But today we came to know that production will not start. I don’t know how I will feed my family.”Approximately 22 lakh people in West Bengal are directly associated with bidi making and 95% of the total production is sent to other states, said insiders in the industry.Abul Hasnat Khan, president, West Bengal State Bidi and Tobacco Labourers Federation said, “The chief minister’s announcement will help less than 1% of the bidi makers. She did not consider the fact that all big factories send their products to other states. With no trains and interstate transport, the consignments cannot be sent.”“Moreover, the big factories employ around 250 people. It is not possible to start production maintaining social distance,” Khan added.Niponjeet Biswas, owner of Jeet Bidi Factory, said, “Most of the factory owners have adequate tobacco and leaves of kendu trees (in which the tobacco is rolled) in stock but we need regular supply of coal to toast the bidis. We need packaging labels, threads etc. Also, it is literally impossible to store the bidis for a long time. If we can’t sell what is the point in starting production?”Trinamool Congress Lok Sabha member from Jangipur and a renowned bidi merchant, Khalilur Rahaman said, “If we cannot sell the bidi in other states it is impossible to start production. We are trying to find a solution to honour the initiative of our chief minister and help the poor labourers.”Nazir Hossain, a munshi, said, “We were optimist about Banerjee’s announcement. After talking to several factory owners I have realised that production will not start till the Union government allows movement of trucks from West Bengal to other states.”“Several bidi-laden trucks from West Bengal are stranded in other states due to the lockdown. No bidi merchant with sizeable business will start production till the Centre gives its nod,”Hossain added.Secretary of Aurangabad-Dhulian Bidi Merchants Association Raj Kumar Jain said, “We welcome the much needed initiative of our chief minister. A lion’s share of Murshidabad’s bidi is sent to Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Delhi, Assam, Haryana and states in south India but neither the Centre nor any of these states have ordered any exemption for production or transportation of bidi. Also, the state administration has not issued travel passes for munshis and labourers. Without passes they cannot move even inside the district.”Minister of state for labour and a factory owner, Jakir Hossain said, “Our chief minister has taken a humanitarian decision for the sake of millions. I will appeal to the Centre to reduce the goods and services tax (GST) on bidi and allow consignments to be transported to other states.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-no-transport-lockdown-exemption-a-damp-squib-in-bengal-s-bidi-hub/story-gpKLBlbCtd2824cTc1D1ZJ.html
08-04-2020||India||Cops, states duty-bound to protect medical professionals fighting Covid-19, says SC||The Supreme Court on Wednesday directed the states to provide adequate security to medical professionals engaged in combating coronavirus pandemic and said that the police and the state administrations were duty-bound to protect the healthcare professionals who were likely to be unnerved and fearful after the recent incidents of attack and misbehaviour, said a news agency.The direction from the country’s apex court came following a string of such incidents where medical personnel were either attacked or misbehaved with. At least two such incidents involved the members of Tablighi Jamaat. Uttar Pradesh government had slapped cases under the stringent National Security Act or the NSA against the offenders in one such case of ill-treatment of nurses by patients at a Ghaziabad hospital.In another case in Indore, seven people were arrested for attacking health workers that resulted in injuries to at least two female doctors. Another case was reported from Bihar’s Munger where police and medical personnel were attacked with stones by locals while on a visit to collect samples from suspected patients.The court also asked to maintain necessary security at all places where patients diagnosed with Covid-19 were kept either for treatment, isolation or quarantining purposes and were frequented by the medical staff. The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Recent reports have cited several challenges being faced by the health care professionals, who are bravely carrying out their duties running the risk of contracting a highly contagious and deadly virus. Apart from threats from uncooperative patients, they have also complained of a lack of Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs).In one of the most recent cases, over 150 nursing staff, paramedics and other workers at the KB Bhabha Hospital at Mumbai’s Bandra staged a protest on Wednesday fearing exposure to the disease and also citing lack of PPEs among the reasons for their protest.The BMC, however, denied there was any shortage of PPEs. The apex court observed that doctors, nurses and healthcare workers were the real warriors while hearing a bunch of petitions seeking direction to the central government to ensure that all healthcare workers across India have access to masks, hazmat suits and other personal protective equipment (PPE).Also Read:Private labs can’t charge people for Covid-19 tests, orders Supreme Court||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cops-states-duty-bound-to-protect-medical-professionals-fighting-covid-19-says-sc/story-4FZ5LHEXOuw5cfpCPP5YLO.html
08-04-2020||India||Centre warns against disclosing identities of Covid-19 patients||The central government in an advisory on Wednesday said that those affected by coronavirus or under quarantine, should not be identified.“Never spread names or identity of those affected or under quarantine or their locality on the social media. Avoid spreading fear and panic. Do not target healthcare and sanitary workers or police. They are there to help you,” it said.“Do not label any community or area for spread of COVID-19. Avoid addressing those under treatment as COVID victims. Address them as ‘people recovering from COVID’,” the advisory added.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.The advisory comes following a spike in coronavirus cases after a Tablighi Jamaat meet at the group’s headquarters in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area last month that led to instances of people taking to social media social media to blaming the Muslim community for the spread if disease.It said cases have been reported of people affected with Covid-19 as well as healthcare workers, sanitary workers and police, who are in the frontline for management of the outbreak, facing discrimination on account of heightened fear and misinformation about the infection and that there is a need to counter such prejudices.Last week, the Odisha government broke its own norms of not revealing the identity of coronavirus patients as it named the fifth person in the state who tested positive.The one-off announcement was made over fears that the patient who is mentally challenged might have triggered community transmission of Covid-19.The revelation of the identity of the patient has come at a time when the Odisha government has lodged cases against people for trying to reveal the identity of infected persons. In Bhadrak district last week, police arrested 3 persons for revealing the identity of a 29-year-old chef working in Dubai who tested positive on March 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-warns-against-disclosing-identities-of-covid-19-patients/story-o1oYjCFGK9nIGXnfELoYWP.html
08-04-2020||India||Indian scientists at IIL join global race to develop Covid-19 vaccine||Indian scientists are scrambling to develop a vaccine against the SARS-CoV-2, the novel coronavirus, with the Hyderabad-based Indian Immunologicals Limited (IIL), a subsidiary of the National Dairy Development Board (NDDB), joining a frantic global race. The IIL has partnered with Australia’s Griffith University to develop the vaccine through an “approach” that looks promising to both institutions, according to the organisation.“This is a significant cross-continental collaboration,” the chairman of the NDDB and the IIL Dilip Rath told HT. Scientists from IIL and Griffith University will jointly develop a “live attenuated SARS – CoV-2 vaccine” or Covid-19 vaccine using the “latest codon de-optimization technology”.A live-attenuated vaccine is one where the target virus is considerably weakened but still alive, just enough to trigger immunity but cause no harm. “Codon de-optimization technology” is a popular method of developing vaccines that allows manipulation of the constituents of a virus’s genetic code called “codons”, according to the US Centers of Disease Control. IIL is a major player in the human vaccine market in the country, supplying human pediatric and rabies vaccines. IIL is also a major supplier of pediatric vaccines to the country’s state-run universal immunization programme.In India, vaccine manufacturer Bharat Biotech is working on developing an intra-nasal drop vaccine against SARS – CoV-2 in collaboration with the University of Wisconsin-Madison and vaccine firm FluGen. The Pune-based Serum Institute is also working on a coronavirus vaccine.Public institutions and private firms in the US, China and Europe are already conducting early trials of a vaccine. “Development of a Covid-19 vaccine has become a matter of national pride. It’s conceptually not a very difficult thing to achieve but takes time,” said Dr Ashok Kayal, a former professor of neurology at Gauhati Medical College and Hospital. According to Rath, the IIL is looking at a new “codon de-optimization technology” because scientists from both India and Australia see it to be promising for developing a vaccine for “prophylactic, active, single dose immunization against coronavirus in humans, with an enhanced safety profile”. The vaccine is expected to provide long-lasting protection, he said.In an email response, Professor Suresh Mahalingam of Menzies Health Institute Queensland, Griffith University, Australia said: “As this vaccine will be a live attenuated vaccine, it is expected to be highly effective by providing very strong cellular and antibody immune responses against the virus.” A live-attenuated vaccine has a proven track record for economical large-scale manufacturing and well-known regulatory approval pathway, Mahalingam said.Most medical scientists agree that the coronavirus crisis will come to an end either with a costly so-called “herd immunity” or with a vaccine. Herd immunity occurs when a population develops collective immunity against a disease by simply battling it but this stage comes after the disease strikes about 80% of the population and potentially causing thousands of deaths. New technology in genomics and greater international coordination have resulted in speedier discovery of vaccines. Yet, it remains a long-drawn out process because vaccines undergo rigorous testing in animals and humans. After completing the research, the vaccine strain will be transferred to IIL and the vaccine maker will work with India’s drug regulator, the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation, to conduct clinical trials.The IIL is already working with Griffith University for development of a Zika virus vaccine, which is currently at pre-clinical toxicology testing stage. The codon de-optimization technology has been successfully employed to reduce the virulence of several RNA viruses including Enterovirus C (Poliovirus), HIV type 1 and Zika virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-scientists-at-iil-join-global-race-to-develop-covid-19-vaccine/story-0o3fLVFwClcup0SpM568zO.html
08-04-2020||India||Centre praises Pune and Pathanamthitta’s Covid-19 containment measures||The health ministry on Wednesday recognised the containment efforts in coronavirus hotspots like Pune in Maharashtra and Pathanamthitta in Kerala as best practices adopted by states that were worthy of emulation. The ministry also lists several webinars conducted by the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi to better arm medical care workers to deal with the unique challenges presented by the coronavirus outbreak.The health ministry said that both Central and the state governments had taken a series of measures to break the chain of transmission and have successfully scaled up their responses as per the ongoing increased cases noted across the country.It then added that several districts have taken measures which have emerged as best practices. It showers rich praise on Pune for its containment efforts.“Pune district sealed the central region of Pune and Kondhwa area effectively and carried out door-to-door survey of homes located across 35 sq. km area. The team is also checking persons with co-morbidity like Diabetes and Hypertension apart from travel history and contact tracing,” the health ministry said while recognising the additional measures like the door to door survey and monitoring of patients with co-morbidity, which is considered to be fatal in combination with cornavirus.It also cited the example of Pathanamthitta district in Kerala to highlight that the district administration had gone beyond the standard procedure for the containment of the deadly virus.“Pathanamthitta district ensured surveillance, gathering travel history, contact tracing, ensuring quarantine facilities and providing essential & psychological support,” the ministry said,Next, it lauded a training module launched by the Central government for management of COVID-19. The module named ‘Integrated Govt. Online training’ (iGOT) portal is for the capacity building of frontline workers including doctors, nurses, paramedics, technicians, ANMs, State Govt Officers, Civil Defence officials, National Cadet Corps (NCC), National Service Scheme (NSS), Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS) and other volunteers. Finally, the ministry notes that AIIMS, New Delhi, has been conducting several webinars to build the capacity of different categories of healthcare professionals for Covid-19 management. It specifically mentions online training of physicians for antenatal care and labour management of pregnant women who are suspected or confirmed coronavirus patients.As of now, the health ministry has reported 5194 confirmed cases of the disease including 149 deaths and 402 cases where the patient was discharged after recovery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-praises-pune-and-pathanamthitta-s-covid-19-containment-measures/story-yEkmZc72x4lRKZoGRoZDTL.html
08-04-2020||India||Centre should provide financial packages to states based on number of COVID-19 cases: Sachin Pilot||To ensure a “comprehensive victory” over the COVID-19 pandemic, the Centre should provide financial packages to states in proportion to the number of coronavirus cases and the propensity for further spread of the infection, Rajasthan Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot said on Wednesday.Pilot also said a decision on whether the lockdown should be lifted or not following the 21-day period should be taken after consultation with the states, medical experts and scientists, and if it is lifted, it should be done in stages.The lockdown across the country was imposed from March 25 to prevent the spread of the virus.In an interview to PTI, he said Rajasthan managed to have limited success in containing the virus as it acted fast and reached out to people not just in cities and towns, but also in villages.Pilot, who holds the rural development and panchayati raj portfolio, said Rajasthan was one of the first states to get sodium hypochlorite sprayed in rural areas and so far, 38,000 villages out of a total of 46,000 have been disinfected.“Every single panchayat has been given Rs 50,000 to procure masks and hand sanitizers. This was done early to prevent panic buying and stopping the rural population from rushing to urban areas to procure them,” he said.The Rajasthan deputy chief minister said in order to ensure that the most vulnerable sections of society are able to sustain themselves, it is important that states are given dedicated financial packages.“For us to be able to have a comprehensive victory over the coronavirus challenge, states will have to be assisted with dedicated financial packages,” he said.“I think what should be done is that every state-specific resource allocation should be done in proportion to the spread of the infection, according to the propensity for further spread and the states present capacities to meet the crisis. We can extrapolate the data scientifically. Every state government must be given a package as the economic activity has almost come to a halt,” Pilot said.State-specific financial packages depending on resources, capacity, infection rate and future roadmap is the need of the hour, he said Asked about the Rs 1.7-lakh-crore relief package that the central government had announce last month, Pilot said that was a pan-India relief and a national announcement, but states have to be given the wherewithal to take care of patients and fight the pandemic.“If you look at any country in the world, the percentage of GDP deployed to fight this virus, India is still behind in that,” he said.He said the Centre’s package was a macro level announcement, but states need to be given financial support to combat and defeat the COVID-19.On whether the lockdown should be extended, Pilot said a “one size fits all solution” was not possible as India is a very diverse country with different geographical and social conditions.“So, what might work in Meghalaya or Manipur may not work in Puducherry or Kerala,” he said.Noting that there was still a week to go for the 21-day lockdown to end, he said there was time to take a considered and a well thought out view on it.“It is a tough decision to make, it boils down to lives versus livelihood and both are important. I don’t think the infection has peaked and we cannot afford to make the same mistakes like the US or western European countries have made,” he said.“I think that the decision should be taken with full consultation from all the states, scientific community and medical experts must be involved and whatever decision once we take, all of us should stand by it. We must fight this challenge as one nation and one people,” Pilot said, adding that there was no point speculating on it.Pilot, who is also the Congress state unit chief, said the party workers have been on the ground and using technology to reach out to vulnerable sections in the state.“We have a control room at my residence in Jaipur and in every district headquarter, DCC chiefs from their own homes are serving as a bridge between the administration and the government and all those who have been left out, Congress office bearers are trying to help them,” he said.Pilot said it was the state’s quick response that is helping it contain the pandemic as seen in Bhilwara and other areas.“We were the first state in India to go in for a lockdown. We moved quickly and that is why we were able to get some initial success in containing the virus, of course the numbers are now more than 300, but we have worked on many fronts simultaneously,” he said.He said on one hand the state government deployed doctors, paramedics, health workers, and on the other ensured that the supply chain for essential commodities was maintained.“We were quite strict in enforcing the curfew. So wherever there was an infection – we imposed curfew in the 2km radius. As of now we have 38 places where there is a curfew in Rajasthan besides the lockdown in the entire state,” he said. PTI ASK ANB ANB||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-should-provide-financial-packages-to-states-based-on-number-of-covid-19-cases-sachin-pilot/story-EFezsUiL3aHJr53xfFzx4N.html
08-04-2020||India||Private labs can’t charge people for Covid-19 tests, orders Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Wednesday barred private laboratories from testing patients for coronavirus disease. The judges said they were satisfied that there was a case for not charging patients for the tests and would decide later if they were entitled to any reimbursement from the government.“The private hospitals including laboratories have an important role to play in containing the scale of the pandemic by extending philanthropic services in the hour of national crisis. We thus are satisfied that the petitioner has made out a case for issuing a direction to the respondents to issue necessary direction to accredited private Labs to conduct free of cost COVID-19 test,” the bench comprising Justices Ashok Bhushan and S Ravindra Bhat said.The court said allowing private labs to charge Rs 4,500 for screening and confirmation test of Covid-19 may not be within means of a large part of population of this country. No person should be deprived of the test due to the person’s inability to pay for the test.The judges had indicated that they were inclined to accept the petitioner-lawyer Shashank Deo Sudhi’s request early in the day. He had submitted that government hospitals are packed to capacity and it has become difficult for the common man to get himself/herself tested in the government labs.Private labs had been roped in India to conduct tests for Covid-19 since government facilities are not sufficient in the face of increasing case counts. According to the Union health ministry website, India reported 5,194 cases and 149 fatalities as of Wednesday afternoon.Incidentally when the Indian Council of Medical Research had earlier spoken of allowing private labs to conduct tests, the government had underlined that it appealed to them to conduct the tests free of charge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/private-labs-can-t-charge-people-for-covid-19-tests-orders-supreme-court/story-4DCa5pljRLXCP9Rre9sefP.html
08-04-2020||India||Mamata accuses Centre of allowing Tablighi Jamaat meet, says it could have been stopped||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has accused the Bharatiya Janata Party government at the Centre, without naming the saffron party, of allowing the Tablighi Jamaat congregation to happen in Delhi last month. She said it could have been stopped. Breaking her silence on the issue, Banerjee also said that at least 177 Tablighi Jamaat members, including 108 foreigners, who attended the congregation, have been ‘quietly and secretly’ quarantined in Bengal.“Around 10 to 12 days ago we had quietly quarantined 108 foreigners and 69 people from Bengal who had attended the Delhi congregation. The foreigners had come from countries such as Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand and Myanmar. All 177 have been kept in a quarantine facility developed at the Haj Centre,” Banerjee said.The BJP on Wednesday had accused Mamata Banerjee of indulging in vote bank politics after the West Bengal Chief Minister refused to share any update on those who attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi.BJP IT cell head Amit Malviya hit out at Banerjee alleging that she was trying to appease minorities over the issue.“Jamaat cases have exploded across the country, but there is no clarity on the latest numbers in Bengal. How many of them traced and tested? Results? No update at all. Has she made it about vote bank?” Amit Malviya wrote on Twitter on Wednesday.“Those who are saying these things are responsible for this. External affairs and home affairs do not come under state’s jurisdiction. Several people, including foreigners, had gathered at Nizamuddin. They were allowed to gather. Had steps been taken from the beginning it would not have happened. I don’t want to play politics in these times,” Banerjee said, while reacting to the allegations. Last month, the Tablighi Jamaat group had organised a massive congregation at Delhi’s Nizamuddin area which has now emerged as a Covid-19 hotspot.At least 1,445 positive cases out of a total 5,274 coronavirus cases in the country, have been linked to the Tablighi Jamaat event, the government said. More than 1700 Jamaat members have been blacklisted so far.“It is the union government and not the state government which keeps information about foreigners who enter India with valid documents. How can we know if they (union government) don’t provide information to the state? When we got the information we did it very quietly within a span of just six hours. We did our task. We had to maintain secrecy so that it doesn’t trigger panic. What can we do if we are not provided with information? When we got the information we acted within six hours,” the chief minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-accuses-centre-of-allowing-tablighi-jamaat-meet-says-it-could-have-been-stopped/story-ezgajGCOGuxDCuUttHnZyO.html
08-04-2020||India||Four of seven coronaviruses that infect humans are seasonal||New Delhi: Out of the seven coronaviruses known to infect humans, four are seasonal and cause common respiratory infections that transmit similar to influenza, according to a new paper by public health researchers at the University of Michigan. The authors of the study, published in the Journal of Infectious Diseases on April 4, say that their findings may help investigators better prepare for the Covid-19 pandemic. But it is not possible to say that SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19, will also behave as the four do, they say. The researchers used data from an ongoing 10-year household influenza vaccine evaluation study based on hundreds of individuals infected by the four mild coronaviruses: OC43, 229E, HKU1, and NL63. The rest of the three are SARS-CoV, MERS or EMC, and SARS-CoV-2.The researchers from the epidemiology department of the University of Michigan School of Public Health found that 9% of adult cases and 20% of cases in children associated with these four coronaviruses involved doctor visits. During year-round surveillance, most coronavirus cases were detected between December and May with a peak in January-February. Only 2.5% of cases were seen between June and September.The highest infection frequency was among children under five. Of 993 infections, about 260 were acquired from an infected household member. The transmission window for the infection acquired from a household member ranged from 3.2 to 3.6 days. Cases in children under five and adults over 50 were more likely to manifest themselves as severe disease.Coronaviruses have long been recognised as human respiratory pathogens manifesting as mild respiratory illnesses. But when animal coronaviruses spill over to humans, they are known to cause severe diseases as in the case of the severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) in 2002 and Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) in 2012.“Even though the seasonal coronaviruses found in Michigan are related to SARS-CoV-2, we do not know whether that virus will behave like the seasonal coronaviruses,” said Arnold Monto, a professor at the University of Michigan and co-author of the study, in a statement.Amit Singh, an associate professor at Bengaluru’s Indian Institute of Science, said based on the clues from other coronaviruses that infect humans, it is possible that Covid-19 will eventually become seasonal. “A 10-year-old study conducted in the UK on three coronaviruses isolated from humans showed marked winter seasonality. Several unpublished observations seem to suggest that higher temperatures are linked to lower incidences of Covid-19. However, without data assembled over a number of seasons, the relation between Covid-19 and seasonality is mostly a prediction.”Singh said if the incidence of Covid-19 reduces over the coming months, it could be due to a number of reasons: effective lockdown, the build-up of immunity, or high temperatures. “Since the virus is new, we do not have immunity against it. However, once infection happens and people recover, we are likely to grow immunity against the pathogen,” he said. He added most of the pathogens like to persist in the host to maintain the reservoir. “If Covid-19 mutates at a much slower rate, then the ongoing wave of Covid-19 will generate immunity in the population, which eventually reduces the transmissibility and pathogenicity of the virus.”Dr T Jacob John, a former head of virology at Vellore’s Christian Medical College, said the future is very predictable. “At the end of 21 days, the government may extend the lockdown [imposed to check the spread of the disease]... lifting the lockdown would mean opening the floodgates. The initial spread of the infection will be very slow; a few cases here and there. Then cases will increase...like an avalanche. Maybe the speed of transmission will slow down in summer and then catch up again when the temperature falls. For prevention, people should continue to exercise physical distancing of about six feet but continue with social life and relationships.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-of-seven-covid-19-are-sharply-seasonal/story-o5asNy6ANaqrZHbCiuhzaI.html
08-04-2020||India||Covid-19 Latest: Uttarakhand cops appoint civilian police officers for local monitoring||Uttarakhand Police has decided to appoint Special Police Officers (SPO) from among the civilian population to monitor cases of home quarantine and to work closely with the local police to boost Covid-19 containment efforts in the state, said officials.The appointment of SPOs also shields the police personnel from exposure to the people suspected of carrying the virus. Several areas in the state have been sealed for non-essential movement after some members of the Tablighi Jamaat living in those areas tested positive for Covid-19.The sealed areas include Bhagat Singh Colony, Kargi Grant, some villages in Doiwala and Suddhowala areas, entire Dehradun district, Banbhulpura area in Nainital district and a village in Banbasa town of Champawat district. Extra police force has been deployed in all these areas for the strict enforcement of the restrictions. “Police have decided to appoint some residents of those areas as SPOs who will work in co-ordination with local police concerned to implement the lockdown and restrictions. They will also be keeping an eye on the people put in home quarantine there and inform the administration on finding any person hiding in the area or entering there discreetly,” said Ashok Kumar, director general (law & order), Uttarakhand police. Kumar added that locals are likely to be more amenable to requests for compliance made by their fellow residents who will perform the duties of an SPO.“However, the police will also be present there and won’t be withdrawn. The SPOs would assist them and not take police’s duties,” Kumar clarified.Till Wednesday afternoon, total Covid-19 positive cases in the state stood at 32 including 25 members from the Tablighi Jamaat, who have emerged as the biggest cluster of infection across the country. The senior police official also said that all the policemen on duty were taking required measures to protect themselves from the infection. “Our personnel on the ground are taking precautions like wearing masks and gloves, using hand sanitizers and maintaining social distancing,” he said.Kumar said that eight policemen were in quarantine.“So far only eight policemen have been put in quarantine as a precautionary measure as they were in the team that caught 13 Jamaatis trying to discreetly enter the state on April 1 in US Nagar district. Three of the 13 Jamaatis were later tested positive for Covid-19,” he said. Many police personnel said they were a bit apprehensive while serving near the sealed areas. “Of course we are a little worried about our own lives as we, too, are humans and are out in the open while on duty. With reports of some cops testing positive in Madhya Pradesh and Delhi after coming in contact with the Jamaatis, we are now extra vigilant,” said a head constable deployed near Bhagat Singh Colony in Dehradun, which has been put under restrictions by the administration. Earlier today, the state government again warned the Jamaat members of strict action if they didn’t present themselves for medical examination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-latest-uttarakhand-cops-appoint-civilian-police-officers-for-local-monitoring/story-ewF1bMarCL72nhfDEePjsO.html
08-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Govt to issue all pending income tax refunds up to Rs 5 lakh||The finance ministry on Wednesday ordered immediate release of income-tax refunds involving amount up to Rs 5 lakh to provide cash in hands to 14 lakh taxpayers who might be facing liquidity crunch due to the nationwide lockdown, an official statement said.Similarly, all Goods and Services Tax (GST) and customs refunds will also to be released to provide immediate cash in hand to about one lakh business entities, including micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), it said.The government has already granted refunds worth Rs 18,000 crore. “In the context of the COVID-19 situation and with a view to provide immediate relief to the business entities and individuals, it has been decided to issue all the pending income-tax refunds up to Rs 5 lakh, immediately,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-govt-to-issue-all-pending-income-tax-refunds-up-to-rs-5-lakh-with-immediate-effect/story-yYbcMuuE8d1DnFXBdzAJ8L.html
08-04-2020||India||‘Sounds mischievous’: PM Modi disses campaign to honour him, slips in an appeal||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday frowned at a social media campaign to honour him, telling his well-wishers that if this plan was out of goodwill for him, people should take responsibility for at least one poor family.In two tweets, PM Modi said he had been told about a campaign to honour him by standing for five minutes. “At first glance, it sounds mischievous to drag Modi into controversies,” he said. There have been a series of posts on Twitter, which called for “a standing ovation by clapping for five minutes” for PM Modi on April 12 at 5 pm.But if it is out of goodwill and love for him, PM Modi said, he would rather have people take up the responsibility for one poor family as long the coronavirus crisis exists.“There would be no greater honour for me than this,” PM Modi tweeted on Wednesday, shortly after his video conference with political parties on the Covid-19 challenge.Watch: PM Modi chairs all-party meet via video conferencing on COVID-19 situation People working in the unorganised sector and the marginalised sections have been hit the hardest by the nationwide lockdown ordered by the central government to slow down the coronavirus disease from spreading. Tens of thousands of people, migrant labourers and others, headed back to their villages from cities in the days after the lockdown was ordered. In many cases, people said they had difficulties feeding their families because of the employment opportunities that disappeared when the country, and the economy came to a halt.Soon after, the government stepped up opening of relief camps and community kitchens to feed the poor. In an affidavit filed in the Supreme Court on Tuesday, the Centre told the judges that the 54 lakh people had been given food since the lockdown started. Another 30 lakh were being fed by NGOs.Employers and factory owners were giving shelter and food to another 15 lakh people.An additional 60,000 people had taken refuge at relief camps, mostly by the nonprofit sector. The number of relief camps and shelters run by various governments is 22,567 and by NGOs 3,909, the affidavit said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sounds-mischievous-pm-modi-disses-campaign-to-honour-him-slips-in-a-request/story-2nImM0tSWbdvsR1fvZlrEJ.html
08-04-2020||India||We must look at mass antibody testing for a calibrated exit from lockdown: T Jacob John||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has steadily scaled up his government’s response to the coronavirus disease pandemic, starting with the screening of international passengers on January 17; following up with a three-week nationwide lockdown on March 25; and forming 11 high-level empowered groups to reinforce health care facilities, bring the economy back on track, and mitigate problems faced by citizens.On April 4, Modi underlined the need for more hospitals, isolation and quarantine facilities, training of personnel for testing and critical care, medical equipment and personal protective gear for health care workers, and on April 6, sought suggestions from the council of ministers on a “calibrated” exit from the lockdown. In this context, outlined below an innovative strategy for lifting the lockdown. India’s health management system is ready to begin antibody testing. Biomedical companies can upscale the manufacturing of kits under the supervision of, and quality certification by the Indian Council of Medical Research. People with IgG antibodies, found in the blood and lymph fluid, whether or not they had suffered Covid-19, are immune, and, they can safely return to normal activities. They will not get infected, and cannot transmit infection to others. Antibodies are of two kinds, IgM and IgG. In simple terms, IgM antibody signals current infection and IgG antibody records past infection and immunity. The experience everywhere is that a large proportion of people with infection have no illness or only very mild symptoms, not fulfilling the clinical criteria of Covid-19 diagnoses. Unless tested with a PCR (polymerase chain reaction) test or IgM antibody test, they will remain undetected and not be counted as infected. The mainstay of my strategy is systematic, well-designed, and widespread antibody testing of individuals, and certifying those who are antibody positive as exempted from lockdown. This is one form of “calibration.”Testing can be initiated in foci of selected geography, and centrifugally expanded. The field methodology can be designed by the responsible empowered group. This exercise can be continuous and ongoing. In communities already tested, it must be repeated periodically, say at intervals of 2-3 weeks, targeting those who were previously antibody-negative. Antibody-positive persons are the newly recruited workforce in rebuilding economic activities. All data must be captured, stored, and made available to the concerned authorities of local and state governments.A registry of antibody-positive healthy adults who are willing to be plasma donors must also be established along with antibody testing. Their plasma is an additional therapeutic item in the health care armamentarium for treating those at risk of severe illness with Covid-19. Medical experts can develop the criteria for selecting such patients. The empowered group concerned with health care can design the modus operandi from A to Z, without delay.Let me add that universal mask-wearing ought to be a necessary condition for lifting of lockdown. Ideally it should have preceded the lockdown. There are still a few days left under lockdown, and the policy of universal mask-use must be mandated as soon as possible. If the Union government delays action, state governments must take leadership. As families stay confined in their own homes, they can stitch masks using old clothes. You do not need sewing machine; hand stitching with needle and thread is good enough.The antibody testing survey has another major benefit. If designed well, it will inform us of the magnitude of the prevalence of Sars-CoV-2 infection. That is an invaluable piece of information that will guide future war tactics.(Dr T Jacob John is a former Professor of Virology, Christian Medical College, Vellore, Tamil Nadu)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-must-look-at-mass-antibody-testing-for-a-calibrated-exit-from-lockdown-t-jacob-john/story-OSLL5kdHSnSVeYeB6hlMYI.html
08-04-2020||India||Covid-19 deaths can’t be decided only on the basis of absolute numbers: Health ministry||The high number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) deaths --- 64 until Wednesday morning --- reported from Maharashtra could be a chance event, as the number of overall fatalities is still low and a trend cannot be decoded on the basis of absolute numbers, said Dr Raman R. Gangakhedkar, chief of epidemiology and communicable diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) in a media briefing on Wednesday.“You can’t merely decide on the basis of absolute numbers, that is not the right way,” said Dr Gangakhedkar.The Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) said that the government was taking aggressive measures wherever required in Maharashtra from where 1,078 Covid-19 cases were reported until Wednesday morning. “In Pune, door-to-door screenings are being conducted. About 35 square kilometres are being covered to look for people with co-morbid conditions and those with any travel history. The government has come up with an elaborate technical plan for different stages of Covid-19 management,” said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, MoHFW.“If the number of cases is rising, the government’s preparations are also increasing proportionally to break the chain of Covid-19 transmission. Our technical war room is monitoring the situation very closely, and is equipped to track even ambulances on a real-time basis, apart from keeping a close watch of people under home quarantine, etc.,” he added. A total of 139 ICMR laboratories are conducting Covid-19 tests, and another 65 private ones have been approved by the research organisation. Since January 24, 121,271 samples have been tested across India. And 2,267 samples have been tested in private laboratories, which were given approval on March 21. Agarwal refused reports about the shortage of the anti-malaria drug, hydroxychloroquine, in the country.“There is no shortage of the drug in the country. It’ll be made available to whoever needs it. Those being given the medicine currently by the government are just a section of people. It’s not recommended for everyone, and should not be taken without a prescription,” said Agarwal.To train the workforce on the field, the Union Ministry of Human Resource Development has developed modules to train doctors, nurses, paramedics, technicians, volunteers, etc who will have to be deployed on the ground for surveillance and management purposes.“All these people will be provided with necessary resources on the field. This is a part of government’s larger preparedness plan,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-deaths-can-t-be-decided-only-on-the-basis-of-absolute-numbers-health-min/story-gnRb3F5otJ3cLLWxKnxFqK.html
08-04-2020||India||After Maharashtra, UP makes wearing masks compulsory to check coronavirus||The Uttar Pradesh government on Wednesday made it mandatory for people in the state to wear masks to check the spread of coronavirus.“Wearing of masks has been made compulsory in the state. There can be legal action for not wearing masks,” additional chief secretary (home) Avnish Awasthi said according to ANI.The number of people testing positive for coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh rose to 345 across 37 of the state’s 75 districts on Wednesday.Uttar Pradesh became the second state on Wednesday to make wearing masks compulsory after Maharashtra where the number of infections has gone past 1000.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) in a circular citied several studies that supported wearing masks can reduce the spread of coronavirus. The circular warned of arrest under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for failure to wear masks while moving in public places.The circular specified that people must wear 3 ply mask or cloth mask.Last month, the Centre declared masks and sanitisers as essential commodities till the end of June in its efforts to battle the spread of coronavirus and to contain the hoarding or overpricing of these itemsThe World Health Organisation (WHO) in an advisory last month had said a healthy person needs to wear a mask only if he or she taking care of a person with suspected to be infected by coronavirus. It had also said that masks are effective only when used in combination with frequent washing of hands or sanitising them with alcohol-based sanitiser.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-maharashtra-up-makes-wearing-masks-compulsory-to-check-coronavirus/story-Yd6RJIkqBkxoJxWs3q7BBO.html
08-04-2020||India||E-commerce expenditure records17% hike on utilities, 8.3% dip on travel||Indians spent 17.5% more on utilities and essentials on e-commerce sites during the lockdown, than they did before it. An analysis of spending patterns showed a change in the way Indians spent, with online transactions on travel, food and beverages and business services showing a dip. Spending on shopping, however, continued to grow. A study released by digital payments company, Wibmo, revealed that while 55% of the spend on e-commerce sites were on essentials before the lockdown, it shot up to 72.5% during the lockdown. Shopping, too, saw a hike and went from 10% of total e-commerce spends to 12.2%. Games and entertainment, which accounted for 12% of all spending on e-commerce sites earlier, went down to 9.4% during the lockdown. Travel-related transactions saw a huge dip -- it accounted for 9% of all spending earlier and went down to 0.7% during the lockdown. Transactions on Indian e-commerce sites at large saw a dip of 30% during the Janta Curfew, called for by Prime Minister Modi on March 22. In the week after that, Indian consumers returned online with spending making a recovery of 50%. In the week after the Janta Curfew, RuPay spend climbed back to about 98% of normal volumes but continued to fluctuate between 87% to 98%, the findings said. Later in the week, RuPay saw a further rise of 10%. Visa and Mastercard purchases, however, could match up to only 86% of their normal volumes and remained between 70-86%. Average ticket size during the lockdown dropped by 25%.“We process over 2.2 billion transactions annually giving us unique insight into consumer behavior and spend patterns. The shift in online purchases was inevitable as our consumers stayed at home during this tough period,” Wibmo CEO Govind Setlur said in a release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/e-commerce-expenditure-records17-hike-on-utilities-8-3-dip-on-travel/story-i5wj0gxOIi38BoWGNGFeeJ.html
08-04-2020||India||36 convicts, 48 undertrials remain in city jails, despite interim bail orders||Thirty-six of 686 convicts, who were ordered to be released from city’s three jails on interim bails, continue to languish on the premises. Some of them are unwilling to return home while others are unable to return to their hometowns in Haryana, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh due to the ongoing 21-day lockdown.Those who have been ordered to be released were serving sentences for cases, under which there is a maximum term of seven years. The orders were issued to decongest the Rohini, Mandoli and Tihar jails, to ensure social distancing amid the Covid-19 pandemic.As many as 48 undertrial prisoners (UTPs) are also languishing at the jail, chiefly due to lack of transportation, as per the information provided by the Tihar jail authorities to the Delhi government’s committee to decongest the prisons.The director general (DG), prisons, told the committee, headed by justice Hima Kohli, that 261 more cases are under process. He said that so far, 775 of the 823 UTPs have been released after receiving orders for the same.The committee also discussed and resolved that the next set of prisoners who would be released on a 45-day interim bail would include UTPs who are senior citizens in custody for six months or more, facing trial in a case which prescribes a maximum sentence of 10 years, UTPs aged less than 60 years of age in custody for one year or more, facing trial in a case which prescribes a maximum sentence of 10 years and UTPs/remand prisoners (who are yet to be chargesheeted) in custody for 15 days or more, facing trial in a case which prescribes a maximum sentence of seven years.However, the committee excluded foreigners, those undergoing trials for intermediary/ large quantity recovery under Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 (NDPS Act), those charged under sections 4 and 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO) and rape accused.Kanwal Jeet Arora, member-secretary, Delhi State Legal Services Authority (DSLSA) informed the committee that advocates empanelled with DSLSA, visiting jail premises on daily basis, had drafted and filed 1,475 applications, as on April 4, 2020, for grant of interim bail.The committee was informed that out of these bail applications, interim bails have been granted in 823 cases and expected to be granted in 100 more cases on the basis of applications filed/pending for consideration, at the courts concerned.The court said that in the last meeting, held on March 28, the DG (prisons) had informed them that the number of convicts who can be released on parole for eight weeks is 1,500, of whom 650 have been released.The chairperson cautioned the DG (prisons) and principal secretary (home) that any delay in the release of the eligible convicts on “emergency parole”, so as to complete the exercise of decongesting jails, will render the entire Covid-19 fight futile. The DG and PS assured the chair that they would expedite the process and mentioned that preventive measures are being taken up by jail authorities.The DG told the committee that bathing areas, kitchen and the telephone bays are being cleaned and sanitised regularly. He said that inmates are being apprised about the necessary precautions, i.e., dos and don’ts through public address systems installed in the jails.He also said that 25-30 new male inmates, aged 21 and above, have been kept at separate wards in Tihar’s jail number two and Mandoli’s jail number 13. Separate wards have been created in jail number six for new women inmates, while men aged between 18 and 21 years would be kept at jail number five in Tihar.The DG said that as per the resolutions adopted in the previous meeting, adequate quantities of soap cakes, liquid soaps, phenyl, masks, and sanitisers, manufactured in-house, have been sent to juvenile justice boards and observation homes, as per the requirements. They have been put to use in the jails as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/36-convicts-48-undertrials-remain-in-city-jails-despite-interim-bail-orders/story-aL90S5uR7JWP6MWxLewF1L.html
08-04-2020||India||PM Modi says priority is to save every life as India prepares for extended lockdown||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said that the coronavirus embattled country’s priority was to save every life, in what could be seen as a virtual endorsement of the view seeking an extension of the 21-day national lockdown even at the cost of economic losses.“He (PM Modi) said that the priority of the government is saving each and every life,” said a release from the prime minister’s office.The PMO release added that the prime minister also spoke about the economic challenges faced by the country as a result of Covid-19, and assured all that the government was committed to overcoming them.“Prime Minister noted that in these changing circumstances, the country should simultaneously try to bring about a change in its work culture and working style,” the release added.The prime minister made the statements during a Wednesday video conference with Parliamentary floor leaders of political parties with a combined strength of five or more MPs, which also seemed to have helped evolve a consensus around a possible extension of the lockdown. “The prime minister recognised situation in the country is akin to a ‘social emergency’. The country has been forced to take tough decisions and must continue to remain vigilant. He said that several state governments, district administrations and experts have asked for an extension of the phase of Lockdown,” the release from PMO said referring to the content of the discussions.BJD’s Pinaki Misra had earlier confirmed that Prime Minister Modi had remarked during the meeting that removing the lockdown provisions didn’t appear to be possible at this stage. Congress’ Ghulam Nabi Azad also told news agency PTI that over 80% of political parties represented in the meeting had spoken in favour of extending the lockdown.The Central government has, however, not taken any official stance on the matter and a final round of deliberations with chief ministers of all states and Union territories is likely to be held on April 11, three days before the end of the 21-day lockdown period that began on March 25.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19PM Modi called the present situation as one causing a grave impact on mankind’s history and added that we must evolve to “counter impact”, said the release.Modi also praised the efforts of the states as they worked together with the Centre in the fight against the pandemic while underlining the “resource constraints”.Prime Minister Modi, however, added that “India has been among the few nations to control the pace of spread of the virus till now.”Also Read: PM Modi said pre-corona and post-corona life won’t be same, says BJD MPHe also warned that the situation keeps changing continuously and one needs to maintain vigil at all times, said the release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-says-priority-is-to-save-every-life-as-india-prepares-for-extended-lockdown/story-OOOwdLHSqnwfEEWswoWhWN.html
08-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5 PM: FATF’s review meet for Pak postponed due to Covid-19 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.FATF’s review meeting for Pakistan postponed due to Covid-19 crisis: ReportPakistan has received an unexpected reprieve in meeting a deadline set by the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) to counter terror financing as a key review meeting scheduled for June has been put off because of the Covid-19 crisis. Read morePM Modi said pre-corona and post-corona life won’t be same, says BJD MPPrime minister Narendra Modi told the Parliamentary floor leaders of political parties on Wednesday that people’s lives after the coronavirus outbreak was set to change and it won’t be any similar to the life enjoyed before the pandemic took a firm grip on the world including India, said a senior leader from the Biju Janta Dal. Read moreCovid-19: Mumbai civic body makes wearing masks mandatory, says violators may be arrestedThe BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has made it mandatory for people stepping out of their homes to wear masks to check the spread of coronavirus disease Covid-19. Read moreWuhan lifts 11-week lockdown as China records rise in imported Covid-19 casesWuhan, the Chinese city where the coronavirus first emerged December, ended its 11-week lockdown on Wednesday but restrictions on the movement of people were put in place in a northeastern province amid fears of a new wave of infection triggered by imported Covid-19 cases. Read moreHe’ll get answer about pace: Shoaib Akhtar proposes duel between his son and Mohammad Kaif’s sonReacting to Mohammad Kaif’s tweet on his son’s reaction of ‘hitting Shoaib Akhtar must be easy’, the Rawalpindi Express invited the former India middle order batsman for a duel with his son Mikael. Read moreAfter his two daughters, Bollywood producer Karim Morani also tests positive for coronavirusBollywood producer Karim Morani has tested positive for Covid-19, and has been admitted to Nanavati Hospital in Mumbai. Earlier, his two daughters Zoa and Shaza had also tested positive for the disease. Read moreWhatsApp’s new limit on chat forwards: Important things you need to knowWhatsApp has limited the forwarding of frequently forwarded messages to one chat a time in attempts to curb the spread of Covid-19 misinformation. Messages that are frequently forwarded are highlighted by WhatsApp with a label. Read moreThe Taste with Vir: We’ll have to extend the lockdownThe government has made no official announcement about the end of the lockdown but I don’t know a single person who believes that it will end on schedule. The most we can expect are staggered and perhaps region-based withdrawals of the restrictions. Read moreWatch: Impact of lockdown on India’s rivers & pollution levels||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5-pm-fatf-s-review-meet-for-pak-postponed-due-to-covid-19-and-all-the-latest-news/story-i1SvrhDmEsWZFiTcWf4rsJ.html
08-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Chhattisgarh releases 1,478 prisoners after SC order||Chhattisgarh government has released 1, 478 prisoners till Wednesday from various jails of the state on bail, parole, and completion of their sentences after the Supreme Court’s order to decongest prisons in wake of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, jail authorities said.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicOut of the 1,478 inmates, 427 have been released from various jails on interim bail of less than three months, 742 on interim bail for over three months, 262 on parole and another 46 on completion of their sentence, they added.On Tuesday, Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel directed officials to ensure strict compliance of precautionary measures against Covid-19 such as social distancing, wearing of masks and frequent washing of hands in the prisons across the state.He also directed officials to house new prisoners in separate barracks and arrange for thermal scanners and hand sanitisers at the entrance of jails. Prison visits have also been suspended till April 14, the day the ongoing 21-day officially ends unless the government extends it further, the authorities added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-chhattisgarh-releases-1-478-prisoners-after-sc-order-to-decongest-prisons/story-YdmTjOO05Y7qZCuJszLD8N.html
08-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Anil Deshmukh blames Union Home Ministry for Tablgihi Jamaat meet||Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh put the Union home ministry in his line of fire on Wednesday, holding it responsible for the spread of coronavirus because it failed to stop the gathering organised by the Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi last month.In a statement, Deshmukh questioned why permission was given for the Ijtema organised by the Tablighi Jamaat at its headquarters in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area and wondered about the “secret talks” between Jamaat chief Maulana Saad and National security Adviser Ajit Doval. He also asked why Tablighi Jamaat head Maulana Saad was absconding after Doval visited its headquarters.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.He also wanted to know why Doval and the Delhi Police Commissioner have been silent on the issue. “What were the secret talks that took place between Doval and Maulana Saad past midnight after the former visited the Jamaat headquarters in Nizamuddin? Why Maulana Saad is absconding day after their meeting and where is he now?” the statement reads.On Tuesday, Deshmukh who belongs to the nationalist Congress Party (NCP), warned 50 to 60 Jamaat members who attended the Nizamuddin event programme of stern action against for not reporting to the authorities despite several appeals. He said that out of 1400 such members who attended the programme, the others have been traced by the authorities.The Tablighi Jamaat had organised a religious gathering between March 13 and 15 which was attended by more than 2000 people, including many foreigners. The gathering is now suspected to have been the catalyst for the spike in the number of Covid-19 cases in different parts of the country after the members returned home. Last week, the Centre blacklisted 960 foreigners who attended the event in violation of their visa conditions.On Tuesday, Maharashtra became the first state to record more than 1,000 cases of coronavirus. Various state governments have also asked Jamaat members to report to authorities if they had attended the Nizamuddin event.On Monday, NCP chief Sharad Pawar had asked who gave permission for the Tablighi Jamaat in New Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-anil-deshmukh-blames-union-home-ministry-for-tablgihi-jamaat-meet/story-k574TwB1Ga9QW2BFvK4pjJ.html
08-04-2020||India||PM Modi to hold another meeting with CMs to discuss lifting Covid-19 lockdown||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold another round of meeting with chief ministers on April 11, days before the 21-day lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus disease Covid-19 is lifted. The lockdown is scheduled to end on April 14, but in a meeting with parliamentarians today, PM Modi virtually ruled out lifting the stringent measure.This will be the Prime Minister’s second meeting with the chief ministers during the lockdown period. He had held a similar meeting last week via video conferencing to discuss the prevailing coronavirus situation in the country with chief ministers.During the interaction on April 2, the PM spoke about formulating a “common exit strategy” to ensure “staggered re-emergence of the population” once lockdown is over. PM Modi also asked chief ministers to enforce the lockdown, help the needy get food and to ensure contact tracing of people known to have tested positive with the deadly pathogen, particularly those who attended the Tablighi Jamaat event last month.PM Modi praised different states for extensive teamwork which he said had helped to check the transmission of the virus to some extent. He also expressed concern about the rapidly deteriorating global health crisis.The Prime Minister highlighted the need to maintain the supply of essential medicines, essential food items and availability of raw material for manufacture of medicines and medical equipment. He asked the states to ensure dedicated hospital facilities for Covid-19 patients, tap into the resource pool of AYUSH doctors, organise online training and utilise para-medical staff, NCC and NSS volunteers.PM Modi has been interacting with various stakeholders, including doctors and heads of Indian missions to get a feedback on ways to check the spread of Covid-19.He also recently spoke to various leaders including Congress chief Sonia Gandhi, Trinamool Congress leader Mamata Banerjee, DMK leader MK Stalin and discussed the Covid-19 situation as well as his government’s efforts to contain the spread of the pandemic.He had also talked former presidents Pratibha Patil and Pranab Mukherjee, and former prime ministers HD Deve Gowda and Manmohan Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-hold-another-meeting-with-cms-to-discuss-lifting-covid-19-lockdown/story-etheG7oFTcuVXoLrBRXqQL.html
08-04-2020||India||‘Talking to CMs, none asked me to lift the lockdown’: PM Modi at all-party meet||Prime Minister Narendra Modi virtually ruled out lifting of the nationwide lockdown next week in his video conference with floor leaders of opposition parties. He also added that while there is tremendous pressure on resources, India is one of the few countries where the spread of the coronavirus is still under control.Emphasising that “lockdown is the only way to save our people”, PM Modi said, “I am regularly talking to CMs, districts and experts. Nobody is telling me to lift the lockdown. We need strict rules to maintain social distancing. We have to take many unexpected steps too.”“Nobody is saying that lockdown should be lifted. I will again talk to the CMs. But as of now, the mood is that entire lockdown lifting is not possible. We are also talking at district levels. For us, lockdown is the only way to save our people,” Modi addedThis is the first time that Modi has said lifting of lockdown is not possible. Underlining the positive attitude during the meeting, the PM impressed upon all that it will help in fighting this global pandemic. He hailed the discussion as “successful”.“Your assurances will go a long way to strengthen our democracy. This type of cooperative efforts are a necessary requirement in fighting this challenge,” said the PM.Talking to leaders of opposition parties for the first time since the Covid-19 became a pandemic, the Prime Minister expressed hope and confidence that with the help of political parties, state governments and the people of India, the country can fight against coronavirus.Watch: PM Modi chairs all-party meet via video conferencing on Covid-19 situation Modi also underlined his strategy, saying, “In this given situation and available resources, we will go ahead with optimum utilization. In this situation, the government is talking to as many people as possible. I am regularly talking to the CMs. I have taken their suggestions and also spoken to other people of the society.”The Prime Minister also hailed the unprecedented unity across the political spectrum over the crisis. “I want to thank the state governments once again. The Centre and states are working in tandem keeping in mind the requirements and that is the reason that the states, the centre and the political parties are working together without any prejudice.”“It looks like be it the person in lowest or the highest strata of the society, everyone is doing their bit to fight against Corona. It’s a big thing in this country of 130 crore people. The sense of belonging which father of the nation Mahatma Gandhi used to speak of, today, we can see its deep impact in our daily lives,” Modi said.The PM also explained that the entire world is in a crisis. “The wealthiest of the nations and the most modern systems have fallen before this deadly virus. There’s no country which can fight alone and that is one of the reasons, there is immense pressure on resources.”“We have been trying to make quick decisions and today India is one of the few countries in the world where the spread of this virus is still under control. We also have to keep in mind that every day, situations are changing. So, all countries are banking on social distancing and lockdown. These are the only two ways to tackle corona,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/taking-to-cms-none-asking-me-to-lift-the-lockdown-pm-modi-at-all-party-meet/story-AvYXJohPXlBfmoHEEjxidL.html
08-04-2020||India||PM Modi said pre-corona and post-corona life won’t be same, says BJD MP||Prime minister Narendra Modi told the Parliamentary floor leaders of political parties on Wednesday that people’s lives after the coronavirus outbreak was set to change and it won’t be any similar to the life enjoyed before the pandemic took a firm grip on the world including India, said a senior leader from the Biju Janta Dal.In the meeting, PM Modi is also said to have given the first clear hint of an extension of the 21-day national lockdown currently in place beyond April 14.“PM Modi told us that pre-corona and post-corona life won’t be the same,” PTI quoted BJD MP Pinaki Misra as saying after the meeting.Pinaki Misra was one of the several leaders the prime minister interacted with across political parties in a video conference earlier this morning. Prime Minister’s statement comes amidst fears of a global recession taking hold due to the impact of coronavirus on world economies.Experts have expressed reservation if it was possible for India to achieve even a 5% growth in 2019-2020. Watch: PM Modi chairs all-party meet via video conferencing on COVID-19 situationA report by the International Labour Organisation (ILO) has said that close to 40 crore workers associated with the informal economy or the unorganised sector in India are at the risk of falling deeper into poverty due to the pandemic.It also says that around 2.7 billion workers are globally suffering due to lockdowns.IMF chief Kristalina Georgieva recently said that massive funding of up to $2.5 trillion may be required to help developing nations emerge from the economic setbacks dealt by the disease.“It is clear that we have entered a recession,” she said and feared that it would be worse than the one seen in 2009 during the global financial crisis.According to IMF, over 80 countries mostly belonging to the low-income category have already sought emergency aid from the organisation.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19In India, governments have announced cut in salaries of public representatives and government staff as money from the public exchequer was being pooled in to shore up resources to meet with various challenges posed by the outbreak.A recent CMIE data which tracks unemployment on a weekly basis says joblessness has risen from 8.4% in the week ended March 22 to 23%.Also Read: ‘Not possible to lift lockdown on April 14’: PM Modi hints at all-party meeting||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-said-pre-corona-and-post-corona-life-won-t-be-same-says-bjd-mp/story-IdLwOmAzIej18z6AOat91K.html
08-04-2020||India||Ensure essential goods are available during lockdown: Centre to states||The Union home ministry has urged states to maintain supply of essential commodities by invoking provisions of the Essential Commodities Act 1955, as a lockdown to contain the coronavirus has trimmed output of many items.In an advisory to state chief secretaries, Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla has said states need to mount a watch on possible hoarding of supplies to jack up their prices. The Essential Commodities Act, 1955, allows states to decide how much stocks retailers or wholesalers can maintain, cap of prices, order enhanced production and inspect accounts of dealers.There have been reports of loss of production due to various factors, the federal official said to states. “There is a possibility of inventory building and hoarding and black marketing, profiteering, and speculative trading, resulting in price rise of essential goods,” Bhalla said.Bhalla asked states to take “urgent steps” to ensure availability of these commodities at fair prices for public at large.The home ministry, which acts as the coordinating ministry to steer the lockdown, earlier allowed manufacture and production, transport and other related supply-chain activities in respect of essential goods like foodstuff, medicines and medical equipment under the Disaster Management Act.“States can invoke the Essential Commodities Act without the concurrence of the Centre up to June 30, 2020,” food minister Ram Vilas Paswan said in a tweet.Railways are carrying record freight from a network of state-held granaries — 150000 tonne worth of shipments daily in contrast to a usual supplies. The Centre is ferrying additional foodgrains after finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan package, which doubled food ration quota under (from 5kg per person under the National Food Security Act to 10kg) for the next three months. The additional 5kg is being distributed free.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ensure-essential-goods-are-available-during-lockdown-centre-to-states/story-2My1l8CHYrqKGAFMSTkOWN.html
08-04-2020||India||FATF’s review meeting for Pakistan postponed due to Covid-19 crisis: Report||Pakistan has received an unexpected reprieve in meeting a deadline set by the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) to counter terror financing as a key review meeting scheduled for June has been put off because of the Covid-19 crisis.Pakistan, which has been on FATF’s “grey list” since June 2018, was given time till June by the multilateral watchdog to fully implement a 27-point action plan to curb terror financing and money laundering. Pakistan’s performance was to be assessed at review meetings to be held in Beijing during June 21-26.“We have just received an intimation from FATF through the State Bank of Pakistan that our review scheduled for June 21-26 in Beijing has been postponed,” a senior unnamed Pakistani official was quoted as saying by Dawn newspaper on Wednesday. The country’s performance will now be reviewed in October, the daily reported.The official said Pakistan was earlier required to submit a performance report by April 20. “We will now send our report to FATF in August, that would be reviewed in October,” the official said, adding the postponement was apparently caused by uncertainties due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The health crisis has provided Pakistan with additional time to “remove deficiencies”, the official was quoted as saying.There was no official word from FATF on the development.A post on FATF’s website regarding the organisation’s calendar for 2020 said: “Due to the ongoing coronavirus (Covid-19) emergency, the FATF and FATF-style regional bodies (FSRBs) are implementing precautionary measures that impact scheduled events, such as postponing, cancelling, or holding them virtually.”During an assessment in its plenary meeting in February, FATF concluded that all deadlines for Pakistan’s action plan “have expired” and the country had “largely addressed” 14 of the 27 points in the action plan, “with varying levels of progress made on the rest.The Dawn reported cited officials as saying that Pakistan had put in place a broad-based strategy for completing outstanding commitments with the FATF and was actively making progress.FATF had warned Pakistan that if its action plan is not implemented by June, it would face the possibility of being moved to the list of monitored countries, commonly known as the “black list”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fatf-s-review-meeting-for-pakistan-postponed-due-to-covid-19-crisis-report/story-sWWE0RxQKGwngNmjkzG33H.html
08-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: List of 15 UP districts where Covid-19 hotspots to be sealed till April 15||Authorities in Uttar Pradesh said on Wednesday hotspots of the Covid-19 disease in 15 districts of the state will be completely shut down to contain the spread of the coronavirus infection.RK Tiwari, Uttar Pradesh’s chief secretary, said that these districts have a high viral load of Covid-19 and so the affected areas will be sealed.The stringent restrictions in these 15 districts, including parts of the National Capital Region, will come into effect at midnight, officials said. Only home delivery and medical teams will be allowed in these places, they addedThe restrictions will continue until at least April 15, when a review will be done.Uttar Pradesh has so far seen 350 cases of the coronavirus disease, including three patients who have died and 21 who have recovered.India is already under a three-week nationwide lockdown, which began on March 25.Here’s the list of the 15 UP districts where Covid-19 hotspots will be sealed:AgraGhaziabadGautam Buddh NagarBastiKanpurVaranasiLucknowShamliBulandshahrSitapurMaharajganjMeerutBareillyFirozabadSaharanpur||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-list-of-15-up-districts-to-be-sealed-till-april-13/story-4vVk2HD2TQClgWZZnQ5zjI.html
08-04-2020||India||Maharashtra to start ‘fever clinics’ for Covid-19 patients: Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray||The Maharashtra government has decided to start fever clinics for the suspected patients of coronavirus disease Covid-19. Those having symptoms of cough, cold and fever have been asked to visit these clinics instead of going to a private doctor or another hospital. After testing, the patients will be guided for post-checkup procedures and decision whethe he or she is required to go to the designated hospitals for treating Covid-19.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray made the announcement on Wednesday.He also declared that the state government has decided to divide the designated hospitals for Covid-19 in to three categories - for asymptomatic patients, symptomatic and serious patients with co-morbid conditions. The third type of hospital will be equipped with all the facilities and expert doctors, the chief minister said.He also asked people to start using mask if coming out to buy essentials and said that the people will have to use them for some period to be safe from infection. He further asked them to burn the disposable masks at a safe place.Thackeray was addressing the state through Facebook Live.“We have decided to start fever clinics in all the divisions of the state. Those having cough, cold and fever should visit them instead of visiting a private doctor or hospital. The patient check up will be guided for further course of action. The details of fever clinics will be shared very soon,” the chief minister said.“We have also decided to divide the designated hospitals for treating Covid-19 into three categories. One will be for asymptomatic patients, second will be for patients showing symptoms and third will be for serious patients with co-morbid conditions. The third category hospital will be having all the facilities and expert doctors to take care of such patients,” he said.“The rising cases is a cause of concern for us but there is no need to panic. We have to follow social distancing and stay at home to be safe,” Thackeray said.He then appealed the retired army personnel worked in medical core, retired nurses, ward boys and other trained medical personnel who are not working in the sector for some reason to come forward to serve the state. They were asked to send their details on Covidyoddha@gmail.com.“I am appealing to all the retired army personnel worked in medical core, retired nurses, ward boys and those who have taken training in the medical field but are not working for some reason to come forward to fight this war. Maharashtra needs you,” the chief minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-to-start-fever-clinics-for-covid-19-patients-chief-minister-uddhav-thackeray/story-YOV9jm3sqy9hsSZRks3qxJ.html
08-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Mumbai hospital staff seeks quarantine as woman tests positive after death||Over 150 nursing staff, paramedics and other workers at the K B Bhabha Hospital Mumbai’s Bandra (West) area staged a protest on Wednesday demanding that the health department quarantines them after a woman died at the facility tested positive for Covid-19. The staffers at the hospital run by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) demanded immediate quarantine, suspecting possible exposure to coronavirus. The 45-year-old woman who died Tuesday night tested positive for coronavirus.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.They said the woman was admitted to the hospital’s general ward on Saturday and died after serious breathing difficulty on Tuesday night.“We all are at serious risk because we were handling a Covid -19 patient for the last four days. We were totally unaware about her Covid-19 history and hence we are demanding to be quarantined for our own safety,” said Bharat Katare, one of the medical staff who was among the protesters.Another staffer Vaibhav Kharat said, “Not only us but our immediate family members should also be quarantined. Why should we put the life of our near and dear ones in danger? Already two private hospitals in the city have been sealed after possible exposure of medical staff members, so the civic body should at least quarantine us.” Health staffers also demanded that such suspected patients should be treated separately considering possible exposure of Covid-19 to all medical staffers.They also complained that they are working without adequate precautions. According to staffers, the civic body is not supplying enough personal protective equipment (PPE) and many of the senior staffers take available PPEs. So it is difficult to handle Covid-19 patients without proper care, they say. The BMC has refuted the allegations of shortage and said it is supplying enough PPE to each and every hospital. “We are taking care of enough supply of PPE to all hospitals. As per my information there is no issue related to supply of PPE. And as per the procedure, we will quarantine each and every high and low risk contracts of Covid-19 patient for the possible exposure to avoid further spread of disease.’’ said Dr Daksha Shah, deputy director, health department of the BMC. Maharashtra recorded 60 new cases of coronavirus on Wednesday morning, taking the tally to 1078. Of the new cases, 44 were from Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-mumbai-hospital-staff-seeks-quarantine-as-woman-tests-positive-after-death/story-OeZha4JHXkKbP5YD9Cqu4O.html
08-04-2020||India||‘Not possible to lift lockdown on April 14’: PM Modi hints at all-party meeting||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday stressed ‘lockdown is the only way to save our people’ as he signalled that the Centre may not lift the nationwide restrictions in one go on April 14. PM Modi’s message to political parties came as the number of Covid-19 cases breached the 5000-mark in the country.The Prime Minister talked about the complete lockdown during a meeting with floor leaders of Parliament via video conference to discuss several key issues related to dealing with the spread of coronavirus.Several states, including Uttar Pradesh, Telangana, Maharashtra and Karnataka, have called for its enforcement beyond April 14, saying that the threat of Covid-19 would be easier to handle if it is kept in place for a longer period of time.Life will not be the same again after the coronavirus pandemic, the Prime Minister said and added there would be “pre-corona and post-corona” for times to come.“I am regularly talking to CMs, districts and experts. Nobody is telling me to lift the lockdown. We need strict rules to maintain social distancing. We have to take many unexpected steps too,” PM Modi said.“I will talk again to the chief ministers. But as of now, the mood is that entire lockdown lifting is not possible. We are also talking at district levels. For us, lockdown is the only way to save our people,” PM Modi added.The Prime Minister will hold another round of conference with all chief ministers on April 11. He had earlier held another conference with the CMs to discuss the pandemic response. “We have been trying to make quick decisions and today India is one of the few countries in the world where the spread of this virus is still under control,” he said.“We also have to keep in mind that every day, situations are changing. So, all countries are banking on social distancing and lockdown. These are the only two ways to tackle corona,” he added.The number of Covid-19 cases in India reached 5,194, the Union health ministry data showed, and 145 have so far died of the disease. Experts have said that the lockdown is the only way to contain the spread of the infection and if it is lifted it could lead to a rise in the number of cases.The sweeping lockdown, at the same time, has worried others that it would hurt the already slowing economy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-possible-to-lift-lockdown-on-april-14-pm-modi-at-all-party-meeting/story-Ss425BixiGtrHtpNMpOfKJ.html
08-04-2020||India||Coronavirus Latest: Uddhav Thackeray calls for all hands on the deck against Covid-19||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday called for all hands on the deck, as the state’s effort to contain coronavirus cases enter a crucial phase, with an appeal to all retired army personnel with any experience of health care, nurses, ward boys, and those who trained in the profession but couldn’t work professionally for some reason or other, to come forward to join the administration’s containment efforts.“I want to appeal to all retired army personnel who have experience of medical field, nurses, ward boys, & those who have completed the training but didn’t work for some reason - you must come forward to join us,” Uddhav said in an appeal.Maharashtra is the only Indian state to have registered over 1000 positive cases so far with no end in sight to fresh cases, 60 of which were reported in the first few hours of Wednesday, including 44 from Mumbai, the country’s financial capital.Uddhav thanked the people of the state for bearing with the lockdown measures and added that there was no other way to defeat the contagion.Maharashtra’s total tally of positive cases has jumped to 1078 with the cities of Mumbai and Pune being the worst affected. Uddhav’s appeal reflected concerns of the disease’s possible progression to the threatening community transmissions phase which has potential to stun the existing medical infrastructure.“You must come forward to join us. Maharashtra needs you,” Uddhav said appealing to all people in the state with expertise of delivering medical care.ALSO READ: Sorry, there’s no option but to stay at home, says Uddhav ThackerayThe chief minister also cited the example of Wuhan to assure the residents that defeating the disease was possible with implementation of containment efforts.“I am getting news from all over the world through news channels, that things in Wuhan (China) have returned to normalcy and the restrictions are being removed. It’s good news. This means things can be better with time,” Thackeray said.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-latest-uddhav-thackeray-calls-for-all-hands-on-the-deck-against-covid-19/story-cxilseEc7gCWJ3WBX1OS2J.html
08-04-2020||India||Parts of 15 UP districts hit by Covid-19 to be shut till April 15||The Uttar Pradesh government has decided to strengthen restrictions on movement in hot spots of the Covid-19 disease in 15 districts, a top official said on Wednesday, prohibiting people in these areas from stepping out of their houses to buy even grocery and other essential items. Gautam Buddh Nagar, which houses Noida, and Ghaziabad are among the districts where the new restrictions will come into effect at midnight and are expected to continue till April 15, when a review of the measure is expected to take place.All houses in the identified hot spots should be checked and sanitised; arrangements should be made for carpooling to ferry the workforce linked to the supply of essential commodities; home delivery of essential items should be ensured; and all shops including those selling vegetables should be closed to ensure social distancing, chief secretary RK Tiwari said in an order. Also Read: ‘Not possible to lift lockdown on April 14’: PM Modi hints at all-party meetingIndia is already under a three-week lockdown, which began on March 25 to contain the fast-spreading Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes the deadly infection. Commercial rail and air travel as well as interstate travel is completely banned across the country. Only people involved in the delivery of commercial services are allowed on the road.The fresh directive by the Uttar Pradesh government means further tightening of the curbs in certain pockets in 15 districts, namely Agra, Lucknow, Ghaziabad, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Kanpur Nagar, Varanasi, Shamli, Meerut, Bareilly, Bulandshahr, Basti, Firozabad, Saharanpur, Maharajganj and Sitapur.A list of the hot spots was not available immediately. An announcement is expected in the afternoon.“We are identifying the hot spots in these districts in consultation with the director general of police (DGP),” said Avnish Awasthi, additional chief secretary, home.In his order, chief secretary Tiwari said the no movement allowed in the hot spots, barring health care staff and those deployed for essential services.“It has been found in a high-level review that the load of Covid-19 is very high in your district. So, lockdown is being strengthened in these districts, and affected areas (hot spots) should be completely sealed. All the passes issued should reviewed and unnecessary passes must be cancelled. In affected areas, 100% home delivery of essential items must be ensured and shops and vegetable market etc. should not be opened to ensure that social distancing and lockdown is enforced,” the order said.The central government is considering extending the nationwide lockdown, which is set to end on April 14, after suggestions by several states, including Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-up-locks-down-15-districts-people-won-t-be-allowed-out-of-homes/story-MBASSYwloGLG2LQVysJGzJ.html
08-04-2020||India||‘Like Lord Hanuman…’: Brazil Prez sends note to Modi on Covid-19 drug||Brazilian President Jair Messias Bolsonaro has thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for easing restrictions on export of drugs used to fight the Covid-19 pandemic. In a letter to PM Modi, President Bolsonaro compared India’s move to allow export of hydroxychloroquine to reach his country to Lord Hanuman and Sanjeevani booti (herb) in the epic Ramayana.“Just as Lord Hanuman brought the holy medicine from the Himalayas to save the life of Lord Rama’s brother Laksmana, and Jesus healed those who were sick and restored the sight of Bartimeu, India and Brazil will overcome this global crisis,” President Bolronaro said in his letter to Prime Minister Modi.India is the largest manufacturer and exporter of hydroxychloroquine in the world.Also read: India eases hydroxychloroquine, paracetamol export restrictionsBut on Saturday, the Directorate General of Foreign Trade notified a ban on exports of hydroxychloroquine and any formulation containing the miracle drug from special economic zones (SEZs) and export-oriented units too.President Bolsonaro, who was in the country this January to be chief guest at India’s Republic Day celebrations, spoke with PM Modi the same day. He followed up the conversation with a letter on Tuesday that underscored the important role that he expected hydroxychloroquine to play in the fight against Covid-19.President Bolsonaro is also learnt to have emphasised that the drug was required by his country’s pharmaceutical companies, not just for the coronavirus disease but also for other illnesses.“India and Brazil will overcome this global crisis by joining forces and sharing blessings for the sake of all peoples,” he said in the letter.The empowered committee of top bureaucrats later overruled Saturday’s ban order after which the Ministry of Commerce informed Indian Customs to allow export of hydroxychloroquine and honour previous contracts.“We will issue no fresh notification. Instead we have asked the Customs to allow shipments of HCQ . The supplies have already begun,” said a Commerce Ministry official.As two Brazialian pharma companies have existing tie-ups, the supplies are on their way.Also read: Indian American’s US pharma firm donates 3.4 million Hydroxychloroquine Sulphate tabletsIn all, India received similar requests from 20 countries as countries explore any possible cure for the pandemic that has infected 1.4 million people and killed nearly 82,000 around the world.While easing restrictions on export, India has said it would stockpile enough of the drug for domestic use before allowing exporters to start servicing previous orders. The decision on who to export to (and how much) will be taken by the department of pharmaceuticals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/brazil-president-s-note-to-pm-modi-compares-hydroxychloroquine-to-sanjeevani/story-u5j4dcmV6xDK0bo7attHfO.html
08-04-2020||India||India could learn from China’s smart Covid-19 move||As India gears up for a surge in Covid-19 cases, policymakers in New Delhi could do well to take a look at China’s “fangcang” shelter hospitals, which according to a new study in medical journal Lancet, played a critical role in controlling the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic in the country.Simply defined, the “fangcang” shelters for Covid-19 patients in Wuhan, the first epidemic epicenter, were public spaces like stadiums, convention centres, exhibition centres, gymnasiums, factories, and warehouses that were remodelled to become temporary large-scale health-care facilities.These shelters had their job defined to act as buffers or mass quarantine spaces under medical supervision for patients who had tested positive for Covid-19 but showed mild symptoms and did not need urgent treatment. They were only transferred to a hospital if their condition worsened.These shelters helped in a major way by freeing up the heavily burdened medical infrastructure in Wuhan in February and early March by taking in and isolating the positive patients with mild or moderate symptoms who would have ended up spreading the infection if allowed to stay in contact with family and community members. It was one reason why home isolation for Covid-19 patients with mild to moderate symptoms wasn’t allowed.“They served to isolate patients with mild to moderate Covid-19 from their families and communities, while providing medical care, disease monitoring, food, shelter, and social activities,” the study by experts from China, the US and Germany, titled “Fangcang shelter hospitals: a novel concept for responding to public health emergencies” said.The study said that early epidemiological evidence showed that more than half of Covid-19 patients in China had at least one family member with the disease, and 75 percent to 80 percent of clustered infections were within families.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19The shelters had three key characteristics: rapid construction, massive scale, and low cost; and five essential functions, -- isolation, triage (order of treating a large number of patients), basic medical care, frequent monitoring and rapid referral, and essential living and social engagement.“Early descriptive evidence suggests the Fangcang shelter hospitals were a major reason for the successful Covid-19 control in China. The number of confirmed cases in Wuhan steadily declined from February 18, 12 days after the first Fangcang shelter hospitals started admitting patients,” the paper said.Wuhan authorities built 16 such shelters in three weeks in February.“By March 10 (when all the shelters were shut down), the 16 hospitals had provided care to about 12,000 patients. In caring for and sheltering such a large number of patients who would otherwise have been confined to their homes, these shelter hospitals effectively supported China’s Covid-19 policy of leaving no patient unattended or untreated,” the authors said.According to the paper, in Wuhan, the bed vacancy rate in traditional hospitals designated for the care of Covid-19 patients increased from 4 percent on February 4 to 16 percent on February 22, when 16 makeshift hospitals had started admitting patients.Are other countries emulating the experiment?“Other countries facing the Covid-19 pandemic should consider using Fangcang shelter hospitals as part of their public health response,”says the study.It also recommends that the future design and construction of large public venues (eg, stadiums, convention centres, exhibition centres, gymnasiums, factories, and warehouses) should integrate features facilitating the conversion of these infrastructures to Fangcang shelter hospitals, such as interior equipment that can be rapidly removed, entrances that are large enough for hospital beds, and ventilation systems that reduce the risk of cross-infection.”Some countries are already following the example.Serbia is building Fangcang shelter hospitals by converting public venues into health-care facilities to isolate and treat patients with mild to moderate Covid-19.Iran, the USA, the UK, and Spain are implementing measures that are similar to Fangcang shelter hospitals.The authors said: “It was likely that many other countries, including in sub-Saharan Africa and Asia will also need to adopt such measures to ensure sufficient capacity to both effectively isolate and care for the large number of people who will experience mild to moderate Covid-19.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-could-learn-from-china-s-smart-covid-19-move/story-22GFMJScbX2GVDijbxADaO.html
08-04-2020||India||What life in Odisha’s containment zone looks like amid lockdown||What is it like to live in a containment zone? Ask the residents of an area in Odisha’s capital Bhubaneswar, that has emerged as the biggest site of coronavirus outbreak in the state.On the evening of April 3, the city’s municipal corporation announced it is creating a “containment zone”, a nearly rectangular area with 1.5 km length and 800 metre width that centred on a housing complex, the epicentre of the local outbreak with 18 positive cases of Covid-19. On Twitter, the municipal corporation released a map showing a black dotted line along the busy Cuttack-Puri road indicating the contours of the zone which it said no one can enter or exit as long as the containment orders were on.Though I live in Bomikhal, I missed being a part of the zone by about a hundred metres. But hundreds of families have not been that lucky as they came within the zone announced under Sections 2, 3 and 4 of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 and Disaster Management Act, 2005.The first casualties of containment have been supply of essential commodities like milk, vegetables, groceries and medicine. Though Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) listed a few telephone numbers that can be contacted for ordering essential commodities, the supply has been anything but smooth.With provisions exhausted, Arun Mohanty on Monday tried the numbers, but not one BMC official picked up. Mohanty, who runs a travel agency in the containment zone of Bomikhal, then decided enough was enough and he better find a way to buy provisions. “I took a chance and sneaked out of the containment zone to come to the road. Luckily, no cop saw me or else they would have beaten me to pulp. I walked for 4 km under hot sun to buy milk, flour and other groceries,” he said.On Wednesday morning, Trinath Padhi ventured out of his home in Bomikhal area to get some medicines for his 48-year-old wife who has to undergo dialysis once every two days. Padhi’s wife had last undergone dialysis on Monday and her next dialysis was due on Wednesday. But the moment he reached the bamboo barricades at the bylane to get medicines, he was stopped by the policeman. “You can’t exit. Call up the helpline numbers,” the policeman said. “But no one picks up the phone number given for health requirements. I don’t know how I would take my wife for dialysis today?” said Padhi, as he requested the cop to allow him to go to the chemists shop across the road.Businessman Mukesh Goenka who deals in supply of newsprints to local dailies and a resident of the Bomikhal containment zone too complained of lack of response from the BMC helpline numbers in getting essential supplies. “Most of the times the person at the other end does not pick up. The government perhaps did not think through while announcing containment,” said Goenka.In Surya Nagar area of the city, where eight people, including a 60-year-old man, tested positive from one particular house, a roadside snacks vendor who stayed in that house has been among those who have been hit the hardest by the containment. The snacks vendor’s mother, wife and sister tested positive and are now being treated in hospital in Cuttack meant exclusively for Covid-19 patients. As the snacks vendor and his daughter have been home quarantined, getting food has been problematic as no one would visit them. “My daughter has a malfunctioning pancreas since her childhood and her food is restricted. One of my cousins can cook for her, but how would she get the food at the home as no one is being allowed inside the zone?” he asked.In one of the containment zones, the doctor who was assigned to take the calls of people with health issues, did not pick up calls for first three days till people started complaining. He finally fell in line when he was told of possible departmental action due to negligence. With chemist stores in the localities closed, BMC has formed medical teams for the conatinment zones to supply medicines through these teams. But officials admitted that it has not been a smooth exercise as they have to visit hundreds of households everyday for active surveillance.The lockdown, now in its 15th day, has paralysed life in the city of 1.1 million people, and the containment may have made it worse for people sitting at home. Many people said they venture out to balcony to peek at the deserted road, but get bored soon.Suketh Chinchela, who lives in Surya Nagar area of the city with his family said there is a certain eerie feeling in living in a containment zone. “Albeit, the fear, is more that the dreaded disease has come to our doors. Surya Nagar is an area full of retired serviceholders and old people, thereby heightening the fear,” said Chinchela.“There are no dogs to be seen. The whole area seems like a graveyard even during the day and one can hear the rustle of the leaves of trees. It’s unbelievable,” said a housewife in Surya Nagar area.With Odisha reporting its first death due to coronavirus on Tuesday when a 72-year-old retired government servant died in AIIMS Bhubaneswar, the authorities have stepped up surveillance and testing. After Surya Nagar and Bomikhal, the officials added Jadupur, Kapilaprasad, Sundarpada and finally Satya Nagar as conatinent zones. Ten villages in Kendrapara district, a gram panchayat in Bhadrak district and a village in Jajpur district have also been declared as containment zones.Is containment working to slow down our outsized local outbreak? The health department officials said they are hoping it would.“We are containing certain areas to protect the health of the people and prevent the spread of Covid-19. We understand it causes inconvenience to some people. It has to be appreciated that containment is necessary to prevent community transmission,” the department said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-life-in-odisha-s-containment-zone-looks-like-amid-lockdown/story-oePg7894KxXpNvLxBFSKIN.html
08-04-2020||India||Covid-19 update: Army defers conclave of top brass||The army has indefinitely deferred a conference of its top commanders that was scheduled to begin in Delhi next week amid the Covid-19 pandemic, a senior officer said on Wednesday on condition of anonymity.The Army Commanders’ Conference, a biannual event headed by the army chief, covers key issues such as the country’s security dynamics, emerging security scenarios, enhancing operational capability, taking steps to stay prepared for all challenges and budgetary aspects.This year’s conference was planned from April 13 to April 18.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicIssues related to theaterisation would have also been discussed at the conference but the coronavirus outbreak has put many things on hold.The conference was to take place at a time when there has been an unusual spike in ceasefire violations on the Line of Control by the Pakistan army to help infiltrators sneak into Jammu and Kashmir, as reported by Hindustan Times on Wednesday.Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreakThe neighbouring army has carried out more ceasefire violations during January-March this year compared to the corresponding periods of the previous two years.Pakistan violated the ceasefire 1,144 times between January and March), with the highest number of violations (411) being recorded last month when Covid-19 cases started peaking globally. Figures show that the Pakistan army violated the cease-fire 685 times in 2019 and 627 times in 2018 for the period January to March.The armed forces issued a string of advisories last month that put a bar on several activities till April 15. These included conferences, seminars, temporary duties, courses, foreign assignments and even annual medical examination of personnel. Another senior officer said the advisories will be reviewed in the coming days on the basis of how the overall Covid-19 situation unfolds in the country.Last month, army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane said contingency plans were in place and spread of Covid-19 will not affect the core efficiency of the army. He said the temporary phase of postponing the army’s routine activities will soon be overcome by rescheduling them as and when the situation stabilises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-defers-conclave-of-top-brass-amid-covid-19/story-2ehaQtwf9E5onsW9Qj1iPO.html
08-04-2020||India||‘Doctors treating Covid-19 patients warriors, need to be protected’: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Wednesday said that doctors, nurses and healthcare workers, who are at the forefront of the fight against coronavirus disease Covid-19, are the real warriors and have to be protected.The apex court’s observation came on a bunch of petitions seeking direction to the central government to ensure that all healthcare workers across India have access to masks, hazmat suits and other personal protective equipment (PPE).Justices Ashok Bhushan and S Ravindra Bhat held the hearing through video conferencing and asked for taking suggestions from the public, as the issue is not just about the lockdown but of regulatory mechanism for people working in the medical profession.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who represented the Centre, said that the government is “doing the best on this front” and arranging for the PPE kits and other things.Mehta also said that the government agrees that these healthcare workers and their families should be protected. He added that these workers are being housed in hotels, and the government will continue taking steps to ensure their physical protection.The court suggested setting up nodal centres at district level for receiving suggestions and complaints. Mehta said a central control room drawn from Home and Health departments has been set up at state level. These control rooms are getting calls with suggestions and complaints, he added.The Solicitor General also denied claims that salaries of the doctors involved in treating Covid-19 patients are being cut. If this is being done anywhere, government will penalise such actions, Mehta said. He said that the government will write to the states and ask them to ensure that salaries of healthcare personnel are not cut.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doctors-treating-covid-19-patients-warriors-need-to-be-protected-supreme-court/story-gurDqVf1a14WRutUuXYFRL.html
08-04-2020||India||Coronavirus testing should be free even in private labs, SC tells government||The Supreme Court asked the central government on Wednesday to ensure the testing facility for Covid-19 is made available free of cost to all citizens. The important directive comes at the time when private laboratories are allowed to charge people to test for Coronavirus, though the price is capped at Rs. 4500.A Bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and S Ravindra Bhat asked the government to explore the feasibility of a mechanism to reimburse private labs for Coronavirus tests so that citizens don’t have to pay for it.“Don’t allow private labs to charge a high amount for tests. Create a mechanism for reimbursement (of private labs) from the government”, justice Bhushan suggested.Solicitor General, representing the central government told the court that he will take instructions in this regard.Currently, private labs have been roped in to conduct tests for Covid-19 to augment the testing capacity available with the government facilities.Coronavirus live updates The petitioner, advocate Shashank Deo Sudhi submitted that government hospitals are packed to capacity and it has become difficult for the common man to get himself/herself tested in the government labs.With no alternative in sight, they are forced to pay money to get the tests done at private labs. Saddling ordinary citizens with such financial burden effectively deprives them of access to medical facilities and is violative of the right to life guaranteed under article 21 of the Constitution, the petitioner submitted.The government had allowed private labs to charge up to Rs 4,500 for the traditional test involving swab samples from nasal area and throat, however, kits for rapid testing for Sars-CoV-2 antibodies are expected to be a lot cheaper. The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-testing-should-be-free-even-in-private-labs-sc-tells-government/story-aa4hjVndX9FshOnpfT3skO.html
08-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Make all Covid-19 tests free for citizens, suggests Supreme Court||The Supreme Court asked the central government on Wednesday to ensure that testing facility for Covid-19 is made available free of cost to all citizens.At present, private laboratories are allowed to charge people to test for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), though the same is capped at Rs 4500.A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and S Ravindra Bhat asked the government to explore the feasibility of a mechanism to reimburse private labs for coronavirus tests so that citizens don’t have to pay for it.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here “Don’t allow private labs to charge high amount for tests. Create mechanism for reimbursement (of private labs) from government,” Justice Bhushan suggested.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the central government, told the court that he will take instructions in this regard.Private labs have been roped in India to conduct tests for Covid-19 since government facilities are not sufficient in the face of increasing case counts. According to the Union health ministry website, India reported 5194 cases and 149 fatalities as of Wednesday afternoon.Also read: Covid-19 cases in India breach 5000-mark, death toll at 149The petitioner, advocate Shashank Deo Sudhi, submitted that government hospitals are packed to capacity and it has become difficult for the common man to get himself/herself tested in the government labs.With no alternative in sight, they are forced to pay money to get the tests done at private labs, the petitioner said, adding that saddling ordinary citizens with such financial burden effectively deprives them of their accessibility to medical facilities and is violative of right to life guaranteed under article 21 of the Constitution.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/make-all-covid-19-tests-free-for-citizens-suggests-supreme-court/story-GuuvxN0ztROlijNBNZCfqK.html
08-04-2020||India||3 out of 5 terrorists killed in Kupwara Op from J&K; 2 went to Pak via Attari in 2018||At least three of the five terrorists gunned down by the army’s Special Forces in the April 5 Keran sector encounter belong to Jammu and Kashmir. Investigations into the encounter have revealed the three terrorists had been missing since 2018 when they crossed over to Pakistan for training in arms and explosives.Five AK-47 rifles, grenades, GPS and wireless sets were recovered from the encounter site at Shalbatoo, Jumgund area of Keran sector, Kupwara in north Kashmir.The group had infiltrated across the Line of Control (LoC) on April 1 from Qasim-II post in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir. They were on their way to the army’s Gulab Post when a squad of the Special Forces went after them.According to security agencies, the three terrorists have been identified as Sajjad Ahmad Hurrah of Daramdora, Shopian, Aadil Hussain Mir of Mallapora, Liver, Anantnag and Umar Nazir Khan of Liver, Anantnag.The J&K Police records show that missing reports were filed over the disappearance of Sajjad and Aadil at local police stations.It was further revealed that the two left for Pakistan separately via the Attari-Wagah border. Sajjid (passport number N 6689233) crossed over on April 12, 2018 and Aadil (passport number P9403541) later on April 27, 2018. Travel history of Umar Nazir, who belonged to the same village as Aadil, is being probed.According to security agencies, the needle of suspicion for radicalising these youth and recruiting them into terrorism points at Ghulam Nabi Khan, who is currently deputy leader of Hizbul Mujahideen and based in Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir. Nabi Khan also belongs to Liver Village in Anantnag.The encounter, and the multiple intelligence reports of Pakistan-based terror groups - Lashkar-e-Tayyiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed — assembling at launch pads across the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir suggests Islamabad is focused on fomenting trouble in Kashmir, a security official said. For one, by radicalising the Kashmiri youth and then, getting them to cross over for training with jihadist groups like Lashkar-e-Tayebba, Jaish-e-Mohammed or the Hizbul Mujahideen and then infiltrate back to Jammu and Kashmir.Besides, the Pakistani establishment is also trying to smuggle assault rifles across the LoC in order to supply to foreign and local terrorists already in the Valley. This assessment is also backed by the recent seizure of 13 AK-47 rifles, hand grenades and ammunition in Keran sector, Kupwara on March 23.Apart from the Pakistani attempts to increase the level of violence in Kashmir in the coming months, Islamabad is also propping up indigenous armed groups like the Resistance Front and JK Pir Panjal Peace Forum to get back at India for nullifying the Article 370 in August 2019.The renewed attempts at infiltration are an attempt to boost the terrorist strength in Kashmir where 50 terrorists have been neutralised in the last three months.According to an estimate by the security establishment, there are, however, no less than 242 active terrorists in the Valley. About 100 of them are foreign terrorists belonging to the Lashkar and Jaish-e-Mohammed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-out-of-5-terrorists-killed-in-kupwara-op-from-jk-2-went-to-pak-via-attari-in-2018/story-0lHV9xH6QZVdIBfaLYUGiK.html
08-04-2020||India||Bihar CM Nitish Kumar calls for speeding up disbursement of aide to those affected by lockdown||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Tuesday called for speeding up the process of disbursement of financial assistance to those who were stranded at places far away from their homes, within the state or in other parts of the country. At a high-level meeting he chaired to review the coronavirus situation, Kumar noted that 3.80 lakh requests for aide have been received from migrant workers stranded in other states and financial assistance of Rs 1,000 each has been provided to 1.42 lakh by way of direct cash transfer.Besides, efforts were being made to ensure that such people were provided with items like rice, pulses and edible oil wherever they were and messages of gratitude have been received from many such beneficiaries, most notably some residents of Vaishali district in Tamil Nadu who have sent videos on WhatsApp, sources in the Chief Ministers office said.The chief minister also directed that seeding of ration cards with Aadhar be completed at the earliest so that the state governments resolve to reach out to every poor family with a financial assistance of Rs 1000 was achieved.“We are treating the pandemic as an aapada (disaster) and it is a stated policy of our government that those affected by a disaster shall have the first claim on the governments resources”, Kumar said. He also took stock of Acute Encephalitis Syndrome (AES) which has afflicted a few children in some north Bihar districts and claimed one life. He issued instructions for taking preventive measures to halt in its tracks the spread of the brain fever which had killed nearly 200 children last year. Instructions were also issued by the chief minister for putting a check on bird flu and swine flu of which a few cases have been reported. Besides, officials were directed to ensure that compensation be expeditiously paid to those who have suffered crop losses on account of untimely rainfall and hailstorm.A sum of Rs 518.42 crore has been allocated for the aforementioned purpose, the chief minister underscored.Meanwhile, several religious, social, medical and business organizations came out with contributions to the chief ministers relief fund from which money is being drawn for providing relief to those suffering economically on account of lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-cm-nitish-kumar-calls-for-speeding-up-disbursement-of-aide-to-those-affected-by-lockdown/story-mGOjcz1OsSbJNxfNZvxBRN.html
08-04-2020||India||Ensure essential goods are available during lockdown; prevent hoarding: Centre to states||The Centre on Wednesday asked states to maintain smooth supply of essential items during the national lockdown, saying hoarding and black marketing cannot be ruled out during the period amid reports of loss of production. Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla wrote to all state chief secretaries asking them to invoke provisions of the Essential Commodities Act 1955.Bhalla said the Centre has allowed manufacture, production, transport and other related activities in the chain of supply of food, medicine and medical equipment.“State/Union Territory governments are advised to take urgent steps to ensure the availability of essential goods, by invoking provisions of the Essential Commodities (EC) Act 1955. These measures include fixing of stock limits, capping of prices, enhancing production, an inspection of accounts of dealers and other such actions,” Bhalla said in his letter.He pointed out that offences under the essential commodities act may result in imprisonment of seven years or fine or both. The state governments and Union territory administrations may also consider detaining people under the Prevention of Black Marketing & Maintenance of Supplies of Essential Commodities Act, 1980.The Centre also said that there are reports of loss of production due to various factors, especially reduction in labour supply.“In this situation, there is a possibility of inventory building/hoarding and black marketing, profiteering, and speculative trading and the resulting price rise of essential goods cannot be ruled out,” he said.India is currently in the last week of a 21-day lockdown announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 24 to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease in the country. The Centre is likely to consider an extension of lockdown by the end of the week with several states requesting it not to withdraw the restrictions immediately. The number of Covid-19 cases in India crossed the 5000 mark with nearly 150 deaths, according to the Union health ministry data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ensure-essential-goods-are-available-during-lockdown-prevent-hoarding-centre-to-states/story-woSUrZYYu24YgsY462nPhP.html
08-04-2020||India||Govt mulls extending lockdown as Covid-19 cases in India cross 5,000: Report||The nationwide tally of confirmed Covid-19 cases neared 5,200 on Tuesday amid hectic discussions for a possible extension of the 21-day lockdown beyond April 14 as several states announced plans to ramp up their testing infrastructure and put in place strong ‘cluster containment’ plans in areas identified as hotspots of the outbreak. There were also indications about possible relaxations from a complete lockdown for some sectors, including agriculture and unorganised labour sector, at least in some states, while there were also talks about even stronger area-specific restrictions in some places. A PTI tally of figures reported by various states as on Tuesday 9.45 PM showed 5,192 testing positive across the country and at least 162 deaths. The Union Health Ministry’s evening update, however, showed 4,789 confirmed cases and 124 deaths.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here More than 400 have so far been cured and discharged, while nearly 1.1 lakh tests have been conducted so far in the country, as per official announcements. Also, while some states including Maharashtra reported a significant increase in the numbers, several states did not report a single additional positive case. Officials said that the lockdown and social distancing measures have helped contain the pandemic in a big way in India. Citing an ICMR study, the Health Ministry said just one Covid-19 patient can infect as many as 406 people in 30 days in the absence of preventive measures such as social distancing and the lockdown. With the preventive measures, the possibility of the infection can be reduced to an average of just two-and-a-half persons per patient in the same period, Health Ministry Joint Secretary Lav Agarwal said in the central government’s daily briefing on Covid-19.Also read: Donald Trump reverses course, supports India’s position on hydroxychloroquine He said social distancing works like a “social vaccine” in management of Covid-19, but refrained from commenting on whether the ongoing nationwide lockdown would be extended or lifted after April 14. “Whenever a decision is taken, it will be informed. Till a decision is officially communicated, please refrain from speculation,” he said. Government sources, however, said many state governments and experts are requesting the Centre to extend the lockdown and the central government is thinking in that direction. There has been a nationwide lockdown since March 25, though some states had initiated such measures a few days earlier, to check the pandemic that has claimed more than 75,000 lives worldwide since its emergence in China last December. Over 13 lakh people have tested positive for the virus across the world so far. Some states, however, indicated that the lockdown conditions could be relaxed for some segments.Also read: Covid-19 cases in India breach 5000-mark, death toll at 149 West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said some relaxation on work front for unorganised sector workers was on anvil. She, however, made it clear that all must practice social distancing. The state government has identified seven Covid-19 hotspots in West Bengal. Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, however, said his government will extend the lockdown if needed, while his counterpart in Rajasthan, Ashok Gehlot, said the state cannot withdraw the lockdown immediately and it has to be done in a phased manner. A Karnataka government minister said it’s too early to take a call now on lifting the nation-wide lockdown but appeared favouring an extension by at least two weeks. Addressing his ministers through video conferencing on Monday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had also indicated towards a graded approach to lift the lockdown. The Prime Minister had also asked the ministers whether the restrictions should be lifted sector-wise or district-wise, a source said.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage  Modi has also asked the ministers to lay out plans to contain the economic impact of the pandemic. Rating agency ICRA on Tuesday forecas a GDP forecast of just 2 per cent for the current fiscal and said the Indian economy is estimated to have contracted by 4.5 per cent in the fourth quarter of FY20 ended March 31. Industry body Retailers Association of India on the other hand warned that around 80,000 jobs were expected to be cut by various retailers due to the ongoing coronavirus pandemic. It had conducted a survey of 768 retailers, which employ 3,92,963 people across India, to gauge their view on the impact of Covid-19 on their business and manpower. The International Labour Organisation (ILO) also said the Covid-19 crisis has the potential to push around 40 crore informal sector workers in India deeper into poverty, with the lockdown and other containment measures affecting jobs and earnings. The stock market, however, witnessed a sharp rebound on Tuesday with a 2,476-point rally in the benchmark Sensex, while the investors’ wealth measured in terms of market value of all listed companies rose by nearly Rs 7.7 lakh crore. Shares of pharma companies especially saw a lot of surge after India decided to partially lift a ban on export of paracetamol and anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine. The decision came a week after a telephonic conversation between Modi and US President Donald Trump, who sought supply of hydroxychloroquine to the US to treat coronavirus infected people. Trump on Monday said he would be surprised if New Delhi did not relent to the request as it has good relations with Washington and warned India of retaliation if it did not export the anti-malarial drug despite his personal request. Indian pharma companies said there is enough stock of hydroxychloroquine in the country, and drug firms are ready to ramp up the production to meet domestic as well as export requirements. Agarwal said cluster containment strategies are producing required results in some areas like Agra, Gautam Budh Nagar (U.P), Pathanamthitta (Kerala), Bhilwara (Rajasthan), East Delhi and Mumbai and similar strategies are being adopted in other coronavirus-affected districts. Uttar Pradesh Chief Secretary R K Tiwari said, “There is still time for the lockdown and we will review the situation and then decide” on lifting it. Several states, including Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan, also announced plans to ramp up the tests, while numerous leaders across the country urged the people to strictly follow the lockdown and social distancing measures including for religious rituals. Gehlot, the Rajasthan chief minister, said the state will start rapid testing within a week and that it has ordered 10 lakh testing kits from China. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced a five-point action plan of “five Ts -- testing, tracing, treatment, team-work and tracking -- and monitoring” to contain the virus spread and said one lakh random rapid COVID-19 tests will be conducted in the city’s hotspot areas. He said arrangements have been made to deal with as many as 30,000 cases. Gujarat government has also decided to implement a cluster containment plan across 15 localities in four cities, which involves a complete lockdown of these areas. Fresh cases were reported from Delhi, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Telangana, Haryana, Kerala, Jammu & Kashmir, Gujarat, Karnataka, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu among other states, while Maharashtra reported at least 150 more testing positive to take the state’s tally to 1,018. Maharashtra is the only state to have crossed the 1,000-mark in terms of positive cases while 12 more died in the state on Monday to take the toll to 64. At least 40 have died in Mumbai alone while more than 600 have tested positive in the country’s financial capital. However, no fresh cases were reported from various states and union territories including Chattisgarh, Chandigarh, Goa, Jharkhand, Laddakh, Manipur, Mizoram, Odisha, Puducherry and Uttarakhand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-mulls-extending-lockdown-as-covid-19-cases-in-india-cross-5-000-report/story-0Etn3Kr9QsjMDLMRzzScVM.html
08-04-2020||India||Covid-19: PM Modi reaches out to political parties over coronavirus response||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday held a meeting with the floor leaders of political parties represented in the Parliament to discuss several key issues related to the spread of coronavirus even as the country entered the 15th day of the nationwide lockdown announced to contain the viral infection.The meeting was held through video conference and it included members of parties with four or more members in the Parliament. It came in the backdrop of varying opinions on the crucial question of extending the lockdown beyond April 14 and on fiscal measures taken by the Central government to meet the exigencies arising from the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak.The meeting is said to have started at 11 am this morning, a day after a parliamentary committee slashed the constituency allowance and office allowance of Members of Parliament in addition to deductions made in their salaries and the diversion of the MP area development fund (MPLADS) for a period of two years. Several opposition leaders including those from the Congress party had criticised the decision to suspend the MPLADS funds while welcoming the move to slash the salaries of the public representatives as part of the pruning of government expenses due to huge economical challenges presented by the outbreak.Congress leader and former Union finance minister P Chidambaram, who is among the fiercest critique of the current dispensation, has cited the ballooning unemployment rate after the implementation of lockdown-- which took away livelihoods of hundreds of thousands of daily wage workers employed in the unorganised sector-- to demand that government announced additional cash-aid for the poor to mitigate the impact of the lockdown. He, however, praised the government for broad-based consultations with political parties including those in the opposition. The Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE), which tracks unemployment data on a weekly basis, estimates that unemployment has risen from 8.4% in the week ended March 22 to 23% .The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19The Centre has held several rounds of discussions with the chief ministers of Indian states and also with other leaders of prominent political parties in a bid to mount a coordinated action plan against the outbreak. The Prime Minister has often stressed the need for a united response if the country was to emerge victorious from this unprecedented crisis. Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad, Trinamool Congress’ Sudip Bandyopadhyay, Shiv Sena’s Sanjay Raut, Biju Janta Dal’s Pinaki Misra, Nationalist Congress Party’s Sharad Pawar, Samajwadi Party’s Ram Gopal Yadav, Shiromani Akali Dal’s Sukhbir Singh Badal, Bahujan Samaj Party ‘s SC Mishra, YSR Congres Party’s Vijay Sai Reddy & Mithun Reddy, Janta Dal United’s Rajeev Ranjan Singh were among the prominent leaders who attended the video conference on Wednesday.Click Here for Latest Reports on CoronavirusEarlier today, Prime Minister Narendra Modi greeted people on ‘Hanuman Jayanti’ and said the life of the Hindu god also known as the “Pawanputra” was a symbol of devotion and strength which inspires all to face every crisis and overcome it.“Heartfelt greetings on the auspicious occasion of Hanuman Jayanti,” he tweeted.The life of “Pawanputra” is a symbol of devotion, strength, dedication and discipline, inspires us to face every crisis and overcome it, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-latest-pm-modi-reaches-out-to-leaders-of-political-parties-over-coronavirus-response/story-cvKnaCFiag29U7w1xuUEVK.html
08-04-2020||India||Covid-19 update: Chidambaram berates govt over jobless rate, then adds a praise||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Wednesday accused the government of adopting ‘miserly and negligent approach’ towards the poor during the lockdown to break the chain of coronavirus infections and called for providing money to them.The former Union finance minister quoted India’s unemployment rate, which the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) said, could have risen to more than 23% as the economy lost jobs after a nationwide lockdown amid the coronavirus pandemic in the last week of March.The nationwide lockdown began on March 25 even as several states had already imposed strict restrictions on movement in some districts.Also read: Covid-19 cases in India breach 5000-mark, death toll at 149The business information company, which tracks unemployment data on a weekly basis, estimates that unemployment has risen from 8.4% in the week ended March 22 to 23.Also read: What you need to know today“With unemployment at 23 per cent (CMIE) and a freeze on daily wages/incomes, the government must immediately find the resources and remonetise (give cash to) the poor.The miserly and cruelly negligent approach of the government has compounded the hardships of the poor,” Chidambaram tweeted.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The Congress leader said the numbers point to ‘adopting a cautious and conservative approach’.“What is sorely missing in the lockdown strategy is putting cash in the hands of poor people. There are several sections of the poor who have not received a single rupee from the government,” he said.As he criticised the government for its approach towards the poor, Chidambaram also had a word of praise.Also read: Govt looks at ways to restart business ops post lockdown“As among the first to advocate a lockdown, I welcome the central government consulting the states on whether the lockdown should be lifted after April 14,” he said.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Chidambaram was referring to the requests by several states, including Uttar Pradesh, Telangana, Maharashtra and Karnataka, to extend the three-week nationwide lockdown. Officials have said the Centre is considering enforcing it beyond April 14 and may also keep the option of lifting the restrictions in a staggered manner.The Union health ministry has, however, clarified that there was no decision on extending the nationwide lockdown yet, asking people not to speculate.Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the sweeping restrictions, including a ban on public transport as well as commercial rail and air travel, on March 24 till April 14. Only people involved in the delivery of essential services, such as health care, are being allowed to function during this three-week period.Hundreds of thousands of migrant workers were left without work and forced to flee from cities to their homes in villages for food and shelter.Since then the number of Covid-19 cases has gone beyond the 5000 mark with the Union health ministry saying there are 4643 active cases, 401 people have been cured or discharged and 149 have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-chidambaram-berates-govt-over-jobless-rate-then-adds-a-praise/story-6Tvdnebohs5KxngQf0Mc5N.html
08-04-2020||India||UP CM interacts with journalists, seeks cooperation in fight against coronavirus||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath held a video conference with journalists from all over the state on Tuesday, sharing details about government preparedness and seeking their cooperation to tackle the coronavirus outbreak. The chief minister said coronavirus was a contagious disease which does not differentiate between faith or religion. Thus, it is necessary that we all fight against it together without any discrimination, he stressed. According to an official release, many journalists gave suggestions to the chief minister. On the lifting of the lockdown imposed to check the spread of the disease, the CM said any decision regarding this could be taken only after discussions with the Centre. Terming the media role very important in the fight against coronavirus, the chief minister urged the journalists to create awareness about the issue in the masses. CM Yogi credited Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the “containment of the disease”. He said they have been able to control the spread of the disease because of the timely decisions taken by the prime minister. Yogi said efforts have been made to prevent the spread of infection at the state level and their positive results have also started coming out. However, he said the situation suddenly deteriorated due to the Tablighi Jamaat members. Even as the number of cases has risen, the situation is under control, he said. He said the media has a deep impact on every society, and that’s why its cooperation is required. The media people can give their suggestions in oral and written form, he said. CM Yogi said people of the state also need to be made aware of face masks. The World Health Organisation has said that the masks made of cotton and cloth are the best for use, he said. During the video conference, journalists gave suggestions regarding the time-frame for lifting the lockdown, community kitchens, increasing surveillance and public participation. The chief minister asked the journalists to discourage fake news and rumours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-cm-interacts-with-journalists-seeks-cooperation-in-fight-against-coronavirus/story-SUg2a2TadAWSDoOWtxbqkK.html
08-04-2020||India||Covid-19 update- Will fight together: Arvind Kejriwal after meeting with Delhi MPs on coronavirus||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Wednesday his government will implement the good suggestions given by the members of Parliament, who represent the national capital, to fight the coronavirus pandemic. “I discussed corona with Delhi’s Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha parliamentarians Corona by video conferencing. Many MPs have given good suggestions and the government will implement them soon. We all have to fight this battle unitedly,” he tweeted after the meeting.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader spoke with the lawmakers on a day the Capital reported 576 cases of the coronavirus disease and nine Covid-19 related fatalities.According to Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain, 35 of them are in intensive care and eight on ventilator support.The recent spike in infections in the Capital has largely been driven by the detection of hundreds of patients who attended gatherings of the Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi’s Nizamuddin last month in a violation of several restrictions. Cases linked to the meetings have been reported across two dozen states and Union territories so far.Kejriwal’s meeting with the lawmakers comes a day after he announced a five-point plan to contain the coronavirus disease in the Capital. Also read: How Sars-CoV-2 is more insidious than Sars virusHe declared that testing will be ramped up and the scope of treatment widened – an indication that the Capital was bracing for the possible ballooning of the pathogen that has ravaged several metropolises across the world.Delhi, the chief minister, said has formed a ‘5T plan’—testing, tracing, treatment, teamwork, and tracking—and the government was prepared to scale up resources to treat up to 30,000 active Covid-19 patients at the same time, if needed.Kejriwal has already said that rapid testing will be doubled from next week – from around 500 samples per day to 1000 samples per day.Several experts have said that aggressive testing is the mainstay in the battle against the disease that has killed at least 77,000 people globally because the infection often spreads undetected.Health experts and private hospitals have welcomed the action plan present by Arvind Kejriwal.India registered 331 new coronavirus cases in the last 12 hours, taking the number of Covid-19 patients to 5194 and deaths to 149 with 25 new fatalities, according to Union health ministry data.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-arvind-kejriwal-to-hold-meeting-with-all-delhi-mps-on-coronavirus/story-Q8K9a9RqoMNKZslEeCMRSM.html
08-04-2020||India||States face revenue loss, India enters 15th day of Covid-19 lockdown: 10 points||The number of coronavirus cases in India crossed over 5,000 mark on Wednesday. As per the figures shared by the Ministry of Health, there are 4,643 active coronavirus cases in the country while 149 people have lost their lives to the deadly contagion. Over 400 people have been cured or discharged so far.India on Tuesday partially eased curbs on anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal unveiled the ‘5-Ts’ plan to combat and tackle coronavirus in the national capital.India entered the 15th day of the 21-day lockdown on Wednesday which will end on April 14. Here are the key developments:1. US President Donald Trump on Wednesday changed course and supported the Narendra Modi government stand on hydroxychloroquine and ended up praising India’s handling of the Covid-19 pandemic.2. The Centre is considering extending the three-week nationwide lockdown over the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak after some states favoured its enforcement beyond April 14.3. Most Indian states witnessed a decline in revenue of between 30% to 60% for March, and are estimating a bigger dip in April, multiple state government officials said.4. India has partially eased restrictions on the export of anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine and paracetamol.5. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal will hold a Covid-19 review meeting with Delhi MPs on Wednesday.6. Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) experts have estimated a person carrying coronavirus capable of infecting 406 people in 30 days in the absence of a lockdown.7. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday laid out a five-point blueprint to contain the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the national capital. He emphasised the need to ‘test, trace and treat’, adding that teamwork, tracking and monitoring are also essential in beating coronavirus.8. An Indian American-owned pharma pledges to donate 3.4 million Hydroxychloroquine Sulphate tablets to some of the key Covid-19 battleground states in the US, including New York and Louisiana.9. Manufacturers of personal protective equipment (PPE) will now need to mark their products with a unique code and tamper-proof stickers, the textile ministry has said. 10. The Uttar Pradesh government on Tuesday decided to reserve 20,000 beds in hospitals and private buildings to set up isolation wards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-face-decline-in-revenue-as-india-enters-15th-day-of-3-week-covid-19-lockdown-10-points/story-mNTo21YMraxtNPBEQylvMI.html
08-04-2020||India||Association of Radio Operators for India asks Sonia Gandhi to withdraw suggestion||The Association of Radio Operators for India (AROI) has opposed Congress president Sonia Gandhi’s recommendation to impose a two-year ban on media advertisements by the government and public sector. The Congress president had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday with a 5-point list of things that the government should do. One of them was to conserve funds by cutting back on advertisements unless these were linked to the Covid-19 pandemic.In a statement, the AROI, a body of private FM channels in the country, said it was strongly opposed to this point. “The last year has been a very difficult one for Radio, especially for radio stations in small towns, due to a huge drop in Government advertising,” the association said.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Also Watch: 5 points Sonia Gandhi raised in letter to PM Modi on battling COVID-19 The Congress president’s statement came at a time the radio sector is already in a deep financial crisis and has been asking the government for a support package to help the sector “survive this crisis in the short term till the economy stabilises itself”.The radio industry has been going through a tough phase with advertising revenue shrinking over the past year with a de-growth of 20%. Ad revenues have crashed 80% after the nationwide lockdown was ordered.Also read: In 5-point letter, Sonia Gandhi asks PM Modi to go into austerity modeThe AROI statement said radio has been wholeheartedly supporting the national war on Covid-19 through 380 private FM stations across India and asked the government to restore its advertising on radio to normal levels.“We also request Mrs Sonia Gandhi to please review and withdraw her suggestion and thereby demonstrate her support for one of the crucial pillars of democracy - Media,” the association said.The News Broadcasters Association (NBA) has already objected to the Congress president’s suggestion, describing the call as “highly demoralising”.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage“At a time when media personnel, without fearing for their lives, are doing their national duty by disseminating news on the pandemic, a statement like this from the Congress president is highly demoralising,” a statement by NBA president Rajat Sharma read.There has been a slump in advertisement revenue of the industry due to recession and it is suffering financial blows due to the 21-day nationwide lockdown, Sharma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/association-of-radio-operators-for-india-asks-sonia-gandhi-to-withdraw-suggestion/story-OnOqp9j6C73x4f3Z27fhQJ.html
08-04-2020||India||Covid-19 state tally: Highest number of deaths in Maharashtra, cases near 1,200||India entered the 15th day of the 21-day coronavirus lockdown on Wednesday. The total number of Covid-19 cases in the country soared to 5,194.As per the data released by the Ministry of Health, there are 4,643 active coronavirus cases in the country while 149 people have lost their lives to the deadly contagion. The good news is that as many as 401 people have been cured or discharged across the nation.Here’s a look at statewise breakup of coronavirus cases, fatalities and recoveries in various states.MaharashtraWith 1018 Covid-19 active cases, Maharashtra has registered the highest number of coronavirus cases in the country. The state has recorded 64 deaths so far while 79 patients have recovered.Tamil NaduThe southern state has the second-highest number of Covid-19 cases in the country which now stand at a whopping 690. Tamil Nadu has seen 19 recoveries and 7 Covid-19 deaths.DelhiDelhi closely follows with the third-highest number of coronavirus cases in the country. As many as 576 people have tested positive of coronavirus in the national capital. 9 people have died from the infection while 21 people have made a recovery, as per the health ministry’s data.Telangana364 positive cases of coronavirus have been reported from the state so far. 35 people have made a recovery from the virus while seven people have died from Covid-19.KeralaWith 336 coronavirus cases, Kerala is the fifth most coronavirus-affected state in the country. As per the latest data by the Ministry of Health, Kerala has witnessed two deaths due to Covid-19 while 70 people have successfully recovered.RajasthanCoronavirus cases in Rajasthan touched 328 on Wednesday. The state has reported 3 fatalities. 21 patients have recovered from the infection.Uttar Pradesh326 people have been infected from Covid-19 in the state. While 21 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, 3 have died from the infection here.Andhra PradeshThe state has witnessed 305 positive Covid-19 patients and one case of recovery. Four people have died.Madhya PradeshThe state has reported 229 positive cases of coronavirus. 13 people have died from Covid-19 here.KarnatakaThe state has recorded 175 Covid-19 cases and four deaths. 25 people have been cured and discharged.GujaratPrime Minister Narendra Modi’s home state has registered 165 coronavirus cases and 25 recoveries so far. 13 people have died from the infection in the state.Jammu and KashmirThe union territory of Jammu and Kashmir has seen the number of Covid-19 patients rising to 116. Two people have died from the infection while four were cured.Haryana and PunjabThe neighbouring states have 147 and 91 Covid-19 cases respectively. While 7 people have died in Punjab, Haryana has seen one three deaths. 28 people have recovered from Covid-19 in Haryana, 7 in Punjab.99 people have been affected by the Sars-CoV-2 virus in West Bengal. There have been three deaths and 13 recoveries in the state and 5 deaths. In Chandigarh, 18 people have contracted the Covid-19 disease and 7 have recovered. Andaman has recorded 10 coronavirus cases. Chhattisgarh has recorded 10 cases of coronavirus, and 9 people have recovered. In Bihar, 38 people have tested positive for coronavirus, one has died.Assam has reported 27 Covid-19 cases. Uttarakhand has 31 coronavirus patients, five patients have recovered from the infection. Odisha has 42 Covid-19 positive patients, 2 have recovered while one person has died. Ladakh has 14 patients, 10 people have recovered.Goa has reported seven cases of Covid-19 disease. Himachal Pradesh has 18 cases, one patient has died and two have recovered.Pondicherry has reported five cases, one has recovered. Jharkhand has 4 Covid-19 cases. Two coronavirus cases have been reported in Manipur.States and Union territories with just one positive Covid-19 case include Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram, Tripura.Sikkim, Meghalaya and Nagaland have not reported any Covid-19 case yet.India is under a 21-day nationwide coronavirus lockdown announced by PM Modi to break the chain of Covid-19 infection in the country. The 21-day lockdown will end on April 14.Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-state-tally-maharashtra-records-highest-number-of-coronavirus-deaths-in-india-nearly-1-200-cases/story-2RNKcJXNItLJu4zG9L6NKK.html
08-04-2020||India||Covid-19 cases in India breach 5000-mark, death toll at 149||India registered 331 new coronavirus cases in the last 12 hours, the government said on Wednesday, taking the number of Covid-19 patients to 5194 and deaths to 149 with 25 new fatalities.The latest data available with the Union ministry of health at 8am showed out of the 4643 active cases, 401 people have been cured or discharged and 149 have died.Maharashtra remained the worst affected after reporting more than 1000 positive cases, on Tuesday. On Wednesday, the central government’s figure for the state showed there were 1161 patients, including 79 recoveries and 64 deaths.Officials have said that after several states suggested the three-week nationwide lockdown over the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak should be extended the Centre is considering enforcing it beyond April 14. It will also keep the option of lifting the restrictions in a staggered manner, officials said.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayThe Union health ministry, however, clarified that there was no decision on extending the nationwide lockdown yet, asking people not to speculate.Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the sweeping restrictions, including a ban on public transport as well as commercial rail and air travel, on March 24 till April 14. Only people involved in the delivery of essential services, such as health care, are being allowed to function during this three-week period.States such as Uttar Pradesh, Telangana, Maharashtra and Karnataka have suggested they were not in favour of lifting all restrictions after April 14 and conveyed to the Centre that the pandemic will be easier to contain if the lockdown were to continue. Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh too have favoured an extension of the lockdown.Also read: How Sars-CoV-2 is more insidious than Sars virusDelhi reported more than 600 Covid-19 cases with nine deaths and 21 discharges, according to central data.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has indicated that his government will ramp up testing along with tracing, treatment, teamwork, and tracking. He cited South Korea’s example to say that mass testing was required to contain the disease before it exploded like in other urban centres in Europe and America. The Delhi government has ordered conventional kits to test 50,000 people and rapid test kits to test 100,000 people and announced that random testing at hotspots will begin soon.Tamil Nadu has 716 Covid-19 cases, including 19 people who have recovered and seven who have died.Kerala, which was the first state to report coronavirus disease cases in January, now has 408 infections. Out of which 70 have been discharged and two have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-cases-in-india-breach-5000-mark-death-toll-at-149/story-oIarPybPDNsy1JKznGVdHP.html
08-04-2020||India||Plasma transfusion promise and unemployment rate: Covid-19 news today||A new research says virus-fighting antibodies from people who have recovered from Covid-19 can help cure others. It describes the technique (convalescent plasma therapy) as a promising option to save lives till a vaccine is found. In India, the government appears to be considering suggestions by states to extend the ongoing lockdown even as early estimates of job data suggest Covid-19 may have had a devastating impact on the economy and sent the overall unemployment rate soaring to 23.4% (from 8.4% in mid-March).Here are the top stories on Covid-19 pandemic from India today.Centre considering pleas by states to prolong lockdownThe Centre is considering extending the three-week nationwide lockdown over the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak after some states favoured its enforcement beyond April 14, while also weighing the option of lifting the restrictions in a staggered manner, officials said on Tuesday, when the number of cases in the country crossed 5,000. Read more. Coronavirus: India partially eases restrictions on export of anti-malarial drugIndia has partially eased restrictions on export of anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine and paracetamol, cited by some as key to the fight against Covid-19, to fulfil existing orders and to meet the needs of neighbouring countries, but only after building its own stockpile of the drug. Read more. Covid-19: What you need to know todayOn Tuesday, India removed some restrictions on the export of anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine, which some people, including US President Donald Trump, believe to be the miracle cure for Covid-19. There’s no scientific evidence of this yet, but that hasn’t stopped some countries from trying to source more of the drug.Read more. Jobless rate soars to 23.4% amid Covid-19 lockdownEarly estimates of jobs data indicate that the coronavirus effect may have left a devastating impact on the economy, sending urban unemployment rate soaring to 30.9% . Overall unemployment rose to 23.4%.The latest data for the week ended 5 April was released on Monday evening. CMIE’s estimates on unemployment shot up from 8.4% in mid-March to the current 23%. Read more. Monitoring worst-hit districts: Smart City war rooms for affected areasThe Union government has discovered a new use for the Integrated Command and Control Centres (ICCCs) designed for the Smart Cities Mission -- surveillance and monitoring of Covid-19 affected districts across the country.According to government officials, these centres have been converted into war rooms for real-time data monitoring and to provide the latest information through a central dashboard. Read more. Maharashtra Covid cases tally crosses 1,000 markWith 150 new cases, the Covid-19 tally in Maharashtra on Tuesday crossed the 1,000-mark to reach 1,018, the highest for any state. This was the steepest one-day rise in the number of cases in Maharashtra and came on a day when Maharashtra recorded 12 Covid-19 related deaths and took the state’s death toll from the pandemic to 64, state health department officials said. Read more. More testing to welfare push: Tamil Nadu’s 5-point Covid planThe first week of April has been brutal for Tamil Nadu in its fight against the coronavirus disease. The number of Covid-19 cases in the state has multiplied by more than 10 times, from 67 at the end of March to 690 as of Tuesday, April 7.Here are five ways in which the Tamil Nadu government has acted to bring the situation under control.Read more. 5-point plan to tackle worst caseIndia’s health ministry has ordered 107 million tablets of hydroxychloroquine, 16.6 million units of personal protective equipment (PPE), and 48,000 ventilators, and hopes to have everything in place by May 31 -- it’s deadline for scaling up health infrastructure to fight Covid-19. Read more. Covid-19: Blood transfusion from those who have recovered may helpVirus fighting antibodies from people who have recovered from the coronavirus disease Covid-19 can help cure others, according to a research finding published on Tuesday that describes the technique – convalescent plasma therapy – as a promising option to save lives till a vaccine is found. Read more. How Sars-CoV-2 is more insidious than Sars virusPeople with coronavirus disease (Covid-19) are the most infectious during the first week of symptoms, according to a recent study, which explains why this disease is spreading faster than other coronavirus diseases, like the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (Sars) outbreak caused by Sars-CoV-1. Read more. Covid-19: States reel from revenue loss, salary delays likelyMost Indian states witnessed a decline in revenue of between 30% to 60% for March, and are estimating a bigger dip in April, multiple state government officials said, even as some states want an extension of the national lockdown beyond April 15 to save lives by containing the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Read more. In absence of lockdown, one patient can infect 406: Govt studyA person carrying the Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, is capable of infecting 406 people in 30 days in the absence of a lockdown, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) experts have estimated. That is based on the assumption that R-naught, or R0, a virus’s basic reproductive number (meaning the number of persons an infected patient can potentially infect) is 2.5. Read more. Covid-19: Govt looks at ways to restart business ops post lockdownThe government is working on getting business activity going again, if only in parts, after the lockdown is relaxed, if only in part, even as companies are itching to get going again , and hoping for a stimulus package.According to officials, a final decision on this matter is expected next week after thorough assessment of the situation on the ground, and elaborate consultations with stakeholders, including state governments. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plasma-transfusion-promise-and-unemployment-rate-covid-19-news-today/story-CwyIVDRODTBisZz0LpBueK.html
08-04-2020||India||Muslim vendor forced to shut shop in Haldwani after 5 Jamaatis test positive; FIR filed||Six people were booked in Uttarakhand’s Haldwani for asking a fruit vendor from the minority community to shut shop in the wake of five members of Tabhligh Jamaat testing positive for coronavirus disease Covid-19.The police said that the case was registered after a video of the incident, which took place on Monday, went viral on social media.“In the video of the incident, six accused identified as Manish Khati, Kamal Negi, Manoj Singh, Harendra Goswami, Rakesh Tapola and Chaman Goswami - all residents of Haldwani - could be seen inquiring about the names of the fruit vendors in the area. And when they come to know about a Muslim vendor hailing from Banbulpura area of the town from where five jamaatis tested positive, they asked him to close his shop and open it only after the pandemic gets over,” said Sanjay Kumar, station house officer of Haldwani Kotwali police station.The police took suo moto congnizance of the incident and registered a case.“Based on the complaint, we registered a case against the six accused on charges of violation of the lockdown and malignant act to spread infection of a dangerous disease under Sections 188, 269 and 270 of IPC and 57(B) of Disaster Management Act. No arrests have been made so far,” said Kumar.There are 31 Covid-19 positive cases in Uttarakhand; out of these, 24 are Jamaatis. Following the significant number of positive cases among Jamaatis, the administration has put restrictions on people’s movement in certain areas of the state, where they are living.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/muslim-vendor-forced-to-shut-shop-in-haldwani-after-5-jamaatis-test-positive-fir-filed/story-gRz4rtKFK3aAyYuOkmMcYJ.html
08-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Deeply anguished, says PM Modi after Indian American journalist dies of Covid-19 in New York||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday condoled the death of senior Indian-American journalist, Brahm Kanchibhotla, who died in a hospital in New York hospital late on Monday.“Deeply anguished by the passing away of Indian-American journalist Mr. Brahm Kanchibotla. He will be remembered for his fine work and efforts to bring India and USA closer. Condolences to his family and friends. Om Shanti,” the Prime Minister tweeted.Brahm Kuchibhotla was a former contributor to United News of India news agency.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayReports have said scores of Indian Americans have tested positive for the coronavirus in the US and several of them have died.Houston-based IT professional Rohan Bavadekar is battling for his life on ventilator support. His wife and three children have also tested positive for Covid-19. Indian Americans have raised $204,000 in support of Bavadekar.Another Indian American software engineer has tested positive along with his immediate family members in Silicon Valley.Follow latest update on coronavirus here Dr Mukul S Chandra, medical director of the Cardiac Preventive Care and Research at Miami Valley Hospital in Dayton, Ohio is on a ventilator fighting Covid-19.Federation of Kerala Associations in North America has said that it has lost four of its community members due to the coronavirus disease.Reports said a number of Indian Americans infected with the coronavirus in the US are in New York and New Jersey, the worst hit by the coronavirus in the country.Also read:Govt looks at ways to restart business ops post lockdownSome of them, including a former president of the American Association of Physicians of Indian Origin (AAPI) have been admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU).Several community leaders both in the New York metropolitan area and Greater Washington Area of Maryland and Virginia have tested positive.According to Johns Hopkins University, there are 398,809 confirmed coronavirus cases in the US and more than 12,000 people have died.(With agency inputs)Click here for complete coronavirus coverage||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-deeply-anguished-says-pm-modi-after-indian-american-journalist-dies-of-covid-19-in-new-york/story-Qq1HSLMNAqHyKB1aNObrgN.html
08-04-2020||India||Air pollution raises risk of Covid-19 deaths: Study||Air pollution is likely to be a major risk factor for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) mortality, scientists have concluded.Prolonged exposure to air pollution leads to a chronic inflammatory response even among the young and healthy which makes people living in polluted areas more susceptible to developing chronic respiratory conditions. This theory is borne out by the high Covid-19-related death rates in northern Italy compared to the rest of the country, environmental scientists and physicians in Italy have concluded.In a paper titled “Can atmospheric pollution be considered a co-factor in extremely high-level of SARS-CoV-2 lethality in Northern Italy?” published in Elsevier’s journal of Environmental Pollution on April 4, the scientists pointed that the mortality was 12% in Lombardy and Emilia Romagna, as compared to 4.5% in the rest of the country. This region is one of Europe’s most polluted based on data from Ozone Monitoring Instrument on the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA)’s Aura satellite.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe data indicates that there is stagnation of pollutants in the region because of geographical and climatic factors. A review of air quality index (AQI), which is calculated based on concentrations of particulate matter and other gases, is also the worst for this region in Italy.“Air pollution represents one of the most well-known causes of prolonged inflammation, eventually leading to an innate immune system hyper-activation,” the study by scientists at the rheumatology unit of the University of Siena and departmental of environmental science at Arhaus University said. The authors explained how pollutants impact the human immune response.In a small cohort of mice exposed for three months to fine particulate matter (PM 2.5) showed a significant increase in inflammatory cytokines in both serum and lung parenchyma. High systemic inflammation impairs heart function as well. A high correlation has also been seen between nitrogen dioxide (NO2) and PM in inducing 1L6 (an inflammatory cytokine) hyperexpression.“Our considerations must not let us neglect other factors responsible of the high lethality recorded: important co-factors such as the elevated medium age of the Italian population, the wide differences among Italian regional health systems, ICUs (intensive care units) capacity and how the infects and deaths have been reported have had a paramount role in the lethality of SARS-CoV-2, (which causes Covid-19) presumably also more than pollution itself,” cautioned environmental scientist Dario Caro in a statement.The paper has concluded that pollution impairs the first line of defence of the upper airways called cilia (microscopic hair-like structures or organelles) which is why people in polluted areas are more likely to develop chronic respiratory conditions due to an infective agent like SARS-CoV-2.This was seen during the severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) outbreak in 2002 too. A study by scientists of the Fielding School of Public Health analysed five regions with 100 or more SARS cases which showed that the fatality rate increased with the increment in AQI or air pollution levels. Moderate AQIs had an 84% increased risk of dying from SARS compared to those from regions with lower AQI.“When a population is chronically exposed to high levels of air pollution, the lung is compromised. The lung develops an inflammation. In short, the lung becomes ready for external attack. Those living in areas with cleaner air are more battle-ready. There have bee high cases of chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder (COPD), rhinitis and other conditions, which have manifestations similar to Covid-19. Indian population is extremely vulnerable to rhinoviruses but we’ve grown immunity and come out of it within four to five days. But the unique feature of SARS-CoV-2 is that it can be fatal for some people. This is a great opportunity to study how the impact of a new virus is influenced by air pollution,” said Dr Manas Ranjan Ray, former assistant director of Kolkata-based Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute.India has some of the most polluted cities in the world, particularly in the Indo-Gangetic plains (IGP) region. People living in the IGP region are expected to lose seven years of their life because of severe air pollution, according to an analysis conducted by the Energy Policy Institute at the University of Chicago (EPIC) released last year. The analysis said there has been a 72% increase in pollution between 1998 and 2016 in the region which accounts for 40% of the country’s population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-pollution-raises-risk-of-covid-19-deaths-study/story-yOAxKJwpJSVezxgfdIKOLJ.html
08-04-2020||India||Donald Trump reverses course, supports India’s position on hydroxychloroquine||US President Donald Trump today changed course and supported the Narendra Modi government stand on hydroxychloroquine and ended up praising India’s handling of the Covid-19 pandemic.In an interview to Fox News, Trump said: “ I bought millions of doses. More than 29 million. I spoke to Prime Minister Modi, a lot of it comes out of India. I asked him if he would release it? He was great. He was really good. You know they put a stop because they wanted it for India. But there is a lot of good things coming from that. Lot of people looking at it and saying, you know I don’t hear bad stories, I hear good stories. And I don’t hear anything where it was causing death. So it is not something like….You know we are doing vaccines. Johnson and Johnson, they need to test that. It seems malaria affected counties are unaffected where it is common.”While President Trump had talked about possible retaliation against India on Monday on hydroxychloroquine, fact is that India had already informed the State Department about the change in drug policy much earlier.Also Watch | Donald Trump hints at ‘retaliation’ if India withholds hydroxychloroquine exports “We don’t want to be bracketed with China when the world is facing the pandemic. We have commitments and responsibility to countries like Bangladesh, Sri Lanka and all those who are dependent on Indian drugs,” said a senior government official.Even as he praised the Indian stand on hydroxychloroquine, President Trump has gone after both WHO and China, virtually accusing them of keeping the world in dark about the epidemic. The W.H.O. really blew it. For some reason, funded largely by the United States, yet very China centric. We will be giving that a good look. Fortunately I rejected their advice on keeping our borders open to China early on. Why did they give us such a faulty recommendation?He was joined by Senator Jim Risch, Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, who called for an independent investigation into the WHO handling of the COVID-19 response. He said : “ The WHO has failed not only the American people, it has failed the world with its flagrant mishandling of the response to COVID-19. Dr Tedros Adganom Ghebreyessus’ apparent unwillingness to hold the Chinese Communist Party to even the minimum stand of global health and transparency hindered the world’s ability to blunt the spread of this pandemic. It is completely unacceptable that the world’s global health organization has become a political puppet of the Chinese Government.”Prime Minister Narendra Modi has also asked for a rebuilding of the WHO in his speech at the G-20 last month as he felt that the 20th century organization needed serious overhauling.India’s decision to permit export of hydroxychloroquine and other drugs has also been cheered Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro. In a letter to PM Modi, President Bolsonaro compared India drug supply to his country as Sanjeevani Booti brought by Lord Hanuman to save life of Lakshman, brother of Lord Ram on Hanuman Jayanti Day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/donald-trump-reverses-course-supports-india-s-position-on-hydroxychloroquine/story-Gcunil3N9ZA3s0nvisl9kO.html
08-04-2020||India||7 Japanese sent back from Jamshedpur during Covid-19 lockdown after request from Japan||Seven Japanese nationals working in a private company in Jharkhand’s Jamshedpur were sent back to their home country by a special chartered flight on Tuesday after request from Japan during the Covid-19 outbreak.“We sent seven Japanese citizens for Delhi on board a chartered flight at Sonari Aerodrome here today. They were working here with some Tata Group Companies and staying here for past 8-9 months. This was done as per the recommendation of Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) and approval of Civil Aviation Ministry,” Ravishankar Shukla, East Singhbhum district deputy commissioner, told HT on Tuesday.India too has been evacuating its citizens from various countries like China, Iran, Italy, Spain, Germany, UK and other Southeast Asian countries since the outbreak of coronavirus pandemic.Shukla said that MEA had sent a list of Japanese nationals staying in Jamshedpur and other cities and states, recommending the respective district administrations to arrange for their safe evacuation. The recommendation from MEA came after a request from the Japanese mission in Delhi for sending their citizens back to their home country in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak.“The only condition was that none of such foreigners should have symptoms of coronavirus infection. We got all the seven Japanese citizens thoroughly checked by the doctors here and no symptoms of Covid-19 were found in any of them. Subsequently, they were sent to Delhi on a chartered flight arranged by Japanese mission in India. From Delhi, another chartered Japanese flight will take them home,” Shukla said, adding that more such Japanese citizens would reach Delhi from Surat, Rajasthan and other states.As per available information, four of the seven Japanese citizens evacuated from Jamshedpur worked in a Tata Steel-Nippon Steel joint venture company, two in Tata Refractories and the other Japanese citizen was supervising the overall operation of Nippon Steel in Jamshedpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7-japanese-sent-back-from-jamshedpur-during-covid-19-lockdown-after-request-from-japan/story-YbKessFeGZvQpCmWaHt9LI.html
08-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Areas visited by Jamaat attendees to be identified from phone records, sealed and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9AM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Areas visited by Jamaat attendees to be identified from phone records, sealedMobile phones of around 2,000 participants in Tablighi Jamaat congregations will be tracked to ascertain areas they had visited while staying in Nizamuddin and mark them as containment zones, said chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday, while outlining a five-point action plan to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Read more. Govt looks at ways to restart business ops post lockdownAlthough the government has not yet taken a final decision on either a complete or partial end to the lockdown, ministries have started preparing for the eventuality after Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday asked them to prepare a list of 10 major decisions and 10 priority areas of focus once the lockdown ends, government officials said. Read more. Jobless rate soars to 23.4% amid Covid-19 lockdownEarly estimates of jobs data indicate that the coronavirus effect may have left a devastating impact on the economy, sending urban unemployment rate soaring to 30.9% . Overall unemployment rose to 23.4%.The latest data for the week ended 5 April was released on Monday evening. CMIE’s estimates on unemployment shot up from 8.4% in mid-March to the current 23%. Read more. FATF meet in Beijing: Pakistan’s action on terror funding to be reviewedIn February, the multilateral watchdog warned Pakistan it faced the possibility of being added to the “black list” and face greater scrutiny of all transactions in its financial system if it fails to fully implement an action plan to counter terror financing and money laundering by June. Read more. Covid-19: Blood transfusion from those who have recovered may helpVirus fighting antibodies from people who have recovered from the coronavirus disease Covid-19 can help cure others, according to a research finding published on Tuesday that describes the technique – convalescent plasma therapy – as a promising option to save lives till a vaccine is found. Read more. Boris Johnson listened to his scientists about coronavirus but they were slow to sound the alarmIt was early spring when British scientists laid out the bald truth to their government. It was “highly likely,” they said, that there was now “sustained transmission” of Covid-19 in the United Kingdom.If unconstrained and if the virus behaved as in China, up to four-fifths of Britons could be infected and one in a hundred might die, wrote the scientists, members of an official committee set up to model the spread of pandemic flu, on March 2.Yet the next day, March 3, Prime Minister Boris Johnson was his cheery self. Read more. Rohit Sharma reveals his ‘biggest cricketing crush’ to Yuvraj SinghIndia vice-captain Rohit Sharma and former India cricketer Yuvraj Singh spoke at length about things both on and off the field during a live chat session on popular social media platform Instagram. With no international or domestic cricket going on due to coronavirus pandemic, former and current cricket stars are keeping themselves busy by engaging with fans on social media. Read more. Life in the times of lockdown: A cup of tea is just like Hygge. Here’s whyThere is no better word to describe my morning cup of tea, and that’s hygge. Perhaps it’s not even a word as much as it’s a sentiment, a feeling that only a fellow tea-lover will understand. From taking the first sip as the flavours hit my tastebuds to planning my day to just mulling over life, its pleasures and its curveballs, there is a lot that goes down with those sips from my cup of tea . Read more. Roger Federer challenges Virat Kohli: Watch tennis ace’s home training dareTennis great Roger Federer posted a video on Twitter and followed up with a challenge for cricketer Virat Kohli. Federer posted a ‘solo drill’ as part of his home training routine. He challenged a host of celebrities and sportspersons to share their home training routines. Apart from Kohli, the others included footballers like Cristiano Ronaldo, basketball players like Stephen Curry, actors like Hugh Jackman, and even businessman and philanthropist Bill Gates.Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-areas-visited-by-jamaat-attendees-to-be-identified-from-phone-records-sealed-and-all-the-latest-news/story-uGMLAZkOivqOICehRg1w2K.html
08-04-2020||India||Coronavirus: Karnataka BJP MLA says those who attended Markaz event but refuse treatment are traitors||Political secretary to Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa and former minister, MP Renukacharya hit out at people who attended the Markaz event at Nizamuddin in New Delhi and didn’t report themselves to the hospital for Covid-19. In an outburst, Renukacharya called them “traitors”, reportedly saying there was “nothing wrong if they are shot.” The Honnali MLA was speaking to the media in Davanagere. “The state would not be facing the current crisis if they had reported themselves to hospitals earlier,” Renukacharya asserted.This came on a day when the state government said that till date, 920 samples of those who attended the Markaz in Delhi have been collected and while 623 of them have turned out to be negative for Covid-19, 27 have tested positive. Remaining 270 sample results are awaited. The CM had earlier said that stern action would be taken against anybody who tried to identify a particular community with the spread of the virus.On Tuesday, Karnataka government said 12 new Covid-19 positive cases have been recorded in the state, taking the total to a cumulative 175 which includes four deaths and 25 discharges after successful treatment. Among the 12 new cases, six are those who have had a travel history to the Delhi event. All of them have been quarantined at isolation facilities of designated hospitals in respective districts.Meanwhile, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee President DK Shivakumar opposed any move to cut the salaries of the government employees. The state government is said to be contemplating such a move especially when neighbouring states like Andhra Pradesh and Telangana have already taken steps in this regard given the current financial crunch amid the coronavirus crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-karnataka-bjp-mla-says-those-who-attended-markaz-event-but-refuse-treatment-are-traitors/story-oYidIMAtgQOeA0dUe3Jq3K.html
08-04-2020||India||Uttarakhand Police start booking Jamaatis in hiding under attempt to murder charge||Two members of the Tabhligi Jamaat - whose headquarters in Delhi emerged as one of the biggest Covid-19 source in the country - were on Tuesday booked in Roorkee and Haridwar under attempt to murder charges. The stringent action was taken by the Uttarakhad Police after 24-hour ultimatum given to the Jamaatis to present themselves before the administration for medical examination ended.Uttarakhand’s director general of police (DGP), Anil Kumar Raturi, had released a video message on Sunday evening asking all the Jamaatis to come out of hiding by Monday evening and present themselves before administration for required medical examination and quarantine for checking the spread of Covid-19 virus. He had warned the Jamaatis would be booked under attempt to murder or murder charges in case anybody gets infected from the deadly virus due to their negligence or dies after getting the infection.“After the deadline ended on April 6 evening, we found two Jamaatis - one each in Roorkee and Haridwar - hiding. They were then tracked down on the basis of their call details record and nabbed before being booked for attempt to murder under Section 307 of the IPC,” said Ashok Kumar, director general (law & order), Uttarakhand Police.“After being nabbed, they have been now put in institutional quarantine for required medical examination,” Kumar added.He also said that 180 Jamaatis presented themselves before administration before the 24-hour deadline ended.“Of these 180 Jamaatis, maximum 151 were from Haridwar, followed by 12 from Nainital, nine from Dehradun and seven from Pauri Garhwal districts. All of them have been quarantined and are being examined for possible Covid-19 infection by the health department officials,” said Kumar.He further said, “Police are keeping an eye on about 300 Jamaatis from Uttarakhand who are in other states to ensure that they don’t enter here discreetly and get into hiding. As warned, anyone found doing so will be booked under attempt to murder.”Uttarakhand Police have so far identified 708 members of various Jamaats or congregations - 383 were residents of the state who had gone to other states and 325 from other states had come to Uttarakhand to attend congregations after March 1. Kumar informed that the police had also booked four people in Laksar, Haridwar for “giving shelter to Jamaatis in their home despite the warning given”.“Earlier we had booked 41 Jamaatis for trying to enter the state discreetly through jungles along the railway tracks. We have also booked 44 people for spreading rumours on Covid-19 on social media in the state,” said Kumar. Of the 31 Covid-19 positive patients in Uttarakhand, 24 are Jamaatis. Following the significant number of positive cases among Jamaatis, the administration has put restrictions on people’s movement in certain areas of the state, where they are living.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-police-start-booking-jamaatis-in-hiding-under-attempt-to-murder-charge/story-cdKQvvwPjoGTU7dD8ClG4O.html
08-04-2020||India||Kashmir hospital uses innovative way to collect swabs from suspected Covid-19 patients||A hospital in Jammu and Kashmir’s Baramulla district has started using an innovative method inspired by other countries to collect swabs from suspected Covid-19 patients.The facility was started only two days ago at the hospital affiliated with the Government Medical College in Baramulla and doctors and virologists have already collected 45 samples from suspected patients.A small aluminium and glass cubicle is used by a trained doctor or virologists to collect the swabs from the suspected Covid-19 patients in the open air rather than inside a laboratory. Dr Masood, the hospital’s medical superintendent, said the new testing method was adopted after they saw some of their peers doing the same in other countries.“For the safety of our staff, it was mandatory to devise a new technique for the collection of swabs as while collecting the samples, the doctors and paramedics are at the most risk,’’ Masood said while speaking with HT.He added that after looking at the design of the collection cubicle in other countries, the doctors got the plan and then a cubicle was made at the local level using aluminium and glass which keeps doctors and virologists at an arm’s length from the Covid-19 patients and “Thankfully, it has been a success,” he said.Also read: Spike in ceasefire violations by Pakistan amid Covid outbreakMedical superintendent Masood said that doctors and paramedics are taking special care and precautions.“We have 18 Covid-19 patients admitted in the hospital and other 19 are under isolation. This new technique of collection of swabs will help us saving doctors and paramedics and also the PPEs,” he said.He said that they have decided to collect swabs in the open at an isolated place within the hospital premises as it is more secure there than taking swabs inside any room.“Our main focus is to go for innovative things. We just saw the design on social media and got it prepared at the local level and fortunately it’s working,’’ he said adding that hospital is the only health institute in entire J&K to use this method.“Hope others will follow for the safety of doctors and paramedics.”Baramulla is one of the biggest centres in the Valley where Covid-19 patients are admitted.But the hospital is not designated as a separate Covid-19 hospital and other surgeries and patient care is also being conducted posing risk to other patients and attendants there.Also read: Spike in Covid cases in J&K due to intensified contact tracing, testing, says GC Murmu“The government should either dedicate this hospital as an exclusive Covid-19 hospital or designate any other neighbouring hospital as Covid-19 hospital and god forbid if one doctor or paramedic turns positive this hospital which caters to the entire north Kashmir will get defunct,’’ said a senior doctor.Only a year ago, the Baramulla hospital was attached to the medical college and has the infrastructure of that of a district hospital.Jammu and Kashmir has reported 125 coronavirus disease cases and three deaths—two from Baramulla district and one from Bandipore. There are 11 areas which have been declared as containment zones in Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashmir-hospital-uses-innovative-way-to-collect-swabs-from-suspected-covid-19-patients/story-y71vkOFdoV1JomiE9xvfKJ.html
08-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update- ‘Can’t help’: Goa government tells businesses seeking financial relief amid Covid-19 lockdown||The Goa government will not be able to come to the aid of lobbies and sectors, which have been seeking financial relief after their operations were hit due to the Covid-19 lockdown, Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant has said. Claiming that the Goa government was itself going through an economic crisis, the chief minister said people should not wait in anticipation that it will be able to offer relief. “Because of Covid-19 everybody’s business is in a loss. I do not want to particularly mention any sector—big industries, small industries, (motorcycle) pilots, taxi operators—all of them have approached me via email, phone calls, and written representations asking what is being done for them,” Sawant said. Follow latest updates on coronavirus here “Right now, we are not in a position to declare any kind of package for everyone. The state itself is going through the situation in a bad position, we should all understand the government itself is going through an economic crisis. At this stage it is wrong to expect a relief package from the state government,” Sawant said. He said the government was in the process of constituting a business revival committee that will include experts from various fields to chalk up a plan to revive the economy in the state. Sawant had said earlier too that “from the outset of Covid-19 the state finances are also under tremendous stress due to reduction and stoppage of business activity.” Also read: Blood transfusion from those who have recovered from Covid-19 may helpGoa, which is heavily dependent on tourism for its revenue collections, has been hit particularly hard owing to the lockdown with several industry lobbies ranging from hoteliers, taxi operators and private bus operators approaching the government seeking dole or other concessions. Goa’s travel industry has sought a tax holiday from the state government to help tide over the recession in the tourism sector claiming the pandemic will cost it Rs 1000 crore and could lead to job losses for around 70,000 people.Other smaller operators have sought doles to help tide over the loss of income during this period.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-can-t-help-goa-government-tells-businesses-seeking-financial-relief-amid-covid-19-lockdown/story-kKewZoGPlUPUcVec7bNRSI.html
08-04-2020||India||Podcast: Pallavi Raghavan on an Alternative History of India-Pakistan Relations||When it comes to the matter of relations between India and Pakistan, you’ve heard all of the familiar tropes. Two nuclear-armed rivals with hundreds of thousands of troops amassed along a contested border. A Hindu-majority India pre-destined to be at odds with a Muslim-majority Pakistan. A vibrant democracy in the east, a military-dominated polity in the west. A new book by the historian Pallavi Raghavan offers a very different account about relations between these two South Asian rivals in the immediate aftermath of Partition in 1947. Contrary to the conventional doom-and-gloom narrative, Raghavan’s book “Animosity at Bay: An Alternative History of the India-Pakistan Relationship, 1947-1952” shows how amity and a spirit of cordiality infused relations between India and Pakistan in the first five years of their independence. This week on the podcast, Milan Vaishnav (Director of the South Asia programme at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace) speaks with Pallavi about her book and the lessons it holds for today. The two discuss why yet another book on India-Pakistan relations was necessary, how India and Pakistan developed constructive relations in the wake of the traumas of Partition, and why the declining power of the state explains the difference in bilateral ties between the 1950s and today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pallavi-raghavan-on-an-alternative-history-of-india-pakistan-relations/story-sQhprrMjLWTOqLfebUubJK.html
08-04-2020||India||Hotels, lodges to be part of UP govt’s 20,000-bed plan to fight Covid-19||The Uttar Pradesh government on Tuesday decided to reserve 20,000 beds in hospitals and private buildings to set up isolation wards. The move is aimed at intensifying the fight against coronavirus.Addressing a press conference in state capital Lucknow, principal secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said that during management of Covid-19 positive patients, health teams detected that several people were asymptomatic. But when their swab and samples were sent for laboratory tests, the reports confirmed that they were coronavirus positive. The relatives and close contacts of the positive patients, too, had no symptoms but tests confirmed that they too were positive for the virus, he said.The health department has now decided to keep asymptomatic people in the isolation wards for treatment. It has already reserved 10,000 beds in government hospitals and health centres in the 75 districts of the state for admission of positive cases. The department has decided to reserve another 10,000 beds for the admission of people who are asymptomatic.The district magistrates have been directed to acquire lodges, hotels and guest houses near hospitals for admission of such cases. The plan is to reserve 10,000 beds in hotels, guest houses and private premises to set up isolation wards. The state government has issued an order to the district magistrates to start acquisition of such premises in their districts, Prasad said.During the lockdown, a large numbers of people are facing mental tension and loneliness. The health department has appointed 100 counsellors to help such people. It is already providing health advice to people on its helpline - 1800-180-5145.The health department has also amended its strategy in relation to coronavirus positive cases in 37 districts. In some districts merely one or two positive cases have been reported. Rather than starting a 30-bed hospital for a single patient, the department has decided to assemble the patients in a single hospital.Treatment of patients in a single hospital will ensure better management of human resource and equipment, Prasad said.He said 137 hospitals in the state were ready to treat coronavirus patients. These hospitals include medical colleges of Prayagraj, Meerut, Jhansi, BRD Medical College Gorakhpur, SGPGI, Lucknow, Saifai Medical Institute in Etawah and Jhansi.The 750 beds in the hospitals have ventilators. At present, around 300 patients are admitted in the hospitals but none of them are on ventilator, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hotels-lodges-to-be-part-of-up-govt-s-20-000-bed-plan-to-fight-covid-19/story-CmXJPltRLfIiuwyIaeZj7K.html
08-04-2020||India||Encounter underway in J-K’s Sopore; at least 3 terrorists trapped||A gun battle has erupted between security forces and militants in north Kashmir’s Sopore town, officials said on Wednesday morning.According to officials, two to three terrorists are said to be trapped in a house and a cordon has been established.The forces had launched an operation on Tuesday night at Gulabagh area of Sopore town and sealed all routes to prevent the terrorists from escaping.Mobile internet has been suspended in the area, they said.This is the third encounter in Kashmir in the last the four to five days, including one on the Line of Control (LoC) in which five soldiers died and five terrorists were killed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/encounter-starts-in-kashmir-s-sopore-at-least-3-terrorists-trapped/story-WhTl6Ih2iZArpsazuw03cP.html
08-04-2020||India||Spike in ceasefire violations by Pakistan amid Covid outbreak||There has been an unusual spike in ceasefire violations by the Pakistan army on the Line of Control (LoC) this year to help infiltrators sneak into Jammu and Kashmir compared to border violations in the previous years, two senior officers familiar with the matter said on Tuesday on condition of anonymity.The neighbouring army has carried out more ceasefire violations during January-March this year compared to the corresponding periods of the previous two years. Local recruitment of terrorists in J&K, however, has declined this year, figures show.Pakistan violated the ceasefire 1,144 times between January and March, with the highest number of violations (411) being recorded last month when Covid-19 cases started peaking globally, said the first officer cited above. It has carried out 53 cease-fire violations this month (as of April 6).Figures obtained by HT show that the Pakistan army violated the ceasefire 685 times in 2019 and 627 times in 2018 for the period January to March.The world is fighting the Covid-19 outbreak using all available resources but Pakistan is focused on pushing in terrorist infiltrators into the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir to foment trouble, said the second officer cited above. Pakistan carried out 1,629 cease-fire violations in 2018 and 3,168 violations in 2019, compared to 1,197 this year.The army has been dealing with an increase in infiltration attempts by Pakistan-backed terrorists looking to stir trouble in J&K since the Centre’s move revoking the special status of the state on August 5, 2019. Experts said Pakistan was trying its best to reinvigorate the terror machinery in J&K to destabilise the border region.Five commandos belonging to an elite army Special Forces (SF) unit were killed in action along the LoC in Kashmir’s Keran sector on Sunday during an intense close-quarters battle with an equal number of terrorist infiltrators who were all eliminated.Lieutenant General Satish Dua (retd), a former commander of the Srinagar-based HQs 15 Corps, told Hindustan Times on Monday that this is the first summer after the removal of Article 370 and Pakistan army will surely step up efforts to push in terrorists to create trouble.An Army officer said on Monday that Pakistan and its army are fomenting terrorism in India to hide its failure to fight Covid-19. “The Indian Army is not only fighting Covid with utmost professionalism both in India and in neighbouring countries but it is also concurrently defeating Pakistan’s evil designs along the LoC and in Jammu and Kashmir,” he said, asking not to be named.The security forces have killed 41 terrorists in J&K this year so far compared to 152 terrorists in 2019 and 215 in 2018, according to official figures. Local recruitment of terrorists has shown a declining trend this year -- only six joined terror outfits as of April 7 (compared to 119 in entire 2019).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spike-in-ceasefire-violations-by-pakistan-amid-covid-outbreak/story-cj0XCSuUGTqWv7WEf2jf1O.html
08-04-2020||India||Mehbooba Mufti moved from jail to home, still in detention||Mehbooba Mufti, former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) head, has been shifted to her residence in Srinagar, where she will continue to remain under detention, an official order issued on Tuesday said.The government order said the Peoples Democratic Party leader is being moved from a subsidiary jail on MA Road in Srinagar to her Fairview residence that will serve as a subsidiary jail.According to an official order issued by the home department of the Union Territory, “The government hereby orders the change of place of lodgement of Ms Mehbooba Mufti... to subsidiary jail, Fairview, Gupkar Road, Srinagar, with immediate effect.” Mehbooba Mufti, who was charged under the Public Safety Act, has been under detention since August 5 last year, when the Constitution’s Article 370 was scrapped and Jammu and Kashmir was bifurcated into two Union territories.Mufti’s daughter, Iltija Mufti, tweeted to thank the media and ask for privacy.“My gratitude to the media in Kashmir for their concern & well wishes. May I please humbly request that you give the family privacy as we wait for her to come home today. Please remember this isn’t a release & the house has been declared as a subsidiary jail,” she said.While two other former chief ministers and National Conference leaders, Farooq Abdullah and his son Omar Abdullah, were released earlier, Mufti continues to remain under detention.Reacting to the development, former CM Omar Abduallah said that his political rival should be released and the PSA slapped on her should be revoked.“@MehboobaMufti must be set free. Shifting her home while continuing to keep her detained is a cop out (sic),” Abdullah tweeted reacting to the news of her being shifted.Mufti’s daughter Iltija Mufti, too, has moved the Supreme Court challenging her mother’s detention and leaders across the political spectrum in J&K have sought the release of Mufti and a host of other political leaders including Bilal Lone, Shah Feasal and Naeem Akhtar.The Jammu and Kashmir People’s Conference (JKPC) chief spokesperson Junaid Azim Mattu also commented on the same and said the continued detention of Mufti, and JKPC chairman Sajad Lone - who is under house arrest - and other mainstream politicians was “authoritarian”.A three-judge bench had issued a notice to the Jammu and Kashmir administration seeking its response on the plea and posted the matter for a hearing on March 18. However, the petition was not taken up for hearing due to the coronavirus outbreak.Habeas corpus is a writ seeking production of a person supposed to be in illegal detention before a court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mehbooba-mufti-moved-from-jail-to-home-still-in-detention/story-sPI4mSzE4e6CN1Ty598eQK.html
08-04-2020||India||Coronavirus: India partially eases restrictions on export of anti-malarial drug||India has partially eased restrictions on export of anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine and paracetamol, cited by some as key to the fight against Covid-19, to fulfil existing orders and to meet the needs of neighbouring countries, but only after building its own stockpile of the drug. The move came late on Monday, hours ahead of a conference by US President Donald Trump, who spoke of “retaliation” if India didn’t do so. People familiar with developments, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said existing orders from other countries, including the US, for hydroxychloroquine and paracetamol will be cleared only after meeting all domestic requirements.The external affairs ministry said the two drugs will be supplied in “appropriate quantities” to all neighbouring countries dependent on India’s capabilities.India, the largest producer of hydroxychloroquine, initially banned exports of the drug on March 25 to ensure adequate domestic supplies. Rules were tightened on April 4 by barring exports from special economic zones (SEZs) and export-oriented units (EOUs), where such bans don’t usually apply.However, Trump and Brazil President Jair Bolsonaro called on India to permit the supply of the drug to cope with Covid-19 cases in their countries. Early on Tuesday, Trump spoke about “retaliation” if India didn’t lift its hold on US orders.But even before Trump warned India of retaliation, the Modi government had communicated to all countries, including the US, the change in policy to facilitate supply of critical drugs through institutionalised channels. The empowered committee chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi decided on Monday to lift export restrictions on 14 drugs and to licence the export of hydroxychloroquine and paracetamol after reconciling with domestic demand.One of the people cited above, who declined to be named, said: “There has been a partial lifting of the ban, but (export of) hydroxychloroquine and paracetamol exports will continue to be restricted. Depending on availability of stocks of hydroxychloroquine after meeting domestic requirements, existing orders will be cleared.”The department of pharmaceuticals under the ministry of chemicals and fertilizers and the external affairs ministry will decide on allocations on a case-to-case basis in view of the humanitarian situation related to the pandemic, the people said.External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said paracetamol and hydroxychloroquine “will be kept in a licenced category and their demand position would be continuously monitored”. He added, “However, the stock position could allow our companies to meet the export commitments that they had contracted.”Srivastava said India had decided to “licence paracetamol and hydroxychloroquine in appropriate quantities to all our neighbouring countries who are dependent on our capabilities”.Explaining the government’s move, a senior South Block official said: “It is not only about hydroxychloroquine or the US. The Indian pharmaceutical industry supplies HIV drugs to South Africa, paracetamol to the UK and 80% of all drugs to the neighbourhood and it will supply hydroxychloroquine to the US, Spain, Germany and Brazil.”Behind Modi’s decision on easing the export ban is also the message that India won’t walk out of commitments on critical drugs.The Indian Council of Medical Research has said: “Hydroxychloroquine is found to be effective against coronavirus in laboratory and in-vivo studies.” India’s National Taskforce for Covid-19 has recommended the use of hydroxychloroquine for infections among “asymptomatic health care workers involved in the care of suspected or confirmed cases of Covid-19” and “asymptomatic household contacts of laboratory confirmed cases”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-india-partially-eases-restrictions-on-export-of-anti-malarial-drug/story-61CoIkZoJrk5sRwqjaoahM.html
08-04-2020||India||Test, trace, treat in Delhi’s 5T plan||New Delhi: Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday laid out a five-point blueprint to contain the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), declaring that testing will be ramped up and the scope of treatment widened – an indication that the Capital was bracing for the possible ballooning of the pathogen that has ravaged several metropolises across the world.Fifty one new cases were reported in Delhi on Tuesday, taking the total in the Capital to 576, out of which 333 patients are linked to the mid-March congregation of a Muslim missionary group, Tablighi Jamaat, in Nizamuddin that has now become the country’s largest hot spot for Covid-19 infections. At a news briefing, the chief minister said that Delhi has formed a “5T plan” — testing, tracing, treatment, teamwork, and tracking — and that his government was prepared to scale up resources to treat up to 30,000 active Covid-19 patients at the same time, if needed. “The first T is testing. If you don’t test, you won’t be able to find out which houses have been affected. It will go on spreading. South Korea identified every single individual through large scale testing. We are now going to do mass testing like South Korea,” Kejriwal said.He said the countries that did not conduct wide testing before infections climbed were unable to control the imminent spiraling of the disease. “We have ordered kits for the testing of 50,000 people. The kits have started arriving. We have also placed orders for the rapid test of 100,000 people. The deliveries of kits will begin by Friday. Random tests will be done at hot spots. Detailed tests will also be done.”On Monday, Kejriwal said rapid testing will be doubled from next week – from around 500 samples per day to 1,000 samples per day.Several public health experts have said that aggressive testing is the mainstay in the battle against the highly contagious disease that has killed at least 77,000 people globally because the infection often spreads undetected.South Korea and Germany have led the charge in mass testing, which has helped control the spread of new infections over time, and more importantly, kept the fatality rate low.“The second T is tracing,” Kejriwal said. “Tracing is being carried out at a very good level in Delhi and now we have started taking help from the police as well to check if the people who have been traced are staying under self-quarantine.”Kejriwal said that the government has so far given contact numbers of 27,702 people for tracing to the Delhi Police. A person’s movement can be tracked through their phone, he added. “Today, we are going to give 2,000 phone numbers of people who were brought out of Markaz to find out if they roamed in the area around Markaz. The areas they went out to, will be sealed and monitored.”The recent spike in infections has largely been propelled by the detection of hundreds of patients who attended gatherings of the Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi’s Nizamuddin Basti last month in a violation of several restrictions. Cases linked to the meet have been reported across two dozen states and Union Territories so far. “Our third T is treatment,” Kejriwal said. “If someone gets infected with Covid-19, then we will have to provide that person with treatment. Delhi has 525 positive Covid-19 cases so far and we have made arrangements for 3,000 beds.”He said the Delhi government-run Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital (1,500 beds), GB Pant Hospital (500) and Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital (450) have been declared as dedicated facilities to treat the new disease. The government has also earmarked 400 beds at three private hospitals – Max Saket (318 beds), Apollo (50 beds) and Sir Ganga Ram Kolmet Hospital (42 beds). “At present, there are 2,950 beds reserved for Covid-19 cases. If the number of patients crosses 3,000, we will use 1,500 beds at GTB (Guru Tegh Bahadur) hospital, following which we will have arrangements for 4,500 cases,” Kejriwal said.“In this manner, we can go up to 30,000 beds if needed. We will have 8,000 beds at hospitals,12,000 hotel rooms will be taken over, and around 10,000 patients will be kept in banquet halls and dharamshalas. Most serious patients with heart, liver, cancer, diabetes and above 50 years of age will be kept in hospitals. Patients below 50 years and with minor symptoms will be kept in hotels and dharamshalas, but with all medical facilities,” he added.A spokesperson at Max Healthcare said: “We believe that to fight the Covid-19 pandemic, it is essential for us to have dedicated hospitals. We are working closely with the Govt of Delhi and have established a dedicated COVID 19 facility at Max Hospital Saket, East Block.”A review of Delhi’s preparedness by a five-member expert panel recently showed that Delhi’s current facilities would be able to handle 100 cases of Covid-19 every day. While detailing the findings of the review, Kejriwal had said that the Capital needed to be ready for the worst scenario and that his government was in the process of ramping up the health care infrastructure.Experts maintain that it important for Delhi to massively upgrade its infrastructure to pre-empt a crisis similar to the one that has befallen New York, which has in the past boasted of hi-tech hospitals. With the Covid-19 cases skyrocketing, New York’s health care system is overwhelmed and teetering on the brink of collapse.Late in March, New York City mayor Bill de Blasio said that the strained health care system had the personnel and supplies to make it through only one more week, but beyond that, things appeared uncertain.In Delhi, Kejriwal said that 400 ventilators and 1,200 oxygen beds will be needed if there are 30,000 active patients in Delhi and arrangements were being made.“Calculations have been done regarding PPE (personal protective equipment) kits. It has been an area of concern. We have received help from the Centre and we have placed an order for the kits which we’ll start to receive from next week. The Centre will be providing 27,000 PPE kits to us,” said Kejriwal.The CM said that the fourth T was teamwork, and stressed on cooperation between the Centre and state governments, and the public and health care professions.The fifth T, he said, is tracking and monitoring. “I have spoken so much, but these things need to be tracked and monitored as well and it’s my responsibility to track the moment-to-moment plan we have prepared. I am tracking it 24 hours. We can win this battle as a team if we remain three steps ahead of Covid-19,” he added.A senior official in the chief minister’s office said that Kejriwal’s first briefing every day is scheduled through a conference call with the health department at 10am. It is compulsory for the health minister, the chief secretary and the health secretary to be part of it. Usually, he prepares his briefs and joins the lieutenant governor’s meeting after that through video-conferencing. Later in the day, the CM heads review meetings with representatives of the state task force that he heads, the official said on condition of anonymity.Health experts and private hospitals welcomed the action plan presented on Tuesday.Nevin Kishore, head of the bronchology department at Delhi’s Max Hospital, said: “Random tests are important to understand the burden of the disease and the severity of the patients who are positive. Such understanding helps in designing predictive models for prevention, something very crucial in the next 7-10 days.”Vikas Maurya, head of the pulmonology at Delhi’s Fortis Hospital, said: “Rapid antibody tests result is a faster diagnosis. It is faster, cheaper and accurate – a smart way strategy in dealing with a large number of potential patients in cluster hotspots. There is one issue. This test is more accurate when dealing with a person who is infected for at least 8-9 days. Negative results may require repetition of tests after certain intervals.”Charu Hans, former head of the microbiology department at Delhi’s Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, said: “We have limited resources, so we need a smart strategy. One has to have a clear protocol on what nature of individuals is to be tested under the said strategy. At this juncture, it is recommended to conduct tests only among symptomatic individuals in hot spots.”Jugal Kishore, head of the department, community medicine, at Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital, said: “Simple random sampling is a scientific method and can provide a signal on possible community spread. But, when there is a resource constraint; the government should explore the possibility of conducting snowball sampling.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/test-trace-treat-in-delhi-s-5t-plan/story-sot7eq17egdVuZsyTwhEZL.html
08-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Centre considering pleas by states to prolong lockdown||The Centre is considering extending the three-week nationwide lockdown over the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak after some states favoured its enforcement beyond April 14, while also weighing the option of lifting the restrictions in a staggered manner, officials said on Tuesday, when the number of cases in the country crossed 5,000.Uttar Pradesh, Telangana, Maharashtra and Karnataka have informed New Delhi that the threat of Covid-19 would be easier to handle if the lockdown, which took effect on March 25, remains in force for a longer duration, an official said on condition of anonymity.Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh, too, have favoured an extension of the lockdown. Even states such as Punjab, which haven’t been as forthcoming, favour maintaining the restrictions, the official added. The number of Covid-19 cases in India on Tuesday reached 5,305 and 160 have so far died of the highly infectious disease. There is concern that once the lockdown is lifted and free public movement is allowed, it could lead to a spike in the number of cases of the disease, frittering away the gains from the lockdown.At the same time, however, there are worries that continuing with a strict lockdown could cause long-term damage to the economy -- in terms of personal finance, the administering of states, and business activity in key sectors that are already reeling from the sudden halt in economic activity.One of the big questions will be lives versus livelihoods, according to Niti Aayog member Dr Vinod Paul, who is also the head of one of the empowered groups on the matter. “We are assessing the cost of the lockdown economically with the lives that need to be saved,” he said.A decision on what to unlock, and when to unlock it, will also be driven by the numbers and how India stands in terms of the Covid-19 spread towards the end of this week, a second official said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 24 announced the lockdown aimed at breaking the chain of infections, halting flights, trains and road transport, shutting all but essential services, and stressed the need for social distancing to be strictly observed to curb the spread of the disease.On Tuesday, a Group of Ministers led by defence minister Rajnath Singh met at his residence to discuss the various factors that would need to be considered once the lockdown was lifted. “The ministers were very clear that even if the lockdown is lifted, travel restrictions will remain,” said an official.The meeting is the fourth held by the GoM. Home minister Amit Shah and finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman attended Tuesday’s meeting along with 14 other ministers, who discussed in what form travel should be allowed. “Trains and buses will not be back to normal,’’ an official aware of the developments said on condition of anonymity. “Air traffic will also be disrupted. The public should expect a slow, staggered return to a new normal.’’The government was also considering the option of lifting the lockdown only in phases, with those districts where no cases have been reported likely to be the first to see resumption of some services.One key concern that was flagged in the meeting was that the farm sector is still struggling. The sector has been particularly hit hard by a disruption of the farm-to-fork supply chain in the absence of workers, mainly migrants who have returned home in the aftermath the lockdown, to harvest the winter-sown rabi crops and transport to carry the produce to agricultural markets.The ministers were briefed that some concessions extended to agriculture were “not filtering down”, another second official said. For instance, on March 28, the government exempted farm work from the lockdown and said that activities such as sowing of crops and harvesting should be allowed, and fertiliser and pesticide shops could stay open. However, more than a week later, it doesn’t seem to have helped. “The labour who would have worked on the fields were too scared and were not going back to work,’’ said this person.This was an issue that the ministers were hoping to troubleshoot with the home ministry and other officials soon.In the same way, the lack of labour is also affecting the supply of medicines. While there is no shortage of drugs, said the official, there was a shortage of people to transport them.The official said the substance of the ministers’ discussion would be conveyed to Prime Minister Modi, who is expected to shortly decide whether or not to extend the lockdown.Lav Aggarwal, joint secretary in the health ministry, when asked about the extension of the lockdown, said at a daily briefing: “The chief secretary has already given a statement. Once a decision is taken on this, we will convey it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-considering-pleas-by-states-to-prolong-lockdown/story-iv73GIWJIXPMZeHIfSC0KI.html
08-04-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||On Tuesday, India removed some restrictions on the export of anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine, which some people, including US President Donald Trump, believe to be the miracle cure for Covid-19. There’s no scientific evidence of this yet, but that hasn’t stopped some countries from trying to source more of the drug.India is the world’s largest manufacturer of hydroxychloroquine. It is also the world’s largest exporter of it. As interest around the miracle drug soared, India, on March 25, banned the exports of hydroxychloroquine and any formulation containing it — including exports from special economic zones. That blocked pending orders, including one from the US.Over the weekend, Trump spoke with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi and asked for the ban to be removed for US orders. On Monday, in usual fashion, he threatened “retaliation” if India didn’t do this, and also threw in a bit about how India has had the better of the US on the trade front (by then, India had already removed some of the restrictions). Hindustan Times learns that India has received requests for hydroxychloroquine from 20 countries, an indication of just how desperate governments around the world are to explore any possible cure for the pandemic that has infected 1.39 million people and killed over 79,000 around the world.On Tuesday, India said it would stockpile enough of the drug for domestic use, and then, depending on availability, allow exporters to start servicing open orders. The decision on who to export to (and how much) will be taken by the department of pharmaceuticals.India is the world’s generics factory — and it doesn’t get enough credit for this, something not entirely explained by the fact that some Indian pharma companies have had regulatory and quality issues. Cipla’s Yusuf Hamied made AIDS drugs affordable, helping, among other countries, South Africa, but he did so after a bruising fight with Big Pharma.Even as it does its duty as a responsible power by helping other countries, India should use this opportunity to drive a hard bargain (or two) — for instance, there are key drugs, including those for cancer, that it should see to bring under the purview of either compulsory licensing or voluntary licensing, something that would make them accessible to millions of Indians. Indeed, India’s strong research and manufacturing base for generics, healthy vaccine development and manufacturing ecosystem, and natural advantages when it comes to clinical testing stand to give it an advantage (and a bargaining chip) in the post-Covid world.Speaking of demand for hydroxychloroquine, India’s health ministry itself wants to build a stockpile of 100 million tablets. This is part of its planning for a worst-case scenario.Our growing understanding (it’s still limited) of Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, suggests that it makes sense to prepare for the worst. New research at the University of Texas at Austin seems to suggest that, in the US, even one case in a county could mean a 51% chance of an outbreak in that area. The researchers assumed that only a tenth of the cases are tested and reported — because many infections are mild, and many of the infected, asymptomatic (today’s opportune moment to remind everyone why masks are a must).Our growing understanding of Sars-CoV-2 is also beginning to help us understand that this virus is more virulent, more dangerous, and, worryingly, much more evasive than its predecessor (in terms of vintage as well as terminology), Sars-CoV-1, the virus which caused a Sars outbreak in 2002-04. Like Sars-CoV-2, that virus too originated in China, and infected over 8,000 people in around 30 countries, killing 774.Sun Tzu said it. As did Green Day. Know Your Enemy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-ah0Md4zAfKEBbXVQkYhQWJ.html
08-04-2020||India||Approved PPE kits to have unique code and stickers||Manufacturers of personal protective equipment (PPE) will now need to mark their products with a unique code and tamper-proof stickers, the textile ministry has said. This comes after reports emerged that unapproved products were being sold in the market.Healthcare workers are at most risk of infection as they come in close contact with Covid-19 patients. With a global shortage of PPE that is supposed to protect them, the demand for such equipment has grown exponentially in hospitals and among sanitation workers who are called on to disinfect high risk areas.The move, ministry officials said, was to tighten the production of PPE among Indian manufacturers and producers in line with the specifications of the World Health Organisation and the union ministry of health and welfare.The ministry, in a notification issued on April 6, said the Unique Certification Code (UCC-COVID19) will apply to PPE garments and fabric which pass the laboratory tests laid down by the South India Textile Research Association (SITRA) as well as the the Defence Research & Development Establishment (DRDE). The Code will record the type of garment, its test procedure, date of test. The certification will be valid for a certain time period and both SITRA and DRDE will preserve the sample sent by the producer, said the notification, accessed by HT.Approvals for the manufacturing of PPEs and the fabrics used in making them are given by the Coimbatore-based SITRA, an autonomous body under the textiles ministry and the Gwalior-based DRDE.Another directive was that in the case of coveralls, the manufacturer will print in indelible ink or in a tamper-proof sticker details such as name of producer, code, test standard, batch number, order details.A ministry official, on the condition of anonymity, told HT that the move was prompted by news reports of some of those rejected by SITRA and DRDE supplying their units to private hospitals. The directives have now been sent to states, too.Nihar Ranjan Dash, joint secretary at the textiles ministry said that the certification mainly concerns coveralls and fabric provided by certain manufacturers to producers of PPEs. “The directive does not concern masks, as they are certified by the Bureau of Indian Standards. All this while, as we relied on imports, the specifications were of international standards,” said Dash.He added that the tightening of norms will also help Indian manufacturers prepare for the global market. The current capacity of the Indian industry is 12,000 units per day, but Dash said that in about three months, India has the production capacity of 300,000 PPEs per day.An official of one of the testing agencies told HT, on the condition of anonymity, that the two specific tests that are applied are the synthetic blood penetration test in the case of coveralls and the bacterial efficiency test in the case of masks. “A severe shortage of N95 masks has been a concern as there are just a handful of producers,” said the officials.Since India began domestic production of PPE in March, these two testing agencies have approved 28 manufacturers with non-woven textiles such as masks and coveralls, and additionally approved 22 manufacturers of the fabric that is supplied to some of these producers.The official of the testing agency said that in the beginning, only 50% of manufacturers passed the test. “The success rate now is over 80 percent,” the official said.M Rajaa of Coimbatore-based Saastha Textiles, one of the approved manufacturers of waterproof, laminated thermoplastic polyurethane and thermoplastic elastomers fabric in knitted, woven and non-woven fabric used in PPE units, told HT that the fabric needs to have a certain type of lamination to ensure that blood and virus do not contaminate a healthcare worker. “We also need to use only polypropylene virgin material to ensure that the material is protective and some manufacturers are also using reprocessed materials,” said Rajaa.Parag of Sai Synergy, a producer of PPEs, said that their products have been ordered by the Indian Navy before and hence their products carry a sticker. “The sticker has to be put during the manufacturing process and cannot be put there after,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/approved-ppe-kits-to-have-unique-code-and-stickers/story-ERWavSWn1Fdvrw1xNyW03J.html
08-04-2020||India||Oppn may raise MPLADS issue at all-party meet with PM Modi||An all party meeting called by the Prime Minister on Wednesday may see opposition parties pushing back against the central government’s decision to suspend the Member of Parliament Local Area Development (MPLAD) scheme for two years, transferring the funds to the Consolidated Fund of India to help with the fight against Covid-19. Some opposition MPs have already gone public with their criticism of the move, but members of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party say they are merely politicising the issue. MPLADS money usually goes towards development work in the constituency of MPs, each of whom receive Rs 5 crore a year towards this. On Monday, the union cabinet decided to suspend the scheme for two years and transfer the amount, around Rs 7900 to the CFI. While Congress president Sonia Gandhi was silent on the issue in her letter to the Prime Minister, many of her party’s leaders have expressed disappointment at the suspension of the scheme. Congress spokesperson Manish Tewari on Tuesday shot off a letter to the Prime Minister, requesting him to reconsider the decision.Many MPs said the funds helped them provide immediate relief to people in their constituencies and said they will not be able to fulfil their duties as elected representatives if the scheme is suspended.Sonia Gandhi on March 27, offered her MPLADS fund to the Rae Bareli district magistrate towards fighting the coronavirus in her constituency. . CPIM general secretary Sitaram Yechury said that if the government diverted MPLADS money to the Consolidated Fund of India, “it will be used to clean up the economic mess”.“The states and the MPs at the local level need the fund as they know where to use it. The government is denying the states and the MPs the opportunity,” he said, adding that the issue will be raised in the all-party meeting.Trinamool Congress’ Sudip Bandopadhyay said that in addition to raising this, his party’s MPs would demand more funds be given to the states and the clearance of the dues the Centre owes the states. “We will also talk about the MPLADS order as it hampers important work at the ground level against Covid-19.” Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) president MK Stalin termed the move “undemocratic” and argued that MPLADS is not an allowance for parliamentarians but funds for projects that are needed by the people in a constituency.Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Supriya Sule expressed the hope that the entire amount of MPLAD funds contributed by all Maharashtra MPs of both houses will be used for the welfare of the people of the state.Sanjay Raut of the Shiv Sena said the Prime Minister should have consulted the leaders of all political parties before taking such a decision.Two BJP MPs said all ruing party MPs support the decision to donate MPLADs as well deductions from their salary for the PMCARES Fund.BJP leader Prabhat Jha, whose term as a Rajya Sabha MP ends this week, said the Congress was politicising an issue that concerns all. “This is a global war and everyone has to fight it. The issue of not donating their MPLADS funds is inappropriate at the moment..”Another BJP MP from Chhattisgarh who did not wish to be named said the bickering over the funds is misplaced: “When the country is fighting an enemy that has brought the whole world to its knees, what can be more important; small works using the MPLADS funds or the bigger necessity of building hospitals, researching vaccines and helping people?”...||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oppn-may-raise-mplads-issue-at-all-party-meet-with-pm-modi/story-CalpmVUYNYMEAjCBWsEtwL.html
08-04-2020||India||5-point plan to tackle worst case||New Delhi: India’s health ministry has ordered 107 million tablets of hydroxychloroquine, 16.6 million units of personal protective equipment (PPE), and 48,000 ventilators, and hopes to have everything in place by May 31 -- it’s deadline for scaling up health infrastructure to fight Covid-19.The orders are part of a plan detailing a rapid scale-up that will be required to fight the spread of the pandemic caused by the Sars-Cov-2 virus that has infected 5,305 people in the country, and killed 160.The plan also includes enhanced testing -- up to 100,000 a day at the peak -- and drafting final year students of medicine and nursing.Some parts of this plan were already known, but HT spoke to health ministry and other officials engaged in the fight against the pandemic to capture granular details of what the government thinks India needs to fight the pandemic. They described this as a plan that prepares for the worst case scenario, which India may not actually face.There’s a caveat, especially on the equipment front. A country can count international orders in its stockpile only when it gets them in hand in these times, said a consultant with a multinational consulting firm who spoke on condition of anonymity. And while “some of the ventilators being turned out are very good, at least some are being made by companies that do not have much experience in this”, he added.Still, even internationally, companies such as Ford Motor and GM that have no experience are working on a war footing to produce ventilators. The health ministry’s plan has five components.The first is people.India has about 70,000 students in the final year of their MBBS course; about 2.5 lakh final year nursing students; 30,000 in final year dentisty, about 1.8 million registered Ayush (ayurveda, siddha, naturopathy, unani, and homeopathy -- all alternative systems of medicine) practitioners and allied health professionals such as paramedics, technicians and helpers in the field, and an estimated 10,000 physiotherapists. The idea is to involve all of them.The fight against Covid-19 also requires feet on the ground to screen hundreds of thousands of people, and monitor others who are in quarantine. The field surveillance will be done by students of Ayush streams, volunteers from National Service Scheme, Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan, Indian Red Cross Society, National Cadet Corps, workers of sate-owned firms, ambulance drivers, gram panchayats, urban local bodies, rozgar sevaks (workers under MGNREGA in villages), members of resident welfare associations, and observers used during general elections, according to the plan, parts of which were reviewed by HT.“People with medical knowledge can be used for screening , while others can be used for surveillance, which is the mainstay of our Covid-19 management strategy,” a senior health ministry official said on condition of anonymity. The field workers will be supervised by Ayush practitioners, dentists, physiotherapists, veterinarians, and doctors working at the primary health centres in villages, this person added. For testing, local lab technicians and even BSc and M Sc microbiology students will be drafted for collecting, packing, and transporting samples.The states will be involving this workforce as per their requirement.“It’s an excellent idea to list out possible volunteers beforehand because you don’t know which way this pandemic will go. The doctors would also need help -- as the numbers rise they could get tired -- so this is a good way of managing the situation,” said K Sujatha Rao, former health secretary.The plan is to also use medical interns and final year MBBS and nursing students, alongside doctors and other medical staff drawn from the defence forces, the paramilitary and the railways at isolation facilities (hospitals) where confirmed positive cases are being treated.“If the numbers rise, every single medical professional and student will count,” the official added.“Any knowledge workforce is useful in a situation like this, so involving medical students will definitely help. There is a section of doctors trained in intensive care, and post graduate students of fields like anesthesia who can come in handy at this time,” says Dr Devi Prasad Shetty, senior cardiac surgeon, and chairman and founder, Narayana Health.Meanwhile, retired doctors, as well as health care staff above the age of 60 or with known medical conditions will be used to treat non-Covid patients.The second dimension is testing.Since January 24, government and private laboratories approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) have tested only around 1,09,536 samples for Covid-19. The plan is to take this up to 100,000 a day (the current daily total is 9,000-11,000).“One lakh tests a day is the worst case scenario; it may or may not be required, but we should be able to perform these many tests, if it’s required, and which is what our labs are staying prepared for.” said an ICMR spokesperson.ICMR has approved at least 200 labs (both public and private) for testing through RT-PCR machines and is in the process of identifying other government and private labs, research institutions and medical colleges that have the capability and infrastructure to undertake testing for inclusion into the Covid-19 testing network.The plan also envisages the laboratories working 24x7 and re-deploying automated and manual RT-PCR machines already in the country, and optimising in-lab processes such as RNA extraction to reduce turnaround time between the time a sample is received and it is tested.ICMR is also procuring 500,000 rapid testing (blood test) kits for mass testing, to be deployed in the worst-affected states. The first lot of these kits, which test for antibodies, is expected this week. However, it is not yet open for everyone, and has been allowed only in large clusters, evacuation centres and migrant worker camps. Experts say a more widespread use of the antibody test will also help scale up testing efforts.“The currently used test – PCR tells us who are currently sick. We are seeing only the tip of the iceberg. The antibody detection blood test will identify people who already have been infected, even those with mild or no symptoms. It will help us to know how many have been able to fight off the infection and have become what is called ‘corona-blocker’,” says Dr Lalit Kant, a senior infectious disease expert.“These tests are expected to be very economical, simple and give results within 15-20 minutes. Indian companies would be able to produce them easily and at massive scale,” he added.The third is hospitals.The centre on Monday released close to ₹3,000 crore under its National Health Mission (NHM) to be distributed among states and UTs. Earlier, about ₹1,100 crore was released for the purpose of Covid-19 management. All states and Union territories have been asked to earmark at least one hospital dedicated to Covid-19 patients. The states have also been given a free hand to procure ventilators, personal protection equipment, masks, gloves and other consumables as per their requirements over and above what the centre is providing them.As of now, about 15,000 ventilators have been identified in various hospitals across the country and set aside for Covid-19 patients.Some states have been temporarily taken over small private hospitals in the districts from where a large number of cases have been reported to be used as dedicated isolation facilities. And many of the big corporate hospitals have already began admitting Covid-19 positive patients, and also are testing samples.“All states have followed the directive, and have been creating dedicated Covid-19 facilities even till district level. These hospitals will only be used to manage positive cases, and we are working with state governments to ensure all these hospitals are equipped with facilities to also handle critical patients such as intensive care unit beds and beds with ventilators,” says Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, health and family welfare ministry.Hostels, hotels and lodges are being converted into quarantine facilities to place asymptomatic people under watch for the mandatory 14 days, and if any of them shows symptoms then they are moved to a health care facility for testing, and disease management.“Infrastructure scale up is our focus as now the strategy is to strengthen processes for disease management and surveillance,” said Agarwal.The fourth is drugs, medical devices, and protective equipment.The problem area in terms of medicines is the anti-malaria drug (hydroxychloroquine) that has shown promise in treatment of the disease. Hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) is currently being given to health care workers, and close contacts (family) of Covid-19 positive patients as part of a demonstration study by ICMR, to know whether it works as a prophylactic drug. And Covid-19 patients in ICUs are being given this medicine along with antibiotic erythromycin . There are about 1.5 million health care workers who have received around 7.5 million HCQ tablets.To meet the shortage of supply, the government has restricted the drug’s export currently and also booked supplies from the two manufactures in India. “We have booked all their supplies- about 107 million tablets, and once they supply this to the government then they are free to export,” said a government official familiar with the matter who asked not to be named.The health ministry has placed orders for 8 million PPEs from Singapore, and is expecting to receive at least one million per week. In all, it has ordered 16.5 million PPEs from global and local firms (some 20 domestic manufacturers have been identified with the help of ministry of textiles).The ministry has also placed an order for 48,000 ventilators and is likely to add more, depending on the requirement. “In China the capacity to produce these items in a day is huge; it is difficult to match up to their level of production; however, our indigenous manufacturers have risen to the occasion. Some from other fields are also chipping in,” the government official added.And the fifth is shortening the time it takes to get innovations related to treatment to the market.The department of science and technology (DST) has set up a Centre for Augmenting WAR with Covid-19 health crisis (CAWACH) at a total cost of Rs 56 Cr to scout for, evaluate and support the innovations and start-ups that address Covid-19 challenges.The Society for Innovation and Entrepreneurship (SINE), a technology business incubator at IIT Bombay supported by DST has been identified as the Implementing Agency of the CAWACH, and has been asked to encourage innovations in the manufacture of ventilators, diagnostics, therapeutics and informatics.CAWACH aims to identify up to 50 innovations and start-ups that are in the area of novel, low cost, safe and effective ventilators, respiratory aids, protective gear, novel solutions for sanitizers, disinfectants, diagnostics, therapeutics, informatics and any effective interventions“We have been having meetings every day and have come up with strategies to prioritise our research work. The focus has been on developing improved diagnostic kits, looking for novel molecules or re-purposed drugs for the treatment of the disease, and also developing a vaccine,” says Dr Renu Swarup, secretary, department of biotechnology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-point-plan-to-tackle-worst-case/story-KXny1z2wHp3GmAiRjfLDKI.html
08-04-2020||India||In absence of lockdown, one patient can infect 406: Govt study||A person carrying the Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, is capable of infecting 406 people in 30 days in the absence of a lockdown, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) experts have estimated.That is based on the assumption that  R-naught, or R0, a virus’s basic reproductive number (meaning the number of persons an infected patient can potentially infect) is 2.5.“ICMR has done a study and based on that, if the social exposure is reduced by 75% then an infected person will only infect 2.5 others in a matter of 30 days, telling us about the effects of better implementation of the lockdown and social distancing,” said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary in the health ministry. India has implemented a total lockdown since March 25, and according to experts, it takes about two weeks to demonstrate the results of such an emergency measure. India has reported 4,421 positive cases of the coronavirus disease, and 117 deaths. In the past 24 hours, 354 new cases were reported from across the country, and as the numbers are rising, healthcare facilities are being assigned to deal with different categories of patients. To streamline coronavirus disease management, and make optimum use of available infrastructure, health facilities have been divided into three crucial groups: Covid Care Centres, Covid Health Centres and Dedicated Covid Hospitals.The Covid care centres will be offering care only for cases that are clinically mild or very mild, or are suspected cases.These could either be makeshift facilities, or can be set up in hostels, hotels, schools, stadiums, lodges and so on., both public and private. The existing quarantine facilities could also be converted into Covid care centres, if required.However, this facility must have separate areas for suspected and confirmed cases, with preferably a separate entry and exit. Suspected and confirmed cases must not be allowed to mix under any circumstances, according to the detailed guideline issued on the functioning of these facilities.This facility will also need to be linked with either a hospital or a health centre to ensure a patient will receive quick treatment in case he or she develops symptoms or mild symptoms turn severe. For the purpose of transportation it will have a dedicated Basic Life Support Ambulance (BLSA) equipped with sufficient oxygen support on a 24X7 basis.The second category is of dedicated Covid health centres that will be proper hospitals meant to admit clinically moderate cases. This will either be a full hospital or a separate block in a hospital with preferably separate entry, exit, and zoning, and would also include private hospitals.These hospitals will have beds with assured oxygen support. Each of these hospitals will be linked with one or more dedicated Covid hospitals so that any patients whose symptoms progress from moderate to severe can be immediately moved.The third category is of dedicated Covid hospitals that will treat only critically ill patients. This will either be a full hospital or a separate block in a hospital. These hospitals, including the private ones, will have fully equipped intensive care units, ventilators and beds with assured oxygen support.All states have been directed to set up separate fever clinics so that there is no intermingling of other patients. The patients will also accordingly be categorized into three categories-- mild, asymptomatic or suspected cases, positive cases with moderate symptoms, and critical cases.The ICMR’s testing capacity has also seen a jump over the past few weeks. Of the total 107,006 samples tested, 11,795 samples were tested between Monday and Tuesday. One hundred and thirty six government labs are currently testing for Covid-19. The 59 approved private laboratories have conducted 2,530 tests so far.Among the cluster containment measures, Agarwal shared some success stories. “Agra (Uttar Pradesh), GB Nagar (Uttar Pradesh), Bhilwara (Rajasthan), East Delhi and Pathanamthitta (Kerala) clusters have been contained due to the proactive measures taken by the states at the ground level. We have put out detailed containment strategies for small clusters and large outbreaks amenable to management,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-absence-of-lockdown-one-patient-can-infect-406-govt-study/story-WoBS4trNhEGckMWLMy1ORP.html
08-04-2020||India||Covid-19: States reel from revenue loss, salary delays likely||Most Indian states witnessed a decline in revenue of between 30% to 60% for March, and are estimating a bigger dip in April, multiple state government officials said, even as some states want an extension of the national lockdown beyond April 15 to save lives by containing the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The fall in revenue may lead to a delay in disbursement of salaries to the state government employees, and payments to external borrowers including government institutions, if the 21-day lockdown announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi is extended, the officials cited above added.Irrespective of these losses, Telangana and Uttar Pradesh suggested on Monday that the lockdown continue beyond April 15, and Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan indicated on Tuesday that they would be in favour of an extension if required.Two major sources of income for the states are value added tax (VAT) on petroleum products and excise duty on liquor. While fuel pumps are open through the lockdown period, demand has fallen drastically because only emergency services vehicles are allowed ti be on the roads. Liquor shops have been shut since the lockdown was imposed on March 25. Tourism, a third major source of revenue for some states -- particularly Rajasthan, Kerala and Uttarakhand -- is also in the red because most hotels and monuments are closed.Officials across several states said that the Covid-19 pandemic comes at the time when the revenues were already down. In their budget documents for 2020-21, most states had recorded a 7% to 22% shortfall in annual revenue on account of lower collection of Goods and Sales Tax (GST), and falling receipts due to the economic slowdown, according to a discussion paper prepared by PRS Legislative Research.Kerala reported 22% less GST revenue in 2019-20 than the previous fiscal, Odisha 10%, and West Bengal 7%.The paper also said that the GST compensation shortfall for states in 2019-20 was expected to be around Rs 1.01 lakh crore; and the debt burden of about 10 states -- including Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan -- increased because of the farm loan waiver, which would reach a cumulative Rs 1.08 lakh crore for the 2019-20 fiscal.CURBS AND CUTSOnce the Covid-19 pandemic struck, leading to curbs and eventually a lockdown, the stress on state revenues became visible within a few days, with Maharashtra, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh announcing cuts in government salaries between 10% and 60%. “We somehow paid March salaries. If the present situation continues, paying salaries for month of April and May will be difficult,” said a senior official of Andhra Pradesh government who asked not to be named.According to a document prepared by Punjab’s finance department on the fiscal impact of the lockdown, the state revenue shortfall in the first quarter of 2020-21 financial year is expected to be of Rs 10,309 crore (2.46% of the Rs 418,868 crore GSDP) if the lockdown ends on April 15.The Punjab government has, meanwhile, already indicated that the curfew imposed in some areas will be extended. “In case the national lockdown is extended, the financial impact will be severe. We are taking a hit of Rs 120 crore daily in our tax and non-tax revenues,” said a finance department official who asked not to be named.States that rely heavily on industry -- including Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu -- are taking a bigger hit.Andhra Pradesh’s principal secretary (finance) SS Rawat told HT that he expected the March revenue to come down by at least half as compared to the year-on-year (YoY) revenue for March. Telangana chief minister K Chandrashekar Rao on Monday said in a press briefing? the state was losing Rs 400 crore a day. “In the first six days of April, we got just Rs 6 crore revenue as against the expected revenue of little over Rs 2,400 crore,” he said.The Maharashtra government has estimated a loss of Rs 25,000 crore, or about 50% YoY in March. In April, finance department officials expect to collect revenue of Rs 4,500 crore as against the normal Rs 20,000 crore. “We are hoping things will improve by May onwards,’’ said state finance secretary (expenditure) Rajiv Mittal.An Uttar Pradesh finance department official estimated the revenue shortfall of 15-20 % for March. “We managed to pay March salaries. But will have to devise ways to mobilise funds for coming weeks,” said a senior official on condition of anonymity.Madhya Pradesh finance department has estimated revenue loss of 25% on taxes from petroleum fuels, one of the biggest revenue sources for the states; Uttarkhand is estimated a loss of Rs 980 crore in March, which is 0.3% of the GSDP, said the state’s finance secretary Amit Singh Negi; while Jharkhand’s additional chief secretary (planning and finance), KK Khandelwal said the revenue March has dipped by abound 60%.CALL FOR HELPMost states have announced austerity measures and banned spending on new projects for the next three months, and some are diverting funds from non-essential departments to health care. But almost all state governments have sent SOS messages to the Centre seeking help.Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot wrote twice to Prime Minister Narendra Modi during the lockdown period (March 30 and April 7) asking for one-time grant of Rs 1 lakh crore to all the states to implement measures to overcome the Covid-19 challenge.Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar and Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal said they want the Centre to allow the fiscal deficit to increase from the present 3% of the state GDP to 4% for the next financial year, and to let states to borrow more money from the market to meet expenditure such as salaries, pensions and interest payments in the April-June period.Other state such as Chhattisgarh and West Bengal have asked for an immediate release of Mahatma Gandhi Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MNREGS) funds, and allowing the payment of an unemployment allowance to already enrolled workers. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has formed a task force to suggest ways to reactivate the economic.Haryana’s deputy CM Dushyant Chautala and UP finance minister Suresh Khanna, however, stuck optimistic notes, saying this was a temporary phase because the economic impact of the Covid-19 was being felt worldwide and their states could not be isolated from it.Telangana CM KCR summed up the worries of most state governments when he said that “very tough decisions” will have to be taken in the coming days if the Central does not come.One hope the states are holding out for is that the first installment of the devolution of central funds is expected by April 20. One fourth of Rs 2,00,447 crore is expected to be disbursed in April. “The money could come handy in meeting the day-to-day financial needs of the state governments, for now,” said a Rajasthan government official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-reel-from-revenue-loss-salary-delays-likely/story-avv2n36f3S51rDfBzOLC3J.html
08-04-2020||India||Lawyer moves SC seeking evacuation of daughter stuck in UK||New Delhi: A lawyer has moved the Supreme Court seeking the evacuation of her daughter and other Indian students stranded in the UK because of the ban imposed last month on international flight operations as part of measures taken to check the spread of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic.Madhurima Mridul, the lawyer, filed a public interest litigation days after her husband, Delhi high court judge Siddharth Mridul, recused himself when a plea came before him on March 20 seeking the evacuation of a student from Scotland. The judge said his daughter was stranded in London while recusing himself. Siddharth Mridul heard a matter on March 27 regarding evacuation of Indians from Kazakhstan.“Many such students are exposed to a greater risk of contracting COVID-19 due to being crammed into packed hostels with shared kitchen and bathroom facilities during the current lockdown imposed in the UK and are fighting for their survival,” the lawyer said in her petition.The Supreme Court heard the petition on Tuesday and directed the Centre to respond to it by Monday.The petition said India is probably the only country to have stopped the return of its citizens while other countries are making “all possible efforts” to repatriate theirs stranded abroad. “It is also pertinent to note that countries with far greater incidence of mortality like China, Spain, Italy, Iran, South Korea and United States of America, too, have not imposed any embargo on the return of their nationals from foreign shores,” the petition said.India has evacuated hundreds of its citizens from countries like Iran and Italy, which are among the worst-hit by the pandemic. The petitioner cited data she has collected and said there are about 20,000 Indian students in the UK, where Prime Minister Boris Johnson has been moved to intensive care in hospital after his coronavirus symptoms worsened. The pandemic has killed over 5,000 people in Britain. The petition said the students were finding it hard to survive on their limited available resources even as the threat of contracting the virus looms large. “Given the present circumstances, the students’ lives are at great risk without the basic necessities to sustain themselves. Many of these students are running out of finances and facing shortage of food and water. They have not been able to access any protective masks, gloves or sanitizers and are worried about contracting the deadly virus while miles away from their loved ones in India.”Advocate Sunil Fernandes, who argued the petition, said a golden opportunity was lost recently when Indian flights were chartered by the UK and Germany this month to evacuate their citizens stranded in India. The last of these flights returned from London empty on Tuesday. As of now, about 380 students are stranded at the Indian High Commission in London.A bench of Chief Justice of India S A Bobde and justice L Nageswara Rao, which heard the matter, sought to know the number of Indian students stranded and asked solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who appeared for the Centre through video conferencing, about any alternate evacuation plan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lawyer-moves-sc-seeking-evacuation-of-daughter-stuck-in-uk/story-UTZfWH7YUJ3cgmqjtE036O.html
08-04-2020||India||Joint Parliament committee slashes MPs’ allowances||After a 30% salary cut and no access to the Members of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS) fund for two years, Members of Parliament will now forfeit ₹27,000 per month from their constituency allowance and office allowance as well.This is the first time in the recent history of Parliament that the allowances of MPs, which have seen a steady rise in the past, have been reduced. While all MPs have supported their salary cut as the country grapples to contain the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), many have raised questions about cutting off access to the MPLADS fund.The Joint Committee of Parliament, which looks into salaries and allowances of MPs, has recommended a 30% cut in constituency allowance and office allowance.An MP is entitled to ₹ 70,000 per month to meet constituency-related expenses and another ₹60,000 as office allowance. An MP is also entitled to ₹2000 as daily allowance for attending Parliament sessions or committee meetings apart from official accommodation, water and electricity supply and a special allowance to buy laptops or computers.The Committee has decided to deduct ₹21,000 out of each member’s constituency allowance and ₹6,000 from the office allowance. These deductions will be applicable from April 1, along with their salary deductions.While the MP will now get ₹14,000 towards stationery as against ₹20,000 earlier, there will be no cut, however, in the remaining ₹40,000 of the office allowance, which is meant for engaging personal assistants.On Tuesday, Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla accepted the recommendations of Joint Committee for the cut.Parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi tweeted in support of the decision. “I welcome Gazette notifications issued from LS & RS Secretariats regarding 30% reduction in Constituency Allowance & Stationary allowance for MPs & 30% reduction in constituency Allowance for Ministers. Initiative is a good beginning for augmenting resources for fighting COVID-19,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/joint-parliament-committee-slashes-mps-allowances/story-a0DyUnqckh98blZnmJzA6M.html
08-04-2020||India||Monitoring worst-hit districts: Smart City war rooms for affected areas||The Union government has discovered a new use for the Integrated Command and Control Centres (ICCCs) designed for the Smart Cities Mission -- surveillance and monitoring of Covid-19 affected districts across the country. According to government officials familiar with the matter who asked not to be named, these centres have been converted into war rooms for real-time data monitoring and to provide the latest information through a central dashboard. Their mandate is to track suspected cases, monitor people under quarantine, and keep an eye on clusters and containment zones. The Smart Cities Mission was launched in 2015 to modernise 100 cities by 2020. Under the mission, setting up of integrated command and control centres (ICCC) for each city is a vital step. The ICCCs are designed to enable monitoring of amenities and utilities in real-time.States with a high number of Covid-19 cases such as Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, and Rajasthan are using these centres for CCTV surveillance of public places, geographic information system (GIS)mapping of Covid-19-hit areas, and GPS tracking of health care workers. “The Centre is coordinating with the states through our central command centre at Nirman Bhawan in New Delhi,” a government official said on condition of anonymity. Nirmal Bhawan houses the offices of the urban development ministry which oversees the smart city initiative. The official added that the states are also using the centres for predictive analytics .”We are also doing real-time tracking of ambulances and disinfection services.”In every city with such a network, the Centre has found that it is a good way to collaborate with the district administration and city administration. States are also using the system for providing virtual training to doctors and health care professionals as well as medical services through video conferencing. “Leveraging technology, the smart cities are collaborating with medical practitioners... to provide online medical consultations to citizens.” In Maharashtra, the Pune Smart City Development Corporation Limited (PSCDCL) has collaborated with the Pune Municipal Corporation to develop an integrated Covid-19 data dashboard. “Each [Covid-19] case in the city has been mapped using geospatial information systems and the city administration is monitoring the [affected] areas and creating buffer zones,” said a second official familiar with the mater who too did not wish to be named.Using heat-mapping technologies and predictive analytics, the city administration is developing a containment plan , with the containment zones get reflected on the dashboard.Smart City dashboards also monitor quarantine facilities and tracks the health of patients and their contacts placed under home quarantine.Tamil Nadu has deployed teams of doctors at its Smart City centre to monitor people under quarantine. “In Chennai, 25 doctors are engaged in the ICCC. They have been assigned 250 people in quarantine each ...,” the second official said.In Uttar Pradesh, the command centres are being used for tracking the delivery of health services across the state. The ICCC is being used as a helpline and tele-counselling centre for citizens. Medical officers are stationed at ICCCs in different shifts to assist during any situation. “ In centres like Kanpur Smart City, Aligarh, Varanasi, etc., health services are being tracked from the ICCC. Telemedicine is offered through the video conferencing facility launched by the city administrations. In Aligarh, doctors are deployed at Aligarh Smart City ICCC from 11am to 8 pm to enable telemedicine and video conferencing facility through a dedicated Whatsapp number,” the official said. “Smart cities were designed with inbuilt emergency healthcare support in the modules. The command centres have been designed keeping emergency scenarios and that can be used with some customisation for battling Covid-19. Features of the command centres including data analytics and artificial intelligence can be leveraged with additional pandemic data from the health ministry. It already has a multi-layered GIS map of various districts and wards ready which can be used to zero down on specific localities,” said Arindam Guha, partner and lead government and public sector, Deloitte India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monitoring-worst-hit-districts-smart-city-war-rooms-for-affected-areas/story-opLLPWbDslGV6DCsgtTW7J.html
08-04-2020||India||Covid-19 update: How Sars-CoV-2 is more insidious than Sars virus||People with coronavirus disease (Covid-19) are the most infectious during the first week of symptoms, according to a recent study, which explains why this disease is spreading faster than other coronavirus diseases, like the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (Sars) outbreak caused by Sars-CoV-1.Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, replicates in the upper respiratory tract before moving down to infect the lungs, which leads to people shedding huge amounts of the virus through coughing in the first week of symptoms (peak at 7.11 × 108 RNA copies per throat swab), according to a study published in the journal Nature on April 1.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Researchers analysed data from nine patients in Munich with comparatively mild symptoms to understand how infectious they were and when, and how much virus they shed, or excrete.The active replication of Sars-CoV-2 begins in the upper respiratory tract of the patients, from the larynx up where it stays and infects people before infecting the lungs and causing severe respiratory symptoms, the study found. Sars-CoV-2 is genetically very similar to Sars-CoV-1, but subtle genetic differences lead to significant differences in how it spreads and causes severe illness. Both Sars-Cov-1 and Sars-CoV-2 infect the throat and lungs by using their external spike proteins (which give the virus family its name, Corona, Latin for crown) to enter the humans’ cells by attaching to a cell protein called ACE2, which is also present in the cells in the throat and lungs. Once inside, they hijack the human cell machinery to replicate and cause infection.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know today“Sars-CoV-2 takes up residence in the throat cells first, which doesn’t cause significant symptoms. The person can remain asymptomatic or might not think they have anything worse than a cold. And from that person’s throat… it can readily spread to others. Over the course of a week, in some patients, it will move into the lung neighbourhood and replicate just as Sars-1 would, causing severe symptoms, by which point the person is quarantined, but no matter since it had successfully spread,” said Peter Kolchinsky, virologist and author of The Great American Drug Deal, in a tweet.“These are two different viruses (Sars-CoV-2 and Sars -CoV) so their behaviour will be different. The host-virus interaction properties are different. In Sars, there was only lung infection and one could spread it when the infected person coughed, but in case of Sars-CoV-2, the infection begins in the upper respiratory tract so you can infect even if you talk. The virus is in the nasopharyngeal fluid which mixes with saliva so you can infect when you sing, speak or shout. Silent transmission is common in this disease. So screening at airports for temperature was appropriate in case of Sars but not for Sars-CoV-2,” said Dr Jacob John, veteran virologist and professor emeritus and former head of virology at Christian Medical College.On the other hand, Sars-Cov-1 directly enters the lungs and causes serious respiratory symptoms very rapidly, leading to the person being hospitalised and isolated very quickly after getting infected. This limits the chances of the virus replicating in the throat and spreading to others through coughing.Also read| Covid-19: Govt looks at ways to restart business ops post lockdown“So Sars-1 was a comparatively dumb virus. It went straight for the lungs, announced itself before it could spread to others, and so got social distanced into extinction. But Sars-CoV-2, the one plaguing us now, is stealthier, spreading first before revealing itself (and causing harm),” said Kolchinsky.“Basically, Sars-COv-2 is much more infectious (than other coronaviruses). Patients are seen to be shedding a very high amount of virus. Now there are studies showing that the infection can spread not only through droplets but also aerosols or microdroplets. Otherwise, it has the same pathology as Sars-like cytokine storm, the involvement of the lung and GI tract. The involvement of the upper respiratory tract in SARS-CoV-2 makes it more infectious,” said Dr Shobha Broor, former head of the department of virology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi.Sars-CoV-2 is also more severe than seasonal flu in part because it is more efficient at preventing cells under attack from mounting an immune system. For example, Sars-CoV-2 blocks the cells from making interferon, the alarm-signalling protein, by snipping off protein markers that serve as distress signals. This makes the transmission rate of Sars-CoV-2 higher than that of the 2009 H1N1 influenza pandemic, which was also a less deadly disease.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage The study also found the virus remained detectable in the sputum after symptoms stopped, with two of the patients with some early signs of pneumonia, continuing to shed high levels of the virus in the sputum until day 10 or 11“(The takeaway is) ...that beating this virus means social distancing and wearing masks even if we think we aren’t infected. Because we might be. The virus might be replicating in our throats without us knowing (that’s its evil plan!), so put up a roadblock,” tweeted Kolchinsky.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-sars-cov-2-is-more-insidious-than-sars-virus/story-igEXuMTEXhHtWCkRInu5CJ.html
08-04-2020||India||Govt forms clinical research team for better insight into Covid-19 pandemic||India is putting in place a hospital-based clinical research collaborative, the ‘India Covid-19 Clinical Research Collaborative Network’, to enhance the clinical understanding of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the country to develop India specific treatment protocols, and push research and development in the field of drug development for the viral infection.The country’s National Task Force on Covid-19, which is a group of technical experts reviewing important decisions regarding Covid-19, has recommended the establishment of the collaborative that would need to be coordinated by the country’s apex biomedical research organisation, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).“The goal of this network is to develop specific clinical management protocols and further research and development for therapeutics. For this purpose, a central database of clinical and laboratory parameters of hospitalized Covid-19 cases is being created,” read a statement from the ICMR.All hospitals currently admitting in isolation wards, and treating, Covid-19 patients are being invited to become partners in the network. The research regulator has made public a link- https://forms.gle/LHByZkR41UPHqX9FA- taking them to a registration forms that must be filled byhospitals interested in becoming a part of the research network.“This is clinical research mostly using data at the hospital level, involving those who are directly dealing with patient management to know what kind of cases are coming to hospitals, with what symptoms. What is working in terms of treatment and what is not, among other things,” said a senior scientist at the ICMR.According to the data available so far, close to 80% Covid-19 positive cases will develop mild symptoms, about 15% will develop severe symptoms, such as breathing difficulty, requiring hospitalisation, and about 5% will be critical enough to develop serious pneumonia, and need oxygen support or ventilator support.“There is a lot we know so far and a lot more that needs to be known further. The research will keep on evolving, and we will get to know new things about the virus and disease pattern with every new research coming out on Covid-19. It will be an ongoing process,” the scientist said. However, registering for the collaborative does not mean a hospital or a laboratory is exempt from furnishing other patient details to the authorities.“It is over and above the usual testing and disease management protocol that need to be followed while dealing with Covid-19 suspected or positive cases,” said the ICMR scientist. Hospitals should continue to independently report relevant data to central and state health authorities as per current guidelines that includes local integrated disease surveillance programme units on a real time basis, says the circular.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-forms-clinical-research-team-for-better-insight-into-covid-19-pandemic/story-MHhVijokskiBr2UdEuZ6uJ.html
08-04-2020||India||Blood transfusion from those who have recovered may help||Virus fighting antibodies from people who have recovered from the coronavirus disease Covid-19 can help cure others, according to a research finding published on Tuesday that describes the technique – convalescent plasma therapy – as a promising option to save lives till a vaccine is found. The therapy, the most distinct among the handful of options doctors around the world have for Covid-19 at present, had consistent and safe effects on a small group of 10 patients in China who were critically ill but began to show significant improvements after a single dose, the American journal Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences (PNAS) reported on Tuesday.“All symptoms in the 10 patients, especially fever, cough, shortness of breath, and chest pain, disappeared or largely improved within 1 day to 3 days upon CP transfusion,” said the report, which studied the effects of the therapy on severely ill patients with a median age of 52 years. The study was published without embargo by PNAS because of its potential to save lives. Till Tuesday, the Covid-19 pandemic has killed approximately 74,000 people across the world. While efforts to develop a vaccine are proceeding at a record place, doctors are repurposing drugs and therapies with proven safety to minimise fatalities. The basis for convalescent plasma therapy is simple: plasma – a component of the blood – from a recovered patient carries the specific antibodies that can neutralise the Sars-Cov-2 virus. This is transfused in a patient fighting the infection, acting as reinforcement for the immune system.For the 10 patients, the results were immediate. For instance, a 46-year-old male patient who also suffered from hypertension was on a ventilator when he was given the 200ml plasma transfusion on February 9. On February 10, the viral load reduced to such an extent that the test for Sars-Cov-2 did not detect an infection.The transfusion raised lymphocyte counts, improved liver and lung function, and reduced inflammation, found the study. Lung lesions and other severe symptoms abated within the next week. The therapy led to no serious adverse reactions, but the researchers noted a need for larger randomized-controlled clinical trials to establish efficacy across populations.“It’s an excellent idea, plasma has been used to prevent and treat infections since the 1890s. We still give immunoglobulin IgE serum to prevent rabies in people with animal bites, and varicella-zoster immunoglobulin to pregnant women who have been exposed to chickenpox, which leads to pregnancy complications for the mother and her unborn child. It’s not used for pneumonias and chest infections anymore -- we use antibiotics -- but it was used with success to treat influenza during the Spanish Flu pandemic,” said Dr T Jacob John, professor emeritus and head of the department of virology at Christian Medical College, Vellore, Tamil Nadu.Convalescent plasma therapy lowered the death rates during the Spanish Flu pandemic in 1918 by 21%, found a meta-analysis of eight studies involving 1,703 patients from 1918-1925, according to the medical journal Lancet. The US Food and Drug Administration approved the therapy last month to treat Covid-19 patients in the United States, following which several hospitals have begun clinical trials to document its effectiveness.“The treatment’s success would depend on to whom and when it’s given. It should be given to people at risk, such as those who are old or have diabetes or hypertension, and must be given before complications begin. If it’s given late, it will have little effect,” said Dr John.Another expert said the therapy had shown promise in treating several diseases. “The immunisation mechanism has been used against other viral infections with varying success. It lowered viral load and deaths in people with severe acute respiratory infections during the H1N1 (swine flu) pandemic of 2009-10, and improved survival in patients with severe acute respiratory syndrome not responding to treatment,” said Dr G C Khilnani, chairman of PSRI Institute of Pulmonary and Critical care in New Delhi, and former head of pulmonology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) New Delhi. The World Health Organization recommended its use against Ebola, and issued protocols for its use to treat Middle East respiratory syndrome.“It’s being used China and the US and involves a fairly easy procedure, collecting blood, titrating the plasma and injecting it into the patient. But for its use and rapid scale up in India, we need rules to regulate it. Blood banks are licenced and regulated by the Food and Cosmetics Act in India, and unless rules for plasma transfusion are formulated, it cannot be done here,” said Dr R. N. Makroo, senior consultant, transfusion medicine, Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals, New Delhi.India’s Empowered Committee for Covid-19 Response has fast-tracked approvals of re-purposed drugs and therapies to lower severe disease and death till a vaccine is available in 2021, and but it’s too early to say how well re-purposing will work as the outcomes of rigorous tests are yet to come.Even with drugs and therapies being fast-tracked, it may take many months to find a treatment or vaccine to prevent or treat Covid-19. The use of a combination of two antiviral drugs used to treat HIV, lopinavir and ritonavir (400 mg and 100 mg, respectively) to treat Covid-19 is also approved in India, but the first large clinical trial of the treatment in China found it did not work, according to a study published in The New England Journal of Medicine (NEJM) last month.Since Covid-19 is an unprecedented public health emergency, India has approved the use of anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine as a prophylaxis to protect people at high risk, such as health care workers and asymptomatic people in same households as a laboratory-confirmed case. India is the world’s largest manufacturer of the finished drug and its component ingredients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/blood-transfusion-from-those-who-have-recovered-may-help/story-sxuvXDyL9XM6thEaVD4eLP.html
08-04-2020||India||Covid-19: 200 Noida slum dwellers shifted to government quarantine||Authorities in Noida shifted around 200 slum dwellers from Noida’s Sector 8 area to a government quarantine centre in Greater Noida late Tuesday night as a precautionary to avoid community spread of coronavirus in slums spread across Sector 5 and 8 of Gautam Budh Nagar district.Last week, four people were found positive for the infection in the Nalanda JJ Colony of Noida Sector 5. A domestic help, who worked at the house of an employee of Ceasefire along with her three family members tested positive for Covid-19.“We have put these persons under quarantine as a precautionary measure. We want to put them under observation as part of the containment exercise. Around 30 to 40 families had connections with the four persons who were found positive for Covid-19 in the JJ Colony of Noida in Sector 5. Nobody’s sample has been collected yet as that will be done only after observing them and if they develop any symptoms,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate, Gautam Budh Nagar.“Families are being only quarantined and kept under observation, for their welfare and the welfare of the surrounding areas,” he said. Till now, the total number of cases in the district is 58, out of which 39 are linked with Ceasefire whose three employees had jumped their quarantine period which led to the spread of Covid-19 in various sectors of the district.Aurthorities had first planned to send the 200 slum dwellers to send to the Sharda hospital, but later they were shifted to the Galgotias University campus in Greater Noida.“The whole procedure is part of the containment work in the district to ensure that even asymptomatic patients don’t end up spreading the infection,” said a senior officer.The Expressway Police has lodged an FIR against Ceasefire under section 45 (Punishment of offences committed within India), 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code. The FIR has been lodged on the orders of the CMO for hiding the foreign travel history by few employees of the firm.The managing director of ceasefire was also found positive for Covid--19 and had returned from the UK on March 1, another employee had returned on March 7. They also had a visiting auditor from London for three days in the third week of March. All the three persons jumped their quarantine period and were attending office which led to the spread among other employees and then to their family members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-200-noida-slum-dwellers-shifted-to-government-quarantine/story-gJvmKjLnhe1Mo7pPMGVjFN.html
08-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Blood transfusion from those who have recovered may help||Virus fighting antibodies from people who have recovered from the coronavirus disease Covid-19 can help cure others, according to a research finding published on Tuesday that describes the technique – convalescent plasma therapy – as a promising option to save lives till a vaccine is found. The therapy, the most distinct among the handful of options doctors around the world have for Covid-19 at present, had consistent and safe effects on a small group of 10 patients in China who were critically ill but began to show significant improvements after a single dose, the American journal Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences (PNAS) reported on Tuesday. “All symptoms in the 10 patients, especially fever, cough, shortness of breath, and chest pain, disappeared or largely improved within 1 day to 3 days upon CP transfusion,” said the report, which studied the effects of the therapy on severely ill patients with a median age of 52 years. The study was published without embargo by PNAS because of its potential to save lives. Till Tuesday, the Covid-19 pandemic has killed about 74,000 people across the world. While efforts to develop a vaccine are proceeding at a record place, doctors are repurposing drugs and therapies with proven safety to minimise fatalities. The basis for convalescent plasma therapy is simple: plasma – a component of the blood – from a recovered patient carries the specific antibodies that can neutralise the Sars-Cov-2 virus. This is transfused in a patient fighting the infection, acting as reinforcement for the immune system.For the 10 patients, the results were immediate. The transfusion raised lymphocyte counts, improved liver and lung function, and reduced inflammation, found the study. Lung lesions and other severe symptoms abated within the next week. The therapy led to no serious adverse reactions, but the researchers noted a need for larger randomized-controlled clinical trials to establish efficacy across populations.“It’s an excellent idea, plasma has been used to prevent and treat infections since the 1890s. We still give immunoglobulin IgE serum to prevent rabies in people with animal bites, and varicella-zoster immunoglobulin to pregnant women who have been exposed to chickenpox, which leads to pregnancy complications for the mother and her unborn child. It’s not used for pneumonias and chest infections anymore -- we use antibiotics -- but it was used with success to treat influenza during the Spanish Flu pandemic,” said Dr T Jacob John, professor emeritus and head of the department of virology at Christian Medical College, Vellore, Tamil Nadu.The US Food and Drug Administration approved the therapy last month to treat Covid-19 patients in the United States, following which several hospitals have begun clinical trials to document its effectiveness.“The treatment’s success would depend on to whom and when it’s given. It should be given to people at risk, such as those who are old or have diabetes or hypertension, and must be given before complications begin. If it’s given late, it will have little effect,” said Dr John.Another expert said the therapy had shown promise in treating several diseases. “The immunisation mechanism has been used against other viral infections with varying success. It lowered viral load and deaths in people with severe acute respiratory infections during the H1N1 (swine flu) pandemic of 2009-10, and improved survival in patients with severe acute respiratory syndrome not responding to treatment,” said Dr G Khilnani, chairman of PSRI Institute of Pulmonary and Critical Care and former head of pulmonology at AIIMS, both in New Delhi. The World Health Organization recommended its use against Ebola, and issued protocols for its use to treat Middle East respiratory syndrome.“It’s being used in China and the US and involves a fairly easy procedure, collecting blood, titrating the plasma and injecting it into the patient. But for its use and rapid scale up in India, we need rules to regulate it. Blood banks are licenced and regulated by the Food and Cosmetics Act in India, and unless rules for plasma transfusion are formulated, it cannot be done here,” said Dr RN Makroo, senior consultant, transfusion medicine, Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals, Delhi.India’s Empowered Committee for Covid-19 Response has fast-tracked approvals of re-purposed drugs to lower severe disease and death till a vaccine is available in 2021, and but it’s too early to say how well re-purposing will work as the outcomes of rigorous tests are yet to come.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-blood-transfusion-from-those-who-have-recovered-may-help/story-s4dTePsfsRgylpelyErIwM.html
08-04-2020||India||23 Indians stranded in Spain, kin seek govt aid||MUMBAI: Twenty-three Indians working on a cruise ship, including seven from Maharashtra, have been stranded in Spain since March 20, after their flight from Barcelona was cancelled on March 21. India denied entry to nationals of Spain, France and Germany on March 10 on account of the global coronavirus pandemic. The government further imposed a blanket ban on all commercial international flights on March 22. Spain has witnessed one of the worst outbreaks of Covid-19 in Europe, with over 140, 511 positive cases (of which 43,208 have recovered) and 13,897 deaths till date.“We were asked by our employer to go back on March 20, and were given tickets for March 21. However, the flight got cancelled and later the Indian airspace was shut due to which we are stuck here in hope of being airlifted, but with no success,” said Robin Pereira, 38, who is from Mumbai.Sangita Bhagwan, whose brother, Sandeep Bhagwan, is among the 23 Indians, has been in touch with the Indian embassy in Spain, which sent her an email that said: “Prime Minister Modi has appealed that you give your next few weeks for the sake of the country. Conditions currently do not allow your government to consider evacuation from Spain. We are confident that we shall triumph over Covid-19. Till then, please be calm.”Bhagwan said, “The government has been very helpful till now. We understand the fight that our country is fighting currently and we are all in this fight together. However, these men are stranded in a Covid-19 hotspot.”Sanjay Verma, India’s ambassador to Spain told Hindustan Times on email, “We have tirelessly explained to the crew and their well wishers in India that our country remains in a lockdown. Also there are currently no proposals to evacuate Indians from Spain, or anywhere else given the lockdown, not to mention that our systems and personnel are engaged full time in ensuring that the lockdown is a success.” “Their company forced them to disembark at Barcelona and was reluctant to look after their employees interests. The Embassy was able to get in touch with the cruise line and ensured that the 23 Indians were provided with living arrangements in Barcelona. The Indian crew has since been provided for by their company,” Verma added.Prior to the national lockdown, which began on March 25, India has evacuated citizens from Italy and Iran.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/23-indians-stranded-in-spain-kin-seek-govt-aid/story-q8pfTqthQIqVWFTsWvKq2J.html
08-04-2020||India||Sunderbans tigers under watch for Covid symptoms||Kolkata: Forest officials in the Sunderbans, along with the Border Security Force and police, are on the lookout for tigers which show signs of breathlessness and coughing while swimming across rivers. The animal could be a possible Covid-19 suspect.The Sunderbans is the world’s largest mangrove delta and the only mangrove forest inhabited by tigers. As the mangroves are largely impenetrable, tigers are usually spotted on the river banks and when they cross the rivers and creeks from one island to another. “Patrolling on boats has been increased to look out for tigers that show signs of Covid-19, such as breathlessness. The BSF and police have also been asked to keep a watch,” said Ravi Kant Sinha, chief wildlife warden of West Bengal. On Monday, the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) had directed all tiger range states to observe tigers with symptoms of Covid-19 such as dry cough or laboured breathing. The advisory came after a tiger at the Bronx zoo in New York was detected with coronavirus. It was the first instance of a tiger being infected with the deadly disease.As the Sunderbans delta is located along the Indo-Bangla border, the Border Security Force and police, who also patrol the delta in their own boats, have also been asked to look out for tigers which are found to be panting while crossing rivers from one island to another.“Our men are patrolling the area. We have been asked to alert the forest department if we spot any tiger with symptoms such as dry cough, breathlessness and running nose,” said SS Guleria, BSF deputy inspector-general (South Bengal Frontier). Out of the 2967 tigers in India, Sunderbans has around 90 tigers in its one national park and five wildlife sanctuaries. The Indian part of the Sunderbans forest spreads over 4200 sq km comprising 48 islands crisscrossed by rivers. Unlike other forests, boats are the only means of patrolling this delta. “We have around 1200 camera traps which have been kept on standby on boats and floating stations. Around 30 double cylinder boats are operating in the field. If we get any information about any suspect tiger, our teams will move in and camera traps will be set up in that area,” said a senior official of the Sunderban Biosphere Reserve. The state forest department has already stopped all kinds of tourism in the Sunderban, which is known for its Royal Bengal Tiger and estuarine crocodiles, among other animals.West Bengal is among the top three states in the list of casualties caused by human-tiger conflicts in India. At least 30 people have been killed by tigers between 2017 and 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sunderbans-tigers-under-watch-for-covid-symptoms/story-mIiW24Z7YtPtD7Sk5f7BfK.html
08-04-2020||India||Goa looks to replicate Bhilwara model, hold door-to-door surveys||PANAJI: Following the Bhilwara model of containment, the Goa government will conduct a three-day statewide survey starting April 13 in a bid to ascertain the number of residents exhibiting symptoms of Influenza-like Illness, which are similar to those of Covid-19. The state will use the survey responses to then decide who all need to be tested for coronavirus. Bhilwara in Rajasthan was one of the first Covid-19 clusters to emerge last month in the country, and was put under complete lockdown by the state and district authorities to contain the spread of the virus. Apart from widespread surveillance and sealing borders, the state appointed anganwadi and Asha workers, auxiliary nurse and midwives (ANMs) as corona fighters to monitor those under quarantine in the city and rural areas of the district. Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Monday said that the state had procured 2000 new rapid testing kits (RTKs) or antibody tests to screen for potential disease hotspots, or clusters, in the state. Till now 323 persons have been tested, while 1320 persons are under quarantine in Goa, which has been under lockdown since March 22’s Janata Curfew. The state has seven positive Covid-19 patients.These moves come after Sawant came under some criticism for his handling of the lockdown in the state. Residents complained that they had run out of essential supplies, including milk and groceries, and the supply chain was hit after trucks from Karnataka stopped entering the state. The government attempted to start home delivery of essentials, but this could not take off due to the shortage of supplies. The Goa bench of the Bombay High Court intervened asking the state to resolve the situation after a resident moved court. Eventually Sawant had to reverse a number of decisions, allowing delivery persons to travel, restaurant kitchens to function, and grocery shops to remain open. The state also came up with a decentralised pass system to address residents’ woes. “The survey will be done in the whole state by going door to door. ANMs (Auxiliary nurse and midwife), anganwadi workers, teachers, booth level officers will form teams of two and visit each house. We have finalised a form to be filled which will include questions on whether a member has travelled abroad or has returned from abroad or from outside Goa in the recent past. Whether any family member is displaying influenza like symptoms, including fever, cough and difficulty breathing and if it has spread within the family,” Sawant said.In all, 7000 government workers are expected to fan out across the state to complete the survey within three days, following which the government is expected to crank up its testing capacity.The team will be headed by a supervisor who will divide the government workers into pairs and assign them localities to cover with a booth level officer. With the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the country’s apex health body, allowing for rapid testing for antibodies, the Goa government has tied up with a locally-based private company, Molbio Diagnostics, to procure the testing kits that will provide the test result in one hour. Goa has two testing labs at present, including one in the Goa Medical College and Hospital at Bambolim near Panaji. It has also been sending samples to the National Institute of Virology in Pune using the Navy’s help. The state has around 2500 RT-PCR kits, or reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction tests that require the nasal or throat swabs of suspected positive persons, and return results between 12 to 24 hours. A private laboratory at Porvorim has also been authorised to conduct the RT-PCR tests for Rs 4500. The Goa government has also announced an insurance cover of Rs 50 lakh and a 20% hike in the basic salary of all staff including sweepers, attendants and doctors as well as those working via an intermediary agency or on contract, associated with Covid-19 facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-looks-to-replicate-bhilwara-model-hold-door-to-door-surveys/story-wZASC8LWR0lu9t1CmqulAI.html
08-04-2020||India||10-month-old recovers, discharged from hospital along with mother||Chennai: A ten-month-old infant, the youngest in Tamil Nadu to test positive for Covid-19 was discharged from a Coimbatore hospital on Monday, after recovering from the disease. The child acquired the infection from his 29-year-old mother who works as a doctor for the Southern Railways.On March 29, the 29-year-old woman was admitted in ESI Hospital, Coimbatore along with the baby, her 58-year-old mother and the family’s domestic help. The doctor tested positive after treating a 63-year-old man in a railway hospital in Erode. He had travelled along with two Thai nationals who had tested positive for Covid-19 earlier in March.“First, the mother tested positive so we thought all other people in the family should also be tested so we admitted them and took a swab test,” the dean of the ESIC Hospital Dr. A. Nirmala told Hindustan Times. “At that time the child was found to be positive. He was allowed to be in the same room as his mother since both of them had tested positive. We closely observed both mother and child and provided counselling services to the mother as well.”In India, the number of Covid-19 cases has been lowest among the age group of 0 to 20 years, while the maximum number of cases has been reported among those between 21 and 40 years. The casualty rate has been highest in those above 60 years, due to existing co-morbid conditions like diabetes, hypertension and other issues, according to data released by the government last week.The team of doctors treating the 10-month-old infant knew that if the baby was immunologically competent, secondary problems would not arise. They continued to closely watch the child for other symptoms. “Meanwhile, we were treating the patient with required medicines and also giving nutritional food for baby and members of the family,” the dean said.“We kept a close watch on the baby and treated him with antibiotics for elevated temperature. We could not put the baby on hydroxychloroquine like we did for the adults. But since the baby was immunised for all other infections, it could have helped (him) get a good immunity.”All patients were fed a diet of porridge and fruit. “As a baby we took a lot more care of him, he didn’t develop any abnormal symptoms. Finally took the swab test for the family members. All except the doctor’s mother turned out to be negative. We discharged the doctor, the child and the maid, but the 58-year-old mother is still under treatment,” Nirmala said. Hydroxycholoroquine which is commonly used to treat malaria, arthritis and lupus, among other ailments, has been in the eye of a storm after United States president Donald Trump on Monday warned of retaliation if India did not supply the drug as asked. India, the largest manufacturer and exporter of the drug, initially banned exports on March 25 to ensure adequate domestic supplies. On Tuesday, the Centre decided to allow exports, depending on availability, after stockpiling enough for domestic use.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-month-old-recovers-discharged-from-hospital-along-with-mother/story-CAnyUOKEHchwJ4indb7s8I.html
08-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update- More testing to welfare push: Tamil Nadu’s 5-point Covid-19 plan||The first week of April has been brutal for Tamil Nadu in its fight against the coronavirus disease. The number of Covid-19 cases in the state has multiplied by more than 10 times, from 67 at the end of March to 690 as of Tuesday, April 7. Of these, 637 are linked to those returning from the Tablighi Jamaat conference held in mid-March at the Islamic missionary group’s Markaz headquarters in Delhi’s Nizamuddin, which has emerged as the biggest Covid-19 hotspot in India.Here are five ways in which the Tamil Nadu government has acted to bring the situation under control.1) Surveillance, containment: Chennai is one of the 10 cities worst affected by Covid-19 in India, recording at least 149 cases. On April 5, the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) launched a 90-day, door-to-door survey of every household in the city to check residents for Covid-19 symptoms. Nearly 16,000 healthcare workers clad in personal protective equipment and trained to ask the right set of questions will visit close to a million buildings in the city to record Covid19 symptoms and create a disease database, SP Velumani, the minister for municipal administration, rural development and special programme implementation, said.Those with symptoms would instantly be taken to the closest Covid-19 medical facility. Following what is now referred to as the Bhilwara model, based on the ruthless manner in which the Rajasthan town was locked down in March to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease, Chennai has sealed high-risk areas that reported multiple Covid-19 cases. Nine areas of the city that accounted for nearly 20 cases have been declared containment zones. Areas within a five-kilometre radius of such neighbourhoods are completely isolated, disinfected daily and citizens are simply not allowed to leave their homes. Health workers survey nearly 3,000 houses in each of the nine hotspots every day.2) Ramped-up testing: The government’s testing and isolation efforts, until the return of Tablighi Jamaat congregation attendees led to a spike in the number of coronavirus cases, were focused largely on air passengers and those with a history of overseas travel. Rather than stigmatise the attendees, the government started a helpline towards the end of March so that they could identify themselves and seek testing. This has worked in favour of the state: around 1,431 attendees have been traced so far. Because many are from rural areas, the state has directed its identification efforts there. After a go-ahead from the Indian Centre for Medical Research for using antibody tests which return quicker results, chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami announced on April 5 that the state had placed an order for 100,000 rapid test kits. State health ministry officials said that a bulk of the kits would be sent to smaller towns and rural areas.3) Essentials supplied: The effectiveness of the lockdown depends in large measure on the state’s ability to deliver essential goods and services to people in a manner that keeps them safe at home. The state’s well-oiled Public Distribution System (PDS), Amma Canteens and welfare schemes have helped no doubt, but the smooth supply of vegetables has been one of Tamil Nadu’s biggest successes in the crisis. The government has set aside Rs 3,280 crore for measures such as a Rs 1,000 cash support scheme and delivering free rice, lentils and cooking oil through PDS outlets. In many parts of the state, local authorities deliver a three-kilo weekly supply kit of vegetables for a nominal Rs 100. To ease the strain on the healthcare system, the CM has also announced a subsidy of 30% on capital investment with a cap of Rs 20 crore for new manufacturers of ventilators, masks, drugs such as hydroxychloroquine, azithromycin and vitamin C tablets. He also announced sops for farmers, including a waiver of cold storage user fee, loans up to Rs 10 lakh to farmer producer firms and has exempted traders from paying the 1% market fee for procuring farm produce. 4) Farmer cooperatives: Four months ago, Tamil Nadu handed over a large part of the management of the fruit and vegetable supply chain to farmer producer companies (FPC). FPCs are for-profit cooperatives that can be formed with 10 or more farmers as shareholders. Their activities can range from production and procurement to marketing and even exports. Such cooperatives now run nearly 10 primary processing centres (PPCs) in the big horticultural regions such as Krishnagiri and Dharmapuri. Since the FPC are farmer-owned companies, they find it easier to procure vegetables at a price that is fair to both farmers and consumers. There are cold storage facilities at all the PPCs. The farmer cooperatives are now playing a big role in door-delivering pre-packaged five-kilo vegetable boxes for Rs 250 in cities like Chennai and Coimbatore. The horticulture department has started its own e-commerce door delivery platform a few days ago that makes 1,000 deliveries a day in Chennai. 5) Social distancing measures: In order to ease overcrowding, Tamil Nadu converted bus stations in towns and cities into vegetable markets. The state has some 120 farmers’ markets where farmers can sell their produce directly to consumers. To manage social distancing and avoid chaos and crowding, nearly 60 farmers’ markets were relocated to bus stands that are now empty because of the lockdown. “The concrete flooring of the bus stands makes it easier to disinfect; bus stands are usually centrally located; and the large open architecture of bus stands make it easier to install disinfectant tunnels and prevent physical contact between people,” Bedi said....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-testing-to-welfare-push-tamil-nadu-s-5-point-covid-plan/story-SOVYb78EckiTTGYn8nXNOI.html
08-04-2020||India||Rajasthan: SHO to blacksmith, citizens help build sanitising tunnel||Jaipur: Brij Bhushan Agarwal, the station house officer (SHO) of Bagru police station near Jaipur, had just returned from a highway patrol on March 28 when he came across a video of a sanitising tunnel installed in Turkey for pedestrians to check the spread of the coronavirus pandemic.Agarwal shared the video with Madan Choudhary, a schoolteacher, and asked him whether they could do something similar. “Discuss it with Ehsaan Engineer,” he told Chaudhary, referring to Ehsaan Lohar, 34, who works at a workshop in Bagru. Lohar is better known as Engineer because of his metal fabrication skills. Choudhary called Agarwal later in the day saying they could create a similar tunnel. “Ehsaan Engineer has developed the design,” he told him.An eight-foot-long, 50-inch-wide and seven-foot-high sanitising tunnel was installed five days later on April 2. The tunnel is equipped with eight nozzles attached to its iron frame that spray sanitiser. It has been installed at Jaipur’s Laxmi Chowk, where additional police commissioner Ashok Gupta was the first to walk through it. “Officers in police stations normally don’t think out of the box like this SHO. I am happy a police officer could go beyond the call of his duty in the fight against this pandemic,” Gupta said.At least three other sanitising tunnels have come up around the country over the last week. In Tamil Nadu’s Tirupur, an entrepreneur set up a portable disinfectant tunnel at the vegetable and fish market on April 1. The Srinagar Municipal Corporation installed a similar tunnel at the entrance of a hospital, where Covid-19 patients are being treated. Another sanitising tunnel has come up in Ahmedabad for healthcare workers.Sanitising tunnels have been set up at many places across the world including in China, where the pandemic originated from, since businesses reopened there as curbs and other measures to contain the virus were eased with a drop in the number of infections.Agarwal said he called up Yogesh Singhal, an engineer and his schoolmate, when Lohar said he could put together a structure similar to what he had seen in the video. “When he [Singhal] approved our design, we knew we were on the right track,” he said.Lohar, Abdul Hameed, Suresh Kumawat, Kamaruddin Lohar and Zakir Hussain, who owns the workshop, began their work on the tunnel on March 29. Lohar, Hameed and Kamaruddin worked on the iron frame. Kumawat, a reverse osmosis mechanic, bought pipes and Choudhary arranged for sprayers commonly used by barbers.A 20-litre plastic tank fitted to the frame has been filled with the sanitisers. A pressure machine used by mechanics pumps the sanitisers into the sprayers using thin pipes used in water purifiers. The tunnel’s entry and exit points are covered with a thick plastic sheet. A shop nearby houses the motor that keeps the pressure pump on and bottles of sanitizer tinctures.While Lohar and his co-workers were busy making the tunnel, Agarwal was trying to figure out what sanitisers to use. “The disinfectant chemicals being used by municipal authorities may not be fit to be used on human bodies. So I turned to a homoeopathic doctor,” he said.Arvind Dadhich, 30, the homoeopath, suggested five tinctures of Azadirachta Indica, Ocimum Sanctum, Echinacea, Sambucus Nigra and Iodum mixed with spirit and water and said it can be used as a sanitiser. These are mother tinctures used in homeopathy.Dr Renu Bansal, director (homoeopathy), the government of Rajasthan, said the mixture used in the tunnel is safe to be used as a sanitiser. “The mother tinctures have around 65% alcohol, and when mixed with spirit, the overall alcohol percentage comes to around 70-75%, which is good for a sanitiser. The solution is also anti-bacterial,” she said. Virendra Singh, a former professor of medicine at Jaipur’s SMS Medical College, warned that people should continue wearing masks even while walking through the tunnel. “If an infected person sneezes in the tunnel, the virus is likely to hang in there for some time.”Singh said, “I haven’t seen it but theoretically seems to be an effective way.”Razia Bano, 38, an (accredited social health activist who has been going door to door for a Covid-19 survey, walks through the tunnel on her way to Bagru.A bus from a nearby nursing college stops near the tunnel and students, who have been put on screening duty, stand in a queue to pass through it. “We use sanitisers only for our hands. This will sanitise our full bodies,” said a student, who did not want to be named.Agarwal’s phone has not stopped ringing since the tunnel was installed. “My colleagues are calling me after watching the tunnel on local TV channels. They want to replicate it,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-sho-to-blacksmith-citizens-help-build-sanitising-tunnel/story-wPSYGtluLSbDenyw0G5yvI.html
08-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Test, trace, treat in Delhi’s 5T plan||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday laid out a five-point blueprint to contain the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), declaring that testing will be ramped up and the scope of treatment widened – an indication that the Capital was bracing for the possible ballooning of the pathogen that has ravaged several metropolises across the world.Fifty one new cases were reported in Delhi on Tuesday, taking the total in the Capital to 576, out of which 333 patients are linked to the mid-March congregation of a Muslim missionary group, Tablighi Jamaat, in Nizamuddin that has now become the country’s largest hot spot for Covid-19 infections. At a news briefing, the chief minister said that Delhi has formed a “5T plan” — testing, tracing, treatment, teamwork, and tracking — and that his government was prepared to scale up resources to treat up to 30,000 active Covid-19 patients at the same time, if needed.Also read: Alarm bells in east Delhi locality as experts suggest limited Covid-19 community spread“The first T is testing. If you don’t test, you won’t be able to find out which houses have been affected. It will go on spreading. South Korea identified every single individual through large scale testing. We are now going to do mass testing like South Korea,” Kejriwal said.He said the countries that did not conduct wide testing before infections climbed were unable to control the imminent spiraling of the disease. “We have ordered kits for the testing of 50,000 people. The kits have started arriving. We have also placed orders for the rapid test of 100,000 people. The deliveries of kits will begin by Friday. Random tests will be done at hot spots. Detailed tests will also be done.”On Monday, Kejriwal said rapid testing will be doubled from next week – from around 500 samples per day to 1,000 samples per day.Several experts have said that aggressive testing is the mainstay in the battle against the disease that has killed at least 77,000 people globally because the infection often spreads undetected.Also read: Covid-19 lockdown could be extended by 2 weeks, say officials after GoM meetSouth Korea and Germany have led the charge in mass testing, which has helped control the spread of new infections and kept the fatality rate low.“The second T is tracing,” Kejriwal said. “Tracing is being carried out at a very good level in Delhi and now we have started taking help from the police as well to check if the people who have been traced are staying under self-quarantine.”Kejriwal said that the government has so far given contact numbers of 27,702 people for tracing to the police. A person’s movement can be tracked through their phone. “Today, we are going to give 2,000 phone numbers of people who were brought out of Markaz to find out if they roamed in the area around Markaz. The areas they went out to, will be sealed and monitored.”The recent spike in infections has largely been propelled by the detection of hundreds of patients who attended gatherings of the Jamaat in Delhi’s Nizamuddin Basti last month in a violation of several restrictions. Cases linked to the meet have been reported across two dozen states and Union Territories so far. “Our third T is treatment,” Kejriwal said. “If someone gets infected with Covid-19, then we will have to provide that person with treatment. Delhi has 525 positive Covid-19 cases so far and we have made arrangements for 3,000 beds.”He said the Delhi government-run Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital (1,500 beds), GB Pant Hospital (500) and Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital (450) have been declared as dedicated facilities to treat the new disease. The government has also earmarked 400 beds at three private hospitals – Max Saket (318 beds), Apollo (50 beds) and Sir Ganga Ram Kolmet Hospital (42 beds). “At present, there are 2,950 beds reserved for Covid-19 cases. If the number of patients crosses 3,000, we will use 1,500 beds at GTB (Guru Tegh Bahadur) hospital, following which we will have arrangements for 4,500 cases,” Kejriwal said.“In this manner, we can go up to 30,000 beds if needed. We will have 8,000 beds at hospitals,12,000 hotel rooms will be taken over, and around 10,000 patients will be kept in banquet halls and dharamshalas. Most serious patients with heart, liver, cancer, diabetes and above 50 years of age will be kept in hospitals. Patients below 50 years and with minor symptoms will be kept in hotels and dharamshalas, but with all medical facilities,” he added.A spokesperson at Max Healthcare said: “We believe that to fight the Covid-19 pandemic, it is essential for us to have dedicated hospitals. We are working closely with the Govt of Delhi and have established a dedicated COVID 19 facility at Max Hospital Saket, East Block.”A review of Delhi’s preparedness by a five-member expert panel recently showed that the current facilities would be able to handle 100 cases every day. While detailing the findings of the review, Kejriwal had said the Capital needed to be ready for the worst scenario and that his government was in the process of ramping up the health care infrastructure.Experts maintain that it important for Delhi to upgrade its infrastructure to pre-empt a crisis similar to the one that has befallen New York. With cases skyrocketing, New York’s health care system is teetering on the brink of collapse. Late in March, New York City mayor Bill de Blasio said that the strained health care system had the personnel and supplies to make it through only one more week.In Delhi, Kejriwal said that 400 ventilators and 1,200 oxygen beds will be needed if there are 30,000 active patients in Delhi and arrangements were being made.“Calculations have been done regarding PPE (personal protective equipment) kits. It has been an area of concern. We have received help from the Centre and we have placed an order for the kits which we’ll start to receive from next week. The Centre will be providing 27,000 PPE kits to us,” said Kejriwal.The CM said that the fourth T was teamwork, and stressed on cooperation between the Centre and state governments, and the public and health care professions.The fifth T, he said, is tracking and monitoring. “I have spoken so much, but these things need to be tracked and monitored as well and it’s my responsibility to track the moment-to-moment plan we have prepared. I am tracking it 24 hours,” he added.A senior official in the chief minister’s office said that Kejriwal’s first briefing every day is scheduled through a conference call with the health department at 10am. It is compulsory for the health minister, the chief secretary and the health secretary to be part of it. Usually, he prepares his briefs and joins the lieutenant governor’s meeting after that through video-conferencing. Later in the day, the CM then heads review meetings with representatives of the task force that he heads, the official said on condition of anonymity.Health experts and private hospitals welcomed the action plan presented on Tuesday.Vikas Maurya, head of the pulmonology at Delhi’s Fortis Hospital, said: “Rapid antibody tests result is a faster diagnosis. It is faster, cheaper and accurate – a smart way strategy in dealing with a large number of potential patients in cluster hotspots. There is one issue. This test is more accurate when dealing with a person who is infected for at least 8-9 days. Negative results may require repetition of tests after certain intervals.”Charu Hans, former head of the microbiology department at Delhi’s Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, said: “We have limited resources, so we need a smart strategy. One has to have a clear protocol on what nature of individuals is to be tested under the said strategy. At this juncture, it is recommended to conduct tests only among symptomatic individuals in hot spots.”Jugal Kishore, head of the department, community medicine, at Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital, said: “Simple random sampling is a scientific method and can provide a signal on possible community spread. But, when there is a resource constraint; the government should explore the possibility of conducting snowball sampling.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-test-trace-treat-in-delhi-s-5t-plan/story-ab7xHFLtvRmWbIWB3gRQgI.html
08-04-2020||India||Maharashtra Covid cases tally crosses 1,000 mark||With 150 new cases, the Covid-19 tally in Maharashtra on Tuesday crossed the 1,000-mark to reach 1,018, the highest for any state. This was the steepest one-day rise in the number of cases in Maharashtra and came on a day when Maharashtra recorded 12 Covid-19 related deaths and took the state’s death toll from the pandemic to 64, state health department officials said. Of the 150, 116 new cases in Maharashtra were reported from Mumbai, which accounts now for 642, the highest among Indian cities. Also on Tuesday, Mumbai reported 100 new cases and five deaths, taking the total number of infections in the city to 590 and deaths to 40. Mumbai has over 60% of the total positive cases in Maharashtra. Two high risk areas in Mumbai have been identified as Dharavi, and the Worli Koliwada area.To break the chain of the coronavirus transmission, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Tuesday barred the sale of vegetables and fruits on footpaths and on open markets in the 241 containment zones of Mumbai. Out of the 100 patients who tested positive in Mumbai on Tuesday, 55 people were among the contacts in high risk containment areas. Pune recorded 18 cases on Tuesday, while Nagpur, Aurangabad, and Ahmednagar reported two each. Six of the 12 deaths on Tuesday were reported from Mumbai, followed by three in Pune and one each in Nagpur, Thane and Satara. According to the state health department, 34,695 people have been put under home while 4,008 under institutional quarantine. It added 20,877 tests (5,564 of them in private laboratories) have been carried out so far across the state, resulting in 1,018 positive cases. Seventy-nine Covid-19 patients have been discharged after their complete recovery, officials said.The rise in the cases necessitated a state cabinet meeting on Tuesday via video conferencing as some of the ministers were in their constituencies. Officials said the ministers pressed for additional testing facilities to understand the spread of the virus that causes Covid-19.“The government is likely to seek permission for more labs for testing,” an official said on condition of anonymity. A private laboratory can start testing only if it is certified by the Indian Council for Medical Research. In March, Maharashtra had applied for and received permission to set up at least seven new private laboratories in addition to the National Institute of Virology in Pune and Kasturba Hospital Lab in Mumbai. “We have increased the number to more than 1,500 tests per day,” said another official, who did not wish to be named.  He added the cabinet also discussed continuing the three-week lockdown imposed to check the Covid-19 spread beyond April 15. “The decision on extending the lockdown is awaited,” a state minister said on condition of anonymity. “We have screened nearly 1.5 million people, conducted around 10,500 tests. This is why the numbers are high,” a BMC official said, requesting anonymity. “Out of the six deceased , four had pre-existing respiratory illnesses, hypertension, diabetes, chronic kidney diseases and other comorbidities,” a health officer said requesting anonymity. “ None of the deceased had a history of international travel.” According to the state Medical Education and Drugs Department data, Maharashtra’s mortality rate is 5.99%, which is higher than 3.4% globally. An official said the cabinet also discussed how Kerala managed to keep its mortality rate low -- around 0.7%. Kerala had 336 Covid-19 cases until Tuesday but has reported only two deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-covid-cases-tally-crosses-1-000-mark/story-OCqZFB7OyXT6Ub8C0HUkvL.html
08-04-2020||India||Kerala-Karnataka border row resolved, Centre tells top court||The Supreme Court on Tuesday disposed of a bunch of petitions against the closure of the Kerala-Karnataka border as part of measures to check the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic after the Centre informed it about a protocol put in place to facilitate a free movement of patients between the two states.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who appeared for the Centre, told the court that the protocol was agreed to after a meeting of officials of Union home ministry and the two states. The protocol will facilitate a free movement of patients seeking treatment along the interstate border in Karnataka’s Mangalore.“In view of the above statement, the instant special leave petitions and the writ petitions are disposed of,” the court said in its order.The Supreme Court earlier on April 3 asked the two states and the Centre to arrive at an amicable solution to ensure movement of vehicles in case of medical emergencies.Karnataka blocked National Highway 66 connecting the state with Kerala’s northern districts last month.The Kerala high court on April 1 noted that the national highway network comes under the Centre while ordering the removal of the blockade on a petition of a group of lawyers. Karnataka moved the Supreme Court against the order on April 2.The Supreme Court separately on Tuesday issued a notice to the Centre and the Assam government on a plea that has sought the release of three people, who have spent over two years in foreigners’ detention centres. One Rajubala Das, the petitioner, highlighted the risk of the Covid-19 spread due to overcrowding in detention centres.The court gave liberty to the petitioner to share a copy of the petition with Mehta and posted the case for hearing next on April 13.The petitioner has cited the Supreme Court’s March 23 order directing states and Union territories to set up high powered committees to determine which class of prisoners can be released on parole or interim bail.“For instance, the State/Union Territory could consider the release of prisoners who have been convicted or are undertrial for offences for which prescribed punishment is up to 7 years or less,” the top court had suggested.There are six detention centres in Assam where 802 persons are lodged as on March 6 for illegally entering the country. They are confined in detention centres so that their physical presence can be ensured at all times for repatriation to their home country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-karnataka-border-row-resolved-centre-tells-top-court/story-meadzqEzEsqXyj4MkVYKEK.html
08-04-2020||India||10 Madhya Pradesh policemen contracted coronavirus from Jamaat men: IG||The 10 policemen in Madhya Pradesh who have tested positive for Covid-19 probably got the virus from Tablighi Jamaat members, who were hiding in different mosques in the state capital, Bhopal, a senior police official said. The policemen are the second group of government officials to be infected , Meanwhile, the number of health directorate staff who have tested positive for Covid-19 has increased to 38, according to government data. Senior health deparment officials, who, despite testing positive, insisted on being treated at home, were admitted to a hospital on Monday night. The total number of Covid-19 positive cases in Bhopal as on Tuesday evening was recorded at 83.The 10 infected policemen include a city superintendent of police (CSP), a sub-inspector and eight constables ; five of their family members have tested positive too. Other policemen who came in contact with the infected policemen are in self-quarantine, government officials said. Inspector general (IG) of police, Bhopal, Upendra Jain, said: “There is a 99.99% chance that our policemen contracted the virus while conducting a search to locate those who attended the Tablighi Jamaat meeting in Delhi, in various mosques (in the city).”He said, “Police personnel of mainly two police stations in Bhopal -- Jehangirabad and Aishbagh -- were involved in the search. Many of them stay in the residential colony on TT Nagar police station premises.”According to the officer, as many as 32 jamaats including 7 foreign jamaats were traced as staying at various places in Bhopal with each of jamaat comprising about 12 persons. As many as 12 of the jamaats took part in the event in Delhi. Of these Tablighi jamaat members, at least 20 have ested positive for Covid-19. According to Jain, “all the police stations in Bhopal are being sanitised”. He added that roughly 1000 policemen will stay in hotels. “They will follow all the norms of social distancing while performing their duties. I hope, these measures will be effective in controlling spread of the virus in the next few days.”Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan warned Tablighi Markaz people on Tuesday night that criminal cases will be lodged against them if they don’t disclose their whereabouts.Chouhan in his tweet posted on Tuesday night said, “All residents of Madhya Pradesh who went to Nizamuddin Markaz and those from foreign countries hiding in mosques have been identified and quarantined. But even after this if someone is hiding somewhere my request to him is to share information about him with the administration in 24 hours.”He warned, “If it is not done then administration will take necessary legal action by lodging criminal cases against them for jeopardising security of the state.”Meanwhile, five people who allegedly attacked a police team in Talaiya police station area of Bhopal on Monday night were arrested and booked under National Security Act (NSA) too on Tuesday, according to Talaiya police station.Those arrested are: Shahid alias Kabootar, Nafees Qureshi, Shahrukh Khan, Mohd Javed and Mohd Mohsin Khan.Earlier, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan tweeted on Tuesday,” Lesson needs to be taught to those who indulges in anarchism. These goondas will be booked under NSA.”In a late night action on Monday, the police shifted three senior state government officials including the principal secretary and the additional director of the health department to hospitals following an intervention by the CM, government officials said. These officers were insisting on being treated at home.The officials argued that since they didn’t have any symptoms of Covid-19 despite having tested positive, as per World Health Organisation (WHO)’s advisory they should be treated in their homes only while under quarantine. In a written statement on Tuesday night Commissioner, health services Faiz Ahmad Kidwai said, “An inquiry is being conducted to find out reasons behind a large number of Health directorate officials and employees having been infected with Covid-19. The district administration has been instructed to look into the contact history of affected persons and inquire into the order in which they have been affected. Tracing is necessary to know who met whom and from where it all started. After the inquiry responsibility will be fixed on persons concerned and necessary action will be taken.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-mp-policemen-contracted-virus-from-jamaat-men-ig/story-em0Ld0NitKkw2JoyESVqAN.html
08-04-2020||India||Mamata Banerjee exempts bidi industry, betel leaves plantations from lockdown||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday exempted the state’s bidi industry, betel plantations and flower markets from the lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus, saying the step was necessary to save millions in the rural areas.“The bidi industry is badly hit. Millions depend on it. However, only one person should carry the bidis from the factories to the markets. Betel leaf and flower growers are hit too. I would like to tell people that they should not crowd shops to buy paan. Social distancing must be maintained,” the chief minister said at a press conference at the state secretariat.Till Monday, Bengal claimed that only three people have died of Covid-19 so far and eight other reported deaths were caused by co-morbidity. On Tuesday, Banerjee said the toll in the state had reached five but did not clarify where these two people died. She said the infections were reported from seven zones in the state but did not identify these. “Of the 69 cases, 60 are related to nine families,” said Banerjee.Asked how many of those who attended the Taglighi Jamaat event in Delhi have been identified and quarantined, she said, “Don’t ask me communal question.”She said the government is prepared for a likely rush of people stranded in other states when the lockdown is lifted. “I don’t know if the lockdown will be lifted. But when it happens, people stranded in other states will rush to come home. We have to be cautious. We will ask these people to stay in isolation at safe houses set by the state. We call these “amar nijer bari” (my own home). Please consider these your own home,” said Banerjee.During the press conference, the chief minister also interacted in a video link with Nobel laureate economist Abhijit Binayak Banerjee.“I suggest that the government sets up teams in the districts to look for people with symptoms of Covid-19. Cough and cold is common in Bengal and people don’t pay attention. Testing samples may help identify patients. Reporting these suspects is important and women working for the Asha welfare scheme can help,” said the economist.The chief minister said more renowned people have been inducted in the global advisory board set up to help the state. They are Swarup Sarkar, a former regional director of World Health Organisation; Tom Frieden, former chief of Centre for Disease Control and Prevention, USA; Jishnu Das, economist, World Bank; JVR Prasad Rao, retired IAS officer and former Union health secretary; Siddhartha Dube, communication specialist, UNAIDS; Sukumar Mukherjee, a renowned doctor. Public health specialist Dr Abhijit Chowdhury is convenor of the board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-banerjee-exempts-bidi-industry-betel-leaves-plantations-from-lockdown/story-ILySV7Ez7zPVfneI3T5s0I.html
08-04-2020||India||Nizamuddin’s ‘sehat apas’ step up to serve their Basti||htreporters@hindustantimes.com​New Delhi: ​When 50-year-old Mussarat Begum was first asked to be at the forefront of a door-to-door Covid-19 survey in Nizamuddin Basti, she hesitated. ​ A resident of the Basti, she was keenly following the developments surrounding the outbreak and was particularly concerned about its impact on her neighbourhood after more than 2,300 people -- several of whom later tested positive for the Sars-Cov-2 infection -- were evacuated from the Markaz building, the headquarters of the Tablighi Jamaat.​But, on Sunday, Begum, along with more than 30 colleagues who are called “sehat apas” (health sisters) and “sehat sahelis” (health friends) stepped up at the call of the Delhi government and the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) to conduct the survey in her neighbourhood. ​“I had not stepped out since the ‘janta curfew’ was declared on March 22. Naturally, I was scared about the survey, but then I thought when else will I get an opportunity to serve the neighbourhood where I’ve grown up,” said Begum, one among the 50 women volunteers of the community health programme that has been functioning in the area since 2008. The Aga Khan Trust for Culture (AKTC), with the support of Tata Trusts, started it to serve as a link between the local community and public health services.​The two-day survey (April 5 and 6) was a collaboration between the Delhi government, 13 teams of ANMs (auxillary nurse midwife) from SDMC, Delhi Police, CRPF jawans and, the women volunteers from AKTC. The Basti was divided into eight clusters for it -- Nizam Nagar, Dildar Nagar, Khusrau Nagar, Gali Gadarian, Kali Masjid, Qureshi Masjid, Musafir Khana, and Zamin Nagar.​The volunteers, guided by Delhi government doctors, were armed with N-95 masks, surgical gloves, caps, and bottles of sanitizers.​“Local volunteers of Aga Khan Trust were involved so that people do not hesitate and participate positively in the exercise. All areas were covered and a day after the exercise, teams were sent again to verify if anyone is left in areas,” said an official from SDMC who asked not to be named. ​Deepak Padhi, a senior programme officer at AKTC, said that the community health team been working to save lives in the Basti for the last 10 years. “The years of training, experience and local knowledge was useful in carrying out the survey, which the group did with a deep sense of responsibility, and sometimes against the wishes of their families.” he said.​Having been involved in the health care programme in the area, these women volunteers have been closely connected with the people who live in area. But the survey turned out to be more challenging than they expected. ​“Initially, many of the respondents felt that we are carrying out the National Citizens Register (NCR) survey, so we had to halt mid way,” said Meher-ul-Nisa Khan (36), one of the volunteers. “Consequently we made a lot of effort and reached out to everyone in advance to explain that the only purpose of the survey was to protect us from coronavirus,” she added. ​The volunteers ascertained if anyone had developed flu-like symptoms, if they had been in contact with infected people from the Tablighi, or if they knew of other infected people in the neighbourhood. One family with six members was found to have symptoms of Covid-19, and they have been kept in home isolation with quarantine a sticker placed on the door.Apart from keeping track of the health of the members in each household, the surveyers handed out masks and sanitisers in each house. They were spoke to the people about the helpline numbers they could call of they experienced Covid-like symptoms.​Delhi government officials said that people from about 95% of the 2,000 houses in the area willing participated in survey, while the remaining either refused to take part, or the houses were found locked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nizamuddin-s-sehat-apas-step-up-to-serve-their-basti/story-kBI9ubFIXSlpWxod353cyO.html
08-04-2020||India||Jharkhand man dies in Goa, family watches funeral on video amid lockdown||The family of a 21-year-old man in Jharkhand’s Simdega district on Monday buried his clothes in a grave as per the local tradition as they could not attend his last rites in Goa, where he died of jaundice on Sunday, even as a live video of his funeral was streamed to them on phone. Arjun Baraik’s body could not be brought to his remote Jharkhand village due to the ongoing lockdown to check the spread of the coronavirus pandemic.“I cannot express my pain. My son’s body could not be brought to our village due to the lockdown. His friends there in Goa showed us the funeral on phone,” said Baraik’s father, Ram Kumar, 42, a mason.Baraik had left the village around five months back in search of work. “Arjun first went to Gujarat. But he did not like the work there and then went to Goa some two months back and worked at a hotel,” said Baraik’s uncle, Suraj.Baraik’s family came to know that he was suffering from jaundice a week back and wanted to bring him back but could not due to the lockdown. “His friends there [in Goa] admitted him to a hospital for treatment... he died on Sunday night,” Suraj said.Baraik’s friend, Niku Gaud, who is from Odisha, said a week ago the former’s health started deteriorating. “...when he started facing breathing problem, we took him to a hospital. He died at 9pm on Sunday. Doctors said he was suffering from acute jaundice.” He said since there was no way to send his body to his village, they arranged for cremation in Goa on Monday. “His entire family gathered in his village in Jharkhand. We showed them the cremation live on phone through a video call from here in Goa. We also send the family video recording of the cremation,” Gaud said over the phone from Goa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ranchi-family-buries-clothes-of-son-who-died-of-covid-19-attends-live-funeral-in-goa-on-video/story-KynNaHREGScRR0LHrypfeM.html
08-04-2020||India||In Sonia Gandhi’s 5 tips to fight Covid-19, one is about PM CARES Fund||Congress president Sonia Gandhi wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday, extending her party’s support to the government’s decision to slash salaries of Members of Parliament (MPs) by 30%, while also listing five suggestions to fight the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Her suggestions included suspending the Rs 20,000-crore Central Vista beautification and construction project and transferring all money under the PM-CARES fund --- set up last month to fight the pandemic --- to the Prime Ministers National Relief Fund (PM-NRF).Gandhi’s letter comes in response to the Prime Minister’s Sunday call seeking suggestions in the wake of the fast-spreading infection caused by the Sars-CoV-2 virus.Watch: 5 points Sonia Gandhi raised in letter to PM Modi on battling COVID-19 “I am writing to convey our support for the decision taken by the Union Cabinet to reduce salaries for MPs by 30%. Austerity measures which can be used to divert much-needed funds to the fight against Covid-19 are the need of the hour. In this spirit, I am writing to offer five concrete suggestions. I am certain you will find value in them,” she said.Gandhi demanded a complete ban on media advertisements --- television, print and online --- by the government and public sectors undertakings (PSUs) for a period of two years, with the exceptions being advisories for Covid-19 or issues relating to public health.“Given that the central government currently spends an average of Rs 1,250 crore per year on media advertisements (not including an equal or greater amount spent by PSUs and government companies), this will free up a substantial amount to alleviate the economic and social impacts of Covid-19,” she added.The Congress chief also sought immediate suspension of the Central Vista project. “At a time like this, such an outlay seems self-indulgent to say the least. I am certain that Parliament can function comfortably within the existing historical buildings. There is no urgent or pressing requirement that cannot be postponed until this crisis is contained. This sum could instead be allocated towards constructing new hospital infrastructure and diagnostics along with equipping our frontline workers with personal protection equipment (PPE) and better facilities.”In her third suggestion, Gandhi sought a proportionate reduction of 30% in the expenditure budget (other than salaries, pensions and central sector schemes) for the central government as well.“This 30% (Rs 2.5 lakh crore per year approximately) can then be allocated towards establishing an economic safety net for migrant workers, labourers, farmers, MSMEs and those in the unorganised sector,” she added. The Congress president also urged Modi to put on hold all foreign visits, including that of the President, the Prime Minister, Union ministers, chief ministers, state ministers and bureaucrats. “Exceptions can be made in case of special emergency or exigencies in national interest to be cleared by the PM. This amount (which is around Rs 393 crore for just the Prime Minister and Union cabinet’s trips in the last five years) can be utilised extensively in measures to combat Covid-19.”In her fifth suggestion, Gandhi demanded transfer of all money under PM-CARES fund to the PM-NRF. “This will ensure efficiency, transparency, accountability and audit in the manner in which these funds are allocated and spent. It seems like a waste of effort and resources to have and create two separate silos for the distribution of funds. I understand that Rs 3800 crore approximately are lying unutilised in the PM-NRF (at the end of FY2019). These funds, plus the amount in ‘PM-Cares’, can be utilised to ensure an immediate food security net for those at the very margins of society,” she said.Gandhi further wrote, “Every single Indian has made great personal sacrifices to fight this disease. They have complied with every suggestion, instruction and decision taken by your office and the Central Government. It is time that the Legislature and the Executive reciprocate this trust and good faith. Please be assured that you have our unwavering support in meeting the grave challenge of Covid-19 facing the country.”This is Gandhi’s fifth letter to the Prime Minister since March 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-sonia-gandhi-s-5-tips-to-fight-covid-19-one-is-about-pm-cares-fund/story-upVVZG4zwVNpyTLFar7nML.html
