09-04-2020||India||Barmer man tests positive after a trip to Jaipur’s hot spot||Barmer: Rajasthan’s Barmer district reported its first Covid-19 case on Wednesday when a 58-year-old man posted here tested positive for the disease after returning from Jaipur’s Ramganj, a hotspot of the pandemic, 700 km away on Sunday despite the lockdown imposed to check the spread of the disease, a top health official said.The man tested positive even as the state government has said it was replicating the strict Bhilwara model of containment in hotspots like Ramganj, where a 45-year-old man become a super spreader and transmitted the virus to his at least 19 family members after returning from Oman via Dubai on March 13. Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday said the model adopted in Bhilwara has set the standard in fight against the pandemic and involved complete sealing of the area for mass screening involving six lakh houses after a doctor tested positive for Covid-19  last month.Barmer district collector Vishram Meena said that all the four are government teachers. All the four have shown their identity cards at the check posts in the way from Jaipur to Barmer while saying them that they are going to join their duty.Barmer’s chief medical and health officer Dr Kamlesh Choudhary said a curfew has been imposed in the district’s Chohtan block and his department has started a screening in the area after the 58-year-old government school principal tested positive.The man, who is from Ramganj, travelled with three others to Barmer on April 5. “After reaching Barmer, the man complained of coronavirus symptoms. His samples were sent for Covid-19 testing on April 7. On Wednesday, he reported positive,” Dr Choudhary said.He said one of the three, who travelled with the principal, has tested negative for Covid-19 while the results of the other two are awaited.The principal, who is reported corona positive have taken a meeting on next day after reaching Barmer. District administration has put all the six under observation. While another three who have traveled with him were put to isolation.The 58-year-old, who was kept in isolation in Barmer on April 6, was referred to the Jodhpur government hospital on Thursday early morning, Dr Choudhary said.He travelled in a private vehicle from Jaipur via Jalore even as Barmer district’s borders have been sealed as part of the lockdown to ensure social distancing.Officials said three medical teams deployed for screening people at Gandhav check post through which the vehicle entered into Barmer have been removed. “Till April 5, three medical teams were deployed at Gandhav checkpoint. Following the district collector’s directive, the three teams were removed. The decision was taken after the borders were completely sealed,” said Choudhary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/barmer-man-tests-positive-after-a-trip-to-jaipur-s-hot-spot/story-Gc2tBYFX3GTqNzeOyYXF6O.html
09-04-2020||India||17 Ludhiana cops quarantined after thief tests positive||Ludhiana: As many as 30 people, including 17 police personnel, were placed under quarantine on Thursday while a duty magistrate and the staff of a local court in Punjab’s Ludhiana have been asked to go into self-isolation as a preventive measure after they came in contact with an alleged car thief, who has tested positive for the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease. An accomplice of the alleged thief was on the run after escaping from police custody while being taken for medical examination.The in charge of Ludhiana’s Focal Point police station, NAME, is among those quarantined. The alleged thief, Saurav Sehgal, 25, was caught, and produced in the court on April 5. Two residents, who had helped police in arresting Sehgal and 11 of the alleged thief’s family members, were also quarantined. On April 6, the duty magistrate found Sehgal had fever and cough and directed police to have him medically examination before sending him in judicial custody. Police were looking for Sehgal’s alleged accomplice, Navjot Singh, 25, who was also allegedly involved in snatchings and escaped from a local hospital when they were taken for the medical examination.Assistant sub inspector Gurmeet Singh said Sehgal was unwell but Navjot Singh looked fit. “The thief has been sent to an isolation ward but the moment I opened Navjot Singh’s handcuffs, he pushed me and fled.”Three assistant sub-inspectors, two head constables, two constables and two home guards had come in contact with Sehgal on April 5 and 6. The alleged thieves were brought to the Focal Point police station for clicking their pictures to be released with the press note about their arrest. It was here that they came in contact with inspector Mohammad Jamil and a head constable. The accused were then taken to the court and the civil hospital by three police personnel and a home guard. Two constables, including a policewoman, came in contact with the accused while recording their fingerprints.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/17-ludhiana-cops-quarantined-after-thief-tests-positive/story-4HKFtNrjmPKvd1vXzvpiyK.html
09-04-2020||India||Rural women bear the brunt of the lockdown||Ranchi/ Hyderabad/Lucknow/Pune/ Bhopal/ Bhubaneshwar: On Wednesday, 62-year-old Vandini Devi walked five kilometres from her village in Bokaro, Jharkhand to the bank in order to check if money had been credited to her Jan Dhan account. She was disappointed to learn that it hadn’t. A resident of Chargi village, Devi said that she had not received her widow pension since February, either. “We were promised two months’ free food grain, but I was given 5 kilograms of ration for only one month. My younger son, who lives with me, works as a daily wager and he has had no work due to lockdown. I am in big distress,” Devi said.In view of the 21-day national lockdown which began on March 25, India’s rural population has been central to most relief measures announced by states. On March 26 itself, the finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced that Rs 500 will be credited into Jan Dhan accounts held by women for three months, starting April. There are more than 20.39 crore such accounts. Separately, many states have also allocated funds to keep the Public Distribution System (PDS) flush with supplies so that ration-card holders can receive their dry rations, even as daily wage, manual and agricultural work dries up. At the other end of this are the nearly 4 crore rural women who are the purported recipients of these benefits. Hindustan Times spoke to some of these women across Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra.Jharkhand has 1.33 crore Jan Dhan accounts; close to 73 lakh women are expected to receive the sum of Rs 500. According to state level bankers’ committee senior manager Bibhaw Kumar, the money has already been credited for April. “A similar amount will be paid for May and June,” he said.With no money in the bank account, and government assistance awaited, 55-year-old Shahjahan in Lucknow’s Asti village has only 15kg wheat and 10kg rice left for her family of five. On March 30, UP chief minister Adityanath announced relief worth Rs 611 crore to all Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme beneficiaries, following which Shahjahan visited her bank. She said she waited for over an hour as there was a long queue of the people keen to withdraw money. “A few other women like me did not receive any amount in the account. We asked the bank official but he could not give us a satisfactory answer,” said Shahjahan, who is a daily wage worker registered under MNREGS. Shahjahan is the head of the family in the ration card. She said she had to struggle to get the ration due to long queues. “I could not send my children like many other women as we had to go through the biometric process,” she added. No one followed any social distancing at the ration shop, she said. “We were given 10 kg of wheat and 15 kg rice free of cost,” she said. “The government had also assured us pulses and oil too, but I didn’t receive any.”In many parts of the country, work under MNREGS has come to a halt. Crop harvesting too has been affected leading to a break in supply chains, as farmers are unable to send their produce to ‘mandis’. In Maharashtra, for instance, the lockdown is being implemented rigorously, with police patrol cars preventing farmers from engaging labour to harvest the produce and farming activities. Sulekha Naba, a 40-year-old tribal woman in Badipalli village of western Odisha district of Bargarh queued up like other villagers to get the Rs 1000 assistance that chief minister Naveen Patnaik had announced for cardholders under the national food security act. She also queued up to receive the Rs 500 deposited in her Jan Dhan account. Naba, a landless daily labourer, has been without work since the lockdown. While she did receive three months ration — 90 kilos of rice for her family of six, which she lugged back to her home a kilometre away — she worried that the cash assistance would hardly be enough to sustain her family. Odisha has 7.4 million households covered under Jan Dhan yojana scheme — that’s 99.85% of the total number of households in the state. Long queues of women to withdraw Rs 500 from their Jan Dhan bank accounts have been witnessed in almost all rural areas in Maharashtra. Yogesh Warkhede, a ‘bank friend’ appointed by Bank of Baroda at Nampur village in Nashik district of Maharashtra said almost 200 people have visited his home to enquire about the deposits. The rush in the branches of nationalised banks is almost three to four times more than a normal day in Nampur village (it has a population of 10,000), he said. Satish Bairagi who works for a primary co-operative society at Nampur in Nashik district and distributes food in the PDS ration shop said that crowds were normal. To an extent, the southern states of Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, and Tamil Nadu have been able to manage such crowds through an innovative token system: Each family is given a token with a specific date and time to pick up their rations at the Fair Price shops. Telangana and Andhra Pradesh completed the first phase of distribution of rice and other essential commodities, as well as cash assistance in the first week of April itself. Telangana has also authorised local Self Help Groups to help distribute the cash to women. “In Narayanraopet, nobody had to go to the banks. The bank authorities themselves authorised the local self-help group women in the villages to distribute the money to the beneficiaries. Most of the villages have Stree Nidhi (women banks),” said K Yella Reddy, a resident. These banks are operated by the Development of Women and Children in Rural Areas. The state has 95.9 lakh Jan Dhan account holders.In Kerala, ration holders are classified on the basis of their economic vulnerability. The state did away with biometric identification on April 1 to aid the process of distribution. It has now started supplying the ration based on SMSes in order to control the rush. To ease cash distribution, it began to offer tokens to residents, based on whether their account number is odd or even. Not all states have been able to use technology seamlessly, however. In Sagar district of Madhya Pradesh, Guddi Bai Lodhi, 58, went to the branch of Gramin Bank to collect her Rs 500. “When my turn came after more than an hour the bank clerk said the ‘link’ of the computer was not working. Then I proceeded to another branch of the bank where there were already 50 people waiting for their turn to withdraw the amount.”She managed to withdraw the amount and purchase a few grocery items.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rural-women-bear-the-brunt-of-the-lockdown/story-sp9O1n21C9pK1oISVGa1VI.html
09-04-2020||India||Vital to keep warships Covid-free: Navy Chief||NEW DELHI: At a time when the US Navy is grappling with a surge in Covid-19 cases, Indian Navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh stressed that it Is vital to ensure that operational assets such as warships and submarines remain free of the virus and the navy is combat ready at all times.In a 15-minute video message to naval personnel, Singh said, “It is a very difficult task because physical distancing on board warships, especially submarines, is a great challenge… We have to keep our guard up and retain our sights on being combat ready.”Scores of sailors on board aircraft carrier USS Theodore Roosevelt have tested positive for the disease, and its commanding officer, Captain Brett Crozier, was fired after the leak of a scathing letter he wrote to the navy’s leadership about the unfolding health crisis on his warship. Acting secretary of the US Navy Thomas Modly resigned earlier this week after delivering a controversial speech to the Theodore Roosevelt crew in which he was critical of Crozier.French aircraft carrier Charles de Gaulle has cut short a deployment and is returning to its home port in Toulon with around 40 sailors showing Covid-19 symptoms.As the coronavirus pandemic sweeps across the world, Singh told his men that while they should hope for the best, the navy should plan for the worst. “We need to be ready for the worst-case scenario and to my mind, it will be a long battle,” the navy chief said. He said the deadly virus posed a real, immediate and unprecedented danger and the navy should stay prepared for challenging times ahead.“Each one of us has put our shoulder to the wheel in these very difficult times. But the challenge will only intensify in the days and weeks ahead. And it will require us to further augment our preparedness. It can no longer be business as usual and we will have to take concrete measures so that we are prepared to tackle the full onslaught of this deadly virus,” Singh said.The navy chief said it is imperative to redouble efforts to ensure that navy personnel and their families stay safe and healthy. “We are the last bastion in this fight. And if we who are supposed to be the care givers become care seekers, it will lead to a big problem,” Singh said.The navy chief said all commands of the navy have started offering battlefield nursing assistant training to non-medical personnel and the initiative would help if casualties increased .Singh said even if the country-wide lockdown were to lifted, movement of naval personnel would be permitted only in a deliberate and coordinated fashion. “Even if it is delayed, it’s fine. But we won’t do anything a rush,” he said. Movement of military personnel is currently on hold to prevent the spread of infection.He said the navy is currently focused on work related to national security, health services and essential services. “Other tasks that involved the gathering of people have stopped. I know a lot of you are separated from your loved ones and families and many have parents in villages where they may need care and help. I know you are facing many difficulties. But I can say with satisfaction that the naval community has risen to the occasion effectively,” Singh said, adding that navy would have to intensify its efforts if the situation worsened.He said the lockdown should enable naval personnel to “unlock their true potential.”The armed forces have taken a raft of preventive measures to stop the spread of the infection within their ranks. These include cancellation of all non-essential training, conferences and travel; a freeze on postings and foreign assignments; avoiding any assembly that involves more than 50 personnel; postponing of all courses for officers; and encouraging personnel to work from home wherever possible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vital-to-keep-warships-covid-free-navy-chief/story-M0pGmbUQNkCkhpfmNXzxhP.html
09-04-2020||India||Goa rolls out Ayurvedic treatment for Covid-19 patients||Goa has begun Ayurvedic treatment for patients suffering from Covid-19 to supplement the ongoing treatment at hospitals, Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant announced on Thursday. Speaking to reporters at his daily press conference, the Chief Minister announced that the Ayurvedic treatment was being offered alongside the regular allopathic treatment and in consultation with the doctors and the health department. “I am happy to announce that we are the first state to use Ayurvedic treatment for quarantined patients as well as for patients who are positive with proper protocols in consultation with our medical team,” Sawant who is himself an Ayurvedic doctor, said. “Along with the medical team which is working there, our Ayurvedic doctors -- the Ayurvedic Medical College and Ayurvedic Medical Association -- experts they discussed over what medicines can be given and already with the consultation with the health department we have started the treatment,” he added. Sawant has however denied claims that Ayurveda can cure Covid19 as claimed by the Minister of State for AYUSH Shripad Naik, but said that while there is no cure for the disease, the Ayurvedic treatment will only help build immunity to fight the disease. Goa has six active Covid-19 patients with one 55-year-old patient having recovered from the dreaded disease while all the others are stable. “One good thing is that all our patients are doing very well, they are recovering, we have full faith in the team of doctors,” Sawant said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-rolls-out-ayurvedic-treatment-for-covid-19-patients/story-aeZXDhVQd8yYJpBfg8pE9N.html
09-04-2020||India||Data on Bengal’s Covid-19 cases appears opaque, raises questions||The West Bengal government said on Thursday that only five people had died of Covid-19 in the state till Thursday afternoon and the number of people to test positive had gone up by 12 in a day to touch 107. The data, was however, taken with a pinch of salt by many citizens with questions being raised about the government’s policy.The government had said on Monday it will consult an expert committee of doctors before linking any fatality to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), after allegations that it was suppressing information about the deadly infection.“We have formed a committee of five doctors who will decide the actual cause of death. They are the experts, I am not. We do not want to create panic among people. Please trust the doctors,” chief minister Mamata Banerjee had said on Monday.Unlike other states, the West Bengal government is reluctant to attribute the deaths of Covid-19 patients with pre-existing conditions like heart disease or diabetes to the virus alone, though experts say that such conditions make the Covid-19 disease deadlier.HT has accessed an order issued on April 5, according to which doctors signing death certificates must fill out a form which is then scrutinized by the committee of five doctors. Those signing the certificates are also required to attach 24 test reports, including for scrub typhus, dengue, malaria, urea, creatinine, blood, urine, CPK (enzymes in blood to diagnose heart attack) and Procalcitonin (substance in blood produced by bacterial infection). Some of the other tests reports asked for are SPo2 with time (oxygen saturation), ABG with time (arterial blood gas test), USG of abdomen and D Dimer (test for serious blood clot) CT scan reports of the thorax and a liver function test.On Wednesday this week, the chief minister announced that Covid-19 cases were restricted to only 7 identified pockets in West Bengal. Additionally, it set up a data analysis cell comprising 9 members including six doctors, to collect and collate data on a real time basis, “examine it and detect patterns and under-currents”.Since the government has neither confirmed nor denied reports of 8 other fatalities and set up the data analysis cell, West Bengal’s official death toll stood at just five till Thursday evening. . The first person to test positive was an 18-year-old UK returnee on March 17. The first death was of a 57-year-old at a private hospital happened on March 23. At that time, cumulative positives stood at 7. On March 27, with five new persons testing positive, the cumulative number went up to 15. ON March 31, with five new people testing positive, the cumulative number went up to 27 and the number of dead stood at 3.The format of the daily health bulletin issued by the state government was first changed on April 1, when two more deaths were reported. The bulletin stuck to 3 fatalities, and appended a note, which read, “Two male persons both aged 57 years and one male person aged 62 years all having Severe Acute Respiratory Illness expired. One of them had Chronic Renal Failure, another had Respiratory Failure and the third one had hypertension and other co-morbid conditions. They had all reportedly tested positive, which is subject to confirmation.”From that day on, the government began to make a distinction between those dead people, who had first tested positive, and those who died of Covid-19 and those who were infected with Covid-19 but died of co-morbidity. The bulletin was still providing the cumulative number of people testing positive, which, on April 1, stood at 37. But for the next two days, the government issued no bulletin and instead held press conferences at the state secretariat in the evenings. From April 4, the format of the bulletin changed entirely. The government began to give data only for ‘active cases’ and made no mention of the total figure. This led to confusion over the number of total positives, as the union ministry of health and family welfare’s website gave state-wise data for the cumulative figure. For example, on April 4, the state’s bulletin put the number of ‘active cases’ at 49, but the union ministry’s website put the state’s cumulative figure at 69.There were no bulletins on April 2 and 3 and, March 31 onwards, the bulletins started releasing late, often after 9 pm.From the April 4 bulletin onwards, the column for the dead was removed. There was no bulletin on April 6. However, breaking her long silence on the number of Nizamuddin Markaz returnees in the state, the chief minister gave some figures on April 8. “Around 10 to 12 days ago we had quietly quarantined 108 foreigners and 69 people from Bengal who had attended the Delhi congregation. The foreigners had come from countries such as Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand and Myanmar. All 177 have been kept in a quarantine facility developed at the Haj Centre,” Banerjee said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/data-on-bengal-s-covid-19-cases-appears-opaque-raises-questions/story-kRKa8O3eLbObMbU3KvRLRM.html
09-04-2020||India||Covid-19: India, Russia discuss situation of stranded citizens||India and Russia on Thursday discussed steps being taken by the two sides to counter the Covid-19 pandemic and to help each other’s citizens who have been stranded because of travel restrictions, people familiar with developments said.These issues figured in a telephone conversation between foreign secretary Harsh Shringla and Russia’s deputy foreign minister Igor Morgulov, which was a follow-up to a similar conversation between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Vladimir Putin on March 25.Shringla and Morgulov exchanged notes on the evolving situation related to spread of the Covid-19 pandemic and national efforts in both countries to combat and contain the disease, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity.The two senior officials appreciated the close bilateral cooperation in ensuring the welfare of each other’s citizens in their countries, and Morgulov thanked Shringla for facilitating the evacuation of stranded Russia nationals, the people said.There are some 15,000 Indian students in Russia and more than 5,000 stranded Russian tourists currently in India. Russia has evacuated more than 1,000 of its citizens in special flights.The two sides also decided to remain in touch for “monitoring and facilitating the emergent needs of medicines and equipment on both sides”, said one of the people cited above.Referring to the Russian chairmanship of the Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa (BRICS) grouping and the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO), Morgulov informed Shringla of different preparatory meetings which are being held through video conferencing in the coming days, the people said.A video conference of health ministers of the SCO states is expected to be held in mid-April.Both sides decided to remain in close touch on the Covid-19 situation and bilateral and multilateral matters, the people said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-india-russia-discuss-situation-of-stranded-citizens/story-48i09RRfV6cScxrgWQc2YL.html
09-04-2020||India||‘This too shall pass’: Naveen Patnaik extends Odisha lockdown till April 30||Odisha became the first State to extend the lockdown till April 30 as chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Thursday underlined that it was more important to protect lives. The CM added that schools and educational institutions in the state will remain closed till June 17 and requested the Centre not to start train and air services to the state till April 30. “Coronavirus is the biggest threat that the human race has faced in more than a century. In a powerful nation like the US, the corona cases have jumped from 3,000 to 4 lakh. Starting from the 9/11 attack to several other wars, where the US people and soldiers were killed, more people have died of coronavirus. But still lockdown could not be implemented entirely in the US,” said the CM.“Life will not be the same ever. All of us must understand this and face it boldly together. With our sacrifice and with the blessing of Lord Jagannath, this too shall pass.”The first Covid-19 case in the state was reported on March 15. Since then, the number in the state has touched 44 cases and one death. Patnaik thanked people for their cooperation and said facing the situation is the only way forward.The CM said his government has requested the neighbouring States to take good care of Odia migrant workers stranded in their States due to lockdown. The chief minister said Odisha is taking steps to do at least 1 lakh rapid testing. From April 12, Odisha would test 1,000 samples a day at four testing centres. Capital Bhubaneswar has emerged as a Covid-19 hotspot with 35 of the 44 cases being reported from there. The government has announced five containment zones in the city to stop the spread of the virus. However, in the absence of testing samples from the districts, officials are not sure if the disease has spread to other places.The government however made it clear that farmers in the state will be allowed to undertake farming operations for the Rabi season and also prepare for the Kharif season despite lockdown. However, they will have to ensure social distancing while they work on the fields,” the agriculture department said.The government also said that marketing and transportation of agricultural inputs, agricultural and horticultural products to markets both intra and inter-state are permitted without any restrictions by retailers and transporters. “Seeds, fertilizers, and pesticide outlets, seed processing units in both government and private sectors may be operated, without restrictions. Agro machinery movement/custom hiring centres and operation needs are allowed for all agricultural operations,” the agriculture department said.Finance department officials said the extended lockdown may adversely impact the State economy with revenue collection dipping below normal. Till April 7, the State managed to collect Rs 109 crore with contributions from the mining sector. “Just about 5 per cent of the GST E-way bill has been used. There has been almost no vehicle registration or land registration due to closure of the offices of transport department and land revenue department,” said a senior official.Odisha has demanded that the Centre should immediately release funds to the states under the various centrally sponsored schemes like Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme. Under MGNREGA, the state government is expected to get Rs 551 crore under labour component and Rs 251 crore under material component from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/this-too-shall-pass-naveen-patnaik-extends-odisha-lockdown-till-april-30/story-YkKUqZFerEo3QjU4JmQbeL.html
09-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Quarantine, home isolation ends 70,000 in Assam||Around 70,000 people currently in quarantine and home isolation in Assam as precaution against the spread of Covid-19 would be allowed to resume their normal lives from Friday on completion of their 14-day observation period, the government said Thursday.Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma visited a quarantine facility at Srirampur on the Assam-West Bengal border to enquire about the health of around 650 people staying there for the past two weeks.“Doctors have conducted checks and those who don’t show any symptoms of Covid-19 and have completed 14-day mandatory quarantine period will be allowed to return to their homes,” he said.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.Several hundred residents of Assam who were on their way back to the state had got stuck at the border following imposition of the 21-day lockdown across the country.“By Thursday midnight, nearly 70,000 people in Assam who are in quarantine or home isolation would complete their 14-day quarantine period. It is a positive thing for us as none of those thousands from Assam who returned to the state last month have been reported Covid-19 positive till now,” Sarma said.Assam government will provide transportation for those in quarantine facilities to return home. Those in home isolation won’t be monitored further by healthcare workers.Sarma said the government would next try to bring back those from the state who are stranded outside. Till Thursday, Assam had recorded 28 Covid-19 positive cases. Twenty seven of them were linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-quarantine-home-isolation-ends-70-000-in-assam/story-KuMqkQLcImRdWjSEzjxcgJ.html
09-04-2020||India||Covid-19: 381 containment zones in the city||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has created 381 containment zones – areas that are sealed by the civic body, with help from the police, as a resident has tested positive for Sars-CoV-2 or close contacts of positive patients reside – by Thursday. The number was 146 on March 31.The western suburbs have the highest number of containment zones (145), following by the island city at 127, and eastern suburbs at 109. The BMC had on Tuesday had barred selling of fruits and vegetables on footpaths and in open markets in containment zones. However, the rules differ for each ward, depending on the number of cases and clusters. For instance, N ward, which covers Ghatkopar, announced on Thursday that people from areas other than the containment zones, too, cannot step out of their homes for fruits and vegetables, except on Monday and Thursday. On the contrary, F-North ward, which covers Sion, Matunga and Wadala, have barred selling of fruits and vegetables only in containment zones, leaving the rest untouched. People violating these orders have to face strict action. A ward officer said, “Partial shutdown or overall shutdown depends on the ward and its population density. If ward officers are unable to handle the crowds, they can order a complete shutdown.”Like in case of 10 crucial roads in Dharavi, where traffic, vegetable, fruit sellers and hawkers will not be allowed till further order. The roads are Mahim Fatak, Andhra Valley Road, Dharavi Main Road, Dharavi Cross Road, Matunga Labour Camp, Sant Rohidas Marh, TH Katariya Marg, AKG Nagar, Madina Nagar and Chitranagari.Meanwhile, the BMC on Thursday said it will also conduct door-to-door screening of all affected areas in Dharavi. The number of positive cases in Mumbai has reached 876 so far, with 54 deaths. A 101-year-old succumbed to Covid-19 at Brahman Sabha Hospital in Girgaum on Thursday.(Inputs from Mehul Thakkar and Eeshanpriya M S)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-381-containment-zones-in-the-city/story-UjhvizWjctluDWWsWDUCqI.html
09-04-2020||India||Finance Ministry exempts customs duty, cess on import of Covid-19 test kits, ventilators, face masks||The Centre on Thursday exempted imports of Covid-19 test kits, ventilators and face masks from import duty and the health cess, the Finance Ministry announced late on Thursday evening.The two exemptions shall be available upto 30 September 2020. Most of these items attracted a 7.5per cent basic customs duty. The 5% health cess on the customs duty payable on medical devices was introduced in 2020 to fund expansion of medical infrastructure in the country.The finance ministry said the decision had been taken considering the immediate requirement of these items in the context of the Covid-19.Thursday’s decision comes as the government and the health sector looks to import more of these devices to supplement domestic production as the disease continues to spread.Just a few hours earlier, the Indian Council of Medical Research also liberalised its testing guidelines that calls for testing “asymptomatic direct and high-risk contacts of a confirmed case” between days 5 and day 14 of coming in contact with a Covid-19 patient.India’s restrictive Covid-19 testing policy has been linked by experts to a lower proportion of people testing positive than in many other countries. It is feared that the number of patients would rise if India were to test greater numbers. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had recently explained a spike in Delhi cases - apart from those linked to the Tablighi Jamaat - to the city’s aggressive testing policy.According to the Union Health Ministry, the number of patients in the country has topped 5,800 patients. Since there is a lag between states confirming Covid-19 cases and the Health Ministry updating its database, the number of cases is expected to have crossed 6,000.The 21-day national lockdown announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi ends next week but it is expected that the central government may not abruptly lift the lockdown. State governments, which have lately shifted the focus to areas that have reported coronavirus cases, have been focussing on sealing these locations. As part of this protocol, people in these containment zones have been prohibited from stepping out, not even to go to grocery stores.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/finance-ministry-exempts-customs-duty-cess-on-import-of-covid-19-test-kits-ventilators-face-masks/story-oLcjVvNRM0O6do7kIXyjfM.html
09-04-2020||India||India eases trade restrictions for 25 countries after stock-taking||India has so far lifted Covid-19-related trade restrictions for commercial sales, mainly of pharmaceutical products, and provision of aid for some 25 countries, including the US and the UK, people familiar with developments said on Thursday.The lifting of trade restrictions was done after a comprehensive stock-taking exercise was completed, and the restrictions were eased on a case-to-case basis, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity.Among the countries that have benefited from the easing of the restrictions are the US, the UK, Brazil, Spain, Germany, Sri Lanka and the Maldives. In the case of larger countries, the restrictions were eased to facilitate commercial sales of pharmaceutical products such as hydroxychloroquine and paracetamol.The restrictions were eased for several smaller countries in India’s neighbourhood such as Sri Lanka and the Maldives to facilitate the provision of aid, including medical supplies.These issues figured during a virtual meeting on Thursday between foreign secretary Harsh Shringla and members of the Kolkata-based Indian Chamber of Commerce (ICC), led by the chamber’s president Mayank Jalan and immediate past president Rudra Chatterjee.The discussions with the members of the ICC focussed on different aspects of border trade with neighbouring countries, meeting contractual and export commitments during India’s lockdown period, and potential challenges and opportunities for Indian businesses and industry in the post-Covid-19 phase, the people said.The virtual meeting was organised at the request of the ICC, whose members were also briefed by Shringla and additional secretary (economic relations) P Harish about the external affairs ministry’s initiatives to assist Indian citizens around the world and foreign nationals in India.On Sunday, India partially eased restrictions on the export of hydroxychloroquine and paracetamol and removed restrictions on the sales of 14 other drugs. The move followed requests from US President Donald Trump and Brazil President Jair Bolsonaro to lift the hold on exports of hydroxychloroquine, whose use has been recommended by some experts to fight Covid-19.Bolsonaro thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the people of India for helping Brazil with hydroxychroloquine during his address to the nation on Wednesday.“We have more good news. As an outcome of my direct conversation with the prime minister of India, we will receive, by Saturday, raw materials to continue our production of hydroxychloroquine so that we can treat patients of Covid-19 as well as of lupus, malaria, and arthritis. I thank Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the people of India for such timely help to the people of Brazil,” he said.Britain’s action high commissioner Jan Thompson also thanked India on Thursday for allowing exports of essential drugs. She tweeted, “Thank you @narendramodi and the Government of India for approving the export of paracetamol to the UK. Global cooperation is critical in the fight against #COVID19. UK and India have track record of working together as a #ForceforGood tackling global challenges.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-eases-trade-restrictions-for-25-countries-after-stock-taking/story-0jVTV1LDjzrjUlxhte54xM.html
09-04-2020||India||India’s rejects China’s reference to Kashmir issue||India on Thursday rejected China’s contention that the Kashmir issue should be resolved on the basis of the UN Charter, Security Council resolutions and bilateral agreements, saying Jammu and Kashmir is an integral part of the country.The spokesperson of China’s permanent mission to the UN had said on Tuesday that Beijing “pays close attention to the current situation” in Kashmir. The spokesperson added: “The Kashmir issue is a dispute left from history, and should be properly and peacefully resolved based on the Charter of the UN, Security Council resolutions and bilateral agreements.”China also “opposes any unilateral actions that complicate the situation”, the spokesperson said.Responding to these remarks, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava rejected the reference to Jammu and Kashmir made by the Chinese spokesperson.“China is well aware of India’s consistent position on this issue. The union territory of Jammu and Kashmir has been, is and shall continue to be an integral part of India. Issues related to Jammu and Kashmir are [an] internal matter to India,” he said.“It is, therefore, our expectation that other countries, including China, would refrain from commenting on matters that are internal affairs of India and respect India’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. We also expect China to recognise and condemn the scourge of cross-border terrorism that affects the lives of the people of India, including in Jammu and Kashmir,” he added.On March 10, Pakistan’s permanent representative to the UN had delivered a letter from foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi to the president of the Security Council, which called on the Council to take up the Kashmir issue.On the same day, at the request of Pakistan, China, as the then president of the Security Council, circulated the letter as an official document of the council.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-rejects-china-s-reference-to-kashmir-issue/story-s625dEaGIUHmfDlcJrG2eM.html
09-04-2020||India||Amid Covid-19 lockdown, IOC to transfer Rs 2,780 crore in bank accounts of 37 mn LPG beneficiaries||Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) will transfer Rs 2,780 crore in the bank accounts of 37 million customers by Saturday so that they can get the first cooking gas cylinder free of cost as announced by the government last month, it said in a statement on Thursday.It has also decided to import 50% more liquefied natural gas (LPG) in April and May to ensure uninterrupted cooking gas supply to its customers as the company is expecting additional demand due to the Covid-19 pandemic. IOC has advised its distributors to give priority refill deliveries to customers getting subsidised gas cylinders under the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY) for whom the government has announced three refills free of cost during the months April, May and June this year.“As part of this, the Corporation has already initiated the transfer of the RSP [retail selling price] for the first LPG refill to the bank accounts linked by its PMUY customers for direct subsidy payments. Accordingly, a total amount of over Rs 2,780 crore is being transferred to the bank accounts of about 3.7 crore PMUY customers, and the process is likely to be completed in the next two days.At the time of refill delivery, a beneficiary of subsidised gas cylinder is required to pay the full market price for the refill to the delivery boy for which the person gets the subsidy amount in her bank account in advance. “PMUY customers who have taken delivery of a refill in April prior to the transfer of money in their bank accounts will also be eligible to book for a free refill after 15 days’ gap,” it said.In view of Covid-19 lockdown, the LPG distributors will not insist upon hard copy of any document required from the PMUY customers, the company said. “The required documents can be captured digitally and hard copies submitted after the lockdown is lifted for maintenance of proper records,” it added.IOC said it has also tied up additional imports of the product for April and May -- to the tune of about 50% over normal imports -- to ensure uninterrupted availability of bulk LPG for its bottling plants, it said.The company, which is the biggest refiner and fuel retailer in the country, is taking steps to increase LPG output by optimising operations, it said.“Thanks to the coordinated efforts of the supply points and the marketing network, Indian Oil could deliver more than 3.38 crore LPG cylinders to its customers in the last 15 days since lockdown, that is, 26 lakh cylinders every single working day,” the statement said.IOC’s bottling plants too are working extended hours, operating night shifts and on public holidays to meet the growing demand.The company appealed to its customers not to resort to panic-booking or visit the showrooms and godowns of their distributorships for obtaining refills and book cylinders through digital modes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-covid-19-lockdown-ioc-to-transfer-rs-2-780-crore-in-bank-accounts-of-37-mn-lpg-beneficiaries/story-Ix0vtWhXaxWJ8RuQ9PkHnJ.html
09-04-2020||India||Madhya Pradesh to seal 15 districts identified as Covid-19 hotspots to contain spread||The Madhya Pradesh government on Thursday issued a list of Covid-19 hotspots in 15 districts that the administration said will be sealed completely as a measure to contain the spread of the deadly virus.There are 67 Covid-19 hotspots, which have been identified in 15 districts of Madhya Pradesh, that will be sealed totally, the state government has said. The state government has also made the use of masks mandatory for citizens while stepping out of their houses. Any violation of this order will attract legal action, the order by the state Public Health Department said.In the absence of masks, people can use towel or dupattas to cover their faces. Home-made masks or towels can be used again after washing, the order said. The districts to be sealed completely in Madhya Pradesh are:1. Jabalpur2. Gwalior3. Khargone4. Morena 5. Shivpuri,6. Badwani 7. Betul8. Vidisha9. Sheopur10. Chindwara11. Raisen12. Hoshangabad13. Khandwa 14. Dhar 15. Dewas||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-to-seal-15-districts-identified-as-covid-19-hotspots-to-contain-spread/story-6y7xeQBvV0DCpokZWp56NP.html
09-04-2020||India||BMC’s flying squads find 130 Covid-19 cases so far||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) flying squads, which were formed in all 227 wards to conduct door-to-door checking, have, so far, found 130 coronavirus positive cases. Moreover, the civic body has found 347 Covid-19 positive cases at its walk-in testing labs and three positive cases through monitoring over the phone.Civic health officials have been strictly instructed to curb community transmission in the city and stop the pandemic from entering the third phase. Speaking to Hindustan Times, Dr Daksha Shah, deputy director, health department, BMC, said, “We have decided to gear up testing through door-to-door visits, walk-ins at testing labs and screening of suspected patients through monitoring over the phone. The civic body has increased its testing in Dharavi by this method. We can control the spread of disease in the surrounding area. We have also identified buildings with patients and sealed them.”During door-to-door visits, after getting details such as the address of the patient, a special team (flying squad) identifies all high- and low-risk contacts of the patient. After cross-checking his/her travel history, the health staff tracks every person who has come in contact with the infected person for symptoms and then asks them to go for the test. The BMC has received more than 10,000 calls on Covid-19 helpline, of which 319 symptomatic persons have been referred for the test. The BMC’s health department has advised institutional quarantine for 1,224 high-risk persons through telephone counselling. All low-risk contacts are advised home quarantine for 14 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bmc-s-flying-squads-find-130-covid-19-cases-so-far/story-8puNULG9f0NjyBygeuRlCJ.html
09-04-2020||India||3 quarantine centres set up in Worli, Andheri and Goregaon||The National Sports Club of India (NSCI) in Worli, Andheri Sports Complex, and NESCO exhibition centre in Goregaon are being transformed into quarantine centres for persons who have come in contact with Covid-19 positive patients.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) gets contacts of positive persons, who have not caught the virus and are not at risk of transmitting the virus further, to mandatorily quarantine for 14 days. The civic body now plans to increase its contact tracing to ensure more persons with symptoms of Covid-19, or who are at high risk of catching the virus are identified and quarantined in time. While NSCI in Worli has been readied with a capacity of 500 quarantine beds, preparations at NESCO and Andheri Sports Complex are on. The number of beds at the latter two is yet to be decided.After NSCI was readied on Wednesday, Maharashtra Minister Aaditya Thackeray tweeted: “The NSCI dome being transformed into a huge quarantine centre as we step up our contact tracing and testing in @mybmcWardGS (G/South Ward). Till now, our contact tracing has been highest and testing too. Ensuring the carriers are isolated for their own safety and for that of others.” The G-South ward comprising Worli, Prabhadevi, and Elphinstone have recorded 184 Covid-19 positive cases, the highest in Mumbai, till Thursday morning.As of April 6, the BMC had traced 18,303 persons who came in contact with Covid-19. Of these, over 1,500 were quarantined to institutional facilities, and 12,425 were home quarantined. Municipal commissioner Praveen Pardeshi told Hindustan Times on Tuesday, “We want to increase the number of institutional quarantines. When people are home quarantined, there is a possibility they will violate the quarantine, or come in contact with a neighbour. Now, we will forcefully have to send high- and low-risk contacts of Covid-19 positive persons to institutional quarantine.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-quarantine-centres-set-up-in-worli-andheri-and-goregaon/story-2EpvaHDrDn7XMZOIJf2q5H.html
09-04-2020||India||When junk craving kicks in||It is absolutely essential for all of us to stay indoors. But what about the strange tug of war between the mind and the stomach? You crave a tub of cheese caramel popcorn, but your mind tells you that venturing out or ordering in is not an option. These chefs tell us how to strike a balance and whip up easy, satisfying and not-too-healthy recipes from the ingredients in our homes.Italian Style MaggiIngredients: Maggi (1 packet), Oil (1 tbsp), Carrot (1/2 and, chopped), Green capsicum (1/2, chopped), Cabbage leaves (2, chopped), Garlic (3 cloves, finely chopped), Oregano (1 tsp), Chilli Flakes (1 tsp), Cheese (1 slice), Water (1/4th glass)Method: Cook Maggi. Take a separate pan and heat some oil in it. Add the finely chopped garlic and all other vegetables. Stir fry the veggies and then, add water so that the pieces are well-cooked. Now, add grated cheese, chilli flakes and oregano and your cooked Maggi. Toss it well and your Italian Style Maggi is ready.-by Chef Ishijyot Surri, Executive Chef, SJI Hospitality Private LimitedPrawn FrittersIngredients: Salt (as per taste), Coarsely ground pepper (2 tsp), Small Prawns (30 to 35 pieces), Vinegar (1 tsp), Finely chopped green chillies (3-4 pieces), A little bit of all-purpose flour, Egg (1 piece), Refined oilMethod: Marinate the prawns in salt and some vinegar. Add coarsely crushed pepper, chopped green chillies, egg and a scant bit of flour to the marinade to bind it all together. Mix the ingredients well. Now, heat enough oil in a wok to deep fry. Use a tablespoon to take a few prawns at a time and slide them into the hot oil. Fry these bhajias in batches and serve them hot with ketchup or any tangy chutney of your choice. -by Rhea Mitra Dalal, owner and operator, Euphorhea KitchenDolanna Kalladka KaapiIngredients: Ghee 1 tsp, Cashews 12-14 pieces , Jaggery 3-4 tbsp, Instant coffee 2 tbsp, Sugar 1 tbsp , Warm water 3 tbsp Market-bought vanilla ice creamMethod: Pour the ghee into a non-stick pan. Once hot, add the cashews. Let the cashews turn into a golden brown colour and then, turn the heat off. Now, add finely chopped or grated jaggery and mix. Turn the heat on but let the mix remain on a low flame until the jaggery is dark amber. Pour out the mixture onto a greased pan and allow it to cool and stiffen.In a bowl, add coffee powder, sugar and warm water and beat vigorously using a whisk. Continue to whisk until it forms soft peaks like in a meringue.Take three scoops of vanilla ice cream in a bowl, top it with your foamy coffee meringue and sprinkle a good amount of that jaggery praline.- by Chef Shriya Shetty, Pupkins Kitchen, Mangalore||https://www.hindustantimes.com/when-junk-craving-kicks-in/story-ABLGmmSoQUiVfYUSV48YsJ.html
09-04-2020||India||Deciphering Arvind Kejriwal’s Operation SHIELD to tackle Covid-19||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday unveiled “Operation SHIELD” to curb the spread of the coronavirus pandemic in the national capital where close to 700 people have been affected so far.Here’s a look at what Operation SHIELD entails.1 “SHIELD” is an acronym for “Sealing, Home Quarantine, Isolation and Tracking, Essential Supply, Local Santisation and Door-To-Door Checking”.2 The operation will be carried out in neighbourhoods with a high concentration of Covid-19 cases.3 Twenty one areas identified as containment zones in Delhi have been sealed and no one is being allowed to enter or exit these areas.4 “Residents of these hotspots will be under home quarantine and those testing positive for coronavirus in these areas will be isolated.5 People who came in contact with those testing positive will be traced.6 Given the complete lockdown, essential supplies will be delivered to homes of residents in these areas. 7 Localities will be rigorously sanitised.8 Medical professionals will visit every home in the hotspots under a door-to-door checking programme to see if anyone has Covid-19 symptoms. 9 Operation SHIELD will be enforced in 21 localities spread across Malviya Nagar, Bengali Market, Sangam Vihar, Mayur Vihar, Dwarka, Nizamuddin, Vasundhara Enclave, Dilshad Garden, Patparganj, Dinpur Village, Jahangirpuri, Kalyanpuri, Khichripur, Pandav Nagar, Krishan Kunj Extension, West Vinod Nagar, Seemapuri, Dilshad Colony and Jhilmil Colony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deciphering-arvind-kejriwal-s-operation-shield-to-tackle-covid-19/story-ItA0mrFrHIGE3vlQIz91cN.html
09-04-2020||India||Maharashtra reports 25 Covid-19 deaths, 229 cases in a day||The total number of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra touched 1,364 on Thursday with the state reporting 229 new cases, health minister Rajesh Tope said.Maharashtra, which has recorded the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the country so far and the most number of deaths, reported 25 more deaths on Thursday, taking the death toll to 97.In the morning, a health official had said that the number had risen to 1,297 with most of the new cases being detected in the capital city of Mumbai.This is the highest increase in the number of cases recorded in a single day in the state so far. At the same time, 125 people have recovered and have been discharged from various hospitals in the state, a health ministry official said.In a new development, the State Reserve Police Force will be deployed in containment zones in Mumbai for strict implementation of the lockdown, the health minister said.Twenty-one hotspots of Covid-19 have been identified in Mumbai and curfew-like restrictions imposed in all these places to contain the fast-spreading infection, a Maharashtra minister said a day after Uttar Pradesh and Delhi adopted a similar approach.The stringent restrictions will come into effect immediately and continue till further orders. No one will be allowed to venture out of their houses in these hotspots and essentials will be home-delivered, the state cabinet has decided. Only medicine shops will remain open.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-25-deaths-and-229-new-cases-maharashtra-covid-19-infections-touch-1-364/story-0plVCVMLqcLhtis1c4dm1N.html
09-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 PM: Vital to keep warships free of Covid-19, says Navy chief and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Vital to keep warships free of Covid-19, says Navy chiefAt a time when the US Navy is grappling with a surge in Covid-19 cases, Indian Navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh stressed that it is vital to ensure that operational assets such as warships and submarines remain free of the virus and the navy is combat ready at all times. Read moreBattle against Covid-19 takes political turn in Bengal as BJP, TMC trade barbsPerhaps unlike any other state, Bengal’s battle against Covid-19, both with regard to prevention and cure of the disease and providing relief during the lockdown, has turned political, with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Trinamool Congress (TMC) trading barbs on a daily basis. Read more17 cops quarantined in Punjab’s Ludhiana after thief tests Covid-19 positiveThe station house officer (SHO) of the local Focal Point police station was among those quarantined after the vehicle thief, Saurav Sehgal, 25, was caught and produced in a court on April 5. Read moreIslamic State attack in Syria kills 18 regime forces: ReportPro-government fighters backed by Russian air strikes were battling off the jihadists on the outskirts of the desert town of Al-Sukhna in Homs province, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said. Read moreRio Ferdinand recalls rejecting Barca move to remain at Man UnitedFormer Manchester United and England defender Rio Ferdinand has revealed he turned down the chance to move to Barcelona in 2008, saying he believed it was too risky as the Catalan club were going through a period of transition. Read moreNearly 100 KVs, JNVs turn into quarantine, health facilities to fight coronavirusWith the number of Coronavirus patients and suspects rising, nearly hundred of the HRD ministry-run Kendriya Vidyalayas (KVs) and Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas (JNVs) have turned into quarantine centres and health facilities while these two organizations have identified more buildings which can be used by health authorities incase there is need to isolate more people. Read more Smriti Irani stitches reusable masks at home. You can make them tooSeveral videos and photos circulating on social media show Corona Warriors who are dedicating their time to make face masks at home. Union Minister Smriti Irani is among them. Read moreFact check: 5G does NOT cause Covid-19, please be rationalOf all the most random things that could be linked together, 5G and coronavirus tops the charts. There are a whole lot of terribly silly rumours doing the rounds of the internet about 5G being responsible for Covid-19. Read moreFeeling demotivated? These 10 quotes by iconic personalities and their journey will inspire youWe are living in the times of social distancing and it is not easy. The world battles a global pandemic and an indefinite lockdown as of now and our day-to-day life has changed at so many levels. Read moreWatch: ‘Some even resigned...’: Safdarjang Hospital doctor flays attack on medics||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-vital-to-keep-warships-free-of-covid-19-says-navy-chief-and-all-the-latest-news/story-gKHKAAlDwrQqvTAvP5LkbK.html
09-04-2020||India||ICMR updates testing strategy for Covid-19||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Thursday updated its testing strategy for Covid-19 that now affected almost 6,000 people in the country. According to the revised strategy, “asymptomatic direct and high-risk contacts of a confirmed case should be tested once between days 5 and day 14 of coming in his/her contact”.It also brought under the testing protocol all symptomatic individuals who have undertaken international travel in the last 14 days. All symptomatic contacts of laboratory confirmed cases will also have to be tested. Follow coronavirus latest updates here.The new strategy will also cover all symptomatic health care workers and all patients with Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (fever and cough and/or shortness of breath), the ICMR said. In hotspots/cluster (as designated by the Union ministry of health and family welfare) in large migration gatherings/evacuees centres, all symptomatic ILI (fever, cough, sore throat, runny nose) will have to be tested within 7 days of illness (Real-time polymerase chain reaction or rRT-PCR) After 7 days of illness, the ICMR suggested an antibody test (If negative, confirmed by rRT-PCR).There are 139 government laboratories and 65 private ones that are currently authorised to carry out tests for Covid-19. Private labs have started testing only recently.Earlier Thursday, the ICMR that it won’t recommend hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) medicine for Covid-19 patients unless tests show satisfactory results.ICMR’s top scientist Raman Gangakhedkar once again reiterated his statement that India has still not entered the third stage (or community transmission) of Covid-19 outbreak.There has been a huge demand for Hydroxychloroquine after preliminary trials in China suggested it boosted recovery and lowered the severity of the coronavirus disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-updates-testing-strategy-for-covid-19/story-gXlpBcqi40wEiL3QAXFqZL.html
09-04-2020||India||Battle against Covid-19 takes political turn in Bengal as BJP, TMC trade barbs||Perhaps unlike any other state, Bengal’s battle against Covid-19, both with regard to prevention and cure of the disease and providing relief during the lockdown, has turned political, with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Trinamool Congress (TMC) trading barbs on a daily basis.Over the past one week, senior BJP leaders, including state president Dilip Ghosh, union minister Babul Supriyo, Rajya Sabha MP Swapan Dasgupta and BJP’s IT cell’s national head Amit Malviya took to social media to criticize the Mamata Banerjee-led government on a range of issues, including politicizing relief work, faulty implementation of the lockdown and suppressing data with regard to the number of Covid19 patients. In contrast, the Left, reserved all their praise for the Left-run Kerala government, and has kept itself from criticizing the Bengal government, saying that they wouldn’t bring politics into times of a national disaster. In response, when the Left sent Mamata a letter suggesting some measures, she promptly invited the Left leaders for a detailed discussion at the state secretariat on April 7. Supriyo, who recently made a series of social media posts over the past few days targeting the state government, wrote in one of his tweets that “WB Govt is into serious hara-kiri” and in another wrote, “WB under #TMchhi is lying thru their teeth!”The ‘pinned tweet’ in Supriyo’s account, posted on April 7, says, Truth of @MamataOfficialji’s regime in WB. Every1 is complaining • Nurses, Doctors spilling beans on condition of Anonymity • And, if there is so much smoke, Didi must b playing with Fire @AmitShah @PMOIndia @JPNadda @BJP4India #Covid_19.” This post also had a video attached which said “Mamata Banerjee is doing what China did to the world.”Supriyo argued that he was doing all these “NOT FOR POLITICS - NOT TO SCORE ANY POLITICAL POINTS ON @MamataOfficial but FOR the people of Bengal because I am OF THEM - BY them & therefore remain committed to the larger picture!”On April 7, Dasgupta shared on Twitter the photo of a text that he claimed to be “a copy of a message circulated on a WhatsApp group of senior bureaucrats in W Bengal”. The photo attached to this tweet read: “To all DMs, DNOs and Div Com – District Magistrates are advised not to respond to any query or message from officers of GoI. They should not give any report to anybody in GoI directly. In case of health related matters the concerned officer may be politely advised to contact principal secretary health and in case of queries on lockdown measures the officer may be advised to contact the chief secretary.”Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, on the other hand, skipped one of the two video conferences that PM Modi held with chief ministers of different states, twice put the entire blame on the Centre for Tablighi Jamaat’s March 15 event at Nizamuddin Markaz in New Delhi, repeatedly accused the Centre of not providing the state with adequate protective gears, masks and sanitizers for those in the frontline of battling Covid-19 and also of holding on to the state’s legitimate dues. “I am sorry to say that the IT cell of a political party is spreading fake news,” she said on April 6, though without naming BJP. At the same breath, while drawing an oblique reference to the ‘9 pm 9-min’ show of April 5, she said, “Those who have hit the streets with kansar (a musical instrument used in religious events) and ghonta (bells) are misleading the people. This is not the time for politics.” “The Centre is not helping at all. We are doing everything on our own,” she said on April 6.Her nephew and TMC youth wing chief Abhishek Banerjee was more direct while criticizing the ‘9 pm 9-min’ show. In a tweet on the night of April 5, he wrote, “With the firecrackers, fancy diyas & sky lanterns, we have become the first ever Nation to celebrate a pandemic #COVID19 I am also contemplating how many actually followed the norms of #lockdown to gear up for this. What was being preached: self-isolation or self-destruction?”While Mamata Banerjee turned down the Centre’s request to let jute mills and tea gardens functions, Supyiyo took digs at the state government for exempting flower, beetle leaves and sweet shops from the lockdown. “Opening up Flowers, Paan, Sweet Shops! R U kidding me?” Supriyo wrote on Twitter on April 8.Political analysts Amal Mukhopadhyay said, “Both the parties are trying to exploit the situation in their own interest. This is extremely unfortunate and undesirable. This is absolutely not the time for a blame game. I would appeal to them to practice restraint.” Incidentally, BJP emerged as TMC’s principal challenger in 2019 by bagging 18 of the state’s 42 Lok Sabha seats against 22 won by TMC. The state-wide civic elections in more than 100 municipal bodies are due in May-June and the Assembly elections are due in 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/battle-against-covid-19-takes-political-turn-in-bengal-as-bjp-tmc-trade-barbs/story-QbOL0xrarBNItgEBZnG45K.html
09-04-2020||India||Punjab thief coughs in court, judge sends him to doc; tests Covid-19 +ve||Seventeen policemen were placed under quarantine in Ludhiana on Thursday, two days after a thief they arrested tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The station house officer (SHO) of the local Focal Point police station was among those quarantined after the vehicle thief, Saurav Sehgal, 25, was caught and produced in a court on April 5. He was put in jail for a day at the Jeevan Nagar police post.Two local residents who had helped the police in arresting Sehgal and 11 of the thief’s family members were also quarantined in the city’s Ganesh Nagar locality.On April 6, the duty magistrate found Sehgal had a fever and cough and asked the police to put both the accused through a medical examination before sending them to judicial custody.The duty magistrate and court staff have now been asked to go into self-isolation as a preventive measure.SEARCH ON FOR ACCOMPLICEThe police are searching for Sehgal’s accomplice, Navjot Singh, 25, of Jhabewal village, who was also involved in snatchings, and escaped from the civil hospital when they were taken for the medical examination.Assistant sub inspector Gurmeet Singh said Sehgal was unwell but Navjot looked fit. “The thief was sent to the isolation ward but the moment I opened Navjot’s handcuffs, he pushed me and fled,” the ASI said.A case was registered against him under Section 224 of the Indian Penal Code.CONTACT TRACINGTen police personnel, including three ASIs, two head constables, two constables and two home guards of Jeevan Nagar police post, had come in contact with Sehgal on April 5 and 6. The thieves were brought to the Focal Point police station for clicking a picture to be released with the press note. It was here that they came in contact with inspector Mohammad Jamil and a head constable.The accused were taken to court and the civil hospital by three police personnel, including two ASIs and a home guard. Two constables, including a policewoman, came in contact with the accused while recording their fingerprints.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/17-cops-quarantined-in-punjab-s-ludhiana-after-thief-tests-covid-19-positive/story-qrzrz1KeZZMQLvwx4W54BK.html
09-04-2020||India||Amid Covid-19 pandemic, Bombay HC tells prisoner he is safer in jail, refuses bail||The Bombay high court on Thursday refused to grant bail to a murder accused who sought to be released from Mumbai’s Taloja jail due to the Covid -9 outbreak. The prisoner claimed that as there were allegedly two cases of inmates being infected with the virus hence sought bail and cited the Supreme Court’s direction to decongest jails. But the court said that due to the rising cases of Covid-19 infections in the city, the man was safer in the jail as the virus could be better contained there and the jails were well equipped to deal with the same.Also read: Covid-19: Mumbai identifies 21 hotspots, imposes curfew-like restrictionsJustice Gautam Patel while hearing the bail application of Jitendra Mishra lodged in Taloja jail was informed by advocate Shailendra Singh and advocate Aashish Shukla that bail was being sought based on the directions of the Supreme Court to decongest jails and not on merit.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.Singh submitted that Mishra had been in Taloja jail for the last 18 months. After a prisoner was released based on the SC directions, Mishra’s family got to know that there were two cases of Covid-19 persons in the jail and hence wanted Mishra to be released on bail for his safety and well-being. However, chief public prosecutor Deepak Thakeray refuted the claims about the infected persons and said that there was no communication from the jail authorities regarding the same and opposed the application.After hearing the submissions justice Patel observed, “You are not aware of the situation in the city where entire areas have been sealed to contain the spread of the virus.”While referring to the G-South ward and Worli Naka that had been sealed after cases of coronavirus infected persons surfaced, Patel told Mishra, “You are safer in the jail than in your home in Ghatkopar. The jails are better equipped to contain the spread of the virus and there is no point in coming out on bail and becoming more susceptible to the virus or spreading it in the family.”Patel, however, said that further hearing could take place before the regular court after the lockdown ends.Maharashtra recorded 162 new Covid-19 cases since Wednesday night, taking the count in the state to 1297 Thursday morning. Mumbai has reported the majority of the case at 857.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-covid-19-pandemic-bombay-hc-tells-prisoner-he-is-safer-in-jail-refuses-bail/story-eok2gxaseYFeWmCarZ4imL.html
09-04-2020||India||Vital to keep warships free of Covid-19, says Navy chief||At a time when the US Navy is grappling with a surge in Covid-19 cases, Indian Navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh stressed that it is vital to ensure that operational assets such as warships and submarines remain free of the virus and the navy is combat ready at all times.In a 15-minute video message to naval personnel, Singh said, “It is a very difficult task because physical distancing on board warships, especially submarines, is a great challenge… We have to keep our guard up and retain our sights on being combat ready.”Scores of sailors on board aircraft carrier USS Theodore Roosevelt have tested positive for the disease, and its commanding officer, Captain Brett Crozier, was fired after the leak of a scathing letter he wrote to the navy’s leadership about the unfolding health crisis on his warship. Acting secretary of the US Navy Thomas Modly resigned earlier this week after delivering a controversial speech to the Theodore Roosevelt crew in which he was critical of Crozier.French aircraft carrier Charles de Gaulle has cut short a deployment and is returning to its home port in Toulon with around 40 sailors showing Covid-19 symptoms.As the coronavirus pandemic sweeps across the world, Singh told his men that while they should hope for the best, the navy should plan for the worst.“We need to be ready for the worst-case scenario and to my mind, it will be a long battle,” the navy chief said.He said the deadly virus posed a real, immediate and unprecedented danger and the navy should stay prepared for challenging times ahead.“Each one of us has put our shoulder to the wheel in these very difficult times. But the challenge will only intensify in the days and weeks ahead. And it will require us to further augment our preparedness. It can no longer be business as usual and we will have to take concrete measures so that we are prepared to tackle the full onslaught of this deadly virus,” Singh said.The navy chief said it is imperative to redouble efforts to ensure that navy personnel and their families stay safe and healthy. “We are the last bastion in this fight. And if we who are supposed to be the care givers become care seekers, it will lead to a big problem,” Singh said.The navy chief said all commands of the navy have started offering battlefield nursing assistant training to non-medical personnel and the initiative would help if casualties increased .Singh said even if the countrywide lockdown were to lifted, movement of naval personnel would be permitted only in a deliberate and coordinated fashion. “Even if it is delayed, it’s fine. But we won’t do anything a rush,” he said. Movement of military personnel is currently on hold to prevent the spread of infection.He said the navy is currently focused on work related to national security, health services and essential services. “Other tasks that involved the gathering of people have stopped. I know a lot of you are separated from your loved ones and families and many have parents in villages where they may need care and help. I know you are facing many difficulties. But I can say with satisfaction that the naval community has risen to the occasion effectively,” Singh said, adding that navy would have to intensify its efforts if the situation worsened.He said the lockdown should enable naval personnel to “unlock their true potential.”The armed forces have taken a raft of preventive measures to stop the spread of the infection within their ranks. These include cancellation of all non-essential training, conferences and travel; a freeze on postings and foreign assignments; avoiding any assembly that involves more than 50 personnel; postponing of all courses for officers; and encouraging personnel to work from home wherever possible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vital-to-keep-warships-free-of-covid-19-navy-chief/story-4wAm72shRP1gufCn90vhLN.html
09-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Mumbai identifies about 200 hotspots, imposes curfew-like restrictions||About 200 hotspots of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) have been identified in Mumbai and Mumbai suburbs and curfew-like restrictions imposed in these places to contain the fast-spreading viral infection, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said on Thursday.The stringent restrictions will come into effect immediately and continue till further orders. No one will be allowed to venture out of their houses in these hotspots and essential items will be home-delivered, authorities decided.The move came a day after Delhi announced stringent restrictions in 23 containment zones and Uttar Pradesh did so for over 100 hotspots. People have been barred from stepping outside in these areas, which have been sealed, and essentials are being home-delivered . Frontline workers, such as health care staff and doctors, are exempt.Mumbai has already identified 381 “containment zones” to fight the disease and take necessary steps to contain the spread of the infection. On Thursday, the civic body internally categorised areas inside these places into red (high risk), orange (moderate risk) and blue (low risk) zones for better management of resources and strict enforcement of the lockdown guidelines.“In these red zones, there will be no movement in or out (to be enforced with police help and ward assistance) to prevent further spread of the infection to other areas,” municipal commissioner Praveen Pardeshi said.Vegetable markets in these areas will be closed down as authorities say these are leading to crowding. The government is also expected to strengthen security for the effective implementation of the lockdown. “Barring medical shops, everything else would be shut in the hotspots we have identified in Mumbai. It would not be possible to contain the spread in areas like Dharavi without imposing stricter restrictions as the next eight days are crucial,” said school education minister Varsha Gaikwad, a legislator from Dharavi.Maharashtra has the highest number of Covid-19 cases (1,297 as of Thursday morning) and fatalities (72) in the country. Mumbai accounts for 857 of these cases. With 14 positive patients and three deaths, the densely populated Dharavi is one of the hot spots in the city.In Mumbai, a “containment zone” is classified as one if a single person from the area is tested positive for Covid-19. The patient’s building and at least four to five adjoining buildings on all sides will be in this zone, depending on the area’s population density. Hotspots, on the other hand, are identified on a case to case basis, if and when civic authorities see a dramatic rise in cases in one location, building, or an area inside a “containment zone”. “We are identifying hotspots for better mobilisation of resources to such areas... screening in a hotspot is happening rigorously,” a senior BMC official said..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-mumbai-identifies-21-hotspots-imposes-curfew-like-restrictions/story-YfWtVyLgWjmH0Yd0P9uKMP.html
09-04-2020||India||In Pak script for Kashmir, 230 terrorists in waiting mode at the border||With the Indian security forces stretched in Jammu and Kashmir in aid of civil administration to fight coronavirus spread, Pakistan-based terror groups have activated launch pads across the Line of Control (LoC) in Kashmir and the border in Jammu to infiltrate 230 terrorists over the next few weeks and months.The batch of five terrorists killed on Sunday in a close-quarters battle with the army’s Special Forces commandos was among the first in recent weeks. Jammu and Kashmir police chief Dilbagh Singh told HT soon after that there were many more at the terror launch pads.India’s national security planners have put a figure to this effort across the border to create a summer of discontent in the Kashmir valley.There are around 160 terrorists belonging to Lashkar-e-Tayyiba (LeT), Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) and Hizbul Mujahideen (HM) are ready to infiltrate into the Valley from across the LoC in Kashmir, people tasked with the analysis of intelligence about terror movements and camps told HT.In the Jammu sector along the international border, around 70 armed and trained terrorists are at the launch pads to infiltrate into this area through unfenced riverine and nullahs.Terror Infiltration RoutesKashmir SectorGurez, Machchil, Keran, Tangdhar, Naugam and Uri Jammu SectorJourian, Hira Nagar, Kathua, Samba and JammuRajouri SectorPoonch, Krishna Ghati, Bhimber Gali, Sunderbani and NausheraAccording to counter-terror operatives, Jaish-e-Mohammed terrorists are camping at Samani-Bhimber and Dudhnial launch pads in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) and waiting for the first opportunity to infiltrate into J&K. Similarly, LeT has been sending its terrorist cadre to Leepa and Kel launching pads in Leepa Valley and Neelum Valley respectively to infiltrate into the Valley.As part of its plan to intensify infiltration for terror strikes in J&K, the JeM terror group have been consolidating their trained cadre across the international border in Sialkot sector since February.Also Read: Spike in ceasefire violations by Pakistan amid Covid outbreakIntelligence inputs reveal that a group of armed JeM jihadists arrived at their Markaz in village Mundeke, Tehsil Daska in Sialkot district on 11 February 2020.Home Ministry officials say that there were 133 successful infiltration events along the LoC and IB in 2019. Most of the cross overs took place between April and September 2019.During January-February 2020, the Indian security forces managed to arrest 48 jihadists or overground workers and neutralize 24 terrorists including three foreign nationals.“The 5 April Keran sector encounter in which five terrorists were killed reveals that the LeT has big plans to infiltrate from the Kupwara sector,” one home ministry official said.The infiltration from Pakistan takes place in different sectors: Gurez, Machchil, Keran, Tangdhar, Naugam and Uri in Kashmir sector; Poonch, Krishna Ghati, Bhimber Gali, Sunderbani and Naushera in Rajouri sector; Jourian, Hira Nagar, Kathua, Samba and Jammu in Jammu sector.Counter-terror operatives said the main outfits involved in infiltration in recent years have been the Jaish, Lashkar and the Hizbul Mujahideen. But they have been picking up signals that Rawalpindi GHQ intends to revive Harkat-ul-Jihad-e-Islami (HUJI) in Sialkot, Punjab and Kotli region of Pakistan-occupied Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-pak-script-for-kashmir-230-terrorists-in-waiting-mode-at-the-border/story-C6y1GGHlGFltGornOR9pmL.html
09-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Uttarakhand books 3 more Tablighi Jamaat members for ‘attempt to murder’||Three more Jamaatis were booked for ‘attempt to murder’ in two different cases after they failed to present themselves before the authorities for a health check-up and quarantine, a top Uttarakhand police office said Thursday.Two of them were booked in a single case and one in another. Two others were booked earlier on Tuesday. “Haridwar police booked the two Jamaatis for attempt to murder in two separate cases in the district after finding them hiding post 24 hour ultimatum given by police to all jamaatis in the state on Sunday evening to present themselves before administration for medical examination and quarantine,” said Ashok Kumar, director general (law & order) Uttarakhand police.Follow coronavirus live updates here.After the 24-hour ultimatum ended on Monday evening Uttarakhand police on Tuesday started booking Jamaatis who were still hiding, for ‘attempt to murder.Uttarakhand so far has reported 35 Covid-19 cases. Out of the 35 cases, 26 had attended Jamaat functions in Delhi and elsewhere. The two arrested in Haridwar had come in contact with them. Following the significant number of positive cases among Jamaat members, the administration has also put restrictions on public movement in certain areas of the state where Jamaatis have tested positive.On Tuesday police had booked two jamaatis for attempt to murder in two separate cases in Roorkee and Haridwar. In a video message on Sunday evening, Uttarakhand’s director general of police (DGP), Anil Kumar Raturi had asked the Jamaatis to come out by Monday evening and present themselves before administration for required medical examination and quarantine for checking the spread of Covid-19. He had warned them that they would be booked for attempt to murder or murder if they don’t come forward for tests.Uttarakhand police have so far identified 708 members of the Jamaat including 383 hailing from the state who had gone to other states to attend congregations and 325 from other states who had come to Uttarakhand to attend congregations after March 1. Meanwhile, Uttarakhand police registered 69 new cases and arrested 257 people for alleged violation of the lockdown, said Ashok Kumar.The new cases and arrests have taken the total to 1155 cases with 4,692 arrests in them so far since March 23 when the lockdown was implemented in Uttarakhand.Kumar said police have also challaned 13,768 vehicles and seized 3,637 vehicles under the Motor Vehicle Act during the lockdown. A total of Rs 64.06 lakhs fine was also imposed on the vehicle owners, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-uttarakhand-books-3-more-tablighi-jamaat-members-for-attempt-to-murder/story-A7dSk1lsh1WO6vXUWhL4tK.html
09-04-2020||India||‘Misbehaviour with healthcare staff won’t be tolerated’: Kejriwal after assault on 2 doctors||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday issued a stern warning to those misbehaving with doctors and other healthcare personnel battling Covid-19 in the national capital and said strict action would be taken if anyone is found assaulting or attacking frontline workers. Asking Delhiites to be grateful to all frontline health workers who were tackling the outbreak of the deadly coronavirus disease, the chief minister said, “The Delhi government will take strictest action against those misbehaving with healthcare personnel. I would like to warn people who misbehave with doctors or nurses that it won’t be tolerated. They’ll be given strictest punishment. People involved in such crimes will not be spared,” Kejriwal said. The chief minister was referring to the incident where two lady doctors of Safdarjung Hospital were allegedly assaulted by their neighbour in Gautam Nagar last evening. The Delhi Police arrested a 42-year-old man late on Wednesday evening for allegedly assaulting two women resident doctors of Safdarjung Hospital after accusing them of “spreading” Covid-19 in Gautam Nagar area. The police arrested the man on the complaint of one of the doctors, a Gautam Nagar area resident, who had stepped out with her sister to buy fruits and vegetables. A case has been registered at the Hauz Khas police station.In the online briefing, Kejriwal said 21 areas had been identified as containment zones in the national capital and people were not being allowed to enter or exit these areas.In Delhi, the total number of coronavirus positive cases has risen to 699 and the containment zones have been identified to prevent the infection from spreading further. Residents in the notified areas have been prevented from stepping out of their homes even for buying of essentials including medicines and groceries. The district administration will provide essential items through door-to-door home delivery services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/misbehaviour-with-healthcare-staff-won-t-be-tolerated-kejriwal-after-assault-on-women-doctors/story-quTMawofbiXkbAqFfGx4SM.html
09-04-2020||India||Shimla district admin launches helpline for mental health issues during lockdown||The district administration has launched helplines for people who may face any mental health issue due to the ongoing lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus.“It is important to redress the mental issues during the lockdown. We are under lockdown and behavioural issues are very important under such situations,” said Shimla deputy commissioner Amit Kashyap.More calls are pouring in Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital here for consultation over behavioural changes. “We are receiving nearly 48 calls at our department from people facing mental illness,” said Dr Dinesh Dutt, head of psychiatry department at IGMC.” There is a significant number of callers who are facing alcohol withdrawal symptoms. The number of alcoholics and drug addicts has increased in the state over the years,” he said.We get calls from drug addicts seeking help, he said adding that an equal number of people are calling up for remedies on depression and anxiety. The health staff and frontline workers are also being sensitised on mental health issues through social networking sites and web telecasting.World Health Organization had warned that the coronavirus crisis and the restrictive measures that many countries are taking to contain the outbreak can have a negative impact on people’s health and well being.The helpline which contains phone numbers of 18 counsellors functions in two shifts— from 10 am to 1.30 pm and from 1.30 pm to 5 pm.The helpline numbers are 7876146759, 88942368808, 7831817008, 9817062826, 9459035474, 7018322080, 9805277245, 8219361687, 8219395023, 9318502305, 7876146759, 9882627860, 8091078898, 7018437967, 9882179272, 8178142392, 7018588179, 9805958003, 9418212159.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/shimla-district-admn-launches-helpline-for-mental-health-issues-during-lockdown/story-cbXVwAY21EvMHGSO7UaR8K.html
09-04-2020||India||World heading to biggest economic crisis since the Great Depression, warns IMF||The International Monetary Fund has confirmed the fears that the devastation caused by the coronavirus was pushing the world into a deep economic crisis which is likely to be the worst-ever since the Great Depression- the worst economic downturn in the history that started in the US in 1929 and lasted ten years with varying degrees of economic devastations in almost every country in the world.The IMF said global growth was going to turn negative in 2020 with 170 out of the 180 member countries likely to register a slide in per capita income. It also said that massive fiscal stimulus from governments will be required to get the economies going.“The global coronavirus pandemic is causing an economic crisis unlike any in the past century and will require a massive response to help in the recovery,” IMF chief Kristalina Georgieva said on Thursday.“In fact, we anticipate the worst economic fallout since the Great Depression,” she added.IMF official said the international body only expects a “partial recovery” next year, and which needed to be aided with government-funded “lifelines” for businesses and households if the hope of a recovery were to be entertained.She added that the worst of coronavirus pandemic was not over adding more uncertainty to the projection of an economic future.Click Here for Latest Reports on CoronavirusIMF warning comes amid indications that India’s GDP growth for the current fiscal will likely slow down to 4.8 per cent according to a UN report which also warned of significant adverse global economic impact of the pandemic that has sickened over 1.5 million worldwide. The report also added that the economic fallout could increase global poverty by as much a half a billion.The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) also made a similar prediction on Thursday saying the global economy was heading into recession in 2020 as the Covid-19 pandemic wrecks havoc on global production, supply chains, trade and tourism.Indian government has announced a fiscal package worth ₹1.75 lakh crore to mitigate against the all-round economic losses caused by the pandemic and another similar package is expected to be announced soon.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19The government also sanctioned an additional Rs 15,000 crores for as India’s Covid-19 emergency response and health system preparedness package, said the health ministry.The IMF is set to release its World Economic Outlook for this year and next on Tuesday. It is expected to be grim.“The bleak outlook applies to advanced and developing economies alike. This crisis knows no boundaries. Everybody hurts,” Georgieva said.Georgieva said that about $100 billion of investments had been withdrawn from the emerging markets, which was three times more than the investments that had fled during the global financial crisis of 2008.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-heading-to-biggest-economic-crisis-since-the-great-depression-warns-imf/story-ED4io2tZoscnhzxTj1Y5LK.html
09-04-2020||India||Kerala CM flags Covid-19 danger for migrant workers in UAE, seeks PM Modi’s intervention||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday drew the attention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to the plight of migrant works from the state in the United Arab Emirates caught in the coronavirus pandemic, ANI reported.He requested Modi to take up the matter with the UAE government to ensure that the workers are taken care of.The United Arab Emirates has recorded more than 2,000 positive cases of coronavirus and 12 deaths, according to AFP.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.“Out of the 2.8 million Indian migrants in UAE, 1 million are from Kerala. It is learned that the situation in Dubai is worsening. We are receiving number of complaints of inadequate isolation and quarantine facilities and apprehensions are raised about the imminent community spread of the disease,” Vijayan wrote.“….majority of Keralites are blue collar workers and living in crowded facilities in Dubai and therefore the probability of spreading of the disease is very high…. I would request that this matter be taken up with the UAE government urgently so as to ensure adequate food, medicines, quarantine and emergency service facilities to Indian diaspora in Dubai,” the letter said.Prime Minister Modi shares a great rapport with UAE’s Crown Prince Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.In August last year, he was conferred the Order of Zayed, UAE’s highest civilian award, by the Crown Prince who also expressed gratitude to his “brother” for visiting “his second home” and for his efforts to boost bilateral ties India and the UAE.The UAE is India’s third-largest trade partner with annual bilateral trade of about $60 billion. It is also the fourth-largest exporter of crude oil to India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-cm-flags-covid-19-danger-for-migrant-workers-in-uae-seeks-pm-modi-s-intervention/story-eUgLtzaU6Yx7lsxA3qNKnI.html
09-04-2020||India||Jharkhand CM Soren cites a crisis to underscore ‘strength of federalism’ in India||Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren on Wednesday cited a silver lining in the country’s efforts to battle the unprecedented crisis presented by the coronavirus outbreak while acknowledging that the decision on lifting of the nationwide lockdown after its completion on April 14 was not an easy decision to make.Soren lauded the “strength of federalism” displayed by the cooperation among different states especially in dealing with the migrant crisis engendered by the announcement of 21-day national lockdown.Hundreds of thousands of migrant workers were left without work or money after businesses in the unorganised sector, including construction, were ordered to shut shop temporarily in line with the lockdown provisions that came into effect on March 25. Several of these migrants started a long march home on foot and had to be accommodated into temporary relief camps set up by different states to provide them food, shelter, sanitation and medical care.The chief ministers of different states coordinated on the issue of migrants to ensure they were not left unattended. Soren referred to this while talking about the “strength of federalism”.“Strength of federalism has come to the fore in fight against Covid-19 pandemic,” PTI quoted Soren as saying. He added that chief ministers were “coordinating with each other” to help out people stranded outside their home state.Jharkhand, one of the last Indian states to report a positive case of coronavirus infection, is home to several of these migrants who were left stranded in different states including Maharashtra, Delhi, West Bengal, Karnataka and Telangana. Most states set up facilities to ensure that none of the workers went hungry and they also offered cash relief to the daily wagers registered in their respective states. The Central government, too, announced several measures including cash transfers to additional free ration under the food security scheme to safeguard the poor from loss of income during the current crisis.Soren’s endorsement of cooperative federalism comes at a time when the Centre and the states have held several rounds of consultations and mostly worked in tandem to enforcement measures to contain the outbreak of the pandemic.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, too, lauded the work done by states while states that they were working in close coordination with the Centre.PM Modi is set to have another meeting with chief ministers of states on Saturday, March 11, when a decision on the extension of lockdown could be taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-cm-soren-cites-a-crisis-to-underscore-strength-of-federalism-in-india/story-SSyrFT7l8CEMl98DG3BmaN.html
09-04-2020||India||Govt sanctions Rs 15,000 crore package for states to combat Covid-19||The Centre on Thursday sanctioned Rs 15,000 crore to the states to fight the coronavirus pandemic that has claimed 166 lives in the country.Out of the total corpus, Rs 7, 774 crore will be utilised for Covid-19 emergency response and rest for medium-term support (1-4years) to be provided under mission mode approach.The focus areas will be: development of diagnostics, covid-19 dedicated treatment facilities, centralised procurement of essential medical equipment and drugs required for treatment of infected patients, strengthen and build resilient national and state health systems to support prevention and preparedness for future disease outbreaks.Also read: With 16 fatalities, this state is 2nd after Maharashtra in Covid-19 deathsThe centre has constituted 10 high-level multi-disciplinary central teams to help states from where high number of cases is being reported. The teams have been rushed to Bihar, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, and Uttar Pradesh, to aid them in containment preparedness, hospital preparedness and ventilator management. Along with other central government ministries, the railway ministry has also pitched in by offering to convert 5000 coaches into isolation facilities that would give 80,000 additional beds. Of the 5000 coaches, 3250 coaches have been already converted into isolation facilities. “Apart from that the railways has earmarked and deployed at least 2,500 doctors, 35,000 paramedics, 586 health units, 45 sub-divisional hospitals, 56 divisional hospitals, 8 production unit hospitals and 16 zonal hospitals,” said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, health ministry.India is currently under a three-week nationwide lockdown till April 14 to stem the spread of the infection.Also read| ‘Not compulsory to give hydroxychloroquine to Covid-19 patients, still experimenting’: ICMREarlier today, the Reserve Bank of India, in its Monetary Policy Report, said the outlook for India’s economic recovery has been sharply altered by the coronavirus outbreak.“Prior to the outbreak of Covid-19, the outlook for growth for 2020-21 was looking up. The Covid-19 pandemic has drastically altered this outlook. The global economy is expected to slump into recession in 2020, as post-Covid projections indicate,” the RBI said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-sanctions-rs-15-000-crore-package-for-states-to-combat-covid-19/story-EBbGLjVIAEodxmkE5LXA1L.html
09-04-2020||India||In J&K, those in militant’s funeral booked for flouting ban on gathering||Police have registered a case against the people, who assembled at Saidpora during the funeral of a local Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) militant killed in Sopore in south Kashmir during an encounter on Wednesday, on charges of violating the Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) administration’s order to enforce a ban on social gathering in a bid to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.The villagers took out a big funeral procession after the body of the 23-year-old JeM militant, Sajjad Nawab Dar, a resident of Saidpora, was handed over to his family members. The pictures of the funeral went viral on social media and many questioned about the violation of social distancing norms during the viral outbreak.Sopore police authorities registered a case late Wednesday evening against the people who participated in the funeral, ignoring the government advisory about the ban on social gathering due to Covid-19 outbreak. A police spokesman said that a First Information Report (FIR) was filed against the people who attended Dar’s funeral in violation of the ban on social gathering, but it was unclear whether any arrest was made for flouting the order.“Dar’s next of kin had given a written undertaking to adhere to social distancing when his body was handed over to them. An investigation has started and the offenders will be dealt with strictly as per the law,” the spokesman said.The J&K administration has been laying emphasis on social distancing amid growing Covid-19 cases in the Union Territory.Altogether 158 people tested Covid-19 positive in J&K and four people have died so far. Two persons have tested Covid-19 positive in Sopore town as well.Dar was killed during an encounter at Gulabad, which is located about 4km away from his native village, Saidpora. Dar joined militancy in 2018 and he was active in Sopore and adjoining areas as a local JeM commander, the police said.Three encounters took place in Kashmir in the past one week, where 10 militants and five militants were killed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-registers-case-against-those-who-attended-jem-militant-s-funeral/story-GUq7ygLPwUby4oYGTzg36I.html
09-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5 PM: Make assaults on medicos non-bailable offence, docs tell Amit Shah and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19: Make assaults on medicos non-bailable offence, doctors tell Amit ShahThe Federation of Resident Doctors Association (FORDA) has demanded that assaults on doctors be treated as non-bailable offence and that the Centre brings in a law for the medical fraternity amid rising incidents of violence at a time when they are in the frontline of the fight against Covid-19. Read moreBengali Market becomes first Covid-19 containment zone in Lutyens’ DelhiThe upscale neighbourhood made its way to the list after a surveillance team of the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) found 35 workers of a famous pastry shop living under “unhygienic conditions” violating social-distancing norms. Read moreIndia steps up medical diplomacy, flies plane loads of medicines to friendsIndia has begun sending consignments of life-saving drugs as gifts to neighbouring countries to help them fight the coronavirus pandemic, South Block officials said on Thursday. Read moreCovid-19 cases near 4,500 in Pakistan, but Imran Khan won’t impose total lockdownThe number of cases affected by coronavirus disease Covid-19 in Pakistan rose to 4,332 on Thursday, with Prime Minister Imran Khan expressing concern that the situation “can further deteriorate”. Read moreGood Friday 2020: Teachings and quotes by Jesus Christ to remember this Holy FridayAccording to the Gospel, Jesus Christ was found guilty of having proclaimed himself to be the King of Jews. Judas Iscariot, one of Jesus’ disciples, betrayed him that led to his arrest, merciless torture and crucifixion. Read moreKia Telluride SUV bags 2020 World Car Of The Year honourKia has bagged the bragging rights for being adjudged the makers of the world’s best car with its Telluride SUV winning the much-coveted 2020 World Car of the Year award. Read moreTalos Research: Apple iPhones, Samsung phones and others fooled 80% of the time with fake fingerprintsAs we all get used to the ‘work from home’ lifestyle, the security of gadgets, specially smartphones have become a focus point for companies. Read more93 offers for 28 ICC events, BCCI non-committalEven as the International Cricket Council (ICC) waits to see if the year-ending T20 World Cup can be staged as per schedule, there has been some progress in efforts to find bidders to host ICC events for the proposed 2023-31 rights cycle.Read moreIrrfan Khan supports Friday fast for the cause of farmers on April 10: ‘I believe we need to change from the roots’Irrfan Khan has shown his support for the cause of farmers and daily wage workers who are among those worst hit by the nationwide lockdown amid coronavirus outbreak. Read moreWatch| ‘Surviving on cold food’: Stranded Indian students in US seek govt’s help for evacuation||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5-pm-make-assaults-on-medicos-non-bailable-offence-docs-tell-amit-shah-and-all-the-latest-news/story-qJmbY8W1VqiUJ2c3G7rPdN.html
09-04-2020||India||‘Not compulsory to give hydroxychloroquine to Covid-19 patients, still experimenting’: ICMR||The Indian Council of Medical Reserach (ICMR) has said that it won’t recommend hydroxychloroquine medicine for Covid-19 patients unless satisfactory results are seen during tests.“It is important to understand that this (hydroxychloroquine) medicine is not mandatory. Whether it will reduce the infection, will be known only after tests. The doctors are still testing it on symptomatic patients. ntil we get satisfactory results, we won’t recommend this to anyone,” said R Ganga Ketkar, scientist, ICMR.Ketkar once again reiterated his statement that India has still not entered the third stage (or community transmission) of Covid-19 outbreak.Hydroxychloroquine has emerged as the most sought-after medicine after preliminary trials in China suggested it boosted recovery and lowered the severity of the coronavirus disease.According to ICMR, hydroxychloroquine is recommended only to those asymptomatic healthcare workers involved in the care of suspected or confirmed cases of Covid-19 and asymptomatic household contacts of laboratory-confirmed cases.The government has ensured that there is no shortage of hydroxychloroquine in the country at present as well as in the future, Union Health Ministry Joint Secretary Lav Aggarwal said on Wednesday.“It is ensured that not only today even in future there will not be any lack of HCQ (hydroxychloroquine) as and when needed,” Aggarwal said during his daily press briefing in New Delhi.India on Wednesday cleared export of hydroxychloroquine to countries such as US and Brazil. It is also sending Covid-19 drugs to Bahrain, Germany, the UK, Bhutan, Bangladesh, Afghanistan, Nepal, Myanmar, Seychelles, Mauritius and some African countries. One of the early consignments, an Air India plane with 10 tonnes of medicine, was sent to Sri Lanka on Tuesday.India is also keeping a special watch on drug requirements of Gulf countries. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar is in touch with his counterparts in the Gulf.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-compulsory-to-give-hydroxychloroquine-to-covid-19-patients-still-experimenting-icmr/story-6CsTsW3FQ428DBfPwCZyeK.html
09-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Despite repatriation flights, some tourists stay back in Goa||It was an easy decision to make for Briton Andrew Taylor, a retired oil rig worker and a solo traveller to Goa amid the ongoing 21-day nationwide lockdown enforced since March 25 to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. He has chosen to stay back in Goa and even though he had the option to fly back home on one of the three repatriation flights that the United Kingdom (UK) government is planning to operate this week for stranded British nationals because of the pandemic.“I’m looking back at an alarming situation in London, as the city is reporting a growing number of Covid-19 positive cases daily. Truth be told, I feel safer in Goa,” Taylor, who is staying at Agonda village in south Goa, told Hindustan Times. Around 20,000 British nationals are stranded in India because of the lockdown, including some in Goa.The British government has arranged three repatriation flights from Goa this week and four others from Mumbai and Delhi, but the journey back home is expected to be a long-drawn process for many stranded in other parts of the country, as the wait list has run into thousands of passengers and travelling within India is out of bounds because of the lockdown.A few Britons have chosen to stay back in Goa, even though most of them are making frantic efforts to head back home for their family exigencies.“I’d rather stay back in Goa than fly out. I’ve got a place to stay here. Essential commodities aren’t in short supply. Many restaurants are open. The Goans are a caring and friendly lot. Besides, I don’t have my own place to stay in England and I’ll have to stay with my parents. I don’t want to put them at risk in case I get infected by SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19, during my return journey back home,” Josh Baxter, another tourist to Goa, said. “I’m hoping that the pandemic doesn’t worsen in India. If I get infected here, the healthcare facilities aren’t as good as the UK. A decision will be taken soon by the Indian government whether to lift the lockdown on April 14 or extend it further. Perhaps, I’ll wait until then and then take a call about my return trip,” he added.Usually, foreigners travelling to India visit other popular destinations such as Himachal Pradesh and Rajasthan. Goa has reported seven Covid-19 positive cases to date, but none of them is a foreigner. Also, the state is yet to report a single Covid-19 related death yet. The low Covid-19 positive case count is also a comforting thought for the stranded foreign tourists in Goa.“I’m living in Arambol, north Goa, with three people I befriended on my trip to Rajasthan. I came here with a girl I met in the hostel, where I was staying in Udaipur. My other two fellow travellers came from Jaipur. All of us met up at the airport in Jaipur on our way to Goa and now ended up staying together in Arambol. We’re having a nice time here and still undecided whether we’d like to return home soon. I’m from the northeastern part of England, my friend is from Oxford and my other friends are from Mexico and Germany. The situation is quite fluid. Besides, the price of a ticket on one of these repatriation flights is prohibitively expensive,” Charlotte Collins, another British tourist, said. The British government is charging upwards of £600 for a ticket on a repatriation flight to London, and then the passenger will be quarantined for 14 days upon their arrival there.Initially, when the lockdown started on March 25, the foreign tourists to Goa were wary. But the state government made adequate arrangements to allay their concerns. Hotels and guest houses have slashed their tariffs by half and essential commodities are being provided to many who were caught unaware of the lockdown. “The foreign tourists, who’re staying in Goa, have come some time ago. No one is targeting, as they’re not seen as a carrier of coronavirus,” Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant said. The Goa international airport at Dabolim has handled 19 relief flights, which flew back around 3,300 tourists back to their respective countries, including Russia, France, Germany, Sweden, Ireland, Ukraine, the Czech Republic, Kazakhstan, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-despite-the-option-of-repatriation-flights-some-tourists-choose-to-stay-back-in-goa/story-KwNCg24ojUNFV0pJdICalM.html
09-04-2020||India||Will summer halt Covid-19? Scientists say there are other factors||In a finding that has huge significance for India, where summer is just breaking, a prestigious scientific panel in the US said that high temperature is unlikely to significantly stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) without major public health interventions, such as personal protection and social distancing.The report is from the US National Academies of Sciences (NAS), which, on April 4, said Covid-19 can be spread just by talking or breathing, resulting in many countries, including India, to revise guidelines on masks. With countries currently experiencing summer, such as Australia and Iran, experiencing rapid virus spread, a decrease in cases with increase in humidity and temperature should not be assumed said the report, which examined virus survival in relation to temperature and humidity, and potential for seasonal reduction and resurgence of cases to provide scientific evidence for decision-making.Thus, while noting that “experimental studies show a relationship between higher temperatures and humidity levels, and reduced survival of SARS-Cov-2 in the laboratory, there are many other factors besides environmental temperature, humidity, and survival of the virus outside the host, that influence and determine transmission,” the report said in its summary. The report also calls for more research into the theme, including on various SARS-COV-2 strains. The new report, which was submitted to the White House on Tuesday, said that on current evidence and given the lack of host immunity globally, any reduction in transmission because of higher temperature and humidity may not lead to a significant decrease in disease spread without major interventions, such as personal protection and social distancing.“We cannot rely on summer to rescue us from coronavirus disease as temperature is just one of the many factors that affect transmission. Very hot climate may reduce cases by a small number in high population density areas as heat will destroy the virus faster. I’m hopeful it may do so to some extent in Dharavi, but since hotspots are typically in hospitals, malls and offices, which are often air-conditioned even in India, transmission is unlikely to end in summer without strong public health interventions,” said Dr Anurag Agrawal, director of the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, New Delhi.Other coronaviruses that cause potentially serious human illness, including both Sars-CoV and Mers-CoV that have caused outbreaks of severe acute respiratory syndrome and Middle-East respiratory syndrome in the past, have not demonstrated seasonality either. Indeed, a reading of the history of such illnesses shows that those that first emerged in winter, saw a second wave in summer - and vice versa. Some of the compounding factors that affect virus transmission are geography, population density, per capita income, access to testing, quality health care systems and human behavioural patterns, including mobility and migration.“There are many other factors that may influence virus spread and it is still too early to draw definitive conclusions without data on this novel virus in the real world. In the Indian context, the factors would include population density, difficulty of maintaining physical distancing in households where space is limited, inability and unfamiliarity with cough/sneeze etiquette, migrant labour returning home with the virus, and mingling of people even during the current lockdown,” said Dr V. Ramana Dhara, director, Indian Institute of Public Health, Hyderabad.With little evidence on how this new virus will behave, virologists are falling back on the behaviour of coronaviruses, particularly SARS-CoV, with which SARS-COV-2 shares the most similarity. Pandemic influenza strains have not exhibited the typical seasonal pattern of endemic and epidemic strains, the report said. “There have been 10 influenza pandemics in the past 250-plus years – two started in the northern hemisphere winter, three in the spring, two in the summer and three in the fall. All had a peak second wave approximately six months after the emergence of the virus in the human population, regardless of when the initial introduction occurred,” said the NAS report.“The second wave of the Spanish flu in 1918 was devastating for India, and even if temperature and humidity have some affect on transmission, it may not be as apparent because most people have no immunity to Sars-CoV-2, unlike pre-existing respiratory viruses against which is there is some degree of immunity,” said Dr Dhara.“In such a scenario, I would suggest a staggered exit to the lockdown where some people can return to work to restart economic activity because a hungry and malnourished population would be more susceptible to infections, including Covid-19,” added Dr Dhara.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-summer-halt-covid-19-scientists-say-there-are-other-factors/story-QNofFJuZtHkdE9PXR9ghjP.html
09-04-2020||India||60-year-old Uttarakhand woman donates life’s savings of Rs 10 Lakh to PM Cares Fund for Covid-19||60-year-old widow from Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district on Thursday donated her life’s savings of Rs 10 lakhs to the PM Cares Fund which was set up last month to combat, containment and relief efforts against the coronavirus pandemic.Devaki Bhandari, a resident from Gauchar in Chamoli who is also a social worker told the local media that she decided to donate the money for the fight against coronavirus as she does not have children and lives a simple life.“I had saved up around Rs 10 lakhs as fixed deposits and pension. I live in a small rented apartment and do not have many expenses. The money would be better used to fight the coronavirus pandemic,” said Bhandari.Follow coronavirus live updates here.Her husband who died about eight years ago was a government employee.Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat praised her for her donation and called it “selfless sacrifice”.“In this land of India, we had only read the stories of great kings and their charity, but today we have seen it in person. Despite being alone Mrs. Bhandari has selflessly sacrificed everything, donating all her savings to India which she considers as her family and presented a great example before us,” said Rawat.Rawat further said that the woman is a huge inspiration for all and every such effort will help the country fight against the deadly virus.“This cooperation of Devaki ji will definitely work for our country and will help us get out of this difficult period,” the chief minister said.Uttarakhand so far has reported 35 Covid-19 cases with the maximum cases being reported from Dehradun (18). Five have been discharged from hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/60-year-old-uttarakhand-woman-donates-life-s-savings-of-rs-10-lakh-to-pm-cares-fund-for-covid-19/story-KkFb9CuIoRnR5gVxQAyvjL.html
09-04-2020||India||Covid-19 Update: 591 new cases, 20 deaths reported since Wednesday, says health ministry||India has reported 591 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours with the total number of coronavirus positive patients in the country climbing to 5,865. Till date, 478 people have recovered and been discharged and 20 people have died since yesterday, the health ministry said on Thursday.Across the country, as many as 169 people have died after testing positive for the deadly pathogen.“With the number of Covid-19 cases rising in the country, 5000 train coaches have been turned into isolation wards for Covid-19 positive patients. Supplies of PPEs, masks and ventilators have begun arriving and there is no need to panic over the availability of PPE for frontline health workers,” Lav Aggarwal, Joint Secretary, Health Ministry said at the daily news briefing. He also urged people to offer full support to doctors and other medical staff fighting the Covid-19 pandemic for days at a stretch for over a month now.“In order to prepare 80,000 isolation beds, the Indian Railways are converting 5,000 coaches into isolation units, of which 3,250 have been converted,” Aggarwal said.“Hospitals should follow infection control guidelines so that medical workers don’t contract the disease. The Group of Ministers formed has also advised that doctors who are fighting like soldiers against Covid-19 should get full support from all communities,” he said.According to health ministry data, orders for 49,000 ventilators have been placed and supply is underway. Ten teams of coronavirus specialists have also been sent to nine states.On medical supplies available, Aggarwal said, “We are ensuring that not only for now even in future there will not be any lack of HCQ (Hydroxychloroquine) as and when needed.” There is sufficient stock of the hydroxychloroquine drug available in the country, according to health ministry officials.The health ministry official asked people to follow the ministry website for authentic numbers of positive patients and other government sources of information and not to believe in fake news, which maybe in circulation on social media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-549-new-cases-17-deaths-reported-since-wednesday-says-health-ministry/story-yoSsLfzuOnxAfNxYbK1OdO.html
09-04-2020||India||With 16 fatalities, this state is 2nd after Maharashtra in Covid-19 deaths||India reported 17 deaths in the last 24 hours. As per the Ministry of Health, the total number of Covid-19 related fatalities in the country has reached 166 while the number of cases stands at 5,734 with 5,095 active cases and 473 recoveries. The highest number of Covid-19 fatalities come from Maharashtra which has recorded 77 coronavirus deaths. The state also accounts for the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the country - 1,324.The second-highest number of coronavirus fatalities doesn’t come from any of the other worst-affected regions like Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh or Rajasthan but from a state that, as of now, stands at the 10th spot on the tally of worst Covid-19 affected states in the country. Gujarat, till now, accounts for the second-highest number of Covid-19 fatalities with 16 deaths and is closely followed by Madhya Pradesh which has reported 13 deaths so far. As per the latest data released by the health ministry, Gujarat has recorded 179 coronavirus cases. States like Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh come ahead of Gujarat when it comes to the total number of Covid-19 cases but not when it comes to number of coronavirus deaths. Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Telangana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh have registered 8, 9, 7, 3 and 4 Covid-19 fatalities respectively. Meanwhile, Kerala - which was the second most affected state by coronavirus after Maharashtra just weeks back - seems to now have fallen to the 8th spot as Covid-19 cases rise in other states. The state has around 430 coronavirus cases with two fatalities. As many as 83 people have recovered from coronavirus here.Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/this-state-accounts-for-highest-covid-19-deaths-after-maharashtra-it-isn-t-delhi-tamil-nadu-or-up/story-gXvMaVizehyrJnaY257zLJ.html
09-04-2020||India||To block Indian Covid-19 initiatives, Pak seeks to bring issues under SAARC secretariat||India’s engagements with SAARC members on Covid-19 related matters are stand-alone events whereas Pakistan has sought to bring all issues under the SAARC secretariat in a bid to block Indian initiatives, people familiar with developments said on Thursday.On Wednesday, Pakistan had skipped a video conference of senior trade officials of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC), saying it chose not to participate since the SAARC secretariat wasn’t involved in organising it.The people cited above, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said India’s decision of keeping control of activities that emerged from the video conference of SAARC leaders, which was convened by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 15, had helped New Delhi to move much faster and without any hindrances on Covid-19-related matters.Also Read | Pak skips virtual Saarc meet on overcoming Covid-19 impact on regional trade“We have described these activities as being stand-alone and outside the SAARC calendar of approved activities,” said one of the people cited above.“We regard the present activities as events under extraordinary Covid-19 circumstances focussed only on jointly dealing with challenges in the SAARC region in a result-oriented way, without being bound by any procedural formalities that could prove to be constraints,” the person added.On the other hand, Pakistan has been trying to bring all Covid-19-related interactions under the formal SAARC umbrella by involving the SAARC secretariat, which is based in the Nepalese capital of Kathmandu, the people said.This was an attempt to score narrow political goals at a time when the people of the region are facing the Covid-19 crisis, they said.Also Read | SAARC health professionals to hold video conference to discuss Covid-19“By trying to get Covid-19-related interactions under the SAARC umbrella, they will get a free hand to block all our initiatives and proposals by using the SAARC Charter provisions and rules of procedure, including application of the principle of consensus for drafting the agenda and the outcome document, and for the concurrence of all member states for each and every thing every step of the way,” the person cited above said.Under the SAARC Charter, all issues have to be decided by consensus. This has often affected the working of the eight-member grouping created in December 1985. Pakistan’s opposition, mainly due to its differences with India, has held up numerous initiatives.Over the past few weeks, Pakistan foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi, has called for all Covid-19-related initiatives to be placed under the SAARC secretariat during his telephone conversations with counterparts from other SAARC states.Wednesday’s virtual meeting of SAARC trade officials was a follow-up to a video conference of leaders of the eight SAARC states on March 15. At that time, Pakistan was the only country not to be represented by its head of government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-block-indian-covid-19-initiatives-pak-seeks-to-bring-issues-under-saarc-secretariat/story-eGOSkVawg5Lg54IX2xdkbJ.html
09-04-2020||India||First Covid-19 death in Jharkhand, 9 fresh cases reported||Ranchi: A 75-year-old man died of coronavirus in Bokaro district, the first Covid-19 fatality reported in Jharkhand, a health official said on Thursday.The state also recorded a steep jump in number of positive Covid-19 cases on Thursday after nine people-- five from Ranchi and four from Bokaro--were found infected with novel coronavirus infection bringing the tally of positive cases in the state to 13 including one death.The deceased, a resident of village Saran under Bokaro’s Gomia block, was tested positive late on Wednesday night. He had allegedly no travel history and no contact with any positive case.“The old man had acute respiratory problem. He was kept in quarantine at BGH. As per the reports, he showed some sign of improvement on Wednesday but his condition deteriorated late night and he died in morning,” said Bokaro deputy commissioner (DC) Mukesh Kumar.The DC added, “The deceased’s family members have been denying if the man had some travel history. We are investigating on this aspect. No one from this region has so far tested positive for Covid-19. We have quarantined all family members and intensified contact tracing exercise and screening of residents of the area further.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-covid-19-death-in-jharkhand-9-fresh-cases-reported/story-as9lgWt0coMV2iLFCFrswJ.html
09-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Make assaults on medicos non-bailable offence, doctors tell Amit Shah||The Federation of Resident Doctors Association (FORDA) has demanded that assaults on doctors be treated as non-bailable offence and that the Centre brings in a law for the medical fraternity amid rising incident s of violence at a time when they are in the frontline of the fight against Covid-19.Doctors and nurses, particularly those involved in Covid-19 care have been at the receiving end of harassment from landlords and fellow residents in different parts of the country amid fears that they could transmit coronavirus.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.In a letter to Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday, the FORDA cited multiple incidents of assault on doctors and called for a Central Protection Act for doctors. It cited a case in Delhi’s Gautam Nagar area where it said a female resident doctor and her sister were abused and manhandled by a person in their residential colony and another incident in from AIIMS, Bhopal where two doctors were abused and assaulted by police personnel even after showing their ID cards when they were returning to their apartments after emergency duty.“These are not isolated incidents, rather part of the long chain of incidents of violence against doctors. FORDA condemns such inhumane acts of violence and demands that all such acts be marked as Non-bailable Offence. Central Protection Act for doctors, as demanded earlier, is the need of the hour for protection of the whole medical fraternity,” it said in the letter.Last month, in a television address to his constituency of Varanasi about the coronavirus pandemic, Prime Minister Narendra Modi warned people against misbehaving with doctors and nurses amid reports that many healthcare professionals are facing harassment for caring for Covid-19 patients.Modi’s warning came a day after the Resident Doctors’ Association (RDA) of Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) wrote to Shah about discrimination and unfair behaviour by landlords who allegedly asked doctors, nurses and other healthcare workers involved in Covid-19 care to vacate their rented homes.Shah had then spoken to Delhi Police chief S N Shrivastava and directed him to ensure security of doctors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/make-assaults-on-medicos-non-bailable-offence-doctors-tell-amit-shah/story-E1XpmuUxUw1YvPcnjWr55I.html
09-04-2020||India||India steps up medical diplomacy, flies plane loads of medicines to friends||India has begun sending consignments of life-saving drugs as gifts to neighbouring countries to help them fight the coronavirus pandemic, South Block officials said on Thursday.Officials said the government was sending drugs to Bhutan, Bangladesh, Afghanistan, Nepal, Myanmar, Seychelles, Mauritius and some African countries. One of the early consignments, an Air India plane with 10 tonnes of medicine, was sent to Sri Lanka on Tuesday.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicWhile neighbouring countries are being gifted consignments of paracetamol and hydroxychloroquine, the government has also cleared export of Covid-19 drugs to countries such as US, Spain, Brazil, Bahrain, Germany and the UK in line with the commercial contracts signed with Indian pharmaceutical companies.“Instructions to this effect have been issued by the commerce ministry, “said a senior official. It was pointed that the exports from special economic zones were allowed after steps were taken to secure supplies that India might need if the worst-case Covid-19 scenario plays out.Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreakIt was after this assessment that India eased restrictions on export of hydroxychloroquine to the US and other countries that prompted US President Donald Trump to tweet his ‘ thank you’ note to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the people of India.India is also keeping a special watch on drug requirements of Gulf countries. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar is in touch with his counterparts in the Gulf.“Besides, India is constantly in touch with the Indo-Pacific countries and those countries like US, France, UK, Spain and Italy who have been hit by the pandemic very severely,” said the official.Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla will also speak to his Russian counterpart today to discuss the overall pandemic situation as well as offer to supply any life saving drugs to the strategic partner.India is buying medical equipment from Beijing through private suppliers as China is the only country that has surplus supplies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-steps-up-medical-diplomacy-flies-plane-loads-of-medicines-to-friends/story-yOF83dHesdti6QV0JmcxLL.html
09-04-2020||India||Private labs begin free Covid-19 tests after SC order, but explore options||Private laboratories, which have been asked to conduct Covid-19 tests for free, say they have started following the Supreme Court order while also exploring legal options. Sector leaders say they have unanimously decided to conduct free tests after the interim order on Wednesday, but maintain that will not be financially viable for them. They say they are collaborating with each other constantly to formulate an action plan. The top court has made tests for the coronavirus disease in government and private laboratories free, and asked the government to pass the necessary orders so as to make this possible. The tests are already free in government laboratories. Private laboratories used to charge Rs 4,500 for the currently used RT-PCR tests. “Under the current circumstances, since it is a Supreme Court order, we are doing tests free for the time being. However, we are taking to our lawyers, and talking among ourselves, and even with the government to see what can be the way out,” says Arvind Lal, chairman and managing director of Dr Lal PathLabs, one of the private sector players allowed to carry out such tests.There are 139 government laboratories and 65 private ones that currently authorised.Navin Dang, founder of Dr Dangs Lab, a Delhi-based pathology lab that too has an approval, says, “There is a lot of confusion at the moment whether to charge or not; until the confusion clears out, I have given standing instructions to my staff not to charge anyone for Covid-19 testing.” Zoya Brar, CORE Diagnsotics CEO, says private labs have unanimously decided that no one will charge for testing till things become clear.Even corporate hospitals have decided to conduct the tests for free. “Since we have not heard anything from the government yet, we are not charging anything for Covid-19 testing,” said a spokesperson for Apollo hospital.A lab owner, who did not want to be named, describes how leaders in the sector collaborated. “It was a mammoth collaborative wherein everyone in the industry came together for this cause...We have to find a way out otherwise many labs will collapse,” this person said.Girdhar Gyani, Association of Healthcare Providers director general, proposes reimbursement to private labs by governments in case of free testing.To be sure, the court, in its order, asked the government to explore a way to reimburse private laboratories, although it did not pass any order to this effect“Since ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research) handles testing and related matters, it would be appropriate to ask them about it,” said Preeti Sudan, the Union health secretary said on Wednesday.ICMR director general of Balram Bhargava did not respond to calls and text messages despite repeated attempts..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-sc-order-on-free-covid-19-tests-private-labs-explore-legal-options/story-grPxNiRK8iqIZT5Pc7y4BJ.html
09-04-2020||India||Odisha extends Covid-19 lockdown, India seals many cities amid crisis: 10 points||Coronavirus cases in the country show no sign of abating with the number of total cases crossing 5,500 on Thursday. Odisha became the first state to announce the extension of Covid-19 lockdown in the country. As many as 23 hotspots in Delhi have been sealed to curb the spread of coronavirus. Madhya Pradesh has also sealed three major cities - Indore, Ujjain and Bhopal - while 15 districts will be in a complete state of lockdown in Uttar Pradesh. Here are the key developments:1. The Ministry of Health updated the latest Covid-19 tally in the country to 5,734 on Thursday which includes 5,095 active cases and 166 deaths. As many as 473 patients have been cured or discharged. 2. The Odisha government has decided that the lockdown in the state will be extended until April 30. Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik announced the same on Thursday after a meeting with his cabinet. 3. “It’s not possible to lift the lockdown abruptly,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi said at a meeting with the floor leaders of political parties in Parliament on Wednesday. 4. PM Modi on Thursday acknowledged US President Donald Trump’s thank you note and said that India will do “everything possible” to help humanity’s fight against coronavirus.5. Three new neighbourhoods have been added to the list of 20 areas in the national capital that have been placed under a “hard lockdown” to check the spread of coronavirus. The new areas are Bengali Market near Mandi House in Central Delhi, Sadar area in Old Delhi and some areas falling under the Moti Bagh locality in South Delhi.6. Delhi’s Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said on Wednesday that the lockdown in Delhi could be extended beyond April 14 if the current situation persists.7. In a first, the railways has introduced time-tabled parcel trains for nationwide transportation of essential commodities and other goods.8. Jharkhand on Thursday reported its first coronavirus death. 9. Indore, Bhopal and Ujjain are three major cities in Madhya Pradesh to be sealed completely in the wake of the rising coronavirus cases in the state.10. The coronavirus crisis could push as many as 400 million Indians, including migrant workers and daily wage earners, into poverty, the International Labour Organisation said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-extends-covid-19-lockdown-india-seals-many-cities-amid-crisis-10-points/story-CSi9HfkDhCRfBeOMjqrRWM.html
09-04-2020||India||Covid-19: India steps up medical diplomacy, flies plane loads of medicines to friends||India has begun sending consignments of life-saving drugs as gifts to neighbouring countries to help them fight the coronavirus pandemic, South Block officials said on Thursday.Officials said the government was sending drugs to Bhutan, Bangladesh, Afghanistan, Nepal, Myanmar, Seychelles, Mauritius and some African countries. One of the early consignments, an Air India plane with 10 tonnes of medicine, was sent to Sri Lanka on Tuesday.While neighbouring countries are being gifted consignments of paracetamol and hydroxychloroquine, the government has also cleared export of Covid-19 drugs to countries such as US, Spain, Brazil, Bahrain, Germany and the UK in line with the commercial contracts signed with Indian pharmaceutical companies.“Instructions to this effect have been issued by the commerce ministry, “said a senior official. It was pointed that the exports from special economic zones were allowed after steps were taken to secure supplies that India might need if the worst-case Covid-19 scenario plays out.It was after this assessment that India eased restrictions on export of hydroxychloroquine to the US and other countries that prompted US President Donald Trump to tweet his ‘ thank you’ note to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the people of India.India is also keeping a special watch on drug requirements of Gulf countries. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar is in touch with his counterparts in the Gulf.“Besides, India is constantly in touch with the Indo-Pacific countries and those countries like US, France, UK, Spain and Italy who have been hit by the pandemic very severely,” said the official.Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla will also speak to his Russian counterpart today to discuss the overall pandemic situation as well as offer to supply any life saving drugs to the strategic partner.India is buying medical equipment from Beijing through private suppliers as China is the only country that has surplus supplies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-india-steps-up-medical-diplomacy-flies-plane-loads-of-medicines-to-friends/story-auOh6soX9mtdLtI1hVrHIJ.html
09-04-2020||India||Railways introduces 109 time-tabled parcel trains over 58 routes to connect key centres||In a major boost to supply chain across the country, the railways has for the first time introduced time-tabled parcel trains for nationwide transportation of essential commodities and other goods, the national transporter said on Wednesday, identifying 40 new routes for such vans.It said that this is expected to boost the availability of vital goods required for ordinary citizens, industry and agriculture during the coronavirus outbreak.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicApproximately, 58 routes (109 trains) for parcel special trains have been notified since the beginning of the lockdown. Till April 5, 27 routes were notified, out of which 17 routes were regular scheduled services, while the remaining were for single trips only. “Subsequently, 40 new routes have been identified and notified (and frequency of some of the previous routes has been increased). With this, almost all the important cities of India will get connected for transportation of vital goods at a fast speed. It may be noted that these services are expected to be further scaled up,” railways said in a statement.The railways said that local industries, e-commerce companies, interested groups, individuals and any other prospective loaders can book parcels on these trains.Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreakTime-tabled parcel trains are planned as per the demand of the customers. They connect vital corridors of the country like Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Chennai, Hyderabad, and Bengaluru. In addition, proper connectivity has also been ensured to Guwahati to ensure supplies in the Northeastern region of the country.Other important cities connected via these trains are Bhopal, Allahabad, Dehradun, Varanasi, Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Ranchi, Gorakhpur, Thiruvananthapuram, Salem, Warangal, Vijayawada, Vishakhapatanam, Rourkela, Bilaspur, Bhusawal, Tatanagar, Jaipur, Jhansi, Agra, Nasik, Nagpur, Akola, Jalgaon, Surat, Pune, Raipur, Patna, Asansol, Kanpur, Jaipur, Bikaner, Ajmer, Gwalior, Mathura, Nellore, Jabalpur.The Indian Railways has also been running other parcel trains as per demand of customers during this period, which include ‘Milk Specials’ from Palanpur (Gujarat) to Palwal (near Delhi), and from Renigunta (AP) to Delhi, milk products from Kankariya (Gujarat) to Kanpur (UP) and Sankrail (near Kolkata) and food products from Moga (Punjab) to Changsari (Assam).“Time-tabled parcel trains are being run even on those routes where demand is less so that no part of the country remains unconnected. Some trains are being run with only two parcel vans, or with one parcel van and brake van,” the railways said. PTI ASG KJ||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-introduces-109-time-tabled-parcel-trains-over-58-routes-to-connect-key-centres/story-yUIkLhdRKoroscsbCXlC7I.html
09-04-2020||India||162 new Covid-19 cases take Maharashtra’s tally to 1,297||Maharashtra recorded 162 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive cases on Thursday, taking the total count in the state to 1,297 – the highest in the country. Of the 162 new cases, 143 have been reported from Mumbai, three each in Pune and Aurangabad, two in Pimpri Chinchwad and one each in Vasai-Virar, Yavatmal, and Sindhudurg. On Thursday morning, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) also released an updated list of the containment zones in the city. Mumbai, the epicentre of Covid-19 outbreak in Maharashtra, tops the list with 381containment or no-go zones. The state capital has reported 857 Covid-19 positive cases and 45 deaths to date.So far, the state has reported 72 Covid-19 related deaths, including eight more on Wednesday alone. Of the eight fresh deaths, five were recorded in Mumbai, two in Pune and one in Kalyan-Dombilivili.The densely populated Dharavi, considered to be Asia’s largest slum, recorded its second death on Wednesday and has also reported 13 Covid-19 positive cases. Maharashtra crossed the 1,000-mark in 30 days and also the mortality rate at over 6% in the state is double than the nationwide death toll rate.The Covid-19 related death toll in Pune district has risen to 20 after two more patients died over the last 12 hours.One of the deceased was a resident Pune city, while the other was from Baramati tehsil in the district, according to the state health department officials.The Baramati resident’s death is being attributed to comorbidity, as he was both diabetic and paralysed. He tested Covid-19 positive during a door-to-door screening by the authorities. His other family members, including wife, son, and daughter-in-law, have also tested Covid-19 positive, said Bhagwan Pawar, district health officer, Pune. “The second person was undergoing treatment in the state-run Sassoon General Hospital. So far, 20 people have died in Pune district because of Covid-19,” said Shekhar Gaikwad, commissioner, Pune Municipal Commission.On Wednesday, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said that Covid-19 positive cases have seen an uptick as the government has launched a door-to-door drive for people suspected to have been infected by SARS-CoV-2, which causes the disease.“We aren’t waiting for patients to come to us. Besides, we’ve been aggressively conducting tests in both Mumbai and Pune,” the CM said.On March 9, Maharashtra reported its first Covid-19 positive case after a couple in Pune, who had returned from Dubai, was found to be infected. The following day three more people tested Covid-19 positive, as they had come in contact with the couple.The state government is maintaining that Maharashtra is still in stage-2, where transmission of the disease is limited to those with travel history and those who have come in contact with the infected people. On Wednesday, state public health minister Rajesh Tope said that Maharashtra hasn’t entered Stage 3, which leads to community transmission. He claimed that the number of Covid-19 positive cases might have increased but it isn’t multiplying. Also, 117 patients have recovered and discharged from hospitals to date, he added.On Wednesday, the BMC made it mandatory for Mumbaikars to wear masks in public places. The civic body has warned that those who fail to wear masks in public places would be arrested under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/162-new-covid-19-cases-take-maharashtra-s-tally-to-1-297/story-AlUdrWrMDh4lewWAlLlPiO.html
09-04-2020||India||Delhi Lockdown could be extended beyond April 14, says Manish Sisodia||Lockdown in Delhi could be extended beyond April 14 if the current situation persists, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said on Wednesday while refusing to speculate on how things may shape up in a week’s time.Sisodia’s statement follows Odisha’s decision to extend the lockdown provisions in the state till April 30 and cmes soon after the implementation of a hard lockdown in 23 areas of the national capital in attempts to contain the spread of coronavirus infections.Delhi currently has 699 cases of Covid-19 including nine casualties.“If the situation persists then there could be a need to extend the lockdown since the cases are continuing to rise. It is difficult to say anything about how things may turn out in six to seven days’ time. Any decision will be taken in the interest of the general public by the chief minister and the prime minister,” a quote by Sisodia was put out by AAP’s Twitter account.Click Here for Latest Reports on CoronavirusOdisha became the first state on Thursday to extend the lockdown by another 15 days beyond April 14. The schools and educational institutions in the state will remain closed till June 17. The state government has requested the Centre not to start train and air services to the state till April 30.Prime Minister Narendra Modi is set to hold a video conference with chief ministers of all states and Union territories on April 11 when a final decision on the issue of lockdown-extension can be taken. However, a communication from the office of the prime minister released on Wednesday had indicated that most states prefer an extension of the lockdown. The prime minister is himself said to be of the view that lifting the restrictions at this stage was not possible. The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-lockdown-could-be-extended-beyond-april-14-says-manish-sisodia/story-cLdIYbfp43692hA6bGRLSL.html
09-04-2020||India||Tribal youth in quarantine hangs himself to death in Odisha||A 29-year-old tribal man from Odisha, who had returned from Himachal Pradesh in February and was suspected to be infected with Covid-19 virus, allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself from a tree near the quarantine centre where he was kept.Police officials in Rourkela said Anand Lakra of Badagaon village in Gurundia block of Sundargarh district was put under quarantine at the government high school of Gurundia panchayat samiti. The officials said that Lakra, who had returned from Himachal Pradesh in the second week of February, did not show any symptoms of the disease at first. However, a couple of days ago he developed flu-like symptoms after which the villagers asked him to visit the local community health centre for screening.“As the people in the village were very sensitive about anyone showing symptoms of flu, they pressured him to get tested. At the CHC, Lakra was checked by the doctor who ruled out him being infected by the virus. The youth, however, insisted that he be quarantined as the villagers would not let him in. So he was put in the quarantine facility in a school near his locality,” said Syed Mujibur Rehman, additional SP of Rourkela.On Tuesday night, Lakra sneaked out of the quarantine facility and hanged himself from a teak tree. His body was spotted by other people in the quarantine facility on Wednesday morning. Police said they have started an investigation into the incident. Lakra is survived by his widowed mother. Sundargarh district has not reported a single positive case of Covid-19 so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tribal-youth-in-quarantine-hangs-himself-to-death-in-odisha/story-ecQXiuh8hvFz0IMx15pXcP.html
09-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: As Covid-19 cases continue to rise across India, Kerala falls to 8th spot, shows State tally and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.As Covid-19 cases continue to rise across India, Kerala falls to 8th spot: State tallyThe number of coronavirus cases in India on Thursday climbed to 5,734 with 5,095 active cases and 166 deaths. As many as 473 patients have been cured or discharged, the latest figures released by the Ministry of Health indicated. Kerala - which was the second most affected state by coronavirus after Maharashtra just weeks back - seems to now have fallen to the eighth spot as Covid-19 cases rise in other states.Read more. Odisha becomes first state to extend Covid-19 lockdown; sets April 30 as new dateThe Covid-19 lockdown in Odisha will be extended till April 30, Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik announced on Thursday after a meeting of the state cabinet. Odisha is the first state to extend the lockdown ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s video conference to discuss the lockdown extension. Read more. ‘We will win this together’: PM Modi responds to Trump’s thank you note on hydroxychloroquinePrime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday acknowledged the thank you note of US President Donald Trump, saying that India will do everything possible to help humanity’s fight against coronavirus disease Covid-19. Read more. As Centre considers Covid-19 lockdown extension, demand to resume industryEven as state governments have asked the Centre to consider extending the ongoing lockdown beyond April 14, there is pressure on the central government to allow certain industries to resume operations partially and with caveats to follow the mandatory protocols for health care and social distancing. Read more. FAQ: Your 14 queries on 23 Delhi containment zones answeredAt least 23 areas in Delhi have been declared containment zones and put under a hard lockdown to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Here’s a primer on what to expect in these areas.Read more. Zoom CEO Eric Yuan addresses privacy, security issues in first webinarZoom has been trying to clean its mess of security and privacy issues that came up as the video conferencing app became popular. Zoom’s CEO Eric Yuan hosted a livestream on YouTube which is also the debut of his weekly “Ask Eric Anything” webinar.Read more. ‘We should do our bit’: Union Minister Dharmendra Pradhan shares images of wife and daughter making masksPeople, in their own ways, are playing a role in fighting against the novel coronavirus. Union Minister Dharmendra Pradhan recently took to Twitter to share how his wife Mridula Pradhan and daughter Naimisha are taking part in that battle. He shared images of his wife and daughter making masks at their home.Read more. If India gives Pakistan 10,000 ventilators, we will remember the gesture forever: Shoaib AkhtarFormer Pakistan pacer Shoaib Akhtar has appealed to India to provide for ventilators for his country. Akhtar said that if India offered a helping hand during these desperate times, Pakistan would never forget the gesture as it would be rising above differences and offering a service.Read more. ‘Adhere strictly to social distancing’: Trump confident tough measures will helpUS President Donald Trump said social distancing was having an impact in slowing spread of the virus in the United States. Trump said that Americans were heading into the ‘final stretch’ & there was ‘light at the end of the tunnel’. Trump said, “What we’ve accomplished, if every American continues to strictly adhere to social distancing guidelines, we can defeat the invisible enemy and save countless lives that we can do it much more quickly. We’re hopefully heading toward a final stretch. The light at the end of the tunnel, as I was saying.” Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-as-covid-19-cases-continue-to-rise-across-india-kerala-falls-to-6th-spot-shows-state-tally-and-all-the-latest-news/story-QTmlwusm3UDmGKhxJCmvWM.html
09-04-2020||India||As Covid-19 cases continue to rise across India, Kerala falls to 8th spot: State tally||The number of coronavirus cases in India on Thursday climbed to 5,734 with 5,095 active cases and 166 deaths. As many as 473 patients have been cured or discharged, the latest figures released by the Ministry of Health indicated. Maharashtra is witnessing an unprecedented number of Covid-19 cases which has now crossed 1,200. Kerala - which was the second most affected state by coronavirus after Maharashtra just weeks back - seems to now have fallen to the 8th spot as Covid-19 cases rise in other states. Here’s taking a look at the statewise breakup of coronavirus active cases, deaths and the number of patients who have cured or discharged. MaharashtraWith 1135 Covid-19 active cases, Maharashtra has registered the highest number of coronavirus cases in the country. The state has recorded 72 deaths so far while 117 patients have recovered.Tamil NaduThe southern state has the second-highest number of Covid-19 cases in the country which now stand at a whopping 738. Tamil Nadu has seen 21 recoveries and 8 Covid-19 deaths.DelhiDelhi closely follows with the third-highest number of coronavirus cases in the country. As many as 669 people have tested positive of coronavirus in the national capital. 9 people have died from the infection while 21 people have made a recovery, as per the health ministry’s data.Telangana427 positive cases of coronavirus have been reported from the state so far. 35 people have made a recovery from the virus while seven people have died from Covid-19.RajasthanCoronavirus cases in Rajasthan touched 381 on Thursday. The state has reported 3 fatalities. 21 patients have recovered from the infection.Uttar Pradesh361 people have been infected from Covid-19 in the state. While 27 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, 4 have died from the infection here.Andhra PradeshThe state has witnessed 348 positive Covid-19 patients and 6 cases of recovery. Four people have died.KeralaWith 345 coronavirus cases, Kerala is the fifth most coronavirus-affected state in the country. As per the latest data by the Ministry of Health, Kerala has witnessed two deaths due to Covid-19 while 83 people have successfully recovered.Madhya PradeshThe state has reported 229 positive cases of coronavirus. 13 people have died from Covid-19 here.KarnatakaThe state has recorded 181 Covid-19 cases and 5 deaths. 28 people have been cured and discharged.GujaratPrime Minister Narendra Modi’s home state has registered 179 coronavirus cases and 25 recoveries so far. 16 people have died from the infection in the state.Jammu and KashmirThe union territory of Jammu and Kashmir has seen the number of Covid-19 patients rising to 158. 4 people have died from the infection while four were cured.Haryana and PunjabThe neighbouring states have 147 and 101 Covid-19 cases respectively. While 8 people have died in Punjab, Haryana has seen three deaths. 28 people have recovered from Covid-19 in Haryana, 4 in Punjab.103 people have been affected by the Sars-CoV-2 virus in West Bengal. There have been 5 deaths and 16 recoveries in the state. Odisha has 42 Covid-19 positive patients, 2 have recovered while one person has died. In Bihar, 38 people have tested positive for coronavirus, one has died.Assam has reported 28 Covid-19 cases. Uttarakhand has 33 coronavirus patients, five patients have recovered from the infection. In Chandigarh, 18 people have contracted the Covid-19 disease and 7 have recovered. Andaman has recorded 11 coronavirus cases. Chhattisgarh has recorded 10 cases of coronavirus and 9 people have recovered. Ladakh has 14 patients, 10 people have recovered.Goa has reported seven cases of Covid-19 disease. Himachal Pradesh has 18 cases, one patient has died and two have recovered.Pondicherry has reported five cases, one has recovered. Jharkhand has 4 Covid-19 cases. One coronavirus case has been reported in Manipur, one has recovered.States and Union territories with just one positive Covid-19 case include Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram, Tripura.Sikkim, Meghalaya and Nagaland have not reported any Covid-19 case yet. India entered the 16th day of the 21-day coronavirus lockdown on Thursday which will end on April 14, if not extended. Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-covid-19-cases-continue-to-rise-across-india-kerala-falls-to-6th-spot-state-tally/story-0vcLOmXdxCso7McmEBkfyL.html
09-04-2020||India||Radio emerges as credible source of information during Covid-19 lockdown, says research||The radio has emerged as trusted source of information during the Covid-19 pandemic, according to latest research.According to AZ Research PPL, 82 per cent people have been tuning in to radio during Covid-19, with FM channels emerging as the second most credible source of information for the masses. As per the research, radio has a credibility score of 6.27, second only to the internet which is at 6.44 and TV at 5.74. The research is based on a sample size of 3,300 listeners above the age of 18.The radio industry witnessed a listenership of 51 million people, which is nearly as much as television’s reach of 56 million and social media’s reach of 57 million, said the research.“As the Covid-19 pandemic takes over the world, the role of entertainment mediums become all the more crucial. Radio being a critical medium has the dual responsibility of not only entertaining the listeners, but also ensuring that correct and genuine information reaches the country’s citizens,” said Harshad Jain, CEO, Radio and Entertainment, HT Media Ltd and Next Mediaworks Ltd.“At a time like this, the power and effectiveness of our medium increases manifold. People are now tuning in to the radio sets more than ever for their daily entertainment needs and also to stay updated with credible information,” added Jain.The research further said that radio listenership increased by 23 per cent during the lockdown to 2.36 hours everyday, second only to television.“It is very encouraging to note that Radio is evolving as one of the most preferred and most credible source of infotainment. We are now almost catching up on TV in terms of audience, the rise of 23 percent in total time spent per person on radio is phenomenal. We are grateful to all our listeners and look forward to help evolve this media into greater heights,” Anurradha Prasad, president of the Association of Radio Operators for India (AROI).Other companies also hailed the new research. BIG FM CEO Abraham Thomas said, “The feeling of knowing that you’re making a difference in the lives of our listeners is truly amazing.” Radio City CEO Ashit Kukian said that these finding prove that raiod has the power to create awareness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/radio-emerges-as-credible-source-of-information-during-covid-19-lockdown-says-research/story-OIQcBR9JLCOGxJjFqC7hEJ.html
09-04-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: Kerala Police feeds thousands of hungry across the state||Kerala Police are performing a dual role, feeding thousands of hungry people and simultaneously enforcing the 21-day lockdown in the state, which has won the police force a reputation for efficient handling of the coronavirus pandemic after reporting the first case of infection in India at the end of January. The force started by distributing a few hundred food packages daily, but the number of people being fed has increased gradually to reach 50,000 people across 15 centres.The police’s open kitchen, called oru vayar ootaam -- which loosely translates as feeding a stomach – is gaining in popularity. Many volunteers, non-government organisations and student police cadets have stepped forward to feed the needy.“We don’t want people to go hungry. We started in a small way but expanded after we realised the need to feed many. We concentrate mainly around hospitals where people usually go hungry. We’re serving senior citizens and the destitute as well,” said P Vijayan, inspector general of police (IGP), Kochi Range, and the brain behind the open kitchen initiative.Vijayan was also the guiding force behind the Student Police Cadets programme in Kerala, which has found national traction.“Kerala has taken the lead in many ways as far as tackling Covid-19 is concerned. The state was the first to report the disease. We alerted the health workers and politicians about Covid-19. There was a timely intervention from the police as well. Now, the results are there for all to see. We can’t forget our duties and responsibilities towards the poor and distressed people. Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and the state police chief have given us admirable support in our endeavours,” the IGP said.Charitable organisations, tour operators, student bodies and ordinary people have stepped forward to fund the police’s novel initiative.Kerala was the first Indian state to report a coronavirus case in when a student from Wuhan university in China tested positive on January 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-kerala-police-feeds-thousands-of-hungry-across-the-state/story-umtnjwkA5Rn1eYRpiSaLVN.html
09-04-2020||India||In Delhi list of 23 covid-19 hotspots, new additions||Three new neighbourhoods have been added to the list of 21 areas in the national capital with a large number of coronavirus cases where a “hard lockdown” has been enforced resulting in more stringent restrictions for residents. The three new areas to be included in the list are Bengali Market near Mandi House in Central Delhi, Sadar area in Old Delhi and some areas falling under the Moti Bagh locality in South Delhi. Total number of coronavirus positive cases in Delhi have risen to 699 and the new containment zones/hotspots have been identified to prevent further spread of the disease. Residents in the notified areas have been prevented from stepping out of their homes even for buying of essentials including medicines and groceries. These services will be provided by the district administration through door to door home delivery services. Here’s the latest list of the hotspots and containment zones in Delhi. 1. Entire street affected near Gandhi Park, Malviya Nagar2. Entire street affected of Gali No 6, L 1 Sangam Vihar, New Delhi.3. Shahajahanabad society, plot no 1, Sector 11, Dwarka.4. Dinpur Village5. Markaz Masjid and Nizamuddin Basti6. Nizamuddin West (G and D block) areas.7. B Block Jhangirpuri.8. H. No 141 to H. No 180, Gali no. 14, Kalyanpuri Delhi9. Mansara Apartments, Vasundhara Enclave, Delhi10. 3 Galis of Khichirpur including Gali containing H. No. 5/387 Khichirpur Delhi11. Gali No 9, Pandav Nagar, Delhi 110092.12. Vardhaman Apartments, Mayur Vihar, Phase I, Extension, Delhi13. Mayurdhwaj Appartments, I P Extension, Patparganj, Delhi14. Gali no. 4, from H. No. J- 3/115 (Nagar Dairy) to H. No. J- 3/108(towards Anarwali Masjid Chowk), Krishan Kunj Extension, Delhi15. Gali No. 4, from H. No J- 3/101 to H. No. J - 3/107 Krishan Kunj Extension Delhi.16. Gali No. 5, A Block (From H No. A- 176 to A-189), West Vinod Nagar Delhi 110092.17. J & K, L and H pockets Dilshad Garden18. G, H, J, Blocks old Seemapuri19. F- 70 to 90 block Dilshad Colony20. Pratap Khand, Jhilmil Colony.21. Shastri Market and JJ cluster, South Moti Bagh22. Bengali Market, Babar Road, Todarmal Road, Babar lane and school lane23. Sadar areaEast Delhi has the highest number of containment zones at 9. There is no clarity yet over the duration of the restrictions and it is likely that they are kept in place till authorities feel these clusters of infections have been neutralized.The size of the containment zones announced on Wednesday, as suggested by the Union health ministry’s guidelines, is directly proportional to the population density of the cluster in question and the scale of the outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-delhi-list-of-23-covid-19-hotspots-new-additions/story-OQh9dUaIxHC5VatsphXT1N.html
09-04-2020||India||Odisha extends lockdown to April 30; asks Centre not to resume trains||The Covid-19 lockdown in Odisha will be extended till April 30, Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik announced on Thursday after a meeting of the state cabinet. Odisha is the first state to extend the lockdown ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s video conference to discuss the lockdown extension.In a statement after the meeting, Patnaik said Odisha has also urged the Centre to stop train and flight services to the state till April 30. Schools and educational institutions would remain closed till June 17, he said.According to Union health ministry data, Odisha has reported 42 confirmed Covid-19 cases so far. One person has died in the state due to coronavirus disease.Also Watch: Coronavirus | ‘Entire staff of Odisha Assembly quarantined’: Speaker explains why On April 3, Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation announced it is creating a “containment zone”, a nearly rectangular area with 1.5 km length and 800 metre width that centred on a housing complex, the epicentre of the local outbreak with 18 positive cases of coronavirus disease. On Twitter, the city’s municipal body released a map showing a black dotted line along the busy Cuttack-Puri road indicating the contours of the zone which it said no one can enter or exit as long as the containment orders were on.With Odisha reporting its first death due to Covid-19 on Tuesday when a 72-year-old retired government servant died in AIIMS Bhubaneswar, the authorities have stepped up surveillance and testing. After Surya Nagar and Bomikhal, the officials added Jadupur, Kapilaprasad, Sundarpada and finally Satya Nagar as conatinent zones.Ten villages in Kendrapara district, a gram panchayat in Bhadrak district and a village in Jajpur district have also been declared as containment zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-becomes-first-state-to-extend-covid-19-lockdown-sets-april-30-as-new-date/story-MLEr0Zie3fXZWufT1lC2QM.html
09-04-2020||India||Chhattisgarh: NIA arrests two accused involved in MLA Bhima Mandavi murder case||The National Investigating Agency (NIA) arrested two accused involved in MLA Bhima Mandavi murder case on Wednesday and produced them before NIA Special Court in Jagdalpur, Chhattisgarh.The court has granted their custody to the NIA for six days for interrogation.On April 9, 2019, MLA Mandavi and four police personnel, travelling in a vehicle, were killed in a powerful IED blast triggered by Maoists near Shyamgiri village of Dantewada.As per the press release issued by the NIA on Wednesday, two accused - Bhima Tati and Madka (a resident of Patel Para of Tikanpal Village in Dantewada district) - were allegedly involved in MLA’s murder case.“Initial investigation has revealed that aforesaid two accused are CPI (Maoist) workers and they were instrumental in providing logistic support and shelter to the Maoists and were part of the larger conspiracy to plant and execute the IED blast which led to the killing of MLA Mandavi and four policemen,” said the press release. The NIA, in May 2019, registered a case under the Indian Penal Code’s Arms Act, the Explosives Substances Act and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) in connection with the attack. The NIA, which reached Dantewada for the investigation, was denied documents pertaining to the case by the local police.It had first approached its designated local court over the matter and later approached the High Court Bilaspur in June.After the High Court’s intervention, the documents/properties related to the case were handed over to the NIA by Chhattisgarh Police on March 17, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-nia-arrests-two-accused-involved-in-mla-bhima-mandavi-murder-case/story-WqJzMg0LSzyLiHc99gGP8N.html
09-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: UP man misses wife during Covid-19 lockdown, commits suicide, say police||A man allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself from the ceiling of his room as he was missing his wife stuck at her parents’ place due to the lockdown, police said. The incident took place in Radha Kund locality on Wednesday, they said, adding the deceased has been identified as Rakesh Soni, 32. As per information, Soni’s wife had gone to her parents’ place and was stuck there due to the lockdown and he was missing her due to which he committed suicide, Inspector Alok Rao said. A probe is on in the mater, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-up-man-misses-during-covid-19-lockdown-commits-suicide-say-police/story-2nkqZb2nMUYZJHCzIcZ8eP.html
09-04-2020||India||Jharkhand records first Covid-19 death, cases rise to 13 as per state health department||Jharkhand on Thursday reported its first coronavirus death. A 75-year-old male coronavirus patient from Bokaro passed away early Thursday morning, news agency ANI reported quoting Deputy Commissioner Bokaro Mukesh Kumar.The death is yet to be confirmed by the Ministry of Health. So far, as per the health ministry, Jharkhand has seen 4 coronavirus cases. However, State Health Secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni on Thursday said that the tally of coronavirus cases in the state has climbed to 13, subject to confirmation from the Centre.India has reported over 540 fresh Covid-19 cases in 24 hours and 17 deaths. With this, the total number of coronavirus cases in the country has jumped to 5734. The figure includes 5,095 active cases, 473 patients who have been cured or discharged and 166 deaths.The Uttar Pradesh government on Wednesday ordered 15 districts with most coronavirus cases to be sealed to contain the virus spread till April 15. Over 20 Covid-19 hotspots have come under a complete lockdown in Noida, Uttar Pradesh.Delhi administration has also identified as many as 23 hotspots which have been sealed to contain the spread of coronavirus in the national capital. Three major cities in Madhya Pradesh - Indore, Bhopal and Ujjain - have also been sealed on CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s orders.Various states, like Maharashtra, Jammu & Kashmir, Chandigarh, Nagaland, Odisha, Delhi and Ladakh, have made mask-wearing mandatory for those stepping out of their homes. India on Thursday entered the 16th day of the ongoing 21-day lockdown announced by PM Modi to break the chain of Covid-19 infection in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-records-first-covid-19-death-cases-rise-to-13-as-per-state-health-department/story-KoLJ7Qvwa46kfmhdlhbE4N.html
09-04-2020||India||Indore, Bhopal and Ujjain sealed over Covid-19 cases spike: Shivraj Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Wednesday ordered three major cities in the state to be sealed completely in the wake of the rising coronavirus cases in the state.The state government also invoked the Essential Services Management Act (ESMA) with an immediate effect to combat Covid-19 to ensure essential supplies and services are operational during the coronavirus crisis, news agency ANI reported.Indore, Bhopal and Ujjain are three major cities that have been sealed .“The district administration should ensure the supply of essential commodities in these areas. No person will be able to go in and out of these areas. Services of all government departments and their resources should be taken in coronavirus related work,” Chouhan said as reported by ANI.As per the latest Ministry of Health figures, the total number of coronavirus cases in Madhya Pradesh stands at 242 which includes 229 active cases and 13 deaths. The Delhi government also ordered 23 Covid-19 hotspots across the national capital to be sealed on Wednesday. The administration said that no movement of people will be allowed in those areas.In Uttar Pradesh, 15 districts with most coronavirus cases have been sealed to contain the virus spread till April 15. Over 20 Covid-19 hotspots have come under a complete lockdown in Noida, Uttar Pradesh.Coronavirus cases in India went past the 5,500 mark on Thursday. The Ministry of Health updated the latest Covid-19 tally in the country to 5,734. There are 5,095 active cases, 473 patients who have been cured or discharged and 166 deaths in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indore-bhopal-and-ujjain-sealed-over-covid-19-cases-spike-shivraj-chouhan/story-CBcZF1eKMswKgDHxmv0EDO.html
09-04-2020||India||How rail travel could change post Covid-19. Ministry says no decision yet||That life after the lockdown is lifted, when it lifted, has been widely acknowledged in the government and beyond. The railways, according to a report in www.livehindustan.com, is also working on updating how people should travel in trains. According to the report in Hindustan, a sister publication of Hindustan Times, passengers may be required to reach railway stations well ahead of the scheduled departure time of the train. For now, the officials appear to be looking at the possibility of stipulating a four-hour lead time. This, it is felt, would give passengers adequate time to clear the additional safety protocols that could come into play.To be sure, the Railways Ministry on Thursday insists that it has not taken a decision so far.“Ministry of Railways has not issued any protocol regarding passenger travel during post lockdown period, as has been incorrectly reported in some media reports,” the railways ministry tweeted. “As and when a decision is taken, all stakeholders would be intimated. Please do not be guided by any misleading report,” it said. Ministry of Railways has not issued any protocol regarding passenger travel during post lockdown period, as has been incorrectly reported in some media reportsAs and when a decision is taken, all stakeholders would be intimated. Please do not be guided by any misleading reportCoronavirus live updates According to the Hindustan report, here is a list of the changes that are being proposed.1. Only non-Air conditioned coaches may be available for travel in order to prevent the spread of the disease, which is believed to have greater potential for transmission in air-conditioned environment.2. Passengers may be required to update and inform the railways of their health status 12 hours before travel.3. If a traveller is found with symptoms of Covid-19, he is likely to be deboarded and forced to abandon his journey.4. Every passenger may be given a face mask and a hand glove to use during the journey against a small fee. The use of mask and gloves could be mandatory during travel.6. Vendors may not be allowed to enter the coaches from outside.7. Senior citizens may be dissuaded from travelling on trains to save them from catching the infection.8. Passengers may have to pass through a specially-made tunnel for disinfection.9. Social distancing norms may be enforced during the journey.10. All four doors in a train coach are likely to be kept locked to prevent any unauthorised entry into the compartment during the course of the journey.11. Most trains are likely to operate non-stop between the originating and the destination stations, only a couple of additional stops in between may be allowed in some cases.12. The side berth in sleeper coaches may be kept vacant to ensure social distancing and only two passengers are likely to be allowed in a cabin comprising of six berths.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-ac-coaches-mandatory-masks-and-early-arrival-rail-travel-post-covid-19-set-to-change/story-Igqdzn7547CX6dXXBXeZ7O.html
09-04-2020||India||Covid-19: What is a hard lockdown||Authorities in Uttar Pradesh announced on Wednesday a hard lockdown in 12 hotspots where most number of Covid-19 cases have been registered.Twenty five such clusters - 13 in Ghaziabad and 12 in Gautam Budh Nagar - will be under intensive lockdown measures for a week, with residents confined indoors, all shops and banks shut, and all vehicular movement completely curtailed.So, what is a hard lockdown? And how is it different from the current restrictions placed across the country to check the spread of Covid-19? Here’s a look:--Residents living in hot spots won’t be allowed to step out of their houses.--All houses in hotspots will be searched and sanitised.--Drones will monitor activities in the sealed areas.--Health department staff will make house-to-house visit to identify infected people and quarantine them.--Essential commodities, including edible items and medicines, will be delivered at doorsteps after order is placed online.--Entry of media in hot spots will be banned. Only government photographer will be permitted and government will release pictures to the media.--People can contact control rooms and helplines established by the districts’ administration for emergency services.--People will have to cover their face with mask or scarf while moving in the lockdown areas.--Administration and police will make public announcements through loudspeakers in the sealed and lockdown areas.--Police will barricade the sealed area and organize intensive patrolling on roads and in lanes.--Vegetable and fruit markets, banks and ration outlets will remain closed.--Lockdown passes issued to civilians after March 25 will be ineffective--Any person trying to enter or exit the hot spots till April 15 will be booked--Vegetable and fruit markets, banks and ration outlets will remain closed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-is-a-hard-lockdown/story-Svrr9Wnz7ZommwOywCEOXL.html
09-04-2020||India||‘We will win this together’: PM Modi responds to Trump’s thank you note on hydroxychloroquine||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday acknowledged the thank you note of US President Donald Trump, saying that India will do everything possible to help humanity’s fight against coronavirus disease Covid-19.“Fully agree with you President @realDonaldTrump. Times like these bring friends closer. The India-US partnership is stronger than ever. India shall do everything possible to help humanity’s fight against COVID-19. We shall win this together,” PM Modi said on Twitter, tagging Trump’s tweet. Fully agree with you President @realDonaldTrump. Times like these bring friends closer. The India-US partnership is stronger than ever.India shall do everything possible to help humanity's fight against COVID-19. We shall win this together. https://t.co/0U2xsZNexETrump had on Wednesday showered praises on PM Modi and the Indian people on Twitter, in response to Indian government’s decision to ease restrictions on export of anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine that he has said would be a game-changer in the battle against Covid-19 pandemic.“Extraordinary times require even closer cooperation between friends. Thank you India and the Indian people for the decision on HCQ. Will not be forgotten! Thank you Prime Minister @NarendraModi for your strong leadership in helping not just India, but humanity, in this fight!” the US President had said in his tweet.Trump, during a phone call on Saturday, had asked PM Modi to lift the hold on American order of the anti-malarial drug, of which India is the major producer. India lifted the hold on Tuesday.By Wednesday night, more than 14,600 Americans had lost their lives due to coronavirus and over 4.3 lakh have tested positive for the dreaded disease. Scientists and the medical fraternity are racing against time to find a vaccine and a therapeutic solution to it.India is the world’s largest manufacturer of hydroxychloroquine, producing nearly 70 per cent of the world’s supply. The demand for the drug, which is also used by patients of rheumatoid arthritis, was boosted after a small placebo-controlled clinical trial in China demonstrated that the anti-malarial drug shortened the duration and reduced the severity of cough, fever and pneumonia in patients with mild and moderate disease.India banned the export of hydroxychloroquine and any formulation containing it on March 25. Last week the ban was expanded to cover exports from special economic zones, blocking pending orders, including from the US.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-will-win-this-together-pm-modi-responde-to-trump-s-thank-you-note-on-hydroxychloroquine/story-2EWFfE7boqW7Pu1J7dQ2zO.html
09-04-2020||India||Coronavirus: Restriction on burial visits during Shab-e-Barat in West Bengal||To restrict the movement of people during Shab-e-Barat on Wednesday and Thursday (April 8, 9), the West Bengal government urged members of the Muslim community not to take out processions and visit burial grounds to pay homage to their ancestors which is a normal practice on this occasion.“I urge people not to leave their homes for the sake of their own safety. Please pray from home. The Bengali new year’s day is also round the corner. Let us all follow the safety guidelines,” Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said at the secretariat on Wednesday afternoon.The Bengali new year’s day, or Poila Boisakh, will be observed on April 14, the last day of the ongoing 21-day lockdown unless it is extended.The All Bengal Imams Association has also instructed the imams of all mosques to ask members of the community to pray from home during Shab-e-Barat.The Kolkata Municipal Corporation has imposed restrictions as well. “People may visit burial grounds only to bury the dead,” said Kolkata mayor and urban development minister Firhad Hakim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-restriction-on-burial-visits-during-shab-e-barat-in-west-bengal/story-e2NTo0rhYFLCEXmDu9ijrM.html
09-04-2020||India||Spring colder than usual this year, shows IMD data||The flu season is prolonged this year in many parts of northwest India because of back-to-back western disturbances (WDs). Temperature data with India Meteorological Department (IMD) for March and April in Delhi shows last year the highest maximum temperature recorded in March was 39.2 degrees C recorded on March 31 compared to maximum of only 33.3 degrees C recorded on March 26.The average maximum temperature for March was similar in both years around 28.2 degrees C, 1 degree below normal. But in the first week of April the average maximum temperature this year is 32.7 degrees C compared with 36.61 degrees C last year. The highest maximum temperature recorded last year till April 7 was 39.3 degrees C compared to 35.8 degrees C this year. The weather continues to be nippy in April.Interestingly, nights also continue to be mildly chilly. The highest minimum temperature recorded in March last year was 21 degrees C on March 31 compared to 19.6 degrees C recorded on March 27 this year. The average minimum temperature in the first week of April is 16.8 degrees C this year compared to 19.7 degrees C last year.“We had four WDs last April but more than six WDs this year. The WDs brought a lot of rain also this year. In March we got 109.67 mm rain this March which is the highest since 1901. Wind speed has also been moderate at about 20 to 30 kmph. This is why maximum temperature hasn’t risen as it should have. On April 7 also many neighbouring parts of Delhi received rains due to a WD once again bringing down maximum and minimum temperatures,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.Similar trends have been observed for the entire northwestern region and even other parts of the country. “The summer heat hasn’t started and temperature hasn’t started picking up yet even in places which get very hot by now like parts of Rajasthan, Odisha, Maharashtra, some areas of Central India,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist, national weather forecasting centre.“Its thought that high humidity and low temperature is favourable for the spread of certain viral infections. But the correlation between temperature and these infections is still a matter of conjecture. There are no scientific studies clearly establishing the link. But what we do know is that March-April and September-October are pollen or allergy season when asthma and certain respiratory conditions aggravate,” said Dr BK Tripathi, professor of medicine at Safdarjung Hospital.IMD’s Wednesday bulletin said a western disturbance is likely to affect western Himalayan region on April 9 and 10. Also an induced cyclonic circulation is likely to form over central Pakistan and neighbourhood around April 10. “Under its influence, scattered to fairly widespread rain/snow is likely over Western Himalayan Region and isolated rain/thundershowers over Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh on April 9 and 10. Thunderstorm accompanied with lightning, hail and gusty winds (speed reaching 30-40 kmph) very likely at isolated places over Western Himalayan Region during next two days.” Another WD is likely to impact the region on April 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spring-colder-than-usual-shows-imd-data/story-wDh6ZhgmGa7CPQennVwllK.html
09-04-2020||India||PM’s lockdown message and stimulus plan: Covid-19 news from India||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has told floor leaders of political parties in Parliament that the lockdown will not be lifted in its entirety after April 14 in order to contain Covid-19. His government may also set up a fund with a corpus of about Rs 50,000 crore to Rs 75,000 crore to revive industries as part of a stimulus package under consideration to revive growth in the post-Covid-19 era.Here are the top stories on Covid-19 pandemic from India today.Abrupt end to curbs not possible, says PM Modi“It’s not possible to lift the lockdown abruptly,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi said at a meeting with the floor leaders of political parties in Parliament in the strongest message yet from the government that the nationwide, three-week lockdown it clamped to fight the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) will not be lifted in its entirety when it ends on April 14. Read more. Masks must in Delhi, 23 ‘zones’ sealed fullyAuthorities in Delhi announced on Wednesday a hard lockdown of 23 neighbourhoods with large number of Covid-19 cases and ordered all citizens to wear masks while stepping out of their homes, tightening curbs to combat the outbreak even as 93 new cases took the total number of infections in the national capital to 669. Read more. 12 hot spots in GB Nagar, 13 in Ghaziabad to be under intensive lockdown till April 14With the Uttar Pradesh government Wednesday announcing the sealing of 105 Covid-19 hot spots across 15 districts, 25 such clusters in the NCR -- 13 in Ghaziabad and 12 in Gautam Budh Nagar – will be under intensive lockdown measures for a week, with residents confined indoors, all shops and banks shut, and all vehicular movement completely curtailed. Read more. Covid-19: What you need to know todayLess testing, delayed screening led to Maharashtra’s Covid-19 toll: ExpertsMaharashtra on Wednesday reported 117 more cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), taking the number of infected people in India’s worst-hit state to 1,135 (72 of them have died). The state crossed the 1,000-case mark in just 30 days, from March 9 to April 7, with a 5.98% mortality rate, at least twice the overall mortality rate of 2.66% across India. The past five days have accounted for 56.8% (645) of the state’s cases. Read more. Millions in migrant camps battle despair about uncertain futureA truck driver, Mahto was in Punjab’s Ludhiana city when sweeping restrictions were announced to stop the spread of Covid-19. On the second day of the lockdown, he and some other stranded workers hitched a ride on a truck to get back to their villages in Bihar. But the vehicle was intercepted in Patna the next day, and the workers sent to a government school that was turned into a migrant shelter. With no friends or family around, and bland food every day, Mahto spends his days in a small room with strangers. Read more. Supreme Court directs private labs to conduct tests free of costThe Supreme Court on Wednesday made tests for the coronavirus disease Covid-19 in government and private laboratories free, and asked the government to pass the necessary orders so as to make this possible. The tests are already free in government laboratories. Read more. No dearth of anti-malaria drug, say states amid local concernsA day after India said it will allow limited exports of the anti-malaria hydroxychloroquine, officials across several states insisted there is no shortage of the drug. Hydroxychloroquine has emerged as the most sought-after medicine after preliminary trials in China suggested it boosted recovery and lowered the severity of the coronavirus disease. Read more.Where relief falls short, groups of volunteers step in, plug gapsUtpal Basumallik was on one of the last international flights to land in India, arriving in Kolkata on March 19 from New Jersey with a stopover in Abu Dhabi, three days before India suspended all inbound flights to stop the spread of the coronavirus infection (Covid-19). Read more. Mumbai, UP, J&K, and Ladakh make mask-wearing mandatoryThe city of Mumbai, India’s commercial capital, Uttar Pradesh state and the newly created Union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh on Wednesday made it compulsory for people to wear face masks in public places, warning that action shall be taken against those who don’t follow the rule imposed to curb the spread of Covid-19. Read more. India’s 5000 cases in 37 days New Rs 75,000 crore fund to boost small industry in post-Covid worldThe government may set up a fund with a corpus of about ₹50,000 crore to ₹75,000 crore to revive industries, particularly labour-intensive small and medium units, as part of an economic stimulus package currently under consideration to revive growth in the post-covid-19 era, two officials aware of the plan said. Read more. ₹18,000 crore released as tax refundsThe finance ministry on Wednesday released Rs 18,000 crore of tax refunds to 1.4 million income-tax payers and 100,000 businessmen awaiting Goods and Services Tax (GST) and customs refunds and asked government departments to restrict their expenditure in the fiscal first quarter (April-June) -- the first to improve the cash position of individuals and businesses in the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic. Read more. Coronavirus pandemic could push 400mn Indians deeper into poverty, says ILOAs many as 400 million Indians, including migrant workers and daily wage earners, are at risk of being pushed deeper into poverty because of the covid-19 pandemic, the International Labour Organisation said, terming the crisis as the most severe since the Second World War. The pandemic is likely to impact 2.7 billion workers, or 81% of the world’s workforce, the Geneva-based body said on Wednesday.Read more. Newspaper Society opposes suggestion to suspend govt adsThe Indian Newspaper Society (INS) and the Association of Radio Operators (AROI) for India strongly opposed on Wednesday a suggestion by Congress president Sonia Gandhi that the government and public sector undertakings should not issue any print or electronic media advertisements for two years in order to save money. Read more. Govt issues advisory to stem social stigmaThe backlash against health care and sanitation workers and police personnel at the frontline of the fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has prompted the government to release a set of guidelines for the general public titled “Addressing Social Stigma Associated with Covid-19”. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-s-lockdown-message-and-stimulus-plan-covid-19-news-from-india/story-WgQdsVX64HxyR4KlIr6l8N.html
09-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Bengal mulls disinfection walkways to keep people safe||Kolkata: The authorities in West Bengal are exploring the feasibility of installing sanitising gateways and disinfecting walkways to keep SARS-CoV-2, which causes coronavirus disease (Covid-19), at bay, as markets, hospitals and some government offices are still open, despite the ongoing 21-day nationwide lockdown enforced since March 25 to contain the pandemic. Scientists from a government research institute – the Central Mechanical Engineering Research Institute (CMERI) - have built prototypes of two sensor-based disinfecting walkways, which could help people to get sanitised in less than 40 seconds. The Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) has started a pilot project, where sprinklers have been installed at one of the entry points of the century-old Hogg Market, one of the busiest markets in the city.The Durgapur Municipal Corporation (DMC) has shown interest in the prototypes developed by the CMERI. “A person needs to enter the chamber-like walkway and stand inside it. The embedded sensors will detect the person’s presence and trigger a mist of disinfectant. This would kill the virus and disinfect you. It could take any time between 20 and 40 seconds depending on what type of disinfectant one is using,” said Harish Hirani, director, CMERI. The walkways can be deployed at the entry and exit points of isolation and quarantine facilities, hospitals, metro stations, shopping malls, and offices among other places where social distancing is few and far between and the chances of getting infected are abnormally high.The CMERI is India’s apex research and development institute for mechanical engineering under the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR). Two variants developed by the institute have been installed on its campus -- one at the main gate and another at its medical centre.“We’ve developed two variants. While the Hydraulic Variant Disinfection Walkway is rather simple and less costly, as it uses a pump, the Pneumatic Variant Disinfection Walkway uses a compressor and is costlier. The wastage of disinfectant is, however, less in the latter,” said Ajoy Roy, one of the scientists of the institute.The Hogg Market’s contraption is basic. “The moment a person passes through the market’s gate, sprinklers spray disinfectant to sanitise the passerby. We’re using diluted hydrogen peroxide as a disinfectant,” said a KMC official.The KMC is planning to install more such ‘sanitising corridors’ after the lockdown is lifted, as all the markets will open.“The CMERI scientists had approached us. Our technical experts would visit their campus to get a sense of the two variants installed,” said Dilip Kumar Agasty, mayor, DMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-bengal-mulls-disinfection-walkways-to-keep-people-safe/story-uOvit67fepGqK5W1UYvu6M.html
09-04-2020||India||Coronavirus pandemic could push 400mn Indians deeper into poverty, says ILO||As many as 400 million Indians, including migrant workers and daily wage earners, are at risk of being pushed deeper into poverty because of the covid-19 pandemic, the International Labour Organisation said, terming the crisis as the most severe since the Second World War. The pandemic is likely to impact 2.7 billion workers, or 81% of the world’s workforce, the Geneva-based body said on Wednesday.The unemployment scenario is unlikely to improve in the second half of 2020, ILO said, adding that it estimates working hours will decline by 6.7% in the second quarter of 2020, which is equivalent to 195 million full-time workers. The forecast indicates that there may be lasting economic damage from the shock caused by the covid-19 pandemic, including widespread joblessness. Loss of wages, in turn, is likely to trigger a slump in demand.India, which has a relatively high proportion of workers outside the formal workforce, need to be on guard as workers are facing a drastic reduction in working hours, wage cuts and layoffs, the ILO said. “In India, with a share of almost 90% of people working in the informal economy, about 400 million workers in the informal economy are at risk of falling deeper into poverty during the crisis,” ILO said.“In India, Nigeria and Brazil, the number of workers in the informal economy affected by the lockdown and other containment measures is substantial. Current lockdown measures in India, which are at the high end of the University of Oxford’s covid-19 Government Response Stringency Index, have impacted these workers significantly,” it added.The ILO warning corroborates local data, which shows that unemployment rate has spiked in India in a span of weeks. The Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy’s weekly tracker survey showed that the unemployment rate shot up from 8.4% in mid-March to 23% in the week ended April 5, reflecting job losses because of the 21-day lockdown that started on March 25. While urban unemployment rate was 30.9%, the rural unemployment rate was over 20%, the data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-pandemic-could-push-400mn-indians-deeper-into-poverty-says-ilo/story-68ltaIqQU3gIIJatNmbq3M.html
09-04-2020||India||As Centre considers Covid-19 lockdown extension, demand to resume industry||Even as state governments have asked the Centre to consider extending the ongoing lockdown beyond April 14, there is pressure on the central government to allow certain industries to resume operations partially and with caveats to follow the mandatory protocols for health care and social distancing. Since the lockdown was announced on March 24 to check the spread of Covid-19, only those manufacturing units such as pharmaceuticals or those that form the supply chain for essential items are being permitted.According to a few BJP lawmakers, during their interaction with the state administration and party workers across the country, the need to restart a certain section of industries such as food processing, bottling and packaging, and textiles, has been repeatedly flagged.A Member of Parliament (MP) from Bihar said many industrial groups (which he declined to name) expressed concern that it might be difficult to bring back the migrant workers who have moved back in large numbers to their respective native states.“There is a concern that with states looking after the essential needs such as food and ration and the Centre fast-tracking direct benefit transfers, workers may not return once the lockdown conditions are eased. In that case, there may be a crippling impact in many sectors in the absence of the workforce,” the MP quoted above said.A second MP from Maharashtra said that with the Covid-19 cases now being reported from at least two districts in the state, monitoring of migrant workers and movement of people needs to be further enhanced. The MP said the demand to ease restrictions have been made by the micro, small and medium enterprises, which has expressed inability to foot wages unless they are allowed to function.“The MSMEs have requested that in a phased manner, in regions where the spread is limited, production should be allowed after April 14, even if the lockdown is extended,” the second MP said.A group of BJP MPs have also given wide-ranging suggestions to cope with issues related to economy and job creation in the aftermath of the coronavirus pandemic to party president Jagat Prakash Nadda.According to a person aware of the details, these MPs presented first part of the report before the nation-wide lockdown was announced on March 24, which gave suggestions on how to mitigate the impact of the pandemic which has left 149 dead in India.Suggestions such as increasing liquidity, increasing the duration of MNREGA work and relaxations to the MSME sectors were also shared with the finance ministry that announced the Rs 1.70 lakh crore relief package.While three of the MPs who were part of making this report declined to comment, the person quoted above said the second part will have more focused suggestions on how to meet the challenge of job creation when the economy has taken a hit, ramping up agriculture produce and scaling production in the MSMEs.These suggestions will be shared with the government, which is working on an economic stimulus package expected soon.The All India Manufacturer’s Association has claimed that 70 per cent of the MSME establishments were unable to pay either partially or fully the wages for March. Sudrashan Sareen, president of the association said in the absence of generating revenue plus on account of unpaid dues from the government, MSMEs across the country are reeling under a financial crisis.Govind Lele, general secretary of the Laghu Ugyog Bharati (LUB), an affiliate of the RSS that works with the MSMSE sector said while it was true that small manufacturers are facing the brunt of the lockdown, easing restrictions to resume production cannot be done without assessing the impact it will have on checking the spread of the pandemic.“In smaller manufacturing units social distancing is not possible and there is no way to certify workers (to be free from the virus) so that production can be resumed without fear,” he said.“The fear that industries will come to a grinding halt if workers show unwillingness to move back is exaggerated,” said Amitabh Kundu, distinguished fellow at the New Delhi-based think tank Research and Information System for Developing Countries.“I think that the fear that migrant workers who have moved back to their villages may not return after three months, is a bit exaggerated. The total purchasing power in the rural areas is low and the demand for labour will come down significantly after this present season. These migrants are likely to return once the industries begin operations,” Kundu added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-centre-considers-covid-19-lockdown-extension-demand-to-resume-industry/story-UZXUtDxvzcSUFfA2DpTvFO.html
09-04-2020||India||Telangana, Andhra Pradesh together report 83 fresh Covid-19 cases||Telangana and Andhra Prades - the two Telugu states - continued to record huge number of Covid-19 positive cases. On Wednesday, Telangana reported 49 new cases, while 34 surfaced in Andhra Pradesh.With these new cases, the overall number of cases rose to 453 in Telangana and 361 in Andhra. There were no new deaths reported in either state.Most of the positive cases in Telangana were from Hyderabad which reported as many as 175, followed by 36 in Nizamabad, 34 in Ranga Reddy, 25 in Warangal (Urban), 22 in Jogulamba Gadwal, 18 each in Medchal and Karimnagar and 14 in Nalgonda districts.In Andhra Pradesh, majority of the cases were reported from Kurnool (75), followed by Guntur (49), Nellore (49), Krishna (37), Kadapa (28), Prakasam (28), West Godavari (22), Visakhapatnam (24) and Chittoor (20) districts.Telangana health minister Eatala Rajender, however, claimed that the state had overcome the Covid-19 crisis to the extent of 95 per cent and hoped that there might not be admission of new patients in big numbers.“We conducted tests for around 1100 persons who had returned from the Markaz at Nizamuddin in New Delhi and another 3,158 people who had come in contact with the Delhi returnees. They have all been shifted to as many as 167 quarantine centres. The test reports of another 535 samples are awaited,” the minister said.He said the number of discharged positive cases was slowly increasing and till now, 45 patients had been discharged and the remaining 397 patients who were still undergoing treatment were also healthy.Rajender said there was no scarcity of protective equipment for doctors and paramedical staff. “We have 80,000 personal protection equipment at present and we placed orders for another five lakh PPEs. Similarly, we have over one lakh N-95 masks and another five lakh masks are being procured. Orders have also been placed for two crore masks and five lakh goggles used by doctors and 3.5 lakh Covid-19 test kits,” he said.The Telangana government has readied a 1500-bed hospital at Gachibowli sports complex and it would also make use of the services of 22 private medical college hospitals, the minister added.Meanwhile, Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy ordered taking over of as many as 58 private hospitals across 13 districts in the state to cope with the eventuality of a further spread of Covid-19 in the state.A total of 19,114 beds are available in these private hospitals. Of them, 17,111 are non-ICU beds, 1,286 are ICU beds and 717 are isolation beds. Additionally, alternative facilities with a capacity of 530 have also been set up, an official release from the chief minister’s office said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-andhra-pradesh-together-report-83-fresh-covid-19-cases/story-GaxrxUrQKDReAAGHey4HOJ.html
09-04-2020||India||Maharashtra Covid-19 cases reach 1,297 in a month; mortality rate double than India’s||Exactly a month after Maharashtra registered its first of coronavirus disease Covid-19, India’s worst-affected state has 1,297 infected patients and recorded 72 deaths. From Wednesday evening to Thursday morning, the state reported 162 more cases. Of this, 143 have been reported in Mumbai, three each in Pune and Aurangabad, two in Pimpri-Chinchwad and one each in Vasai-Virar, Yavatmal and Sindhudurg.On Thursday morning, the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) also released an updated list of the containment zones in the city. Mumbai has 381 containment or no-go zones in total. Mumbai continues to be the hardest hit with 714 cases and 45 deaths. Mumbai’s Dharavi, with one of the largest slums in Asia, recorded its second death on Wednesday and 13 Covid-19 positive cases. The state crossed the 1000-mark in 30 days, with a mortality rate double than that of the entire country.On Wednesday, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said that numbers are increasing as the government has launched door-to-door surveys. “We do not wait for patients to come. We have increases tests in Mumbai and Pune,” Thackeray said in his address to the state.On March 9, Maharashtra reported its first case of Covid-19 when a couple in Pune were tested positive for Sars-CoV-2 virus. The couple had returned from Dubai. The next day, three more people in the city, who has come in contact with the couple, tested positive. The state government maintains that Maharashtra is still on stage 2, where disease transmission is limited to those with travel history and those who come in contact with the infected person. Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday said that the state is yet to enter stage three. He also said that although the numbers are increasing, its not multiplying. 117 patients, of the 1,135, have been cured and discharged till date, he said.Amidst this speculation of community transmission, Mumbai civic body on Wednesday made it mandatory for citizens to wear masks in public places. Failing to wear masks may result in offenders getting arrested under section 188 of the Indian penal code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-covid-19-cases-reach-1-135-in-a-month-mortality-rate-double-than-india-s/story-A1S623nL73YJjLbTPogYcI.html
09-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: No dearth of anti-malaria drug, say states amid local concerns and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.No dearth of anti-malaria drug, say states amid local concernsA day after India said it will allow limited exports of the anti-malaria hydroxychloroquine, officials across several states insisted there is no shortage of the drug. Hydroxychloroquine has emerged as the most sought-after medicine after preliminary trials in China suggested it boosted recovery and lowered the severity of the coronavirus disease. Read more.‘Thank you India’: Trump showers praise on Modi for hydroxychloroquineUS President Donald Trump on Wednesday showered praises on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Indian people on Twitter, his response to the Indian government easing restrictions on export of anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine that he has said would be a game-changer in the battle against Covid-19 pandemic. Read more.Covid-19: Govt working on bailout package of up to Rs 75,000 crore to revive growthThe government may set up a fund with a corpus of about ₹50,000 crore to ₹75,000 crore to revive industries, particularly labour-intensive small and medium units, as part of an economic stimulus package currently under consideration to revive growth in the post-covid-19 era, two officials aware of the plan said. Read more.Shab-e-Baraat 2020: Date, history and significance of Shab-e-BaraatShab-E-Baraat or Laylat al-Baraat is an Islamic festival that is celebrated by Muslims all around the world. Translating to the ‘The Night of Fortune and Forgiveness’, Shab-e-Barat means night of forgiveness or atonement and commemorates the day Prophet Muhammad (PBUH) entered the city of Makkah. Read more.AR Rahman takes a dig at Masakali 2.0, recalls creating original with ‘365 days of creative brainstorming, no short cuts’As soon as Sidharth Malhotra and Tara Sutaria’s recreated number Masakali 2.0 released on Wednesday, fans of the original wondered how AR Rahman would react to the new version. And the Oscar-winning music maestro isn’t pleased. Read more.Android 11: Google makes A/B partition mandatory for seamless OS updatesLooks like Google is planning to make ‘seamless’ OS updates mandatory for all the future smartphones that will run Android 11 or Android R. And it is planning to do that by making ‘A/B Partition’ setup compulsory, as per a report by XDA Developers. Read more.Bihar to promote class 1 to 11 students without exam, Rs 802 cr released for salary to teachersThe Bihar government on Wednesday issued a notification for promoting all students of the 2019-20 academic session from class 1 to 11, except class 10, to the next class without annual examination. For class 10 and 12 students, board examinations are held. Read more.Watch| Coronavirus lockdown turns into hard lockdown, Rs 75,000 crore fund for MSMEs: Top 5 stories from HTHindustan Times’ National Political Editor, Sunetra Choudhury brings you the top 5 stories you need to know. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-no-dearth-of-anti-malaria-drug-say-states-amid-local-concerns-and-all-the-latest-news/story-Sktma3M2ZsZd4gMRVxk2wI.html
09-04-2020||India||Coronavirus cases in India rise to 5734; 540 new patients, 17 deaths in 24 hours||Coronavirus cases in India went past the 5,500 mark on Thursday. The Ministry of Health updated the latest Covid-19 tally in the country to 5,734. The figure includes 5,095 active cases, 473 patients who have been cured or discharged and 166 deaths.As per the health ministry data, there have been 540 fresh Covid-19 cases and 17 deaths in the last 24 hours.Maharashtra continues to be the worst-hit state with 1,135 active positive cases. Tamil Nadu closely follows with second-highest Covid-19 active patients at 690. Delhi’s tally has risen to 669 active cases. This comes a day after the Delhi government on Wednesday sealed 20 Covid-19 hotspots across the national capital. The administration said that no movement of people will be allowed in those areas. “A total of 20 hotspots have been identified in Delhi and were sealed. Nobody will be allowed to enter or exit these areas,” Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Wednesday. The Uttar Pradesh government on Wednesday ordered 15 districts with most coronavirus cases to be sealed to contain the virus spread till April 15. Over 20 Covid-19 hotspots have came under a complete lockdown in Noida, Uttar Pradesh. Meanwhile, Delhi, Maharashtra, Jammu & Kashmir, Chandigarh, Nagaland, Odisha and Ladakh have made it compulsory for people to wear a mask on stepping out from their homes. India on Thursday entered the 16th day of the 21-day lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-cases-in-india-rise-to-5734-540-new-patients-17-deaths-in-24-hours/story-mfW778PYcna5wmmUnsoqaJ.html
09-04-2020||India||4 Indian pilots training in Russia for Gaganyaan mission in self-isolation as a precautionary measure||Four Indian pilots currently being trained in Russia for the Gaganyaan manned space mission have gone into self-isolation purely as a precautionary measure following the detection of nine Covid-19 cases in the Russian space agency, people familiar with developments said on Wednesday.The pilots from the Indian Air Force, being trained at the Yuri Gagarin Research and Test Cosmonaut Training Center at Star City near Moscow, are all in good health and the self-isolation was part of the standard procedures for dealing with the situation, said people who spoke on condition of anonymity.“They have not been infected,” said one of the people cited above.There was no official word from the Indian side on the development.Dmitry Rogozin, director-general of Roscosmos, Russia’s space agency, told the media on Monday that nine employees of the corporation had been infected by the coronavirus. He said all the infected employees were receiving treatment.Till last week, the number of infected Roscosmos employees at different locations of the corporation was four.The pilots began their training in Russia in February. However, routine activities at the Russian facility, such as the training programme, have been temporarily suspended by the Covid-19 pandemic. The Indians had made good progress in the training so far and cleared some tests, the people said.Russia, which has recorded more than 8,600 infections and 63 deaths, is currently under lockdown till April 30. The lockdown also applies to the cosmonaut training centre and medical teams are regularly screening and monitoring all personnel at the facility.The training programme for the Indian pilots, who were chosen from among hundreds of applicants, will last a year and focus on both basic astronaut training and issues specific to the Gaganyaan mission planned for 2022.The Human Space Flight Centre of the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) and Russia’s state-run Glavkosmos signed a contract for the training programme in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-indian-pilots-training-in-russia-for-gaganyaan-mission-in-self-isolation-as-a-precautionary-measure/story-ccL7WeZAU21PZ6ZhudflRL.html
09-04-2020||India||Lockdown could be relaxed in Karnataka districts free from Covid-19, hints minister||Karnataka’s health and family welfare minister B Sriramulu hinted that lockdown might be relaxed in those areas of the state which are not affected by coronavirus disease Covid-19. The minister made the statement after discussion with officials. Eighteen of the 30 districts in the state have Covid-19 positive cases but the rest 12 don’t.Sriramulu’s statement came after primary and education minister S Suresh Kumar, briefing the media at a separate event, said that an expert panel of doctors had submitted its recommendations to Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on the lockdown and related issues. The task force formed by the Karnataka government to combat Covid-19 as well as the state cabinet will meet on Thursday and is expected to take a decision on whether to extend the lockdown, and if yes, how to go about it.Meanwhile, news agency PTI quoted Chief Minister Yediyurappa as saying that he intends to relax liquor sales stopped during the lockdown (after it ends on April 14), especially to increase revenues. There have been reports of suicides, allegedly due to non-availability of liquor, and incidents of robbery at locked liquor outlets across Karnataka.A 65-year-old fruit vendor died of Covid-19 in Kalburgi on Thursday, bringing the death toll in the state due to coronavirus to five. Also, six more people tested positive for Covid-19, bringing the state’s tally to 181. Among the six new cases, two were associated with the event held by Tablighi Jamaat at its markaz (centre) in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area.After a video of a child of a nurse pining and crying for its mother went viral, the chief minister personally called the nurse and thanked her for services rendered.In the video, three-year-old Aishwarya is seen crying for her mother Sunanda who works as a nurse at Belgavi Institute of Medical Science and because of working in the Covid-19 section has not been able to go to her residence for the last 15 days. Government appealed to the people saying that they should respect the lockdown and stay at home to contain the spread of Covid-19 as thousands of medical and emergency staff are working round the clock to fight the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-could-be-relaxed-in-karnataka-districts-free-from-covid-19-hints-minister/story-gDx2EdaoBiQB3MWm49ScUK.html
09-04-2020||India||Need to start industries flagged even as states ask centre to consider extending lockdown||Even as state governments have asked the Centre to consider extending the ongoing lockdown beyond April 14, there is pressure on the latter to allow certain industries to resume operations partially and with caveats to follow the mandatory protocols for health care and social distancing. Since the lockdown was announced on March 24, only manufacturing units such as pharmaceuticals or those that form the supply chain for essential items are being permitted to function.According to some BJP MPs, during their interaction with the state administration, the need to restart a certain section of industries, such as food processing, bottling and packaging, and textiles, has been repeatedly flagged.“There is a concern that with states looking after the essential needs, such as food and ration, and the Centre fast-tracking direct benefit transfers, workers may not return once the lockdown conditions are eased. In that case, there may be a crippling impact in many sectors in the absence of the workforce,” an MP from Bihar said.The All India Manufacturer’s Association has claimed that 70% of the MSME establishments were unable to pay either fully or partially the wages for March. The fear that industries will come to a grinding halt if workers show unwillingness to move back is exaggerated said Amitabh Kundu, distinguished fellow at the New Delhi-based think tank Research and Information System for Developing Countries. “These migrants are likely to return once the industries begin operations,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-to-start-industries-flagged/story-iEN0oDJcgsyvqqmz8OVcOP.html
09-04-2020||India||Tripura’s first Covid-19 patient claims of insufficient food in hospital, video goes viral||A day after a video of Tripura’s only Covid-19 patient’s video went viral, where she was seen saying she was kept without food in a government hospital, Tripura law minister Ratan Lal Nath Wednesday said the patient released the video “out of frustration”.In the video, the woman said that she was not provided with sufficient food at the hospital where she was kept. The woman returned from Guwahati to Agartala on March 19.She was tested positive for Covid-19 two days back and was moved to an isolation center at state-run GBP Hospital in Agartala. In her video, she requested the state government to give her food and said, “…They kept me here yesterday. I have got food once since yesterday. I can do my own work. Please arrange my food. If you can’t do it, please provide me with ingredients in front of my door. I can cook for myself. I request the CM to arrange for my food. I can’t bear it anymore. I have breathing difficulties and nothing else”.When asked about this issue, Ratan Lal Nath told reporters, “She made the statement out of frustration. Everything is fine in the hospital.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-s-first-covid-19-patient-claims-of-insufficient-food-in-hospital-video-goes-viral/story-ehLkHG12FUBwBXhgQmJ4vJ.html
09-04-2020||India||Tweaking Bhilwara model for other Covid-19 hotspots in Rajasthan, says top official||The Bhilwara model of ruthless containment is being lauded nationally. The Rajasthan medical and health department is facing challenge to contain the spread of Covid-19 in other hotspots such as Ramganj neighbourhood in Jaipur and Jhunjhunu.In an interview with Hindustan Times’ Rakesh Goswami, Rajasthan’s additional chief secretary of medical and health department Rohit Kumar Singh said that the model needs to be tweaked for other hotspots.Here are some excerpts from the interview:Q: How do you plan to use the Bhilwara model of containment in other hotspots such as Ramganj?Rohit Singh: The Bhilwara model is a typical containment strategy. It starts with lockdown, and lockdown means lockdown - no movement, no exemptions. Of course, you have to make arrangements for the essentials. For other hotspots, it needs to be tweaked. The principle will remain the same but will have to be adapted to local situation. For example, in Ramganj, social distancing is physically not possible because of population density. You need to quarantine a far larger number of people. As compared to Bhilwara, we are putting 10X more people from Ranganj in quarantine.Q: Why did Ramganj go out of hand?Rohit Singh: This happened because of the way the locality is structured, in term of population density, in terms of how people engage socially. Social distancing is culturally difficult to implement. The square feet of the houses is so low that if you advise someone home isolation, they cannot practice social distancing. It’s very cultural. So we decided to quarantine people en mass. If you compare with Bhilwara, we are putting 10 times more people in institutional quarantine facilities. After the police imposed a stricter curfew from Tuesday, we are now changing our strategy for testing. Now, we are going for cluster sampling for tests. We will collect around 500 samples from different clusters in Ramganj for testing from today (April 8). Until yesterday, we were testing 90-100 samples, so this is a 5X increase in testing to check if transmission is gone to the third stage of community spread. Besides Ramganj, we know that there are similar places outside the walled city such as Hasanpura and Jalupura where probably the cases are there but we don’t know. So we will also take samples from these areas as well.Q: Is there any similarity between Bhilwara and Ramganj?Rohit Singh: Yes. In both cases, negligence of one person caused the outbreak. In Bhilwara, this doctor continued to see patients despite having influenza-like illness. From him, the disease got transmitted to so many people. Similarly, in Ramganj, this gentleman comes from Oman and doesn’t tell anyone. When a local doctor advises him home isolation, he roams around the town with a friend. Out of 100-odd cases from Ramganj, almost all are because of him.Q: Centre has called for three-tier Covid-19 health facilities. What is the status in Rajasthan?Rohit Singh: In Rajasthan, every district has a dedicated Covid-19 hospital. In Jaipur, for example, SMS Hospital has a capacity of 1,000 Covid-19 beds - 650 beds are ready and the remaining can be readied in a matter of 24 hours. The government of India is very rightfully saying you plan for any eventuality, so that when it spreads only serious patients are handled in tertiary care. As advised by government of India, we will have different facilities for different types of patients.Q: As the cases rise, the need for more PCR tests will be felt. Are you prepared for that?Rohit Singh: Because of our advanced planning, and an early case - the first case was reported on March 2 - we have enough PCR kits. We are sourcing them from ICMR while Vaibhav (Galeria, secretary of medical education department) and his team are parallelly talking to private suppliers. We have PCR machines at eight medical colleges. One more machine has been installed at Bhilwara for which permission from ICMR is awaited. We are testing more people than most states. Our testing per million population is only behind Kerala. In statistical terms, if you plot number of cases against number of tests, we are in good quadrant - less positive and more testing.Q: What are newer challenges?Rohit Singh: Newer and emerging hotspots such as Pokaran in Jaisalmer and a small cluster in Kota are new challenges. Jhunjhunu is also a challenge. The good thing is that most of the patients are below 50-55 years, which is a very good thing because they have better immunity and the likelihood of them recovering is very high.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tweaking-bhilwara-model-for-other-covid-19-hotspots-in-rajasthan-says-top-official/story-8HoqlmxMi4N5uZqsoY7z0M.html
09-04-2020||India||4 Indian pilots training in Russia go into isolation||Four Indian pilots currently being trained in Russia for the Gaganyaan manned space mission have gone into self-isolation purely as a precautionary measure following the detection of nine Covid-19 cases in the Russian space agency, people familiar with developments said on Wednesday. The pilots from the Indian Air Force are all in good health and the self-isolation was part of the standard procedures for dealing with the situation, said the people who spoke on condition of anonymity. There was no official word from the Indian side. The pilots began their training in February. Routine activities at the Russian facility have been temporarily suspended.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-indian-pilots-training-in-russia-go-into-isolation/story-M1bIsaCoP2KgSOnELZ7y8M.html
09-04-2020||India||Travel could come with social distancing measures in place||The authorities are planning a slew of restrictive measures on public transport to ensure passenger safety and social distancing in trains, planes and metros to combat the threat of the spread of the coronavirus disese (Covid-19). All passenger transport has been suspended for the three-week long lockdown period that began on March 25. The Indian Railways is considering making thermal screening mandatory at railway stations and ensuring social distancing inside trains when the Centre gives its nod for resuming passenger train services, according to officials aware of the development. “Space between passengers will have to be ensured inside coaches. There will be awareness measures to ensure masks are worn and thermal screening is done. We are also using the the Aarogya Setu app, [the government’s tracker app] to check the status of passengers,” a senior railway ministry official said. Aviation regulator, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) is also preparing a standard operating procedure (SOP) to ensure social distancing among passengers and reducing contact with staff on board. This includes measures like leaving the middle seats empty. Airports will have to ensure that bunching of passengers is avoided while boarding and also that there is adequate spacing between passengers in queues.“We are holding consultations with stakeholders and with other similarly situated regulators around the world to develop an SOP which will kick in following the Union government’s order on resumption of passenger flights,” a senior civil aviation ministry official said. Even before the lockdown, the DGCA had issued guidelines on social distancing for airlines and airport operators. From requesting flyers to keep a distance of at lease a metre at check-in counters, waiting areas and during security checks, the regulatory body also asked authorities to provide sanitisers for staff and passengers. Similar measures on social distancing are also being planned for metros. “We will follow all self regulation directions on this issued by the Centre,” a spokesperson for the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation said. While no announcement on resumption of passenger transport has yet been made, the Indian Railways had begun preparing to resume passenger and mail express train services. Train services will have to be resumed only on specific approval of each train from the Railway Board. The national carrier, which operates 13,523 passenger trains every day, ferrying nearly 22 million passengers, has been operating only freight and parcel trains since the lockdown. “My heart goes out to people who are facing problems due to restrictions put in place on domestic and international flights,” Union civil aviation minister, Hardeep Puri, said on Wednesday. “These restrictions will be lifted once we are confident that the spread of the virus has been controlled and it poses no danger to fellow Indians,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/travel-could-come-with-social-distancing-measures-in-place/story-Y9ahRegv8IE1sl1vRN9NaM.html
09-04-2020||India||Keran encounter: 3 of 5 terrorists were locals||At least three terrorists gunned down by Indian special forces in the intense close-quarters encounter on April 5 in the Keran sector belonged to Jammu & Kashmir and were missing since 2018, according to people familiar with the investigations who spoke on condition of anonymity. The three had gone across the border in Pakistan for training, the people added. Five terrorists and five commandos from 4 Para (SF) were killed along the Line of Control on Sunday after a daring operation launched by the Indian Army.Five AK-47 rifles, grenades, and GPS and wireless sets were recovered from the encounter site at Shalbatoo, in the Jumgund area of the Keran sector in Kupwara in north Kashmir. The terrorists infiltrated across the LoC on April 1 from Qasim-II post in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) and were headed to the Gulab Post of army, according senior Indian security agency officials.The three terrorists were identified as Sajjad Ahmad Hurrah of Daramdora, Shopian; Aadil Hussain Mir of Mallapora, Liver, Anantnag; and Umar Nazir Khan of Liver, Anantnag. Jammu & Kashmir Police records show that missing reports had been filed about Hurrah and Mir at local police stations. Security officials said that the two left for Pakistan separately via the Attari-Wagah border; Sajjid crossed over on April 12, 2018, and Aadil on April 27, 2018. The travel history of Umar Nazir Khan, who belonged to the same village as Aadil, is being probed. The investogators suspect that the three were radicalised by Ghulam Nabi Khan, the deputy leader of the Hizbul Mujahideen (HM) based in PoK. Nabi Khan also belongs to Anantnag’s Liver village.The identities of the other two terrorists were yet established.Though the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) spread is growing in Pakistan, with cases in the Punjab province crossing to over 2,000 according to some estimates, a recent spike in incidents across the LoC suggest that the operation to fomenting trouble in Kashmir -- by first radicalising locals in Valley; then getting them to cross over for weapons training with terror groups such as the Lashkar-e-Taiba, Jaish-e-Mohammed and HM; and then sending them back to wage war in India. Security officials also said there are attempts to smuggle assault rifles across LoC to supply to foreign and local terrorists in the Valley. On March 23, 13 AK-47 rifles, hand grenades and ammunition were seized by Indian security officials in Keran sector. The moves, which security officials say include propping up smaller indigenous armed groups, are linked with retaliating against India for the August 2019 nullification of Article 370.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/keran-encounter-3-of-5-terrorists-were-locals/story-cFfqJmllXy5MHcbraR3SJI.html
09-04-2020||India||Ram temple trust releases logo in Ayodhya||The Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra trust released its logo on the occasion of Hanuman Jayanti at Karsevakpuram in Uttar Pradesh’s state capital Ayodhya on Wednesday with Champat Rai, general secretary of the trust, completing the formality in this connection.Circular in shape, the logo has a picture of Lord Ram and two small pictures of Lord Hanuman. The trust will use this logo on its letterhead and in all its official correspondence.“Construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya will start only after the coronavirus pandemic is over,” said Sharad Sharma, regional spokesperson, Vishwa Hindu Parishad, who operates from Karsevakpuram, Ayodhya. The Chaurasi Kosi (around 300 km) parikrama was scheduled to start from Ayodhya on Wednesday but the Vishva Hindu Parishad has already cancelled the event due to the Covid-19 lockdown. The 21-day parikrama was supposed to pass through several adjoining districts of Ayodhya, including Basti and Ambedkar Nagar. It was scheduled to end on May 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ram-temple-trust-releases-logo-in-ayodhya/story-S6KbCSRJpRyMO1kyP7UHyI.html
09-04-2020||India||Lalu Prasad parole matter to be decided upon by respective courts: Jharkhand||The matter related to release of RJD chief Lalu Prasad and other undertrials on parole, who were serving jail terms in Jharkhand, will be decided by the respective courts.The Jharkhand government held a meeting in this regard on Tuesday following the apex court order to all states and union territories, directing to release all undertrials for offences entailing maximum sentence of seven years in view of Covid-19.Confirming the state government decision, IG (Prison) Sashi Ranjan said about 2,300 undertrial prisoners in different jails, including Lalu Prasad who is undergoing treatment at RIMS under custody, will get relief if the respective local courts grant them parole. “The jails in Jharkhand have capacity of housing 16,114 inmates, while at present their numbers have crossed 18,400. Those who would get parole could be released on furnishing personal bonds, as moving bail petitions would be difficult due to lockdown. Also, the Jharkhand legal aid services association (JHALSA) will provide legal aid to the undertrials for furnishing bonds,” said Ranjan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lalu-prasad-parole-matter-to-be-decided-upon-by-respective-courts-jharkhand/story-ycpcdQWWDZH9QsIt8ssZiN.html
09-04-2020||India||‘No intention of slowing down training and readying of people’: Mahender Nath Pandey||Union minister for skill development and entrepreneurship (SDE), Mahendra Nath Pandey spoke to Smriti Kak Ramachandran in an email interview about the roles of training, skilling, and entrepreneurial endeavour in facing the coronavirus disease challenge, and in a post-Covid world.Edited excerpts:How is the ministry meeting the challenges brought on by the pandemic?The ministry has aligned its efforts with the Centre and has extended support to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) by making their National Skill Training Institutes (NSTIs), their hostels and the Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs) in the country available for conversion into quarantine or isolation facilities so that we have enough wards to observe and treat those infected by the virus. We have also shared the details of nearly one lakh (100,000) candidates skilled in health care related sectors through various programmes under the Skill India Mission. These professionals will help in containing the spread of the infection and efficiently manage patients in quarantine and hospital facilities that will be set up in the coming days. Additionally, a list of 2,000 health care trainers and more than 500 health care assessors have also been shared with MoHFW, who can be utilised for services.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicWe have also taken steps to ensure that candidates undergoing apprenticeship training across various establishments, do not suffer from the economic impact of the infection. MSDE has notified all establishments under designated and optional trade to pay full stipend to apprentices engaged with them. The government will reimburse stipends to these establishments under National Apprenticeship Promotion Scheme (NAPS) for the lockdown period as per guidelines.What is the number of those who will be reimbursed?Currently there are 24,884 establishments engaging 2.42 lakh (242,000) apprentices in both designated and optional trade. As per the provision under NAPS, the government reimburses 25% of the stipend amount to be paid to apprentices per month subject to a maximum of Rs 1,500 per month. During the lockdown period due to Covid-19 pandemic, the government will be paying approximately Rs 36.30 crore to the establishments who would be claiming reimbursement for engaging apprentices under NAPS during this periodEvery sector is expected to reel under from the impact of the pandemic. There are projections of job losses. How will the ministry ramp up efforts at skilling so that people can be self-reliant?The virus will undoubtedly impact the economy and industries will see sluggish growth, especially in sectors like aviation, tourism and hospitality, and automobile. However, we do not intend to slow down the process of training and readying people especially in skills for Industry 4.0 that will definitely gain more in importance once we get over this crisis. We will continue to assess the situation and, in line with the directives provided by the central government, extend the necessary support.Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreakOur commitment to the people and to the economy remains unchanged; we will gradually pace the skilling efforts, impart trainings and ensure measures to re-skill and upskill young people. Some of our trainees in short-term training programmes and Jan Shikhsa Sansthans have committed themselves to the service of the nation by manufacturing and producing masks and sanitisers, operating from their homes.What is the feedback from your interaction with people on the ground, what is the initial assessment of the lockdown and what has emerged as areas that need focus?Members of both the public and industry feel that we need to first control the spread of this deadly virus and then go ahead with the revival work. So far, India has been successful in managing the spread of Covid-19 with measures such as the lockdown and underlining the importance of social distancing. Of course, there is the concern that the virus is outpacing the economy, and it is true to some extent. Industries have suffered, people are worried about their livelihoods and jobs. However, the government has taken deep and preventive measures to address some of these concerns and have promised that livelihoods will be protected.We have seen how even developed countries have been affected by this pandemic and we must learn from these examples and win again this outbreak. At this point, the government’s priority is to save lives and stop the virus from spreading and that is possible only through strict adherence to social distancing, by staying at home. Only then will we be able to flatten the curve.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-intention-of-slowing-down-training-and-readying-of-people-mahender-nath-pandey/story-O0XVGJ3swBmkhjn92xNpKL.html
09-04-2020||India||Jodhpur’s first Covid-19 patient recovers, uncle dies in Spain||Jodhpur’s first Covid-19 patient, Himanshu Uttamchandani, walked out of hospital this week after being declared infection free. But the same day, thousands of miles away in Madrid, his uncle Mohan breathed his last after battling the same infection for nearly a week.Himanshu, 37, and his uncle last met in Turkey, where the entire family had gathered in the second week of March for a wedding. When Himanshu came back to India on March 18, accompanied by his mother, wife, daughter, uncle and aunt, he was examined at the airport but was cleared.Three days later, he went to the local hospital with his wife after a throat infection and submitted a throat swab. Later that night, the report came back positive for Covid-19 and his entire family was quarantined at the Institute of Infectious Diseases in Jodhpur.He was discharged on April 6.But Mohan, 71, was less lucky. “Mohan’s health check or screening was not done when he returned to Spain from Turkey. After 4-5 days, seeing symptoms like illness, the doctor came,” said Mohan’s brother and Himashu’s father, Shankar.The doctor asked Mohan to stay home instead of admitting him in the hospital and gave him medicines, but his health deteriorated. On March 31, Mohan was taken to a hospital where he was kept in the ICU, but his condition didn’t improve. “Patients are not being admitted unless the condition is very critical. Mohan’s funeral may have to wait for a month,” said Shankar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jodhpur-s-first-covid-19-patient-recovers-uncle-dies-in-spain/story-aPTugarOVzq0Plm4lSPLTN.html
09-04-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||On Wednesday morning, some TV channels that use the health ministry’s data on Covid-19 put out an alarming number – that the number of cases had increased by 773 in the previous 24 hours, after increasing by only 354 in the 24 hours prior to that. This wasn’t entirely accurate, simply because, while the number of cases did increase by 773, not all cases were discovered in the previous 24 hours. Indeed, that’s the reason HT’s own numbers are usually different from the ministry’s. The HT number is based on two data sources – a tracker on Covid19india.org, a data resource site maintained by volunteers, and, more importantly, releases from state health departments. Some of the latter come out late in the evening, and HT collates all of them up at 10.30pm (sometimes 10.45pm). We started doing this after we realised that the health ministry was collating data with a lag. This may cause people to misinterpret the data. For instance, according to the numbers collated by HT, there were 526 new cases till late Tuesday evening. The corresponding number on Monday evening was 582, and Sunday 515. Clearly, there was no real spike on Tuesday as a jump from 354 new cases to 773 new cases would indicate.According to HT’s dashboard, the number of cases in India was 5,885 on Wednesday (with 178 deaths). In the previous 24 hours, 580 new cases were identified.The number of new cases in Maharashtra on Wednesday was 117, taking the state’s total to 1,135. The first case in Maharashtra was identified on March 9, and the spread of the disease in the state seems to have been driven, at least initially, by the lack of screening of travellers arriving in India by air. The western state sees a lot of people travelling to and from West Asia, and it is believed that the initial infection may have journeyed with travellers from the United Arab Emirates. The chief minister of Maharashtra, Uddhav Thackeray, has also attributed the high number of cases in the state to more aggressive testing, including door-to-door surveys. Worryingly for Mumbai (and India), five more cases were identified in Dharavi, Asia’s largest slum, on Wednesday. Not surprisingly, Mumbai has made masks compulsory. Actually, given that many people infected with the Sars-Cov-2 virus that causes Covid-19 are asymptomatic, and that the virus stays infectious in small particle aerosols (including, in some cases, mere exhalations), India should make masks compulsory, even if they are homemade from fabric.Maharashtra wasn’t the only state to get tough with such measures on Wednesday; Uttar Pradesh (361 cases and 4 deaths on Wednesday), has announced that 105 hot spots across 15 of the worst affected districts in the state (including Delhi’s satellite Noida) will see a hard lockdown, with comprehensive restrictions on movement of people. The state also made it mandatory for everyone to wear masks in public places (see page 4). Delhi named 13 new hot spots on Wednesday, to add to the existing 7. It too, made masks mandatory for anyone who is out. These restrictions are stricter than the ones already in place during the ongoing 21-day national lockdown.The national lockdown was set to end on April 14, but it is now clear that it won’t, at least not entirely. In a virtual meeting with floor leaders of various parties, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said as much. HT has previously reported on research at the University of Cambridge that used mathematical models built around India’s disease and demographic data to present two scenarios where the rate of new infections actually decreased – one lockdown of 49 days, or three lockdowns of 21, 28, and 18 days with a five-day break between each. Still, research looks at issues in isolation; policy makers and administrators have a far tougher job. At this point in time, as indicated by Prime Minister Modi’s comments in the meeting, India’s policy makers have decided that a “lockdown is the only way for us to save the lives of our citizens”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today-april-9-2020/story-mmr5RmGaIWDT9WSTRTe67O.html
09-04-2020||India||Covid-19: 3 of a family in Defence Colony test positive||Three members of a family in Defence Colony, whose private security guard had attended the congregation at the Tablighi Jamaat Markaz in Nizamuddin in March, have been found Sars-Cov-2 positive. The police have registered an FIR against the guard for withholding the information from his employers, deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said. “The family lived on the ground floor of a building. They have been admitted to a private hospital. Other members of the family and those living on other floors of the building have been asked to remain in home quarantine,” the DCP said. Another senior police officer said the guard continued to work despite having Covid-19 symptoms. He said during the contact tracing of the affected family, it was found that their security guard had attended the Tablighi meeting at Markaz. The police found the guard at his home in Okhla. “The local SDM was informed and the guard has been sent to a quarantine centre for screening and testing,” the DCP added. Ranjit Singh, president of the Defence Colony residents’ welfare association said, “Some members of the family had recently travelled abroad. I have not been able to speak to them....After the matter came to light, the SDMC has not satisfactorily disinfected the area. The family’s residence has been disinfected but what about the rest of colony?”.The police, however, said that all family members were tested after they returned from abroad more than a month ago. “Their reports were negative. Also, the notice, which reads ‘home quarantine’ was not pasted outside their residence,” the officer said.In a separate case, the police in Dwarka registered an FIR after two bottles filled with liquid, which looked like urine, were found on the premises of Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) flats in Dwarka, which have been turned into quarantine centres. Also, a man who had attended the congregation was booked for misbehaving with staff at Bakkarwala quarantine facility in outer Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-3-of-a-family-in-defence-colony-test-positive/story-8n0wblyrECpcEQdtJfhdaM.html
09-04-2020||India||Jaish terrorist killed in Kashmir’s Sopore area||A 23-year-old Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) commander was killed after a day-long gunbattle with security forces as part of an ongoing counter-insurgency operation in Jammu & Kashmir’s Sopore town on Wednesday, a police spokesman said.The gunbattle is the latest in a series of firefights between militants and security forces in Jammu & Kashmir since Saturday. The escalation in violence has coincided with the lockdown in the region as part of the nationwide measures taken to halt the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. The spokesman cited above said Sajjad Nawab Dar, the commander, was killed a day after the army, police and paramilitary forces launched a joint operation in Sopore’s Gulabad Arampora locality following intelligence inputs about the militant presence thereHe said the locality was completely sealed and security forces ensured that it was well lighted to prevent militants from escaping the area under the cover of darkness. The exchange of fire between the security forces and militants began on Wednesday morning and continued till late in the evening. The spokesman said Dar was killed in the initial gunfight and was later identified as a local militant, who lived barely two to three kilometers away from the firefight site. He added while Dar was neutralised, the gunfight and the operation were underway. “The operation was launched on a credible input that two to four terrorists were present in the area.’’The spokesman said Dar threatened and intimidated peace-loving citizens of Sopore and its peripheral areas. “He explored the opportunities to assault security forces and VIP rallies through his OGWs [overground workers] and also motivated local youth for the execution of grenade attacks against monetary benefits,” he said. He added the militant used modern approaches of communication with other conduits of the outfit via social media apps.Police said Dar had joined militant ranks two years ago.Earlier, the mobile internet was also suspended in Sopore as a precautionary measure in view of the gunbattle, which left a house where the militants were holed up completely damaged.This was the third gunbattle between militants and security forces in Jammu and Kashmir since Saturday. Five commandos of an elite army special forces’ unit were killed in action along the Line of Control, the de facto border with Pakistan, in Jammu & Kashmir’s Keran sector on Sunday during an intense close-quarters battle with an equal number of infiltrators who were all eliminated. The bodies of the five infiltrators were buried in a nearby forest after their DNA samples were taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaish-terrorist-killed-in-kashmir-s-sopore-area/story-iAxpRZc7yVRKkQy9pK4OlM.html
09-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Restriction on cemetery visits during Shab-e-Barat in Bengal||To restrict movement of people during Shab e Barat, the West Bengal government on Wednesday urged members of the Muslim community not to take out processions and visit burial grounds to pay homage to their ancestors as is the normal practice on the occasion.Muslims observe it as a night of worship and salvation. “I urge people not to leave their homes for the sake of their own safety. Please pray from home. The Bengali new year’s day is also round the corner. Let us all follow the safety guidelines,” chief minister Mamata Banerjee said at the secretariat on Wednesday afternoon.The Bengali news year’s day, or Poila Boisakh, will be observed on April 14, the last day of the ongoing 21-day lockdown unless it is extended.The All Bengal Imams Association has also instructed the imams of all mosques to ask members of the community to pray from home during Shab e Barat on Thursday.The Kolkata Municipal Corporation has imposed restrictions as well. “People may visit burial grounds only to bury the dead,” said Kolkata mayor and urban development minister Firhad Hakim.Bengal reported two news cases of coronavirus on Wednesday as the number of infections climbed to 95. Five people have so far died of Covid-19 in the state while 13 have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-restriction-on-cemetery-visits-during-shab-e-barat-in-bengal/story-W1DcWX0j4Gb0aGJvEPdcBO.html
09-04-2020||India||‘Thank you India’: Trump showers praise on Modi for hydroxychloroquine||US President Donald Trump on Wednesday showered praises on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Indian people on Twitter, his response to the Indian government easing restrictions on export of anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine that he has said would be a game-changer in the battle against Covid-19 pandemic.Trump’s tweet, which effusively thanked India for lifting the export restrictions on the drug, was the second occasion in 24 hours that he had applauded PM Modi for his decision. It was a sharp contrast to his interaction with reporters this week when Trump threatened “retaliation” if the restrictions weren’t lifted.“Extraordinary times require even closer cooperation between friends. Thank you India and the Indian people for the decision on HCQ. Will not be forgotten! Thank you Prime Minister @NarendraModi for your strong leadership in helping not just India, but humanity, in this fight!,” President Trump tweeted. Extraordinary times require even closer cooperation between friends. Thank you India and the Indian people for the decision on HCQ. Will not be forgotten! Thank you Prime Minister @NarendraModi for your strong leadership in helping not just India, but humanity, in this fight!Trump’s tweet reflected the sentiment that he had expressed in an interview with Fox News a few hours earlier. In this one, he had spoken about buying more than 29 million tablets of the drug, his conversation with PM Modi on Saturday and India’s success in handling the pandemic.“I asked him (PM Modi) if he would release it? He was great. He was really good. You know they put a stop because they wanted it for India. But there is a lot of good things coming from that. Lot of people looking at it and saying, you know I don’t hear bad stories, I hear good stories. And I don’t hear anything where it was causing death,” he told the TV news channel in the interview.Covid-19 | Trump thanks Modi; India seeks US help on tech; tax refund: 10 updatesIndia is the world’s largest manufacturer of hydroxychloroquine, producing nearly 70 percent of the world’s supply. The demand for the drug, which is also used by patients of rheumatoid arthritis, was boosted after a small placebo-controlled clinical trial in China demonstrated that the anti-malarial drug shortened the duration and reduced the severity of cough, fever and pneumonia in patients with mild and moderate disease.India banned the export of hydroxychloroquine and any formulation containing it on March 25. Last week the ban was expanded to cover exports from special economic zones, blocking pending orders, including from the US.Also Read: In PM Modi’s hydroxychloroquine export order, a Covid-19 message to the worldDonald Trump spoke to PM Modi to lift the restrictions on Saturday. The same day, PM Modi received phone calls from Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro as well. In all, requests were received from 20 countries to lift this restriction.On Monday, a committee of bureaucrats which looked into the issue decided to rescind the restriction placed on Saturday by the Directorate General of Foreign Trade and let the department of pharmaceuticals decide.India’s National Taskforce for Covid-19 only recommends the use of hydroxychloroquine for infections among “asymptomatic healthcare workers involved in the care of suspected or confirmed cases of Covid-19” and “asymptomatic household contacts of laboratory confirmed cases”.The Indian Council of Medical Research says hydroxychloroquine has been found to be effective against coronavirus in laboratory studies and in-vivo studies. “Its use in prophylaxis is derived from available evidence of benefit as treatment and supported by pre-clinical data.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-not-be-forgotten-donald-trump-tweets-thank-you-to-pm-modi-indians-for-allowing-export-of-covid-19-drug/story-4jvYIBkiNBeJySuYSOEf7J.html
09-04-2020||India||Covid-19 update: Sabarimala may turn to digital offerings||The Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB), which runs temples in southern India including Kerala’s Sabarimala shrine, has informed its 3,500-odd employees that there could be a possible salary cut even as it plans to accept online offerings to overcome a shortage of funds amid the national lockdown imposed to check the coronavirus pandemic. It is deploying a skeleton staff for performing important rituals at the shrine for the purpose.“At Sabarimala, we do have a system for online offerings in a small way. We are planning to diversify it in a big way. For some of the offerings, a devotee’s presence is a must but for others including archana, ganapati homam, and neeranjanam, offerings can be made from anywhere. So, we are planning a campaign to popularise this,” said TDB president N Vasu. He said they have alerted the employees that they may have to forego at least one-month salary. “Earlier the government used to come to our rescue but now we cannot turn to it,” said Vasu.The TDB has made an announcement about online offerings on its website and plans to issue advertisements in this regard in Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Telangana, where Sabarimala temple gets the bulk of its devotees from.The Sabrimala Temple was closed after monthly puja on March 18 days before the lockdown was imposed on March 25. At least 14,000 devotees trekked to the hill shrine in Pathanamthitta district despite the government and TDB’s warnings against large gatherings at the temple in view of the pandemic, according to reports. The TDB later cancelled a 10-day temple festival that was scheduled in March end and Vishu festival celebrations on April 14. A large number of devotees flock to the hill temple on these two occasions. Kerala reported the first Covid-19 case in the country in January and Pathanamthitta collector PB Nooh had warned the government against opening the temple for the two events. Vasu said even after the lockdown is lifted, it will be difficult for them to allow devotees without any restrictions. “We have to take drastic measures to regulate their numbers and flow. During Vishu festival also only rituals will be there,” said Vasu. He added the TDB needs to popularise the online offering to restrict the number of pilgrims.During the last annual pilgrimage season from October to January, the Sabarimala temple earned a revenue of Rs 263. 57 crore, according to the TDB. TDB officials said the board has donated ₹1 crore to the chief minister’s relief fund for the fight against the pandemic despite the cash crunch. “We will be missing two major festivals in Sabarimala. So we are not in a position to offer anything more.”Sabarimala is among the richest temples in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sabarimala-may-turn-o-digital-offerings/story-2iK6Z4AGzYEDr5NmOMiQpM.html
09-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Masks must in Delhi, 23 ‘zones’ sealed fully||Authorities in Delhi announced on Wednesday a hard lockdown of 23 neighbourhoods with large number of Covid-19 cases and ordered all citizens to wear masks while stepping out of their homes, tightening curbs to combat the outbreak even as 93 new cases took the total number of infections in the national capital to 669.In these zones, people will need to mandatorily keep indoors and all businesses – including grocery stores and banks that have been exempted from curbs as essential services – will be shut. Critical services such as food and medicine will be home-delivered by government personnel. “There are 20 areas that have become hot spots and are being turned into containment zones. These areas will be completely sealed while the administration will ensure door-to-door delivery of essential items. No one else will be allowed to enter or exit the area,” Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia told reporters following an urgent meeting called by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal with his top officials. These include buildings (such as the Tablighi Jamaat Markaz in Nizamuddin), neighbourhoods (such as Mandi House, two blocks in Nizamuddin and one in Malviya Nagar), apartment complexes (three in east Delhi, one in Dwarka), and congested alleys in other parts of the city. The curbs will stay in place “till the potential threat of Covid-19 is not ruled out” in the areas, officials said. Shortly afterwards, three more zones were added to the list after cluster cases were discovered. The chief secretary of Delhi, who also attended the meeting, separately issued an order mandating wearing of masks by anyone who steps out of their home. The order specified that the rule will also apply while people are in any indoor area outside of their home – such as bank, hospital, or even their offices – or in any type of vehicle. “Wearing of facial masks can reduce the spread of coronavirus substantially. Therefore, it has been decided that facial masks will be compulsory for anyone stepping out of their house. Cloth mask shall be eligible too,” CM Kejriwal said.The tightening of measures comes at a time when officials are debating whether, and how, the unprecedented nationwide lockdown should be relaxed after April 14, the date when the three-week curbs are scheduled to end. A hard lockdown has been identified as the key containment strategy at this stage, when India is seeing a steady stream of cases that can still be interrupted by stringent tactics that force people into social distancing. The size of the containment zones announced on Wednesday, as suggested by the Union health ministry’s guidelines, is directly proportional to the population density of the cluster in question and the scale of the outbreak.At nine, east Delhi has the highest number of containment zones. The Mandi House emerged as the first containment zone in Lutyens’ Delhi after three people in Bengali Market tested positive. The order for containment plan of Bengali Market also included action against a bakery shop for keeping workers in “highly unhygienic conditions” with notes on social distancing not being followed. The district administration led by New Delhi DM Tanvi Garg screened 325 houses, two markets and about 2,000 people in the area. Another area that has been a containment zone but did not find a mention in the first list is the South Moti Bagh. slum. In another order by Garg later on Wednesday, she issued a fresh containment plan for the entire Shastri Market and the JJ cluster in South Moti Bagh, and its adjoining area.The CM also directed all government departments to stop any expense other than the salary of employees. “Any expense other than those related to relief work pertaining to the coronavirus lockdown will need special permission of the finance department. The government needs to cut down expenses,” said Kejriwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/masks-must-in-delhi-23-zones-sealed-fully/story-ECAVSzmu3KIiEL4Nis8eOP.html
09-04-2020||India||Medical officer shifted as Bhopal becomes Covid-19 hot spot||The Madhya Pradesh government on Wednesday shifted chief medical and health officer (CMHO) Dr Sudhir Dehariya, preceded by the transfer of two IAS officers to the health department, as Bhopal has become another Covid-19 hot spot in a span of five days.An IAS officer of the 1989 batch and additional chief secretary (ACS) Mohd Suleiman will now head the department of health, while 2006-batch IAS officer Sudam Khade has been brought in as director of the department.Earlier, a principal secretary who was heading the department and a director in the department both tested positive for Covid-19, along with more than 40 other officials and employees in the department’s directorate over the past five days.The directorate is considered the disease hot spot in Bhopal now.Besides this rejig, the state government also invoked the Essential Services Maintenance Act (ESMA) on Wednesday to prohibit government employees from refusing to work.Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Wednesday, “There will be complete lockdown in 14 districts. It’s the responsibility of the district administration to ensure the supply of essential commodities. The police will lodge an FIR on those who conceal their illness.”As per the health department’s bulletin on Wednesday evening the number of Covid-19 positive cases went up to 341, with 51 new cases reported in the past 24 hours. Indore tops the list of 13 districts having Covid-19 positive cases with 173 cases followed by Bhopal with 94 cases. Twenty-four have died in the state of the deadly virus so far.Madhya Pradesh health services commissioner Faiz Ahmad Kidwai on Wednesday said, “As many as 4,056 samples have been tested so far, out of which 3,442 samples have shown negative results. Our testing capacity has increased. Now we are testing as many as 700 samples every day.”A poster boy of health department till Tuesday and appreciated by his commitment by none else than chief minister of the state besides hundreds others on social media chief medical and health officer (CMHO) at Bhopal Dr Sudhir Dehariya was shifted from Bhopal to neighbouring district Sehore on Wednesday, as per an administrative order.Shifted from Bhopal and brought back on the same post within a day earlier on March 26 Dr Dehariya became a poster boy for thousands of doctors across the country amid their fight against coronavirus, after a photo went viral on social media.Dr Dehariya who is an orthopedic surgeon reached his residence on March 30 for a few minutes to see his family after a gap of five days. However, to avoid any possibility of his family being affected by coronavirus he maintained a distance from the family members, sat outside the gate and have a cup of tea before returning to his office again.Dr Dehariya’s neighbour snapped a photo and he posted it on social media which went viral to draw a lot of appreciation for the doctor’s commitment and dedication.Meanwhile, former chief minister Kamal Nath and Rajya Sabha member Vivek Tankha have criticised the government over invoking of ESMA and demanded that the government should withdraw it in the interest of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/medical-officer-shifted-as-bhopal-becomes-hot-spot/story-87FihuMJSxdfg71YgWa5TI.html
09-04-2020||India||In Ludhiana, tailors respond by switching from kurtas to masks||Till last month, the tailor shops in Ludhiana’s small towns were busy making ladies’ blouses and kurta-pajamas on order. In the past six days, their brief has undergone a swift revision.Since April 2, the tailors of at least three small towns, three towns of Payal, Doraha and Malout have been stitching at least 450 to 500 cotton masks a day, for which they are being paid Rs 15 a mask by the district administration. The authorities are funding the project through two agencies — the District Red Cross Society and the Local Bodies Department. Till date, an amount of Rs 1 lakh has been incurred by the administration for the project.Several individuals and even a gurudwara in Payal have offered donations to the project — money, fabric and elastic bands.“There was an acute shortage of masks in the market and so we decided to make best use of our talent. It takes us about 20 minutes to make a mask which can be washed and re-worn many times,” said 36-year-old Nihal Ahmad, one of the tailors in Payal, a nondescript town located close to the National Highway 44 that runs through the middle of Punjab and outskirts of Ludhiana city. The tailors themselves are taking precautions like using sanitiser and sitting at a distance from each other inside a shop, Ahmad said.The administration has sourced the fabric from suppliers in the city. One of the suppliers, Rajiv Grover of Ram Pal and Company in Payal, said he supplied five metres of cotton fabric to the tailors last week but it was a struggle as the shops are closed due to the lockdown. “We are getting in touch with traders and manufacturers who are donating, so that the work doesn’t stop,” he said.An advisory issued by the ministry of health and family affairs last week stated that homemade protective masks helped maintain “personal hygiene” and could be used by those who weren’t suffering from any medical condition or didn’t have any breathing difficulty, especially while stepping out. However, such masks were not recommended for Covid-19 patients or those involved in their care including healthcare workers and medical professionals.“The supply of fabric is not an issue,” sub divisional magistrate Sagar Setia said, adding that the district authorities have supplied the cloth required to make these masks — all of them are being made using three layers of cloth, covering the nose and mouth of a wearer. The authorities have given these masks to village authorities to distribute in villages.“We put the masks in the kits meant to supply ration to poor people so that these can reach all homes. At other places we are doing door to door distribution. At some places we are seeking help of the police who also supply it to the villagers and those in need of masks,” Pradeep Kumar Bains, tehsildaar of Payal sub division, said. Around 900 ration kits with these cotton masks in them have already been distributed.Across villages, it is usually the men who wear these masks.“Th­ese masks are of considerable benefit to the women who usually use a dupatta to cover their face. But a dupatta usually requires frequent handling which is not good,” said Sunita Kumari, one of the tailors making these cotton masks.“I got a mask with the ration kit but wore it only once. My son then took it and plays with it,” said Chanda, a 35-yearold resident of Doraha and the wife of a farm labourer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-ludhiana-tailors-respond-by-switching-from-kurtas-to-masks/story-iwe4ewenPXWDWrYfIrLtqM.html
09-04-2020||India||Malayalam actor teaches jail inmates mask-making||Acclaimed south Indian actor Indrans, known for his comic roles, on Tuesday displayed his life skills to the inmates of Thiruvananthapuram’s central jail by making personal protective equipment such as a mask in nine minutes amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak across the country.Indrans (64) rose to the occasion and unpacked his erstwhile professional skills --- he was a tailor before trying his hand as a comedian on the silver screen -- as he sought to train anyone who wants to make masks on a mass scale.“Anyone can make a mask. You don’t need crowd medicine stores and exhaust their stocks, especially when the frontline workers battling the Covid-19 pandemic need them desperately. The need of the hour is some basic tailoring skills and only nine minutes of your time,” he said.He urged people to make masks with old thick clothes and avoid non-woven fabric. “We can recycle some of our old clothes. Layers of clothes can be added to make a mask stronger,” he added.Indrans’ mask-making video has gone viral in social media after the Kerala Social Security Mission posted it online. In the video, Indrans is seen giving step-by-step instructions to make a mask, urging people to make it at home. He also gave tips on how to wear a mask.“Usually, people forget their roots after they attain superstardom. But you’re an exception,” wrote one of his fans, as Indrans has always been known for down-to-earth personality.The actor, who won the best actor’s award at the South Asian International Films last year for his stellar performance in the Malayalam movie, Veyilmarangal, said that he would impart tailoring lessons to the needy. In 2018, he won the best actor award for his role in the Malayalam movie, Aalorukkam.Indrans made his debut in films as a costume designer but later found his métier as a comedian. He has starred in over 500 films to date.The inmates at all three central and district jails have been engaged in making masks. Over one lakh masks were handed over to the state government two days ago and the jail authorities are planning to ramp up the production of masks and hand sanitisers to prevent the Covid-19 outbreak. Kerala has reported 336 Covid-19 positive cases and two deaths till Tuesday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/malayalam-actor-teaches-jail-inmates-mask-making/story-2iw9b5ID2N3Tnv1wA0fBlL.html
09-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Where relief falls short, groups of volunteers step in, plug gaps||Utpal Basumallik was on one of the last international flights to land in India, arriving in Kolkata on March 19 from New Jersey with a stopover in Abu Dhabi, three days before India suspended all inbound flights to stop the spread of the coronavirus infection (Covid-19). Basumallik, a 72-year-old diabetic, was taken to a quarantine facility and discharged nine days later with a certificate that bore the medical superintendent’s signature. None of this was harrowing for Basumallik who, together with some other senior citizens, made a video thanking the government for taking such good care of them. It was only when he reached his four-storey building on Bangur Avenue — where he was asked to spend the remaining five days of his quarantine — that his ordeal began. Basumallik didn’t have any supplies at home. Being under home quarantine, he couldn’t step out to buy them. And his neighbours didn’t even want him in the building.“I was totally exhausted,” Basumallik recounted. He had just lugged two large suitcases up the stairs — he lives on the top floor and the building doesn’t have an elevator. “I called my daughter and after hearing my ordeal, she started crying.”That same night, Pamul Joshi, a 32-year old marketing strategist, read about Basumallik’s experience on the Facebook page of a week-old volunteers group called Caremongers India, after Basumallik’s daughter put up a post on it seeking help. A resident of Kakurgachi, around four kilometres from Bangur Avenue, Joshi dropped off supplies, including vegetables, yogurt, a few groceries and water bottles at Basumallik’s apartment the following day.“I call him everyday to check on how he’s doing so he doesn’t feel alone,” Joshi said.As the coronavirus disease epidemic spreads, an army of volunteers in the form of groups like Caremongers has stepped up to come to the aid of people in need like Basumallik in a humanitarian endeavour supplementing the relief efforts of government institutions and established non-government organisations.They are volunteering their time, energy and money to help those who are helpless in the face of the global pandemic that has infected over 1 million people worldwide. On crowdfunding platform Ketto, a microsite has come up only for Covid-19 campaigns. Over Rs 3 crore has been raised since the first campaign was launched on March 6.Connecting people Caremongers’s founder, Bengaluru-based digital marketing professional Mahita Nagaraj, was running some errands on March 15 when she received a call from a friend in Birmingham, England, requesting her to deliver medicines to her elderly parents’ home in the city.That’s when it struck Nagaraj, 38, that the pandemic sweeping the world would hit vulnerable sections like the elderly harder than the others. On March 17, she made a Facebook group, Caremongers India. The idea was simple: Not everyone would be able to run errands to buy supplies like groceries or medicines, so connect them to people who would be willing to help them do so.“I can proudly say that there’s not one state or Union territory in the country where a person hasn’t signed up as a volunteer,” said Nagaraj. The network has grown to over 10,000 volunteers, who have organised themselves into Whatsapp groups based on the states they are in. Each volunteer is given responsibility for two people in need, based on their locations. A core team of eight, including Nagaraj, have divided up responsibilities among themselves: managing the requests being made on Facebook, answering the helpline, passing on requests to the relevant Whatsapp group, creating a database of vendors, and, finally, managing requests with city coordinators appointed in each group. “We’ve moved into a weekly schedule,” Nagaraj said. “We’re creating a database of people who need our help, and now our volunteers will call in on them once a week to find out their weekly requirements, groceries, essentials, medicines, purchase it on their behalf and make sure the delivery happens.” The person availing of this service would be required to pay for the supplies. The idea, Nagaraj said, is to promote physical distancing, prevent panic buying and hoarding as well as ensure that volunteers don’t step out more than once a week, given the national lockdown.Filling the gapsOn March 24, the prime minister announced a 21-day national lockdown that was to go into effect the following day, saying this was the only way to check the spread of Sars-CoV-2, the virus that has infected over 1,000 people in India. Even before the lockdown was announced, several states announced relief packages: Uttar Pradesh promised to pay Rs 1,000 each to 3.5 million labourers, and a month’s free household rations to 16 million construction workers; Kerala offered loans and advance payment of pension in its Rs 20,000 crore package; Delhi announced free rations to 7.2 million beneficiaries, among other things; Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Bihar also promised free rations to beneficiaries of welfare schemes. Volunteers are trying to address the needs of communities that are not being met by the state.Jatin Kumar, 23, is one of 200 Gurugram residents who signed up last week to volunteer for the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram, which has identified more than 50 spots in the city, such as in Sectors 9, 37 and 56, where people are in need of food supplies or cooked food.Kumar has been dropping off bundles comprising five kilograms of rice, one kilogram of lentils, a litre of oil, a kilogram of salt and sugar each, and 100 grams of turmeric, cumin and chilli powder, at the doorsteps of the needy since March.  Kumar, whose work in a UK-based firm starts only after 8pm, admits his parents are worried, but he is taking whatever precaution he can: he wears a face mask, he maintains a physical distance from everyone he meets, and he regularly sanitises his hands.Intekhab Alam, 41, runs a mechanic’s shop in Dwarka’s Sector 7, and lives in Mohan Garden, a low income group neighbourhood in Uttam Nagar. On March 25, he and an associate began to collect money to buy food for other residents of his area, many of whom are daily wagers. Anhad, a Delhi-based NGO to which Alam belongs, sent out a call for funds: hoping to raise Rs 87,500 to buy supplies that would be distributed among 100 people during the lockdown. Within a day, Alam said, Rs 1.8 lakh was raised The money was used to buy rice, lentils and flour, which they began to distribute daily starting on March 26. “The response to our call was overwhelming and we collected more than we asked for... We now have requests from over 900 families from various parts of Delhi and other states as well... the crisis is humongous,” said Shabnam Hashmi, who too is a member of Anhad.Face masksAlam and his team also prepare packages of rice, lentils, oil, milk powder and soap for rickshaw pullers living in Palam Extension. “They have no ration cards, because they’re migrants. So they can’t get any of the government’s rations,” he said. There is one thing that Alam wishes he could add in that package, and distribute to the people queuing up for the supplies in Mohan Garden: face masks. “We tried looking everywhere, but we couldn’t find any,” he said.To counter a similar shortage in Punjab, several families — and even members of self-help groups engaged in Phulkari embroidery — in Patiala have taken to making face masks using triple-layer cloth specific to such masks.Matisha Bansal, 25, a lawyer, together with other members of her family, including her father, Ambrish, who is a member of the Patiala Industry Association, has been making masks using the special triple-layer cloth. “We have stitched 6,000 masks in the last five days. I am doing my bit to fight against Covid-19,” she said. The material, bought by the association, was supplied by the local administration.“Self-help groups (engaged n Phulkari embroidery) have made 100,000 masks. Everyone, including businessmen (and their families), are contributing,” deputy commissioner Kumar Amit said. In Baripada town of Odisha’s Mayurbhanj district, Nirupama Sahoo has converted her tutorial institute into a mask-making unit — the masks are made of simple cotton. “I have already distributed more than 3,000 masks among people living on the streets, and I’ve also made them aware of the importance of self-hygiene,” Sahoo said.In Hyderabad, Khalida Parveen, a pharmacist from the Mehdipatnam area, has been cooking 25 kilograms of vegetable tahari — a preparation of rice, tomato, and spices — every morning since March 22, the day after Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao announced a lockdown of the state. Friends and relatives distribute the meal to the needy -- a homeless person or a daily wager or a migrant making his way back home.“My family is helping me, and so are many Hindu families in my neighbourhood. My sons and their friends have been supplying these food packets to different places every day,” Parveen said. -- With inputs from Dhamini Ratnam, Archana Mishra, Vishal Rambani, Debabrata Mohanty, Srinivasa Rao Apparasu||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-where-relief-falls-short-groups-of-volunteers-step-in-plug-gaps/story-IjSSwB7rNsbJPD3ChRXSqO.html
09-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Mumbai, UP, J&K, and Ladakh make mask-wearing mandatory||The city of Mumbai, India’s commercial capital, Uttar Pradesh state and the newly created Union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh on Wednesday made it compulsory for people to wear face masks in public places, warning that action shall be taken against those who don’t follow the rule imposed to curb the spread of Covid-19.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) issued the order on a day that Mumbai reported 72 more coronavirus deaths and six fatalities. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has asked citizens to wear face masks when they are outside even if they are simple home-made ones. Any person who doesn’t wear a mask when outdoors will be punished with a fine or even arrested failing to wear mask can now be levied a fine or even face arrest under section 188 Indian Penal Code (disobeying a regulation made under the Epidemic Diseases Act.The circular issued by civic chief Praveen Pardeshi says, “Any person moving around in his personal or official vehicle must be wearing masks. No person/ officer will attend any meeting/ gathering, work place without wearing these masks.’’In Uttar Pradesh, additional chief secretary Awanish Awasthi told a press conference: “Wearing of masks has been made compulsory in the state. There can be legal action also for not wearing masks.” In Jammu and Kashmir, an order issued by the General Administration Department (GAD) said face masks had been made mandatory for all officers, staff and visitors in the civil secretariat as a preventive measure to stop the spread of the coronavirus.The Civil Secretariat is presently functional in Jammu as part of the bi-annual darbar move, under which the government functions six months each in Jammu and Srinagar during winter and summer months.“Accordingly, all the administrative secretaries are authorised to effect the purchase of masks, so as to provide three (3) reusable masks for each employee of his/her department in the civil secretariat. The expenditure on this account shall be defrayed from the office expenses (OE) head,” additional secretary, GAD, Rohit Sharma said.In Ladakh, Leh’s district magistrate Sachin Kumar Vaishya ordered the general public as well as government officials (both civilian and armed forces) to mandatorily wear the face masks at public places without any exception.“In case of any violation, penal action under rules shall be taken against the violators. This shall come into force with effect from April 9,” he said in his order.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-up-j-k-and-ladakh-make-mask-wearing-mandatory/story-G2i5ev87niL11SWWXq5Q0K.html
09-04-2020||India||Higher air pollution could increase Covid death rate||Air pollution is likely to be a major risk factor in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) mortality, scientists have contended -- a finding that could have serious implications for India.Prolonged exposure to air pollution leads to a chronic inflammatory response even among the young and healthy, which makes people living in polluted areas more susceptible to developing chronic respiratory conditions. This is borne out by the high Covid-19-related death rates in northern Italy compared to the rest of the country, according to environmental scientists and physicians in Italy.And an analysis by Harvard University’s TH Chan School of Public Health, published in MedRxiv, a pre-print journal for health sciences, on April 5, of 3,080 counties in the US, an increase of only 1 microgram per cubic metre in PM 2.5 (particulate matter with a diameter measuring 2.5 micrometres or less) concentrations is associated with a 15% increase in Covid-19 deaths.The US’s annual PM 2.5 average is around 9.9 micrograms per cubic metre (meets the World Health Organization’s annual air quality guideline of 10 micrograms per cubic metre) whereas India’s annual average PM 2.5 concentration was more than 80 micrograms per cubic metres in 2017, according to an Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) study, indicating that Indians’ exposure to polluted air is about eight times higher.“Their analysis is robust.We need to estimate the same for India as it is not possible to extrapolate the impact at high pollution level linearly. Covid mortality rate also depends on pre-existing conditions (like diabetes, heart problems). So, the Indian context may be completely different. As of now we may not have enough Covid cases to perform the analysis and get the statistically significant result,” said Sagnik Dey, associate professor at the Centre for Atmospheric Sciences, Indian Institute of Technology-Delhi.In another paper titled “Can atmospheric pollution be considered a co-factor in extremely high-level of Sars-CoV-2 lethality in Northern Italy?” published in Elsevier’s journal of Environmental Pollution on April 4, scientists said that the mortality was 12% in Lombardy and Emilia Romagna, compared to 4.5% in the rest of the country. This region is one of Europe’s most polluted based on data from the Ozone Monitoring Instrument on the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Nasa)’s Aura satellite.The data indicates that there is stagnation of pollutants in the region because of geographical and climatic factors. A review of the air quality index (AQI), based on the concentrations of particulate matter and other gases, is also the worst in this region in Italy.“Air pollution represents one of the most well-known causes of prolonged inflammation, eventually leading to an innate immune system hyper-activation,” the study by scientists at the rheumatology unit of the University of Siena and departmental of environmental science at Arhaus University said. The paper concluded that pollution impairs the first line of defence of the upper airways called cilia (microscopic hair-like structures or organelles) which is why people in polluted areas are more likely to develop chronic respiratory conditions due to an infective agent like Sars-CoV-2.This was seen during the severe acute respiratory syndrome (Sars) outbreak in 2002 too. A study by scientists of the Fielding School of Public Health analysed five regions with 100 or more Sars cases which showed that the fatality rate increased with the increment in AQI or air pollution levels. Moderate AQIs had an 84% increased risk of dying from Sars compared to those from regions with lower AQI.“When a population is chronically exposed to high levels of air pollution, the lung is compromised. The lung develops an inflammation. In short, the lung becomes ready for external attack. Those living in areas with cleaner air are more battle-ready,” said Dr Manas Ranjan Ray, former assistant director of Kolkata-based Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute. “There have bee high cases of chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder (COPD), rhinitis and other conditions, which have manifestations similar to Covid-19. Indian population is extremely vulnerable to rhinoviruses but we’ve grown immunity and come out of it within four to five days. But the unique feature of Sars-CoV-2 is that it can be fatal for some people. This is a great opportunity to study how the impact of a new virus is influenced by air pollution,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/higher-air-pollution-could-increase-covid-death-rate/story-YjQfKLPJ8VlKVWWOjfTRjI.html
09-04-2020||India||Covid-19 update: Govt issues advisory to stem social stigma||The backlash against health care and sanitation workers and police personnel at the frontline of the fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has prompted the government to release a set of guidelines for the general public titled “Addressing Social Stigma Associated with Covid-19”. The note also mentions the trend of people associating certain communities and areas with the disease, based on false reports , perhaps referring to the general targeting of Muslims in some parts of the country after around 426 of the 669 cases in Delhi were of people who attended a gathering of the Tablighi Jamaat in Nizamuddin in March. However, the thrust of the advisory is to prevent the discrimination of health care and sanitary workers and remove misconceptions about the disease -- and to point out that it is not patients’ fault that they got infected. The advisory prescribes a list of dos and don’ts . It asks them to appreciate the efforts of people providing essential services, share information authenticated by either the government, the ministry of health and family welfare, or the World Health Organisation, and share only positive stories. It also asks them to avoid spreading the names and identity of those affected or under quarantine, and not target healthcare and sanitary workers or police. “Sanitary workers and police are also doing selfless service and playing critical roles in addressing the challenge of COVID-19. They all deserve our support, praise and appreciation,” the advisory said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-issues-advisory-to-stem-social-stigma/story-mc9PBhMgHaou8DBA8mtYUI.html
09-04-2020||India||No dearth of anti-malaria drug, say states amid local concerns||A day after India said it will allow limited exports of the anti-malaria hydroxychloroquine, officials across several states insisted there is no shortage of the drug. Hydroxychloroquine has emerged as the most sought-after medicine after preliminary trials in China suggested it boosted recovery and lowered the severity of the coronavirus disease.The limited exports were allowed after US president Donald Trump requested the supply of the drug from India in a phone call with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday. Trump also warned of retaliation if India did not take up his request. On Wednesday, HT did a reality check across states on the availability of the medicine amid complaints by patients about its shortage. Here, is a summary of reports from various states:KeralaThe Kerala Medical Services Corporation Ltd, the state’s medicine and medical equipment procurement agency, managing director Dr S R Dileep Kumar said they have enough stock of the hydroxychloroquine tablets. “We have got 1.2 million tablets last week and we placed the order for another five lakh that we will get next week. There is no shortage,” he said.But many retail medical outlets said their stocks have exhausted after people started buying in panic. Worried, the health department has asked medical shops to supply the tablets only to the people who come with prescriptions. RajasthanJaipur-resident, Ritesh Sharma, 44, who has been having hydroxycholoquinine for 10 years, said local chemists have run out of its stocks for 15 days. Sharma has rheumatoid arthritis. Hydroxychloroquine is also used to treat rheumatoid arthritis and helps to slow down its progression.The shortage prompted the Rajasthan government to issue an order to acquire all stocks of hydroxycholoquine from stockists, wholesalers and retailers. It later asked officials to return 25% of the stocks to pharmacists. “The state government got 450,000 tablets from the government of India over the last two days. That was also the reason why we returned some of the tablets to be sold to people who have prescriptions,” he (WHO) said.“Total allocation of 4.5 million tablets has been made to the state [Rajasthan] and this will be delivered in phases until the end of April,” said Union health ministry officer on special duty Sudhansh Pant. In the last five days, 1.15 million tablets of hydroxycholoquinine have been delivered to Rajasthan, an official said.Madhya PradeshVikas Sadana, a chemist in Bhopal, said hydroxycholoquinine was unavailable as wholesale dealers have stopped supplying it citing a government restriction. “We are unable to provide it to patients,” he said. Madhya Pradesh’s additional director (health) Sapna Lovanshi said, “We have enough stock of hydroxycholoquinine in government hospitals across the state. There is no complaint from any hospital about shortage of the medicine.” OdishaChemists in Odisha said the medicine was in short supply after the government asked dealers not to supply it to retail pharmacies. Dibakar Sahu, a chemist in Bhubaneswar, said they are no longer giving it to people without prescriptions.Drugs controller Mamina Patnaik said so far the state government has diverted around 8 lakh of hydroxychloroquine tablets to state-owned Odisha State Medical Corporation so that it can be used for Covid-19 patients. “Only a small portion of the total stock is available with chemists,” Patnaik said.GoaDoctors in Goa said the medicine is unavailable even for private practitioners. “We have the stock but we are reserving it for those who really need it like doctors and have stopped selling it over the counter as the fresh stock has not arrived,” said Albert D’Sa, the president of the Chemists and Druggists Association of Goa.JharkhandChemists in Ranchi said hydroxycholoquinine was unavailable at shops. “The distributors started refusing its supply since March, citing government restrictions,” said Sandeep Rajgharia, a pharmacy owner. Ranchi’s Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences superintendent Vivek Kashyap said, “We have enough stock of the medicine to meet demand irrespective of requirement.”AssamAssam’s food and drugs department officials said there is adequate stock of the medicine as of now. “Chemists are allowed to sell the drug to patients based on prescriptions and sale without any doctor’s advice is not allowed. We have enough stock of hydroxycholoquinine in the state right now,” said Harendra Nath Sarma, inspector of drugs, directorate of health service, Assam.BiharDr Amulya Kumar Singh, an orthopedician in Patna, said though there is no shortage of the drug at the manufacturing level, there are transportation issues during the lockdown, leading to an artificial scarcity, especially with some wholesalers hoarding the drug.Sanjaya Kumar Singh, managing director, Bihar Medical Services Infrastructure Company Limited, which procures medicines, said there is no shortage of the medicine and the state has enough buffer stock.Other statesThere were also reports of a shortage of the medicine at chemist shops from Uttarkhand, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal and Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-dearth-of-anti-malaria-drug-say-states-amid-local-concerns/story-WmAIj9lbYRltenWaCYFyQN.html
09-04-2020||India||Covid-19 update: Supreme Court directs private labs to conduct tests free of cost||The Supreme Court on Wednesday made tests for the coronavirus disease Covid-19 in government and private laboratories free, and asked the government to pass the necessary orders so as to make this possible. The tests are already free in government laboratories. Private laboratories charge Rs 4,500 for the currently used RT-PCR tests. The antibody tests that many states will start using later this week are expected to cost less. Private labs, however, have not been allowed to do rapid testing. The tests should be free of cost and no person should be deprived of Covid-19 tests due to non-payment of money, the Supreme Court said in an interim order on Wednesday, noting that a large part of India’s population may not have the means to afford such tests.Union health ministry officials directed queries on testing towards the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) as it is the organisation supervising everything related to Covid-19 testing in India.“Since ICMR handles testing and related matters, it would be appropriate to ask them about it,” said Preeti Sudan, the Union health secretary. Dr Balram Bhargava, the ICMR director general, did not respond to repeated calls and texts seeking comment. The apex court also directed that Covid-19 tests must be carried out only in laboratories accredited by National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL) or Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The health ministry has already restricted testing to only such laboratories. There are 139 government laboratories and 65 private ones that currently carry out the test. The order was issued by justices Ashok Bhushan and S Ravindra Bhat .“We find prima facie substance in the submission of petitioner that at this time of national calamity permitting private Labs to charge Rs.4500 for screening and confirmation test of COVID-19 may not be within means of a large part of population of this country and no person be deprived to undergo the COVID-19 test due to non-payment of capped amount of Rs 4500”, the court said.The petitioner, advocate Shashank Deo Sudhi, submitted that government hospitals are packed to capacity making it difficult for the common man to get himself/herself tested in the government labs, and challenged ICMR’s March 17 advisory fixing the cost of Covid-19 tests in private laboratories and hospitals. He also sought directions on rapidly expanding testing. The private laboratories allowed to test for Covid-19 think free testing is not feasible. “We already doing it at a bare minimum cost, and making it free will ensure the system will collapse,” said Dr Navin Dang, founder, Dr Dangs Lab.“If you make Covid-19 testing free then even those who don’t need it will line up to get tested. It could lead to unnecessary testing. What we need for the government to do is help in bringing down the cost of testing. If kits are made cheaper then it will bring down the cost of testing,” said Dr DS Rana, chairman, board of governors, Ganga Ram Hospital.Other experts pointed out that the court’s order could stop private laboratories from stopping such tests altogether, hurting India’s effort to test more. To be sure, the court has asked the government to explore a way to reimburse private laboratories, although it did not pass any order to this effect. The Supreme Court in its order noted that in spite of various measures taken by the central and state governments to fight the pandemic, the number of patients and death caused by it were increasing with each passing day.Private hospitals and laboratories, the court said, have an important role to play in containing the scale of pandemic by extending philanthropic services in the hour of national crisis.“We are satisfied that the petitioner has made out a case for issuing a direction to the respondents to issue necessary direction to accredited private Labs to conduct free of cost COVID-19 test”, the order said.“Create mechanism for reimbursement (of private labs) from the government,” justice Bhushan suggested.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the central government, told the court that he will take instructions in this regard.“The question as to whether the private Laboratories carrying free of cost COVID-19 tests are entitled for any reimbursement of expenses incurred shall be considered later on”, the court stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/apex-court-directs-pvt-labs-to-conduct-tests-free-of-cost/story-uq9sEHP4Js5gAPYdwV2IGN.html
09-04-2020||India||Supreme Court asks Centre, state governments to ensure security of doctors||The Supreme Court on Wednesday issued directions urging the central and state governments to ensure the safety and well-being of of doctors and medical staff, calling them the real warriors and the “first line of defence” in India’s fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.Three PILs, filed by two practicing doctors - Dr Jerryl Banait and Dr. Arushi Jain -- and lawyer Amit Sahni, apprised a bench of Justice Ashok Bhushan and Justice S Ravindra Bhatt of the challenges faced by medical professionals in discharge of their duties. The petitions also highlighted the crunch in supply of personal protective equipment (PPE) such as gloves, N-95 mask, three-layer medical mask, head covers, and gowns. This, they said, was putting the health of medical staff under huge risks. The petitions also highlighted the recent incidents of violence against doctors and nurses.The bench said, “Doctors and medical staff are the first line of defence of the country to combat with this pandemic and have to be protected by providing PPE as recommended by the World Health Organization on February 27, 2020.” The Court directed the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare to make available PPE for all doctors, nurses, and paramedical staff.The bench further asked the government to explore alternatives like augmenting domestic production of masks and gowns.The Court took serious exception to the incident of stone-pelting on medical staff at Tatpatti Bakhal locality in Indore by miscreants on April 2. The bench said, “The pandemic which is engulfing the entire country is a national calamity….all citizens need to act in a responsible manner and extend a helping hand to medical staff to perform their duties.” With this, the court directed all states and police authorities to provide necessary security to the health care workers.The Court allowed states to take action against anyone who obstructs medical staff or government officials engaged with COVID-19 duties.Earlier in the day, when the matter was heard by Court through video conferencing, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said, “The government will go the extra mile to augment security of doctors and hospitals.” Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi appearing for one of the petitioners raised concerns about a possible cut in doctors’ salary for procuring PPE. Mehta said that the Director General of Health Services will issue instructions to private hospitals directing against such measures. He assured that action will be taken against any hospitals found violating this order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-asked-to-ensure-security-of-doctors/story-YHi1tVWW9EfyrCMd7ORmeL.html
09-04-2020||India||Newspaper Society opposes suggestion to suspend govt ads||The Indian Newspaper Society (INS) and the Association of Radio Operators (AROI) for India strongly opposed on Wednesday a suggestion by Congress president Sonia Gandhi that the government and public sector undertakings should not issue any print or electronic media advertisements for two years in order to save money.INS president Shailesh Gupta expressed disbelief at the suggestion, saying the proposal was tantamount to promoting the idea of financial censorship of media outlets. Gupta said the amount spent on advertisements was meagre for the government but was critical for the survival of the print media business, a key feature of any vibrant democracy.“In the age of fake news and distortion, print is the best platform to get news and views directly across to the people in every nook and corner of the country -- for both the government and the opposition,” Gupta said in a statement.In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Gandhi said the government spent Rs 1,250 crore on media advertisements a year, an amount that could be utilised instead for Covid-19 relief measures.The AROI requested Gandhi to review and withdraw her suggestion and demonstrate her support for one of the crucial pillars of democracy -- the media.“The last year has been a very difficult one for radio, especially for radio stations in small towns, due to a huge drop in government advertising.Radio has been wholeheartedly supporting the national war on Covid-19, through 380 private FM stations across India,” Uday Chawla, AROI secretary-general, said in a release. “We request the government to restore its advertising on radio to normal levels.”Highlighting that newspaper personnel were risking their lives to ensure that readers received authentic news on the coronavirus pandemic, the INS asked Gandhi to withdraw the suggestion.Notably, Prime Minister Modi, during a recent interaction with newspaper publishers, hailed the high credibility of print media and praised the efforts that went into providing accurate information to countrymen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/newspaper-society-opposes-suggestion-to-suspend-govt-ads/story-QhtBW4bZCgGnn1jOcAxW2K.html
09-04-2020||India||Coronavirus lockdown: Millions in migrant camps battle despair about uncertain future||In the past week, Ajay Mahto and Sanjay Mahor have learnt the value of patience.A truck driver, Mahto was in Punjab’s Ludhiana city when sweeping restrictions were announced to stop the spread of Covid-19. On the second day of the lockdown, he and some other stranded workers hitched a ride on a truck to get back to their villages in Bihar.But the vehicle was intercepted in Patna the next day, and the workers sent to a government school that was turned into a migrant shelter. With no friends or family around, and bland food every day, Mahto spends his days in a small room with strangers. “My village is just 20 kilometres from here. I can feel my village but cannot go,” he said.A high school dropout, Mahto had never seen the inside of a classroom before. “Now, I sleep on a bench every night,” said Mahto, pointing at the shabby classroom that is now home to six migrant workers.More than 1,700km away in Maharashtra, Mahor was caught by police officers on the same day as Mahto while walking back with a group from Mumbai to his village in Madhya Pradesh.He was put in a camp in Mumbai on March 27. Unlike the camp in Patna – where workers are allowed to walk outside and bathe in nearby rivers – no one is permitted to step out of the Mumbai camp. “It is like a prison,” said Mahor, adding that the same meal of rice and potatoes is served to workers every day. “My wife is pregnant and I wanted to be with her side,” said Mahor. “I call home to check on her now.”The toilets are not clean and four people share a small room, said his fellow camp dweller, Mohammed Asif Sajeebul, a rickshaw puller from Mumbra.Mahto, Mahor and Sajeebul are three of the roughly 10.55 million people who are currently living in 22,567 shelters that were set up to disperse the waves of migrant workers who swamped highways, bus stands and railway stations across India in order to get back home after the lockdown was imposed at midnight on March 25. The numbers were part of a document submitted by the government to the Supreme Court on Tuesday.Only a few of them were able to reach their villages. Many are either in shelter homes set up at check posts or big towns, or self-quarantine homes near their villages.Authorities swung into action to provide them food and shelter and to monitor their health. Around 8.5 million people have been given food by government with the help of non-government organisations in these camps, the home ministry told the Supreme Court on Tuesday.But despite the arrangements, many workers are desperate about separation from their families, the threat of the coronavirus disease and their financial future.In a camp in Patna, Ganghara Panchayat Bawan, labourers complained of no masks, soaps, sanitisers and the stench in toilets. “I am a poor person. But, still toilet in my village is better than this,” said a labourer, Udit Raj, who paid Rs 1,800 to a truck driver in Howrah in West Bengal.He and 44 other labourers hid themselves in the truck container and travelled for more than 24 hours to reach Patna. In the camp, he said the probability of catching Covid-19 in the shelter home was more than in his village.An Asha [Accredited Social Health Activist] worker, Anita Devi has been tasked with monitoring the body temperatures of the workers every day but said she did not have masks or sanitiser –two of the most basic requirements to protect one’s self from the deadly infection. “We are on the mercy of God here,” she added. The area’s block development officer and in-charge of the camps, Devendra Kumar, denied the charge that there were no masks, soaps or sanitisers. “If people steal them what can we do,” he said.In Uttar Pradesh’s Badholi, Tauheed Ahmed, 45, a migrant who owned a juice stall in Delhi, said he was strictly adhering to quarantine rules at the government senior secondary school he was staying in at present.He claimed he walked the first 250 km from Delhi to Badholi in Bahraich district and was lucky to get a lift on truck for the rest of the distance. The distance between Delhi and Bahraich is 680 kilometre. “We understand that soaking up the sun, eating a healthy diet, and taking rest is healthy in these times of coronavirus,” said Ahmed said.Dr Nikhil Singh, superintendent doctor, said a medical team was closely monitoring the area.“We send a doctor every two days, and our village level health volunteers are monitoring the migrants,” he added.In another tin-roofed labour camp, opposite high-rises in Lucknow’s affluent Gomti Nagar area, workers speculated when the lockdown will end. Most of the people housed in this camp are contractual labourers, mechanics, masons and electricians who were hired to construct a high-rise complex in the vicinity.Monu Mondal a resident of West Bengal who worked as a plumber on the construction site, attempted to travel back but was stuck after the lockdown. “We were not paid anything before the lockdown. I don’t have any money left,” he said, adding that many of the labourers left the camp looking for work in the city. “Some of them are now selling vegetables.”With many government employees engaged in Covid-19 duties, people from different walks of life are managing these camps – migrant worker Mohammad Hasib in Badholi, block development officer Devendra Kumar in Patna, and social worker Gurmeet Singh in Ludhiana are some of them.Hasib spends his day checking the health status of migrants and managing activities related to sensitisation of local residents, sanitization of the village, and coordinating with health and civic authorities.“Over 2,000 migrants have returned to their homes in Badholi and all are under home quarantine as advised by the government doctors,” said Hasib, whose daughter-in-law Salma is the village head.“I take care of everything, arranging food, monitoring their health and providing necessary hygiene. Sometimes, I provide my phone to them to call their family members,” said Hasib, who returned from Delhi, where he runs a fruit and vegetable juice shop, about two months ago.Kumar has been made in-charge of running three camps for workers in Patna. “These days I go home for just a couple of hours to sleep. Most of the days, I eat same food what the workers get at these camps. This helps to ensure some quality when the supplies are dwindling with the each passing day,” he said.Singh used to manage the kitchen at the local gurdwara. Now at a camp for labourers in Ludhiana, Singh’s day starts at 5 am with a visit to the local market to source vegetables and other essentials.“There were about 1,000 persons in the camp when the exodus started after March 25. We arranged everything for them with the help of locals and some factory owners who donated food and money. Now, most of the labourers have either gone to UP or Bihar or have returned to their rented accommodation,” he said.In Mahto’s former workplace, Ludhiana, there is just one per cent occupancy in 50 camps set up for labourers, said the local administration. An industrial powerhouse, Ludhiana is home to about two million migrant workers employed in the cycle, hosiery and textile industry.Ashok, who works in a cycle parts manufacturing unit, said living in factory run homes was better than the shelter. “We have our friends there and the factory owner says that some work will resume soon,” he said, adding that the factory owners have arranged for their food.Others are worried about their future. Suman Singh Das, a labourer from Raigarh in Chhattisgarh, said he had started looking for work in Lucknow, where he is currently in a camp. “I am desperate to send money back home. Can you tell me whether the lockdown will end on April 15?” he asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/millions-in-migrant-camps-battle-despair-about-uncertain-future/story-05uM0Q1zEQQHWVE8x4OssN.html
09-04-2020||India||Delhi Covid-19 cases jump by 93 ahead of Anil Baijal’s big meet on lockdown||The Delhi State Disaster Management Committee headed by Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal is meeting on Thursday to review all measures taken, best and worst case scenarios, hospital infrastructure facilities and containment measures to counter the pandemic.With Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, Police Commissioner SN Shrivastava, Chief Secretary Vijay Dev and General Officer Commanding Delhi Area in attendance, the committee will also deliberate on the city’s stand on extending the 21-day lockdown, and if so, for how long.This view will be largely communicated by Delhi Chief Minister Kejriwal to Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the chief ministers’ conference via video on April 11.The 21-day lockdown is due to expire on April 14 if not extended further.The day before the meeting, Delhi government officials reported a spike in the number of people who have tested positive to coronavirus disease.The Covid-19 count, which stood at 576 last evening, ricocheted to 669 cases after 93 people tested positive in the last 24 hours, a home department official in the Delhi Government said.All the 93 people were already in state-run quarantine facilities after their evacuation from the Nizamuddin headquarters of the religious sect.  It is understood that the Delhi Lt-Governor has asked the administration to find out whether all the contacts to the Tablighi Jamaatis who attended the congregation at Markaz in Nizamuddin had been traced, quarantined and tested for the coronavirus.The administration has also been asked to inform the committee whether there were women accompanying the Tablighis had also been traced in order to plug any leakages.Officials said the national capital had been implementing a containment plan in areas where Covid-19 cases had been detected. By Wednesday evening, Delhi chief minister Manish Sisodia said there were 20 such hotspots where the containment plan was in force.The Markaz at Nizamuddin was one of the first places in the city to be notified as a Covid-19 hotspot.Complete List of Delhi Hotspots HereStreet near Gandhi Park, Malviya NagarGali No 6 , L1 Sangam Vihar, New Delhi.Shahajahanabad society, Plot no 1, Sector 11, DwarkaDinpur Village, Najafgarh, south-west DelhiMarkaz Masjid and Nizamuddin Basti, central DelhiNizamuddin West (G and D block) areas. Central DelhiB Block Jhangirpuri, north DelhiH. No 141 to H. No 180, Gali no. 14, Kalyanpuri, east DelhiMansara Apartments , Vasundhara Enclave, east Delhi3 Galis of Khichirpur east DelhiGali No 9, Pandav Nagar, east DelhiVardhaman Apts, Mayur Vihar, Phase I, east DelhiMayurdhwaj Apts, Patparganj, east DelhiGali no. 4, near Nagar Dairy Krishan Kunj Extn, east DelhiGali No. 4, from No J-3/101 to J-3/107 Krishan Kunj Extn Delhi.Gali No. 5, A Block, West Vinod Ngr, east DelhiJ & K, L and H pockets Dilshad Garden, east DelhiG, H, J, Blocks old Seemapuri, east DelhiF- 70 to 90 block Dilshad Colony, east DelhiPratap khand , Jhilmil Colony, east DelhiWhile the final call on lifting of lockdown will be taken by Prime Minister Modi after consultation with chief ministers and medical experts after March 11, the Delhi administration is of the view that there should be a graded response to lifting of the lockdown with the capability of immediately seal any part of a cluster in case of any further positive cases.The final call will have to balance between the loss of income and jobs for the workers and labourers and their health and safety. Already, a number of these people have picked up private loans to cater to their daily requirements in times of pandemic.Ahead of the review meeting, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia announced that the government had identified 20 hotspots in the national capital. Sisodia’s remarks came after some more positive cases were reported in the old city’s Sadar area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-s-lockdown-call-tomorrow-at-big-meet-called-by-lt-guv-anil-baijal/story-6QPFULCpFObP5d3mPcfXQP.html
09-04-2020||India||Amid Covid-19, sugarcane taken off menu of Corbett’s patrol jumbos||Elephants used in patrol duty in the Corbett National Park in Uttarakhand will no longer be fed sugarcane bought from local markets in a bid to stop a possible transmission of coronavirus to animals, forest department officials said Wednesday.The decision was taken after a tiger in the Bronx zoo in New York tested positive for coronavirus.The elephants would be fed forest produce like bamboo, tree barks and leaves.Dr Dushyant Sharma, a senior veterinary doctor at Corbett Tiger Reserve said, “There are 16 patrol elephants in the park. Five elephants are in Kalagarh, three in Jhirna, two in Bijrani, four in Dhikala and two in Haldupadav range. These elephants are generally fed sugarcane purchased from the local market.”Follow coronavirus latest updates here.Dr Sharma said Central Zoo Authority (CZA) has given instructions to keep vigil on elephants in the park, especially the Kalagarh shelter camp of Corbett.“According to CZA instructions elephants will not be fed sugarcane purchased from the market. If sugarcane comes from the market then the risk of spreading coronavirus remains in these elephants. Restrictions have been imposed on mahouts also on coming out of the park,” he said.Dr Sharma said “Now these elephants will be given only leaves, bark of trees and jiggery so that they don’t come into contact with food touched by a lot of people in crowded markets.”But it is not only elephants that will be denied their favourite food. There are also four sniffer dogs in Corbett National Park and are used by the forest staff to patrol Corbett’ border with Uttar Pradesh. They are also fed meat purchased from the Ramnagar market.“Now they will not be fed meat purchased from the market, but dog food. Forest personnel have also been instructed to keep dogs away from dirty water and food lying on ground during patrolling at UP border,” said Dr Sharma.Corbett is one of the favourite destinations in the country for big cat lovers as it affords good sighting of tigers. It has around 260 tigers according to the last estimate. The park has a rich biodiversity including around 110 tree species, 50 species of mammals, 580 bird species, 33 species of reptiles, seven species of amphibians and so on. The park extends over 1288 sq km spread over three districts of Uttarakhand - Pauri Garhwal, Nainital and Almora.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-covid-19-sugarcane-taken-off-menu-of-corbett-s-patrol-jumbos/story-crYnYpkaCAVoZxy1Xq3AaL.html
09-04-2020||India||‘Financial censorship’: Indian Newspaper Society reacts to Sonia Gandhi suggestion||The Indian Newspaper Society on Wednesday urged Congress president Sonia Gandhi to withdraw her suggestion to the government to impose a two-year ban on media advertisements by the government and public sector undertakings. “Such a proposal tantamounts to financial censorship,” the society said in a statement on Thursday. The Congress president had on Tuesday given Prime Minister Narendra Modi five suggestions to step up the battle against the coronavirus pandemic. One of them was to stop advertising in print, electronic and radio. The Association of Radio Operators and the News Broadcasters’ Association have already issued statements criticising the suggestion. On Wednesday, the INS also lent its support to this demand.The amount of money spent by government on advertising is a small amount as far as government spend is concerned but it is a huge amount for the newspaper industry which is essential for a vibrant democracy, and is struggling to survive.In a statement by Mary Paul, the INS underscored: Print is the only industry, which has a wage board and the Government decides how much the employees should be paid. This being the only industry where market forces don’t decide salaries, the Government has a responsibility towards the industry”.In the age of fake news and distortion, “Print is the best platform to get news and views directly across to the people in every nook and corner of the country, for both - the Government and for the Opposition”.It also noted that advertisement and circulation revenue had already declined due to recession and the digital onslaught. “Further to add to the problem, we now face severe financial crisis due to the complete lockdown of industries and business,” the statement said.At a time like this when media personnel are risking their lives and bringing news on the pandemic situation, the suggestion of the congress president is deeply disturbing and demotivating for the entire media industry, it said, asking the Congress president to withdraw the suggestion about a complete ban on advertisements in media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/financial-censorship-indian-newspaper-society-reacts-to-sonia-gandhi-suggestion/story-0NkmOySR4TFkD2AgmNhC8N.html
09-04-2020||India||As alarm goes off in Indore, officials ask people to follow lockdown rules||In Indore, one of the worst-affected cities in the country as far as Covid-19 positive cases are concerned, 151 people have been infected with the SARS-CoV-2 virus, which causes the deadly infection, till Tuesday night. Of them, as many as 106, or 70%, belong to the 21-55 age bracket , according to officials. Administrative authorities are on their toes in order to ensure strict compliance of social distancing and prevent unnecessary movement of people and gatherings, officials said. “We’re at a stage where we can’t afford to give any kind of relaxation to the people. They (people) must understand that Covid-19 can infect anyone who doesn’t follow the safety norms as being advised by the government and the administration. We’re taking all possible measures to contain it effectively,” said Manish Singh, district collector, Indore.Seventy per cent of the patients in the city are men and 30% are women, the officials said. Of the first nine deaths in the city, six were aged between 33 and 50 years. The rest were 53, 65 and 80 years, respectively. According to central figures as of Monday evening, men accounted for 73% of the Covid-19 positive cases in India in comparison with the 24% infection rate in women. The Centre put the total number of cases at 4,067 as of that day. Forty-seven per cent of the total cases in India involved people who were aged below 40 years, 34% of the patients were between 40 and 60 years, and 19% of cases pertained to those above 60 years. “The number of patients starts diminishing gradually, as we go either above 60 or below 16 years,” said a Madhya Pradesh health department official, requesting anonymity. Analysis suggests that 80% of all cases in Indore have been reported from densely populated localities such as Ranipura, Chandan Nagar, Daudi Nagar, Khajrana, Daulatganj, Hathipala, Azad Nagar, Tatt Patti Bakhal, Tanjim Nagar and a few other neighbourhoods, he said.Data showed that 18 Covid-19 positive cases were traced to Tatt Patti Bakhal locality, where a team of doctors was attacked last week after they insisted on taking an elderly person to a hospital for her medical examination. “We’ve observed that people, who followed social distancing and home isolation, haven’t been infected. The spike in Covid-19 positive cases in densely-populated colonies can be attributed to the practical problems faced by the locals to be self-disciplined,” Pravin Jadia, chief medical and health officer (CMHO), Indore, said.Ulhas Mahajan, a retired doctor of the district hospital in Indore, said: “The alarming increase in the Covid-19 positive cases has also got to do with the reckless behaviour of the people, as they believe that only the young and old are more prone to be infected. Besides, the ongoing 21-day nationwide lockdown, which was enforced on March 25 to contain the spread of the viral outbreak, was initially violated with impunity.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indore-over-70-of-covid-19-patients-in-the-age-group-between-21-and-55-years/story-2Y2shy3Krjt1s4zOhdxrmL.html
