11-04-2020||India||In testing times, Sisodia sees a role for happiness class, to start from tomorrow||Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday announced the resumption of happiness classes for around eight lakh Delhi school kids starting Sunday. The children will attend the classes from the comfort of their homes, he said.Sisodia also holds the education portfolio in the Delhi government and is widely credited with reforming the state of government schools in the capital and with the introduction of happiness class in the curriculum, which has won international recognition.“Happiness class to be conducted at home for Delhi Govt. school kids. 8 lakh students to join special classes on Happiness Curriculum and Mission Buniyaad at their homes from tomorrow,” said Siodia, in a tweet put out on the Aam Aadmi Party social media account.The classes will likely be held through video conferencing since the schools in the capital are shut due to the coronavirus pandemic outbreak necessitating a nationwide lockdown forcing people including the students to stay at home.Sisodia said happiness classes had a role to play in these turbulent times“In these turbulent times, happiness classes will be instrumental in helping us create a positive environment for our kids at home,” he was quoted as saying.Happiness class is conducted in over 1,000 Delhi government schools from Nursery to Class 8. The Happiness period lasts 45 minutes and it is based on human-centric education which includes meditation, value education and mental exercises aimed to reduce anxiety, depression, and intolerance among students.Sisodia also held discussions with Delhi government school teachers on “transforming homes into engaging classrooms” on Saturday.Delhi has recorded a total of 942 cases till Saturday as per the figures made available on the health ministry website. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has indicated that he favours an extension of the three-week-long lockdown in the capital, which is currently scheduled to end on April 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-testing-times-sisodia-sees-a-role-for-happiness-class-to-start-from-tomorrow/story-sUv3V4Rl3hW2MmiJyMUn1K.html
11-04-2020||India||Centre should come up with ‘Food for Work’ scheme for poor: Rajasthan CM urges PM||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday told Prime Minister Narendra Modi that the Centre should come up with a ‘Food for Work’ scheme as a social safety net for the poor in the wake of the Covid-19 lockdown. While participating in the video conference of chief ministers of various states with the Prime Minister, Gehlot said that the decision on the extension of the lockdown should be taken after taking all the states into confidence. The CM pointed out that the ongoing lockdown poses a threat to the livelihood of the ragpickers, hawkers/rickshaw pullers, nomads and other helpless people. In such a situation, the Centre should consider revamping a scheme on the lines of ‘Food for Work’. Food grains are available in bulk with the central government for the operation of such a scheme, he said in a statement. Gehlot said that the proposed scheme was earlier introduced during a famine-drought under the tenure of then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee in 2002 and proved to be very popular and successful. Gehlot said that the Rajasthan government has provided an ex-gratia amount of Rs 2,500 to more than 31 lakh families of the poorer sections who do not come under the purview of social security pensions. The Centre should also devise a similar scheme of ex-gratia payment for this category of people so that they can get financial support, he said. The CM suggested the Centre give concessions in central GST and incentive packages for industries. He requested permission for the state to increase the borrowing capacity and increase fiscal deficit limit mentioned in the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) Act to 5 per cent of gross domestic product (GDP). He called for making available Rs 1 lakh crore grant to the state governments at the earliest. After listing out various steps taken by the state government during the ongoing lockdown, the CM emphasised on taking a collective decision by looking to the situation of the individual states and taking the respective state governments into confidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-should-come-up-with-food-for-work-scheme-for-poor-rajasthan-cm-urges-pm/story-yUWpMO33j4GdVO9XFT4ieK.html
11-04-2020||India||10-month-old recovers from Covid-19, discharged||A 10-month-old baby who was tested positive for Covid-19 was on Saturday discharged from hospital after a fully recovery in Mangaluru.Out of total 12 positive cases in the district, 6 have recovered from the illness, officials said.“A 10-month-old baby who was tested positive for Covid-19 has now fully recovered and was discharged today. Out of total 12 positive cases in the district, 6 have been discharged,” Deputy Commissioner of Dakshina Kannada said.According to the bulletin issued by Karnataka government, a total of 905 people have been observed till date out of which 229 have been sent for home isolation for 14 days, 9 people were sent to hospital isolation in Dharwad district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-month-old-recovers-from-covid-19-discharged/story-0xkL7TxHWGhICrVUOmDY7M.html
11-04-2020||India||As Tablighi Jamaat-linked cases rise, Delhi govt gives them a different name||Delhi, the national capital is headed for an extended spell of the lockdown, added 166 more Covid-19 patients on Saturday pushing the total number of patients infected with the coronavirus disease to 1,069 cases.The milestone coincided with the Delhi government’s decision to reclassify the Tablighi Jamaat-linked cases in its bulletin as “Special Operations” cases. These were called the “Markaz Masjid” cases in the city government’s health bulletins so far.These “special operations” cases (712) account for two-thirds of the 1,069 Covid-19 cases confirmed in Delhi.Of the 166 cases that tested positive in the last 24 hours, 128 cases - or 77 per cent -- were linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation.There has been no official word why the Arvind Kejriwal government decided to revise the classification.According to one version, there had been some objection from some people at the government’s description of the cases. The Delhi Minorities Commission, according to news agency ANI, had insisted that the mention of the masjid in the bulletins had led to muslims being attacked and calls made for their social boycott.Also read | 3 more Delhi areas under Covid-19 hard lockdown over Tablighi Jamaat cases“It was felt that the government’s descriptor might be seen to communalise what is essentially a health crisis,” a government official told Hindustan Times.Second, he explained, the change was meant to reflect that the Tablighi Jamaat cases weren’t just restricted to the 2,000-plus people who were evacuated from the Markaz, the seven-storey headquarters of the Tablighi Jamaat in central Delhi’s Nizamuddin.The initial burst of Tablighi Jamaat-linked Covid-19 cases were driven by infections among people who had been found at the multi-storey building.But as the days went by, the government figured that the real super spreaders may be people who may have picked up the infection during a visit to the Markaz and headed back home. Or their contacts.It is a concern that has worried top government functionaries at nearly every important review meeting that looks at the big picture. Like the one convened by Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-tablighi-jamaat-linked-cases-rise-delhi-govt-gives-them-a-different-name/story-ucrd0RKQl7ft1dy177t3CL.html
11-04-2020||India||Union ministers, top officials return to offices from Monday. It’s a message||Union ministers and all senior officials will again start going to office from Monday, government functionaries told HT, marking a step towards normalcy in the government establishment even as the lockdown is all set to be extended.According to two officials, Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked all ministers to start working from office from Monday, a move that is also aimed to instil confidence among the people about how the government establishments are limping back to normalcy even as social distancing and other health norms will remain firmly in place.Senior functionaries said that officers of joint secretary and above ranks will be mandatorily working from office.“In addition, one-third of essential staff will come,” said a secretary-level officer.While the non-essential staff has not been asked to come, the essential staff who stay near the office will be asked to come, according to the official. There will also be a rotation system for the essential staff to ensure everyone gets a chance to stay at home and also meet the obligation of coming to office.Since the lockdown was announced by Prime Minister Modi on March 24, many ministries have been working with just 3-5% of their actual strength, with employees unable to come, and followed the health guidelines.While most of the staff had to remain confined to their homes, top officials often came to office especially since the financial year was coming to an end.Ministries had to file their expenses and submit vouchers to the virtual expenditure logbook of the finance ministry to show how much money they have actually spent in the FY19-20. “The closure of accounts is of vital importance in the government system. Otherwise, release of money would get stuck. So, only a handful of officials would come to office — which is hardly 3-5% of our usual strength to primarily work on the annual closure of accounts,” said an official.Another officer added that while the top brass of the ministries was physically not present, all of them have been working from home and had a pressing schedule especially in handling the crisis situation and ensuring that government’s aid and help reaches the right beneficiaries.Officers held their meetings through the NIA-promoted video conference and files were moved and cleared through the e-office tool.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ministers-officials-return-to-work-from-monday-as-lockdown-extension-looms/story-GEeDNRsysiK4CW614hDiPM.html
11-04-2020||India||51 Indians among 191 news coronavirus cases in Singapore||Fifty-one Indian nationals working in Singapore are among the 191 new coronavirus cases reported on Saturday, taking the total number of the Covid-19 patients in the city-state to 2,299.The Health Ministry said that a 90-year-old Singaporean man died from complications due to Covid-19 infection on Saturday morning, taking the total number of death due to the virus to eight.All 191 new patients contracted the virus locally, it said, adding that 51 infections were connected to dormitories for foreign workers.The first case from the dormitories was reported on March 29. Thirty-one Covid-19 patients are in critical conditions in the intensive care units out of the 943 hospitalized.Thirty-five patients have been discharged from hospitals or placed in community isolation facilities as of Saturday, the ministry said.In all, 528 patients have fully recovered, it added.Fourteen additional cases are linked to infected people from the Indian origin mega store Mustafa Centre, which has been declared a cluster with a total of 78 confirmed cases. The store has been shut down for disinfection. Singapore authorities are working to improve the living conditions in dormitories and relocating workers in other accommodations, including empty Housing Development Board flats and Army facilities, according to local media reports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/51-indians-among-191-news-coronavirus-cases-in-singapore/story-UvPvkhyvEhPlUwxU1A7wZI.html
11-04-2020||India||Govt should put money in hands of poor, vulnerable: Cong leader Chidambaram||Congress leader P Chidambaram on Saturday said the government should take bold measures to put money in the hands of the poor and the vulnerable to save livelihood during the coronavirus lockdown.He also welcomed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s remark, while interacting with chief ministers, that “both lives and livelihoods are important”. “I welcome the PM’s announcement that both LIVES and LIVELIHOOD are important. I look forward to the government taking bold measures to put cash in the hands of the poor and the vulnerable. That will save livelihoods,” he said on Twitter.During the interaction via video conference, the prime minister underlined that the motto of the government earlier was ‘jaan hai to jahaan hai’ but now it is ‘jaan bhi jahaan bhi’.Ahead of Modi’s meeting with chief ministers, Chidambaram had urged party-ruled chief ministers to unanimously demand transfer of cash to every poor family.He said the poor have lost their jobs and exhausted their savings and are now standing in lines to get free food.Remonetising the poor would cost only Rs 65,000 crore, which was economically viable, he said.“Chief Ministers - Amarinder Singh, Ashok Gehlot, Bhupesh Baghel,  V Narayanasami, Uddhav Thackeray and E  Palaniswani should tell the Prime Minister today that just as LIVES are important LIVELIHOOD of the poor is important.“The poor have lost their jobs or self-employment in the last 18 days. They have exhausted their meagre savings. Many are standing in line for food,”  he said on Twitter.“Can the State stand by and watch them go hungry,” he asked, noting that CMs should demand that cash be transferred to every poor family immediately. “‘Remonetise the poor’ should be their unanimous demand,” Chidambaram said. PTI SKC DPB||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-should-put-money-in-hands-of-poor-vulnerable-cong-leader-chidambaram/story-wzAGgqX9pRv7Jf3eM44JPK.html
11-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Flight services, railway travel may be suspended till month-end||The suspension of commercial flights and railway travel may be extended till month-end as all indications point towards an extension of the nationwide lockdown, which ends on April 14, following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s video conference with chief ministers on Sunday. While both the civil aviation ministry and the railway ministry have prepared plans on enabling movement once the travel restrictions are lifted, officials aware of the developments said the government is likely to resume transport only after reviewing the number of cases after 15 days. “The sense is that both passenger rail and flight services will have to remain suspended for another 15 days. We had initially estimated the curve would flatten but an unfortunate event occurred and, according to estimates, we would require an extended lockdown. In such a scenario you can’t have flights and trains running to undo all the progress else we might be looking at an ever more prolonged lockdown,” a senior government official said requesting anonymity.An order on the same may soon be issued by the DGCA, a second official said. Hindustan Times on Friday had reported the government is considering dividing the country into a red zone in which no transport will immediately be allowed, a yellow zone where restricted services will resume and a green zone where transport will be allowed free movement.Once restrictions are lifted, the national carrier is planning to ensure strict social distancing norms in trains, which includes mandatory thermal screening and no allotment of middle berth in sleeper. India’s airport sector has also prepared a ‘business continuity plan’ for probable opening of commercial flight operations post lockdown. In a letter written to the civil aviation ministry, which has been reviewed by the Hindustan Times, the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) has asked for extra security measures to be implemented for the safety of its personnel. “After completion of the lockdown period, if commercial aircraft operations resume in the domestic sector, there will be challenges to keep the CISF personnel and other stakeholders safe from the Covid-19 infections. The CISF has prepared a ‘Business Continuity Plan’ for opening of commercial aircraft operations from the security perspective of aircraft operators, airline operators and CISF personnel,” the CISF wrote to the civil aviation ministry. The plan includes setting up of separate earmarked, isolated security checking facilities across airports for carrying out security check of passengers, crew and others, who have undergone home quarantine or hospital quarantine during the last one month. It also proposes airlines should spread out the flight timings, to avoid gathering of a large number of passengers. “Reporting time for passengers to the airport should be increased up to 120 minutes, so that passengers may smoothly pass through all the channels like access control, random screening, check-in, Immigration (in case of International passengers) by maintaining appropriate distance,” the letter said. Aviation regulator, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) is also preparing a standard operating procedure (SOP) to ensure social distancing among passengers and reducing contact with staff on board. This includes measures like leaving the middle seats empty. Airports will have to ensure that bunching of passengers is avoided while boarding and also that there is adequate spacing between passengers in queues.All passenger transport has been suspended for the three-week long lockdown period that began on March 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-flight-services-railway-travel-may-be-suspended-till-month-end/story-qiwx3mdplWhEYcb0341euK.html
11-04-2020||India||Covid-19 Update: Goa is quietly scripting a success story with declining active cases||Goa’s tally of active Covid-19 positive patients dropped further to two on Saturday after four patients tested negative for a second time in 24 hours and were declared to have recovered from all symptoms, ready for discharge from the hospital. The development brings good news for state administrators at a time when positive cases in other states, including neighbouring Maharashtra, are on a steady rise. Health Minister Vishwajit Rane said Goa was left with only two Covid-19 positive patients.“We are happy to inform that samples of 4 patients were tested again as per protocol and reported negative. We are following all the guidelines of ICMR and as per the procedure, we have conducted all the necessary tests,” Rane said. Rane went ahead to congratulate the team of state doctors who provided medical care to the patients.“My heartiest congratulations to the team of doctors at ESI Hospital (the state’s dedicated Covid-19 hospital) under the guidance of Dr. Edwin Gomes and his team for doing a commendable job by providing state-of-art patient care and ensuring complete recovery. Kudos to the entire team & their dedication in these difficult times,” Rane said. Goa had seven positive patients in total including the one who recovered earlier and was discharged. The Goa government has, however, recommended to the Prime Minister that the lockdown be continued until April 30, while allowing the resumption of some economic activity within the state, but without interstate movement of people. The state government has also rolled out a community survey that will begin from April 13, in which enumerators will fan out across the state asking residents for their travel history and presence of any influenza-like symptoms. “The data of this survey will help us roll out mass testing if certain hotspots of influenza-like illness are found or alternatively it will help us declare that Goa is in the safe zone,” Sawant said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-goa-is-quietly-scripting-a-success-story-with-declining-active-cases/story-KfJ7iZT9KfUvQH79oKDhrI.html
11-04-2020||India||Delhi Health Bulletin: Capital’s Coronavirus cases touch 1069; 19 dead so far||The total number of coronavirus cases in Delhi climbed to 1069 on Saturday, with 166 new cases and 5 deaths being reported, according to the Delhi government’s health bulletin.Of the total Covid-19 cases in the national capital, 712 are those who have been taken to various medical facilities through special operations.At least 27 people have been discharged after having recovered from the infection.Delhi, so far has reported 19 deaths from the highly contagious disease.Delhi Government authorities had last month carried out steps to quarantine people who had links with a religious congregation that had taken place in Nizamuddin area of south Delhi in mid- March.By Friday night, the number of cases of the deadly virus in the city stood at 903 including 14 deaths.With five more fatalities reported, the death toll from Covid-19 in Delhi has risen to 19.Among the total coronavirus positive cases in the national capital, at least 299 people have foreign travel history or have been in contact with people who have travelled abroad, authorities said. The nationwide tally of confirmed Covid-19 cases in India climbed to 7,529 on Saturday with the death toll rising to 242 across the country, according to Union Health Ministry data.At least 1,035 fresh Covid-19 cases and 40 deaths due to the deadly disease have been reported in the last 24 hours across states, taking the total number of cases to 7,529 and the number of deaths to 242 nationwide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-health-bulletin-capital-s-coronavirus-cases-touch-1069-19-dead-so-far/story-etFgMUFzAUQxJihRTOQ0IO.html
11-04-2020||India||Telangana extends Covid-19 lockdown till April 30||The Telangana government on Saturday decided to extend lockdown in the state for another two weeks as part of continuing the fight against the coronavirus pandemic.A resolution to this effect was adopted at the state cabinet, which had a five-hour long meeting in the camp office of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao in the evening.“We made the proposal to the Centre during the video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the morning. We are also writing a letter to this effect, along with the cabinet resolution, extending the lockdown up to April 30,” KCR told reporters after the cabinet meeting.He said even after April 30, the lockdown would not be lifted completely, but would be in a phased manner, so as to bring the system back on rails in stages. “I appeal to all sections of the people to cooperate with the government in enforcing the lockdown, which is being done only for their own welfare and the future of our children,” he said.He said all mass gatherings and public functions would be banned during the lockdown period. “Except agricultural activity, no other activity would be allowed,” he said.The cabinet also decided to promote students of Classes 1 to 9 as there is no possibility of conducting the examinations. “With regard to Class X examinations, which were suspended midway due to lockdown, we shall take a decision shortly,” he said.The chief minister said all the foreign returnees and those who had returned from Tablighi Jamaat conference, along with their contacts, had been traced and tested. “While all the foreign returnees and their contacts have completed their quarantine, another 1,654 people among the Jamaat returnees and their contacts are still under quarantine,” he said.He said till now, the state had recorded 503 positive cases, of which 96 people were discharged and 14 persons died. There were still 393 active cases. “The number of positive cases is gradually coming down. If there are no more fresh admissions, we are hopeful that we can come out of the crisis by April 24,” he said.The chief minister said strict measures are being taken in 243 areas declared as containment areas in the state, including 123 in Hyderabad alone. “Fortunately, none of the persons undergoing treatment in hospitals and quarantined in containment areas and isolation centres is serious. Not a single case required oxygen supply or was on a ventilator,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-extends-covid-19-lockdown-till-april-30/story-Ax0OPt09BkQvbgJaQ5tuGL.html
11-04-2020||India||Manipur CM urges PM to take steps for stopping harassment of NE people in other states||Manipur Chief Minister N Biren Singh on Saturday requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to take action for stopping racial slur and harassment that the people of the Northeastern region are facing in different parts of the country amid the coronavirus crisis.During a video conference, Singh urged the PM to direct the states to do the needful to stop harassment of NE people.He appealed to other chief ministers to take care of the 30,000 Manipuri people who are stranded outside the state because of the lockdown.A list of stranded Manipuris with addresses where they are putting up is being forwarded to the states concerned, he said.He also pleaded the prime minister to make arrangements for bringing all the stranded people of Manipur to their home.The chief minister said his government is also looking after the requirements of people of other states stuck in Manipur.Regarding the state’s preparedness to contain the spread of Covid-19, Singh said 3,200 beds have been kept ready for quarantine, while one dedicated block of 50 beds in two hospitals each is earmarked for Covid-19 patients.More ventilators have been installed in both the hospitals of the state that so far reported one positive coronavirus case, he said.To increase the number of testing facilities, Sing said, permission is being sought from the Indian Council of Medical Research to allow testing for Covid-19 in some select private diagnostic centres.Manipur shares 398 km long porous border with Myanmar, the CM said adding that the state government has erected temporary fencing along the border to block illegal entry of foreigners. PTI COR NN NN||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-cm-urges-pm-to-take-steps-for-stopping-harassment-of-ne-people-in-other-states/story-2uePi3HUeTDHcIx7rcydmK.html
11-04-2020||India||New machine to help Odisha in race against time to rule out community transmissions||Odisha on Saturday installed a machine to ramp up state’s existing testing capacity from about 400 per day to 1000 samples a day as the government aims to bring even asymptomatic cases into the ambit of coronavirus testing.Odisha reported 50 positive cases of Covid-19, including one casualty and 12 recoveries till Friday night since March 15, when the first case in the state was reported. As per health department’s statistics, over 90 per cent of the cases are asymptomatic—without the symptoms of Coronavirus such as sore throat, high fever and diarrhea.Director of National Health Mission in Odisha, Shalini Pandit said till now, the state was testing just about 400 samples a day, in three laboratories including Regional Medical Research Centre in Bhubaneswar. “With the installation of a Cobas 6800 machine, the second such machine in India, at least 600 additional samples can be tested using the PCR method, taking the total to more than 1000,” said Pandit. Till Friday night, Odisha had tested 3547 samples while Maharashtra had tested 32051, the highest in the country.She, however, clarified that the increased sample testing may happen from Monday as the team was getting ready. “There is a particular style of mixing and extracting chemicals. The team is getting trained on it,” she said.Officials said apart from testing people who had returned from abroad as well as those who had attended the religious congregation of Tablighi Jamaat last month, the government is doing random sampling for asymptomatic as well as symptomatic cases.“We are bringing random people in containment zones as well as from outside the zones to sample collection centres opened in schools for collecting their nasal swabs. Before the lockdown ends, we want to be sure that there is zero community transmission of Covid-19. The frontline health workers who are going house to house are also being tested. For all positive cases, we are testing 40-60 people who came in contact with them on flights or trains. So far none of them have tested positive,” said Pandit.Director of medical education, Dr CBK Mohanty said the state has sought two lakh testing kits, including rapid testing kits, to cover a large number of migrants who will return to the state after the lockdown ends. The antibody testing mechanism with 80-90 per cent accuracy would reduce the load on the State Government to screen and quarantine people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-machine-to-help-odisha-in-race-against-time-to-rule-out-community-transmissions/story-CLZxPbSXPpOUg6wSceBeON.html
11-04-2020||India||IndiGo employee dies of coronavirus infection in Chennai||Budget carrier IndiGo on Saturday said one of its staff passed away due to coronavirus infection in Chennai.While the airline did not provide details, a source told PTI that the employee was an aircraft maintenance engineer and he passed away on Friday.The engineer was in his mid-50s and had been working with the carrier since 2006. He was posted in Chennai, the source said. “We are extremely sorry and saddened by the demise of one of our beloved employees in Chennai due to infection of Covid 19 virus,” an airline spokesperson told PTI on Saturday. This is possibly the first case of death of an aviation personnel due to coronavirus infection in the country. “This is a heartbreaking moment for all of us at IndiGo and in this time of sorrow we stand with his family and request that we respect the privacy of our employee and his family,” the spokesperson said. The number of infections in the country has crossed 8,000 and more than 260 people have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indigo-employee-dies-of-coronavirus-infection-in-chennai/story-QH9vBK8O7fHpoPm9x3JK2H.html
11-04-2020||India||Two Andhra districts with zero Covid-19 cases are setting an example||Every district in Andhra Pradesh has recorded Covid-19 positive cases in double digits except for the two north-costal districts of Srikakulam and Vizianagaram bordering Odisha and Chhattisgarh respectively that have so far managed to give the deadly virus a slip.Till Saturday, not a single coronavirus case was reported from these two districts, which are also very close to Visakhapatnam, the proposed administrative capital of the state, which has seen 24 positive cases to date.A strike rate of zero in these two districts, considered to be the most backward in the state, have surprised the authorities who are struggling to deal with the ever-increasing number of Covid-19 cases elsewhere in the state.Andhra has reported 405 cases till Saturday night, including 82 in Kurnool followed by 75 in Guntur, 48 in Nellore, 41 in Prakasam and 35 in Krishna. All the other districts have also crossed the double-digit mark.“It is a pleasant surprise to witness Srikakulam and Vizianagaram reporting zero positive cases for Covid-19. Apparently, both the districts were alerted much earlier than the other districts and have been able to contain the spread of the disease,” state health and family welfare commissioner Katamaneni Bhaskar said.The Tablighi Jamaat congregation held in Nizamuddin, New Delhi, which had resulted in a sharp rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in many parts of the country, had a severe impact on entire Andhra Pradesh, but not in Srikakulam and Vizianagaram.“We, too, have traced 27 people connected with the Jamaat directly and indirectly, and all of them had been kept in isolation. Similarly, there were 1,445 people who had returned from abroad and another 4,271 people who had been in direct contact with them. Only four of them had some symptoms but none of them tested positive. Now, everybody is in quarantine,” Srikakulam district medical and health officer (DMHO) Dr M Chenchaiah said.He attributed the zero positive cases in the district to the early intervention by the district authorities, including the police and the medical department staff. “We have taken up surveillance activities much earlier than any other part of the state. We ensured that none of the foreign returnees and their contacts came out of their homes by pasting posters on the gates and alerted their neighbours to inform the cops if anybody came out,” Chenchaiah said.The district authorities also enforced the lockdown strictly and arrested people who deliberately violated the restrictions. “Fortunately, the awareness levels in the district are very high and they are fully cooperating with the authorities. Our medical and police surveillance teams are conducting door to door surveys to see that there is not a single suspect,” he said.The DMHO said the authorities were vigilant over the reports that there was a possibility of some suspects from Nellore, Guntur and Visakhapatnam entering Srikakulam. “We are sending any suspicious case to the isolation centre,” he said.Vizianagaram DMHO S V Ramana Kumari said swift and prompt action was taken by the district authorities to quarantine 434 foreign returnees and for the monitoring of their health.She, however, added that luckily, there was not a single case of Tablighi Jamaat returnees in the district. “That perhaps saved us. We have no problem from other people, who are fully cooperating with us in the quarantine centres and none of them tested positive,” she said.Click here for live and latest updates on Coronavirus||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-andhra-districts-with-zero-covid-19-cases-are-setting-an-example/story-eHQZlYgXVZe641ObZqQMsO.html
11-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Andhra wants lockdown restricted to red zones; KCR demands 2-week extension & all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion curated for you. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Andhra wants lockdown restricted to red zones; KCR demands 2-week extensionAndhra Pradesh chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Saturday suggested to the Centre to lift the lockdown and confine it only to the red zones which have reported a larger number of Covid-19 positive cases. Read more In major relief, Goa’s Tablighi Jamaat suspects test negative for Covid-19All the 46 Tablighi Jamaat members who were quarantined and tested for coronavirus in Goa have been found to be negative for the disease, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant announced on Saturday. Read moreJaish operative nabbed from Jammu village on Indo-Pak borderAn overground worker (OGW) of the Jaish-e-Mohammad terror outfit was arrested from a village near the border with Pakistan in RS Pura sector of Jammu district on the intervening night of Friday and Saturday, police said. Read moreCovid-19: Karnataka extends lockdown by 2 weeks, throws in some relaxationsChief Minister BS Yediyurappa announced on Saturday that the statewide lockdown will be extended for another fortnight after April 14 but with certain relaxations to agricultural and industrial sectors to soften the impact on the economy. Read moreAfricans harassed in southern China amid Covid-19 and fear of imported casesThe US embassy in China issued a security alert on Saturday for African-Americans living and working in the southern metropolis of Guangzhou after several reports said members of the large black community in the city were being targeted and harassed amid Covid-19 fears. Read more‘There’s a dearth of role models in current Indian team’: Gautam GambhirAgreeing with his former teammate and India’s 2011 World Cup hero Yuvraj Singh, former India opener Gautam Gambhir said there is indeed a dearth of role models in the current Indian side. Read moreBengal schools hike fees, colleges stop paying part- time lecturers amid coronavirus crisisAmid lockdown in West Bengal a number of private and unaided schools affiliated to various boards have hiked fees while some colleges have stopped giving monthly remuneration to part-time lecturers, forcing the government to take exception. Read more Instagram brings Direct Messages to web version: Here’s how to get startedFacebook’s Instagram yesterday (April 10) rolled out one of the key features it was testing since quite some time – sending Direct Messages to each other on the web version. Read more The US Embassy in Delhi just hosted some unexpected visitors. See picsA group of unlikely guests paid a visit to the Embassy of the United States, New Delhi during the lockdown. However, their appearance was much appreciated, especially by United States Ambassador to India Kenneth I. Juster. Read more Covid Lockdown: Here’s how dressing up will help drive the depression blues awayWhile we don’t really experience Spring in India, the current weather is the perfect transition from the chilly winters to the scorching summers. Read more Watch| 4 deaths & 28 cases: The challenges in curbing COVID-19 in Dharavi||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-andhra-wants-lockdown-restricted-to-red-zones-kcr-demands-2-week-extension-all-the-latest-news/story-ExjAOg1J2Ul7EtrVHXKMTO.html
11-04-2020||India||Kerala records third Covid-19 death, 10 more people test positive||With Kerala recording its third Covid-19 death on Saturday, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the state will take a call on extending the lockdown after the Union Government’s decision.Ten fresh cases have been reported in the state taking the total number of positive cases to 374, the CM said adding 19 people had been discharged from hospitals. Out of ten new cases, seven have been reported from Kannur in north Kerala and 1,23, 490 people are under observation in the state, he said.In Kannur, a cured woman gave birth to a baby after C-section surgery and both are in good health, he said. The doctors performed the operation wearing PPE kits and the baby will be kept away from the mother for a few days, said doctors of the Kannur medical college hospital. In an advanced stage of pregnancy she had tested positive last month and was shifted to an isolation ward. Later she tested negative.There is a little confusion over the death of the latest victim, a 71-year-old resident of Mahe which is part of Puducherry. Admitted in the Pariyaram Medical College in Kannur he died in the early hours of Saturday. He was suffering from multiple complications and was on ventilator support for the last two weeks, health minister K K Shailaja said. Later, his body was buried under strict protocol in Kannur and only four family members were allowed.Kerala was the first state in the country to report coronavirus cases and has the least number of deaths and a good recovery rate. The CM said the recovery of a large number of people was a good sign but it was too early to relax norms.“Recovery of many patients and less number of people turning positive are good signs. It shows we have a good grip on the disease but if some lapses take place things will change. So we have to keep our surveillance up,” he said. He gave enough hint that the state was in favour of extending the lockdown but least affected areas will have to be eased. The CM said in the meeting with the Prime Minister that the state sought more financial help and food grains. The state has also asked for non-stop trains to ferry migrant workers who are camping in 10,000- odd camps in the state. He sought special flights to bring back stranded expatriates in the middle-eastern countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-records-third-covid-19-death-10-more-people-test-positive/story-E3iUPHt3wtAVMmeoEOTdcL.html
11-04-2020||India||In major relief, Goa’s Tablighi Jamaat suspects test negative for Covid-19||All the 46 Tablighi Jamaat members who were quarantined and tested for coronavirus in Goa have been found to be negative for the disease, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant announced on Saturday. “All 46 have been tested. All are negative. Not a single Tablighi case is positive,” Sawant told reporters on Saturday.Goa had identified 46 Tablighi Jamaat members of whom eight had taken part in the Nizamuddin markaz prior to March 15 and had already arrived in the state by the time the nationwide lockdown was announced. The members were asked to go into home quarantine while the eight were kept at a government quarantine facility. Goa has seven confirmed cases of coronavirus, five have been declared to have recovered while the remaining two are said to be stable. The state government has also rolled out a community survey that will begin from April 13 in which enumerators will ask residents for their travel history and presence of any influenza-like symptoms. “The data of this survey will help us roll out mass testing if certain hotspots of influenza-like illness are found or alternatively it will help declare that Goa is in the safe zone,” Sawant said.For all latest stories on coronavirus||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-major-relief-goa-s-tablighi-jamaat-suspects-test-negative-for-covid-19/story-Gj0DMTW8Rr6hx0fmQ83YUN.html
11-04-2020||India||List of states that have extended lockdown or are likely to||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is yet to take a decision on the extension of the three-week national lockdown but several states have independently announced an extension of the lockdown and some others have indicated their willingness to do so after attending the video conference with the prime minister on Saturday. Telangana became the latest state to announce an extension of the lockdown. Here’s the complete list of such states.1. Punjab- Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said the state government had already decided in favour of complete lockdown till May 1 including a ban on public service vehicles. Section 144 is in place in the state and all educational institutions have been shut down till June 30 and the government has deferred the state board examinations till further orders.2. Odisha- Chief minister Navin Patnaik was the first to extend the lockdown till April 30 on Thursday. The decision was announced after a state cabinet meeting and Patnaik said his government was in favour of saving lives over livelihoods. 3. Maharashtra – Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced his decision on Saturday to extend the provisions of lockdown in the state till April 30. He added that any further decision to completely lift the restrictions depended on the prevailing situation. Maharashtra has the most number of coronavirus cases in the country.4. Karnataka – Chief minister BS Yediyurappa also extended the lockdown in the state by two more weeks but added that it would come with relaxation for commercial activity in the agricultural and industrial sectors to ensure minimal impact on the economy of the state. He also indicated that the government offices will function with partial strength. 5. West Bengal- Chief minister Mamata Banerjee said PM Modi had announced the extension of lockdown till April 30 and she was in agreement with the prime minister. Some reports suggested she had announced an extension till April 30. Mamata’s government, however, was questioned by the ministry of home affairs for steady dilution of the lockdown provisions, a news agency reported.6.Telangana- Chief minister K Chandrashekar Rao, too, announced an extension of the lockdown by two more weeks late on Saturday night. He added that the lockdown will be lifted gradually in phases. 7. Uttarakhand-- The state on Friday announced a policy that included sending a proposal to the centre recommending an extension of lockdown till April 30. The proposal also includes making the wearing of face-masks compulsory till May 31 and closing of all educational institutions in the state till May 15. However, the state has officially not announced an extension. 8. Delhi – Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has indicated that he is in favour of extending the lockdown in the national capital till April 30. He added that India’s position was better than many developed countries since the country clamped the lockdown early.9. Tamil Nadu- Chief minister Palaniswami is also in favour of extending the lockdown by two weeks but has deferred a decision on the matter untill the centre takes a call.10. Rajasthan – Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has said that protecting the lives of states’ residents was his government’s top priority and a decision on extension of the lockdown will be taken keeping that in mind.Click here for live and latest updates on Coronavirus||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/list-of-states-that-have-extended-lockdown-or-are-likely-to/story-KzlUCHa48v1UQa5AEf0CtK.html
11-04-2020||India||India reports 242 coronavirus deaths, total number of positive cases touch 7,529||The nationwide tally of confirmed Covid-19 cases climbed to 7,529 on Saturday with the death toll rising to 242 across the country. A total of 586 hospitals in India have been identified as dedicated Covid-19 hospitals with a capacity of over one lakh isolation beds and 11,500 ICU beds reserved for coronavirus patients, according to Union Health Ministry data.At least 1,035 fresh Covid-19 cases and 40 deaths due to the deadly disease have been reported in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 7,529 and the number of deaths to 242 nationwide. “The government has taken early pre-emptive action to identify Covid-19 hotspots in the country. In the absence of a lockdown and other containment measures, there would have been over 8.2 lakh coronavirus cases in India till April 15,” Health Ministry’s Joint Secretary Lav Agarwal said at the daily news briefing.Earlier on Saturday, the chief ministers of 13 states participated in a nearly four-hour long video conference that Prime Minister Narendra Modi held to discuss an extension of the lockdown. Prime Minister Modi, who held the meet via a video conference today, has indicated that the lockdown amid the Covid-19 pandemic would be extended by two weeks after considering the requests of the chief ministers, who preferred a longer containment period. The lockdown was scheduled to be lifted on Tuesday. PM Modi also marked a shift in tackling the pandemic, from saving lives to saving both lives and livelihoods.Soon after the meeting with the PM, the Maharashtra government on Saturday decided to extend the Covid-19 lockdown till April 30 with Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray underlining that it may be further extended if people did not cooperate.The chief minister said it looks like the situation is under control, but one will have to be cautious. Maharashtra is the third state to extend the lockdown after Odisha and Punjab.In Karanataka, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa announced that the statewide lockdown will be extended for another fortnight after April 14, but with certain relaxations for agricultural and industrial sectors to ensure minimal impact on the economy. Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Saturday suggested to the Centre to lift the lockdown and confine it only to the red zones which have reported a larger number of Covid-19 positive cases.Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, however, pitched for extension of the nationwide lockdown for two more weeks to ensure that the Covid-19 crisis remains under control.The chief ministers of both the Telugu states-- Jagan Mohan Reddy and KCR expressed their views to the Prime Minister during the video conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-242-coronavirus-deaths-total-number-of-positive-cases-touch-7-529/story-cERoESocgfW3Zq38ESnosN.html
11-04-2020||India||Covid-19 update: Railways converts 5,000 coaches into isolation wards, awaits govt direction on deployment||Railways has converted 5,000 coaches into isolation wards for those infected with coronavirus and is likely to deploy them in rural areas after consultation with the health ministry, officials said Saturday. The railways has set a target of converting 20,000 coaches to counter the pandemic, of which 5,000 coaches with 80,000 beds are ready to be deployed, the ministry said. “The idea of converting these coaches was to ensure that in rural areas, in regions where medical facilities were not available, care for Covid-19 patients could be provided. The health ministry would guide us and we will deploy these trains. We will maintain them and make sure they are in good condition,” an official said. He also said that if required railways could also provide the linen to be used in such coaches, but they will be for one time use only. The official also said that the railways is also contemplating how the train, which will be non-air conditioned, can be insulated against the summer heat. Officials say that there there were discussions within the railways to see if trains like the Lifeline Express can be produced where doctors would take care of all kinds of patients or something like the accident relief trains which are equipped with operation theatre. However, the ideas were dropped because producing such trains would take more time and it was pointed out that the railway isolation units had been prepared as Level 1 Covid-19 Care Centre facilities. There will be 10 coaches in each of these trains with the capacity to hold 16 patients in each. Officials say one airconditioned coach could be attached to these trains for doctors and other medical staff. The death toll due to the novel coronavirus rose to 239 and the number of cases to 7,447 in the country on Saturday, according to the Union Health Ministry. While the number of active Covid-19 cases is 6,565, as many as 642 people were cured and discharged and one had migrated, it said. As many as 33 new deaths have been reported since Friday evening, the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-railways-converts-5-000-coaches-into-isolation-wards-awaits-govt-direction-on-deployment/story-QL8CQyGZMgZOFmX2qPOVzN.html
11-04-2020||India||Jaish operative nabbed from Jammu village on Indo-Pak border||An overground worker (OGW) of the Jaish-e-Mohammad terror outfit was arrested from a village near the border with Pakistan in RS Pura sector of Jammu district on the intervening night of Friday and Saturday, police said.He has been identified as Mohammad Muzaffar Beigh (24), a resident of Vodhpora in Handwara area of north Kashmir’s Kupwara district.Sub divisional police officer of RS Pura, Shabir Ahmad Khan said, “He is a hardcore overground worker of Jaish-e-Mohammed. He has confessed of being a worker of the Jaish outfit.”Police sources said Rs 20,000 of hawala money and five SIM cards were seized from him. “He was hiding in the house of a local since March 17, well before the lockdown began on March 25. He might have also used SIM cards to pass on vital information to his handlers in Pakistan. We are investigating all the angles,” said a police officer.Another police official who did not wish to be named said that the Jaish operative was arrested during a late night raid on a house in Chakroi village.“The house owner was also taken into custody for questioning. We expect more arrests on his disclosures,” he said.Chakroi is very close to the border and that mobile frequency of Pakistani cellular companies have been detected in border areas of Jammu region in the recent past.The overground workers usually used Pakistani SIM cards in the border areas to relay information to their handlers in Pakistan, a police officer said.In certain cases the network frequency of Pakistani cellular companies was so strong that it was detected on Jammu-Pathankot highway and in Rajouri and Poonch towns.The Jaish operative travelled around 370 km from Handwara to Chakroi where he reached on March 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaish-operative-nabbed-from-jammu-village-on-indo-pak-border/story-CivedMoEekxv7oIZ1A9coI.html
11-04-2020||India||Covid-19 update: Railways delivers 20l of camel milk to Mumbai woman after her tweet to PM||The railways transported 20 litres of camel milk to a family in Mumbai after a woman tweeted about its non-availability for her three-and-a-half-year-old autistic child, who is allergic to goat, cow and buffalo milk.This good deed of the railways came to light on Saturday when senior IPS officer Arun Bothra tweeted about it.“20 lts. camel milk reached Mumbai by train last night. The family has kindly shared part of it with another needy person in the city. Thanking Sh.Tarun Jain, CPTM, North-West Railways who ensured an unscheduled halt to pick the container,” Bothra said in a tweet.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Renu Kumari, the mother of the child, had tagged Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a tweet, in which she highlighted her son’s plight.“Sir I have a 3.5 yrs old child suffering from autism and severe food allergies. He survives on Camel Milk and limited quantity of pulses. When lockdown started I didn’t have enough camel milk to last this long. Help me get Camel Milk or its powder from Sadri (Rajasthan),” she had said in the tweet.  Final update20 lts. camel milk reached Mumbai by train last night. The family has kindly shared part of it with another needy person in the city.Thanking Sh.Tarun Jain, CPTM, North-West Railways who ensured an unscheduled halt to pick the container.@RailwaySeva@RailMinIndia https://t.co/fCxI6EJTrXPeople from all across the country put forward several suggestions on Twitter, including Bothra, who contacted Advik Foods, the first brand of camel milk products in the country based in Rajasthan.The company offered its camel milk powder for the child. However, sending it to Mumbai was an issue.“The matter came to our notice when Bothra tweeted about it. I discussed the issue with senior DCM, Ajmer, Mahesh Chand Jewalia. We decided that parcel cargo train no. 00902, running between Ludhiana and Bandra in Mumbai, will be stopped at the Falna station in Rajasthan, although it does not have a scheduled halt there, the package will be picked up from Falna and delivered to the woman in Mumbai,” Chief Passenger Traffic Manager, North Western Railway (NWR), Tarun Jain told PTI.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage He said through Jewalia, instructions were sent to Chief Commercial Inspector Akhil Taneja to co-ordinate with the operating department and the supplier to ensure that the camel milk is loaded at Falna.“After taking permission from the appropriate authority, the train was stopped and the camel milk was delivered to the woman at Bandra. For us at the Indian Railways, this is not the time to look at commercial gains. We have been asked to help out wherever possible in whichever way we can. Our (NWR) trains run through 18 districts of the country and we will do whatever is needed to help people out,” Jain said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-railways-delivers-20l-of-camel-milk-to-mumbai-woman-after-her-tweet-to-pm/story-EhUrKAtDNfcjF9vzbyfayO.html
11-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Karnataka extends lockdown by 2 weeks, throws in some relaxations||Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa announced on Saturday that the statewide lockdown will be extended for another fortnight after April 14 but with certain relaxations to agricultural and industrial sectors to soften the impact on the economy. “The lockdown for the next two weeks will be different from what is being implemented currently. Agricultural and industrial sectors will be given relaxation. Government offices will function with partial strength and the additional guidelines stated by the PM would be issued in the next couple of days,” the CM told mediapersons after a nearly four-hour long video conference that PM Modi has with all CMs.Karnataka becomes the first BJP-ruled state to extend the lockdown. It is also the fourth state after Odisha, Punjab and Maharashtra to do so.Karnataka recorded eight new positive cases bringing the total to 215, with six deaths. Bulk of the new cases were recorded in the Mysore district.Even as the CM appealed to the citizens to follow the lockdown strictly, his own party MLA from Turuvekere Masale Jayaram celebrated his birthday grandly on Friday with about 100 children and adults being served biryani. An FIR has been registered by the local administration against the legislator for not maintaining social distance during the event. On Saturday five policemen, including an SP and four others, attached to Kamaripete police station were home quarantined after they had gone to collect the details of a Covid-19 suspect.Former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda today donated Rs 1 lakh each to the PM Cares Fund, the Karnataka CM Relief Fund and Kerala CM Distress Relief Fund, according to a tweet from his official handle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-karnataka-extends-lockdown-by-2-weeks-throws-in-some-relaxations/story-03KKPWk1Hu6Xe2ThcFhBWI.html
11-04-2020||India||Covid heroes: 500km apart with no phone, postman connects elderly brother and sister||Two days before the nationwide lockdown began on March 24, Anupama Byatnal, 60, received a text message from her 65-year-old brother who lives in Hubli, Karnataka – “My phone is not working, can’t make calls.” A few days into the lockdown aimed at curtailing the spread of Covid-19, even the text messages stopped. Then for the next 10 days, there was no word from Satyapriya Vaidya, who lives by himself in rented accommodation in Hubli. Anupama, who too lives alone at Ahmednagar in Maharashtra, couldn’t help but worry about whether he was okay and he had enough rations to get by. Having exhausted all options to contact him, Anupama turned to what is often considered a relic of the past — the local postman. Anupama, a former postal department official, was aware postal services were functional as they fall under the Essential Service Maintenance Act. “For three days, I called the BVB Engineering College post office’s landline but no one answered,” she said. “It was on Thursday that I got through and they gave me the local postman’s number.” Within half an hour, the postman reached the address given by Anupama. At first, Vaidya was confused why a postman had come looking for him. “I’m okay,” he told his sister as the postman explained she was worried sick about him. “I’ve been trying to reach you too but hadn’t written down your number so I could not call.”The postman was 43-year-old Bharamappa Kaddi, who has been working in the area for the past decade. Kaddi, who usually works eight hours a day, has been putting in longer shifts ever since the lockdown began.“We work on a rotational basis,” he said. “I come to work three to four days a week and don’t leave till all tasks are finished. When ma’am called me, I was about to leave for distribution.” Using a bicycle, Kaddi traverses four areas, covering 18km a day. According to him, since Prime Minister Narendar Modi announced the lockdown, distribution of letters and parcels has reduced. But whenever a mail carrier was allowed across the border, work increased. “Earlier this week, I got a call at around 11pm to come to work the next day to distribute the mail,” he said. For him, however, the call from Anupama was out of the ordinary. “It was the only such request I have received. Madam called the office and they gave her my number. She was so happy to speak to him, that it made me feel overjoyed. I even told him to make sure he stays in touch with madam in future,” he said. Kaddi lives in a village 43km from the post office. He uses a scooter, borrowed from one of his neighbours, to reach work. “Many of the people in the area I work for are poor, some are handicapped. It’s tough to get to work during the lockdown, but how can I not come to serve my country,” he said. For Anupama, the incident holds a lesson. “We depend so much on technology, but that can fail us too,” she said. “I have now written down all important numbers in a diary and sent my daughter, Amruta, who lives in Delhi, my neighbour’s number.” She feels content knowing her brother is doing fine and adds, “As a former employee, I’m so proud of the work being done by the postal department in these trying times.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-heroes-500km-apart-with-no-phone-postman-connects-elderly-brother-and-sister/story-cLWkT92OzFJNhsJoBtUDMO.html
11-04-2020||India||Odisha ambulance driver alleges he is being ostracised by villagers for carrying Covid-19 patient||A private ambulance driver, who brought a coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive patient from Odisha’s Kalahandi district to a hospital in Cuttack, has been forcibly quarantined by his family members and villagers at a state government-run facility in disregard to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s plea to support frontline healthcare workers combating the viral outbreak.On April 5, Banamali Sethi, a private ambulance driver of Dadpur village in Kalahandi district, had taken the 29-year-old Covid-19 patient to a hospital in Cuttack. His family members and the villagers denied him entry to the village on April 6, as they were afraid that he might have contracted SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19, and ensured that he stays in quarantine for 14 days.“I was meted out this harsh treatment because I had taken the Covid-19 positive patient to a hospital in Cuttack in the ambulance,” said Sethi. He has been staying in the quarantine facility on the outskirts of his village since April 6. The villagers refused to be convinced by the healthcare workers, who tried to reason with them that Sethi had taken all precautionary measures, including wearing personal protective equipment (PPE) units such as masks and gloves, while ferrying the Covid-19 positive patient to Cuttack.Kalahandi district collector (DC) Dr Gavalli Prashad weighed in on the villagers’ unreasonable behaviour. “Sethi couldn’t have contracted the infection because of the partition between him and the patient. We booked a private ambulance, as the one owned by the government doesn’t have a partition. He was given all the PPE units in line with the World Health Organisation (WHO) protocol. The vehicle was sanitised after it came back to Kalahandi from Cuttack. There is no cause for concern,” Prashad said. Initially, the DC said, Sethi refused to ferry the Covid-19 patient to Cuttack, but he relented after much coaxing. “We had sent another driver as a back up to Sethi. We’ve spoken to his family members and have convinced them that his health is not at risk,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-ambulance-driver-alleges-he-is-being-ostracised-by-villagers-for-carrying-covid-19-patient/story-SwPEiJ3Ninw4EkQEgmrFiO.html
11-04-2020||India||Covid-19: In Kerala, rivals CPI(M) and RSS run community kitchens in concert||For three decades, a bitter and bloody rivalry between CPI(M)workers and RSS members in Kerala’s Kannur district has claimed 200 lives.There was no love lost on either side until the coronavirus pandemic brought the intractable rivals together to run community kitchens in the district’s coastal town of Thalassery which is also is home to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, CPI (M) state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan and Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan and many other leaders.The new-found bonhomie has evinced much interest in political circles. While cutting vegetables for sambhar or cooking rice workers of Sewa Bharati, social wing of the RSS and Democratic Youth Federation of India, CPI(M) youth wing, rub shoulders. Workers of Youth League and Youth Congress are also there. In certain pockets of Thalassery both RSS and CPI (M) fiercely guard their villages affiliated to them and their political opponents are unwelcome here.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.“It is no time for politics. Our CM has given an open call to engage everyone in the community kitchen. Our only concern is to feed empty stomachs. We don’t go by the colour of the flags here,” said Thalassery MLA A N Shamseer. Sub-collector Asif K Yousef is co-ordinating everything in the gigantic effort to rope in groups of different ideologies in the fight against coronavirus.“Feeding poor is a national movement. Prime Minister Modi said helping others is the best thing to do in trying times,” said BJP leader M P Sumesh.Meanwhile, Kerala police on Saturday arrested three more workers of the ruling CPI(M) for allegedly vandalising the house of a girl who was in quarantine in Thannithod in Pathanamthitta district. Earlier police had arrested three persons while three others were absconding.They attacked the house alleging that her father violated quarantine norms and came out frequently. The incident which happened on Tuesday had embarrassed the government and Chief Minister Vijayan had promised strict action against offenders.Police said the girl who studies in Coimbatore in Tamil Nadu had returned home recently and was in home quarantine as instructed by health officials. Her father, a cable TV operator, had isolated her in a room and he used to go out to collect food which angered many people in the area. Initially they sent a message on WhatsApp threatening them but when he filed a complaint their house was attacked, police said.After the attack the girl filed a complaint with the CM and sought police protection for her family. “It should not have happened in a state like Kerala. Offenders never deserve any sympathy,” the CM had said. Later the Pathanamthitta district committee of the CPI (M) had suspended all from the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-pandemic-brings-sworn-enemies-together-in-north-kerala/story-8ZgsN36D1wplP65KZosGEK.html
11-04-2020||India||Covid-19 halts J&K’s annual ‘Darbar Move’ for the first time in 144 years||The annual “Darbar Move” in Jammu and Kashmir – the shifting of the administrative machinery from Jammu to Srinagar in the spring that has a history of 144 years – won’t be fully completed this year due to concerns related to the Covid-19 outbreak. The union territory’s government has accorded sanction for the formal opening of offices for the summer session in Srinagar from May 4 following their move to Jammu for the winter. However, only employees from Kashmir will make the move once offices close in Jammu later this month.According to the order issued by the general administration department (GAD), the Civil Secretariat in Jammu will remain functional in view of the extraordinary circumstances arising from the pandemic. Besides, employees who had moved to Jammu will work on an “as is where is” basis – Kashmir-based staff will work from Srinagar and Jammu-based staff will work from there.“Further, Move offices outside the Civil Secretariat shall also continue to remain functional at Jammu/Srinagar, as per the aforementioned mechanism. Administrative Secretaries shall make necessary arrangements to ensure the functionality in their respective departments, both at Srinagar and Jammu,” the order said, adding similar arrangements will be put in place by heads of Departments affected by the “Darbar Move”.The Civil Secretariat Treasury and the J&K Bank’s moving branch at the Civil Secretariat will function at both Jammu and Srinagar. The finance department will put in place a suitable mechanism for this purpose.Employees of the Kashmir Division affected by the move and who now need to travel to Srinagar for the “Darbar Move” during April 25-26 will be provided transport by the Jammu and Kashmir Road Transport Corporation. They will also be issued passes for movement on the national highway.The administration intends to review these arrangements after assessing the extent and spread of Covid-19 after June 15, the order said.However, the order has raised many eyebrows, with former chief minister Omar Abdullah questioning the decision in a series of tweets. “If it is safe for Kashmiri employees to move to Srinagar why not Jammuites?” he said.He also tweeted: “If the files remain in Jammu what work will the Kashmiri employees do in the Srinagar secretariat? If the files move to Srinagar what work will be done in Jammu?”Describing the order as mindless, he tweeted, “This order regarding the bi-annual ‘durbar move’ is just mindless rubbish at worst & needless tokenism at best. So the offices can’t shift to Srinagar because of #Covid_19, I get that. What I don’t get is what Srinagar secretariat will do without files or senior officers?”He noted most Kashmir-based employees are currently in Jammu as the secretariat was functioning in that city during winter. “If Srinagar Secretariat has no employees, no officers & no files what is it being opened for?” he asked.Abdullah contended the order would only lead to confusion and demanded its withdrawal. He also said the “Darbar Move” should be put off till the threat posed by Covid-19 has passed. “This order of two ‘functioning secretariats’ will just create confusion because no one will know which secretariat to approach to get their work done,” he tweeted.He also questioned why non-J&K employees and officers led by the lieutenant governor don’t move to the Kashmir Valley as scheduled.The annual “Darbar Move” was started by the erstwhile Maharaja of Jammu and Kashmir, Ranbir Singh, in 1972. However, 33 years ago, when former chief minister Farooq Abdullah tried to end the annual shifting, protests by a cross-section of society in Jammu forced him to change his mind.After the revocation of Article 370 of the Constitution last August, there is a strong feeling in the Kashmir Valley that efforts are being made to disempower the local people. The Jammu and Kashmir high court on Saturday sought information about the implications of the Darbar Move amid the pandemic after two Kashmir-based lawyers questioned the “advisability” of the annual exercise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-halts-j-k-s-annual-darbar-move-for-the-first-time-in-144-years/story-0V3TASFRh5FuLrTIejpDYI.html
11-04-2020||India||From Covid-19 lockdown extension to exit, what chief ministers told PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a virtual meeting of chief ministers on Saturday to decide on the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown that ends on April 14. PM Modi didn’t elaborate on the mechanics of the plan that he had in mind but spent most of the meeting listening the chief ministers. A statement by the Prime Minister’s Office later said chief ministers of most states were in the favour of extending the lockdown. Some also spoke about allowing the resumption of economic activities in a manner that is not counter-productive to the united fight against the coronavirus disease. The prime minister has also indicated that the government’s motto had changed in the last two weeks from ‘Jaan hai to Jahaan hai’ (life is above all) to ‘Jaan bhi, jahaan bhi” (lives and livelihoods, both matter).Several chief ministers spoke their mind on the Covid-19 pandemic and how their state intended to move forward. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said that PM had decided to extend the lockdown and added that it was the right decision to make.“PM has taken the correct decision to extend lockdown. Today, India’s position is better than many developed countries because we started lockdown early. If it is stopped now, all gains would be lost. To consolidate, it is imp to extend it,” he twitted.Karnataka’s BS Yediyurappa said PM Modi “told us that we must not compromise on lockdown and we are receiving suggestions for extending it for next 15 days”. According to news agency ANI, Yediyurappa said the prime minister had told them that the central government will announce guidelines for next 15 days in a day or two. Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said that while PM had spoken about extending the lockdown, “it could be relaxed in some places and made more stringent in some others”. She added that her government was on the “same page” as the prime minister.“We are also on the same page with PM, want lockdown extended till April 30,” she said, according to PTI.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, who heads the state with the most number of coronavirus cases in the country, said he had informed PM Modi that his state will extend the lockdown till April 30.Puducherry CM Narayanasamy said that while PM Modi agreed with the majority view to extend the lockdown, he also spoke of a graded resumption in commercial activity in some sectors of the economy.“PM felt farm activity should continue and said guidelines would be issued by Centre on the construction industry in a graded manner,” Narayanasamy said.Click here for live and latest updates on CoronavirusChhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel suggested that the restriction on the interstate road, rail and air travel should continue. However, he sought resumption of economic activity within the borders of the state.Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy is reported to be one among the very few heads of states to have demanded that the lockdown be confined only to the ‘red zones’ that have reported a large number of Covid-19 positive cases.“While I support the steps being taken by the Centre to contain the Covid-19 situation, I also feel that the wheel of the economy should continue to run, if not with full speed, but to the extent of providing basic necessities to people,” Jagan said.Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao was not in favour of any relaxations and sought an extension to the nationwide lockdown for two more weeks.For all latest stories on coronavirus“The lockdown has helped contain the spread of the virus to a large extent and there is no other way but to extend it for another two weeks to flatten the curve,” KCR said.Similarly, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh asked the PM to extend the national lockdown. Punjab has already decided to extend the restrictions for another fortnight.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-lockdown-extension-here-s-what-chief-ministers-advised-pm-modi/story-KJmvuFSIk63yJKhRotxRnL.html
11-04-2020||India||Delhi-based doctor appeals to Supreme Court, urges it to tweak order on free Covid-19 tests||Burdening private laboratories to offer free Covid-19 tests will disincentivise their continued functioning posing a grave risk to people’s health, a plea filed before the Supreme Court on Friday stated seeking modification of the apex court’s April 8 order directing private laboratories to offer free coronavirus tests.The plea by a Delhi based doctor, Kaushal Kant Mishra submitted that only economically weaker sections of the society should be allowed to test for coronavirus free-of-cost in private laboratories and the government should reimburse the labs immediately after such a test is conducted.“If the Government does not provide immediate reimbursement to the private laboratories, there is a real risk that the laboratories may stop testing for Covid-19, thus posing a direct and inevitable risk to the health of people across India through unknown transmission and contraction of the disease,” the application filed by Dr. Mishra said.Besides seeking modification of the April 8 order, Dr. Mishra also sought establishment of pathogen laboratories in local municipal and panchayat areas so that free testing by the government can be increased.The Supreme Court had on Wednesday made tests for Covid-19 in private laboratories free, and asked the government to pass the necessary orders so as to make this possible. The tests are already free in government laboratories.According to a March 17 advisory issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research, private laboratories were allowed to charge upto Rs. 4,500 to test for Covid-19.Advocate Shashank Deo Sudhi had moved the Supreme Court seeking free testing for Covid-19. He had pointed out that government hospitals are packed to capacity making it difficult for the common man to get himself/herself tested in the government labs.With no alternative in sight, they are forced to pay money to get the tests done at private labs, Sudhi said, adding that saddling ordinary citizens with such financial burden effectively deprives them of their accessibility to medical facilities and is violative of right to life guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution.“We find prima facie substance in the submission of petitioner that at this time of national calamity permitting private labs to charge Rs.4500 for screening and confirmation test of Covid-19may not be within means of a large part of population of this country and no person should be deprived from undergoing the Covid-19 test due to nonpayment of capped amount of Rs.4500,” the court had ordered on Wednesday.The apex court, during the hearing that day, also asked the government to explore a way to reimburse private laboratories, although it did not pass any order to this effect.Dr. Mishra, who is a senior Orthopedic surgeon, formerly at AIIMS, and presently at the super-specialty Primus Hospital, in Chanakyapuri submitted that several citizens have now been admitted and confined to hospitals and other facilities as Covid-19 suspects, but their test results remain pending for long periods, putting a strain on the system.“Even the present capacity of the labs, both government and private appear to be woefully insufficient to obtain accurate data and control the pandemic”It was his plea that in such a scenario, casting the additional burden of offering tests for free could lead to private labs stopping their functioning altogether.“..at a time when testing across the country has to be ramped up and the nation enters the most critical phase, the private labs have been burdened with offering free testing, ignoring the fact that the few pathogen labs which are well equipped at the time of the disaster would be actually disincentivized to continue to function,” the plea said.Few of the private laboratories, he submitted, have reservations about going ahead with testing unless it is clear about where the funding for the same would come from.“There does not appear to be a clear commitment from the governments, either Central or State to take on any extent of the burden…Mumbai based Thyrocare has already said that it is putting its Covid-19 testing on hold until there is further clarity on the finances,” Dr. Mishra submitted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-based-doctor-appeals-to-supreme-court-urges-it-to-tweak-order-on-free-covid-19-tests/story-qfbmjCdejKn7djEKYT5MNL.html
11-04-2020||India||In one line, PM Modi hints at his stand on conditional lockdown extension||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday tweaked the government’s approach to the 21-day lockdown ordered last month to stop the spread of the highly contagious coronavirus disease. The prime minister, who interacted with chief ministers, stressed that the new challenge was not only to save lives, but livelihoods also.PM Modi underlined that the motto of the government earlier was ‘jaan hai to jahaan hai’ [when you have life, you have the world].“Now it is ‘jaan bhi jahaan bhi’ [save life, and livelihood],” he said, signalling a shift in the Centre’s approach. PM Modi didn’t elaborate. An official in the Prime Minister’s Office later said he would finalise the country’s strategy closer to April 14 after some more deliberations.Incidentally, chief ministers of several opposition-ruled states such as Punjab and Maharashtra have gone ahead to extend the lockdown. In contrast, NDA chief ministers have left the decision to PM Modi who is expected to take a more nuanced approach.“The extension of lockdown this time will be conditional so that the economy also gets kickstarted in crucial areas,” said another PMO official.Also watch | PM Modi interacts with chief ministers of states: Key takeaways India was one of the few countries in the world to have imposed a national lockdown long before the disease started spreading in the country. A study by the University of Oxford’s Blavatnik School of Government says India was quicker than almost every other country in imposing a lockdown on March 25.Also read | Considering request, says Centre on CMs’ pitch to extend Covid-19 lockdownThis approach, the Health Ministry said after the prime minister’s video conference, had helped control the spread of the disease. The government pointed to estimates that had projected 8.2 lakh Covid-19 cases in the country by April 15 if the government had not implemented the containment or nationwide lockdown. The cases were projected to drop to 1.2 lakh cases if India only took containment measures but did not enforce the lockdown.Since the government has acted, India only has 7,447 cases on April 11, the health ministry said. Having seen the efficacy of the lockdown to stop the spread of the disease that has killed more than 100,000 people across the world, most chief ministers advocated extending the lockdown by another two weeks.At Saturday’s meeting, PM Modi, according to an official statement, “emphasised the criticality of coming 3-4 weeks” to determine the impact of the steps taken till now to contain the virus.But Prime Minister Narendra Modi is deeply conscious of the impact that the lockdown is having on the poor, and the economy in the long run, a senior government official familiar with the developments told Hindustan Times.At this stage, there is a view in the government that a blanket extension of the lockdown by another two weeks would be the easier thing to do. The more difficult would be getting the country, economy and the lives of people back on track without compromising lives.This is the blueprint that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been working on.The broad principle that has been underlined at many of the meetings being held to firm up the lockdown strategy is to recognise that there are many parts of the country that do not have a single case of coronavirus, or even a suspected case. The lockdown could be eased in such areas. “You need to recognise the fact that nearly half of all the Covid-19 cases in the country are reported from just three states: Maharashtra, Delhi and Tamil Nadu,” a government official said.Besides, when PM Modi takes the call on the national lockdown, the official said, he will account for the fact that the harvesting season begins from April 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-one-line-pm-modi-hints-his-stand-on-conditional-lockdown-extension/story-GI9GSuJQQYO1miVdNwBYKI.html
11-04-2020||India||India sends rapid response team to Kuwait to fight Covid-19||India on Saturday despatched a medical rapid response team to Kuwait to boost the West Asian country’s fight against the Covid-19 pandemic by helping in the testing and treatment of infected people.The Indian government has created several rapid response teams following the Covid-19 outbreak and it recently offered to send them to friendly countries to help in efforts to prevent and control the spread of the Coronavirus. The 15-member Indian team was sent at the request of the Kuwait government.The team of Indian doctors and healthcare professionals will “supplement the efforts of the government of…Kuwait in the collective fight against global Covid-19 pandemic”, the external affairs ministry said in a statement.The team, which was flown to Kuwait in an Indian Air Force aircraft, is expected to stay there for two weeks, during which it will “render medical assistance in testing and treatment of the afflicted persons and training [Kuwaiti] personnel”, the statement said.“India’s RAPID RESPONSE TEAM arrives in Kuwait. Follow up to the discussion between our two Prime Ministers on #COVID19. Underlines the special friendship between India and Kuwait,” external affairs minister S Jaishankar tweeted.“India is reaching out to Kuwait in the extended neighbourhood to further complement its efforts to fight the menace effectively,” the statement said.India earlier sent a similar team to the Maldives and has plans to send another to Nepal.The deputation of the Indian experts followed the phone call between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Kuwaiti counterpart Sheikh Sabah al-Khaled al-Hamad al-Sabah on April 1, when the leaders agreed on concerted and coordinated efforts against the pandemic.Jaishankar and his Kuwaiti counterpart also had a telephone conversation to discuss the situation in Kuwait and to explore ways to strengthen cooperation during these challenging times, the ministry said.India and Kuwait have a strong partnership based on historical, cultural, economic and people-to-people-contacts. Indians constitute the largest group of expatriates in Kuwait, with an estimated population of about 1 million and their annual remittances are estimated at $4.8 billion. India has also been among Kuwait’s top 10 trading partners, with bilateral trade worth $6.2 billion during 2015-16 despite a drop in the value of India’s imports due to the fall in oil prices and a cut in the volume of oil imports from Kuwait.During his conversation with Modi, the Kuwaiti prime minister said his country greatly values the contributions of the Indian community and will continue to ensure their safety and welfare in the current situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-sends-rapid-response-team-to-kuwait-to-fight-covid-19/story-umTw0fYhrqnsAdo7kBJfFK.html
11-04-2020||India||Third ash-pond disaster in Singrauli in one year||The ash dyke breach on Friday at Sasan Ultra Mega Power Plant in Madhya Pradesh’s (MP) Singrauli is the third ash pond disaster in a year in the district, which is a “severely polluted” area as per the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) assessment. The CPCB has asked Madhya Pradesh Pollution Control Board (MPPCB) to investigate the incident that allegedly damaged large tracts of agricultural land and killed two villagers. Four other villagers are still missing.The CPCB is yet to release its 2018 assessment of critically polluted industrial clusters and act on them.“We’ve asked the MPPCB authorities to investigate the case. There was an ash dyke leakage and low-lying areas were flooded with slurry. The investigation can conclusively prove whether was any negligence that caused the incident,” said Prashant Gargava, member secretary, CPCB.Reliance Power, which runs the plant, said in a statement on Friday evening: “We are deeply anguished by the incident involving the break in the ash dump yard wall at our Sasan power plant. The break-in ash dump yard wall pushed the water leading to break … we are closely working with locals and district administration in relief and restoration work.”Last August there was a fly ash pond breach at Essar’s Mahan Power Plant in Singrauli district, leading to damage of crops of about 500 farmers in three villages. On August 8, 2019, Essar had said that the ash dyke was breached by an act of sabotage and the land that was damaged was non-agricultural. Last October, a fly ash pond of the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) had breached, damaging 30 acres of land and several cattle were also found missing. “Assessments were made of earlier incidents as well. We’re checking if compensation was paid for the losses incurred by the villagers,” Gargava said.“This time the extent of the damage is massive. The ash pond broke around 5:30 pm on Friday and the slurry entered around 40 houses. Those (four) missing may have died. The mud wall around the pond was weak and gave way. Prime facie it appears that negligence caused the incident. People are already suffering because of loss of livelihoods amid the ongoing 21-day nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. Who will compensate for the huge loss of farmland?” asked Jagat Narayan Vishwakarma, an environmental activist from Vanavasi Seva Ashram in Singrauli.These successive incidents ring a warning bell for Singrauli, said experts. “Singrauli as a region has nearly 23 GW (gigawatts) installed coal-based capacity, which is more than 11% of the total installed capacity in the country. This dirty energy source has become a curse for the people living in the region. The air they breathe is polluted, the water they drink is contaminated and their traditional livelihood, which was heavily depended on forests, has been destroyed by rampant coal mining,” said Sunil Dahiya, an analyst at Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air (CREA).“The ash dyke breach should not be considered as a one-off accident or a minor incident of non-compliance. Singrauli, like many other areas in the country, is a critically polluted area, with acute land, air and water contamination. Several regulatory agencies and court-based monitoring mechanism are in place to ensure exiting illegalities are acted upon and impacts redressed. This breach has taken place, despite the mechanisms,” said Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher, Centre for Policy Research.Earlier, the CPCB had submitted a list of 100 critically and severely polluted industrial clusters, which were monitored in 2018, in Singrauli, which straddles both MP and neighbouring Uttar Pradesh, to the National Green Tribunal (NGT). Later, the tribunal referred to the list on July 10, 2019. The NGT in its order had directed that “the CPCB in coordination with state pollution control boards to take steps in the exercise of its statutory powers under air Act, water Act and environment protection Act or any other law to prohibit the operation of polluting activities in critically and severely polluted clusters within three months.”But neither the CBCB nor the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC) made the list public.The findings of the assessment are being considered by the ministry and are likely to be released soon, said Gargava. The assessment of industrial clusters is based on the CPCB’s comprehensive environmental pollution index (CEPI), a framework for identifying critically and severely polluted industrial clusters in the country. The score is calculated based on the scale of industrial activity and scale of compliance of environmental standards such as air, water and soil pollution.Singrauli has a score of 62.59 as per the latest assessment. Tarapur in Maharashtra, Najafgarh drain, Anand Parbat and Okhla in Delhi and Mathura in Uttar Pradesh are the three most critically polluted clusters in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/third-ash-pond-disaster-in-singrauli-in-one-year/story-w9mksJAao8DcsTrkJijUbN.html
11-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Slum dwellers at risk, experts suggest enhanced monitoring||Cases of slum dwellers in two urban centres in Maharashtra and West Bengal testing positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) have raised concerns s about the vulnerability of the inhabitants of these areas, short on space and basic amenities.Of the 116 fresh Covid-19 cases reported from Mumbai on Tuesday, two were from Dharavi, one of the world’s most densely populated slums. In Kolkata, too, two pavement dwellers were detected positive for Covid-19.While authorities are tracing their travel and contact history, experts suggest there is a need to revisit how social distancing is being imposed in these slum clusters during the ongoing lockdown, which may be extended well beyond April 14.Amitabh Kundu, distinguished fellow at the New Delhi-based think tank, Research and Information System for Developing Countries, said the lockdown has been largely successful in urban areas, among the middle and the upper classes because of a lot of social vigilantism, but the same cannot be said for those living in slum clusters or in areas inhabited by lower income groups.“Residents’ welfare associations are taking extra care; there is limited entry of people, quarantine notices were put up on houses with members having travel history and effective monitoring is being done, often at the irritation and violation of privacy of the affected households. But we are really worried that the hot spots should not extend to the rural areas, low income areas and slums in towns and cities,” he said.The union health ministry on Tuesday cited an Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) study that claims a Covid-19 patient can infect 406 people in 30 days if preventive measures such as lockdown and social distancing are not implemented.But is social distancing conceivable in slum dwellings where an average family has four to five people living in a single room?Kundu said the concept of social distancing is difficult in lower income groups because of the lockdown, since most of them spend more time in confined spaces.“As per Census 2011, about 25% of the people living in urban slums still have to go out for toilet and drinking water; for them the lockdown means standing in long queues (where social distancing is not possible). About 45% of these people are workers mostly employed in informal sector. They are not allowed to go out unless they are part of the essential services,” he said. Lack of amenities, such as potable water and toilet facilities, also forces these people to break the social distancing protocol.“The sense of hygiene maintenance in India is already compromised. For people in slums, access to space, safe water and privacy is a daily struggle that has been heightened by the lockdown, so the immediate steps that can be taken now are focusing on the most susceptible in this group, those above 60,” said Manoj Misra, head of Yamuna Jiye Abhiyaan, a non government organisation that works for the revival of the Yamuna.Another aspect that threatens to weaken the social distancing protocol has been the movement of migrant workers, most of whom live in slums.While the union government has asked all states to ensure that manufacture, production, transportation and other related activities in the chain of supply of food, medicine and medical equipment are maintained, and instructed industries not to cut jobs or withhold wages, many slum dwellers have moved back or are wanting to head back to their own villages.“Based on the data of the 2011 Census and two rounds of NSS data, one would estimate the total number of interstate migrants as 67 million of which 20 million are workers. As per estimates of this, 6 to 7 million are those who are employed in the casual sector and face the threat of losing their jobs; another 6 to 7 million are what are classified known as a ‘regular” workers by NSS but they’re in the informal sector. So in all, about 12 million are likely to face job cuts. Then, there are the ‘self employed’ small vendors -about 8 million of them; half of them are interstate migrants and many of them would want to go back to their homes,” said Kundu.He said while the government works out the details of whether to extend the lockdown, it should consider certain relaxation for travel and work for these migrant workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-slum-dwellers-at-risk-experts-suggest-enhanced-monitoring/story-mQuodw7igpLwtsG6nHxVjN.html
11-04-2020||India||I swear, I won’t||Sonakshi SinhaThis lockdown should be a huge wakeup call to every human being on this planet. Environmental issues such as climate change have happened because of us. There are certain changes that we can make in our lifestyle when it comes to saving water and power and not using private vehicles and take care of the entertainment. We need to think about these things and keep them in our minds once the lockdown is over and we start going out again.Sanya MalhotraHuman beings can quickly adapt to any change. I’m positive that once we’re up and about, we’re going to lead life differently. I’m sure that we will ensure that the pollution levels don’t rise again, be mindful of the food we’re eating and ensure sustainable use of our resources. I’ll keep it in my mind about how the world around me changed for good when we were inside our houses.Sobhita DhulipalaIn the initial days of the lockdown, I was scared that my life was over and I was frantically thinking about how we’ll accommodate the days later on. But I reminded myself that I shouldn’t let my work consume me so much. Who’re we if work is taken away from us? I’m very much obsessed with productivity. I don’t like the feeling of just whiling my time away. I go to the other extreme where I become a workaholic even if I’ve a free slot, I’ll make myself busy. I will change that part of my life and be good to myself henceforth.Aparshakti KhuranaI don’t think I have ever taken work or relations or any aspect of my blessed life for granted. If there’s something that I didn’t pay much attention to, but now am taking into account, would be the need to warm up pre-workout and cool down post. This is the only time I’ve been able to do that and now I can actually see the positive effects it has. So once the lockdown is over, I am not going to take warming up and cooling down for granted, having said that, very few people will be able to feel one with this thought.Jacqueline FernandezDuring this period of lockdown, I have realised that you should never take your near and dear ones for granted. My family is scattered across different parts of the world, and I so wish to be with them right now but unfortunately, can’t. I think we should make the most out of the moments we have with our family so that we have memories to cherish when we can’t be together.Pankaj TripathiThrough this lockdown I have realised that we used to take nature for granted. I don’t know how many people are aware of this, but in cities like Mumbai, we have seen a 80% drop in pollution levels. I have noticed that we can see the stars more clearly in the night sky. After this lockdown, I will make sure I don’t take nature for granted any more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/i-swear-i-won-t/story-8zGAIRoscOVVkE9d4ve8mL.html
11-04-2020||India||No address to the nation by PM Modi today, says govt official||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will not address the nation on Saturday, a government official said. There had been speculation that the PM could address the nation following his video conference with chief ministers where many of them suggested that the lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus be extended by two weeks.In March, Modi had addressed the nation twice. The first time was on March 19 when he called for a “janta curfew” for March 22. The second was on March 24 when he announced the 21-day lockdown that was to end on April 14.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.The end of the lockdown now seems unlikely with most chief ministers batting for an extension. PM Modi has agreed that continuing the lockdown is a must.He emphasized the criticality of coming 3-4 weeks for determining the impact of the steps taken till now to contain the virus, adding that teamwork is the key to facing the challenge, the PMO said in a statement.Watch| PM Modi interacts with Chief Ministers of states: Key takeaways On Friday, Punjab and Odisha had already extended the lockdown till April 30. At Saturday’s video conference, chief ministers of Punjab and Delhi were among those who strongly pitched for extending the lockdown.After the video conference, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced that the state will remain in lockdown till April 30. Maharashtra has recorded the highest number of coronavirus positive cases.More than 7,500 people have been affected by coronavirus in the country so far while 242 have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-address-to-the-nation-by-pm-modi-today-says-govt-official/story-G6cNKpHqm93XqihfbLBedK.html
11-04-2020||India||Andhra wants lockdown restricted to red zones; KCR demands 2-week extension||Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Saturday suggested to the Centre to lift the lockdown and confine it only to the red zones which have reported a larger number of Covid-19 positive cases.On the other hand, Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao pitched for extension of the nationwide lockdown for two more weeks to ensure that the Covid-19 situation remains under control.Both Jagan and KCR expressed their divergent views during the video conference held by Prime Minister Narendra Modi with all the chief ministers of the state.Jagan said the continuance of the lockdown would have serious long-term impact on the state economy and the lives of common people. “While I support the steps being taken by the Centre to contain the Covid-19 situation, I also feel that the wheel of economy should continue to run, if not with full speed, but to the extent of providing basic necessities to people,” he said.Several crucial sectors like agriculture, aquaculture and industries will suffer heavily resulting in large scale unemployment. Out of 1,03,986 industrial units in the state, only 7,250 units are running and the distribution network has been badly hit due to complete halting of rail and road transport systems.“Millions of workers will not get salaries due to lack of industrial operations and the revenues of the state will see a steep fall, as a result of which it cannot implement any development and welfare schemes,” the Andhra chief minister said.Jagan pointed out that out of 676 mandals (revenue blocks) in the state, 37 mandals are in red zone, another 44 in orange zone and the remaining 595 mandals are in green zone. “I suggest that the lockdown should be confined only to the red zone mandals,” he said.He also pointed out that places of mass gatherings like malls, cinema halls, and places of worship, public transport and educational institutions could continue to be in lockdown. “In other places, steps should be taken to ensure that people maintain social distance,” he said.The Telangana chief minister said at a time when the entire country was together fighting against the Sars-Cov2 virus, there should be no let-up in the spirit. “The lockdown has helped contain the spread of the virus to a large extent and there is no other way but to extend it for another two weeks to flatten the curve,” he said.KCR, however, appealed to the Prime Minister to see that food processing industries run without any hurdles and to ensure that farmers did not face losses and the supply chain of essential commodities would continue. “Steps should be taken to run rice mills, oil mills and other agro-based industries,” he said.He also called for linking agriculture with the National Rural Employment Guarantee Programme for at least two months to provide wages to agriculture labourers, so that it would reduce the wage burden on the farmers.He also suggested distribution of three-month quota of food grains to ration card holders at a time, so that it would free the warehouses to accommodate new arrival of food grains from the markets.The Telangana chief minister also recommended release of more funds to the states to the extent of five per cent of the GSDP by adopting “quantitative easing” method so that the states could get out of the financial crisis.He appealed to the Centre to take initiatives in extending a moratorium on loan repayments by the states for a period of at least six weeks and increase the borrowing limit of the states by raising the cap of FRBM (Fiscal Responsibility and Budgetary Management) limit from three per cent to five per cent of the GSDP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-wants-lockdown-restricted-to-red-zones-kcr-demands-2-week-extension/story-EOk2xCmZNnFh3T1DBLII1I.html
11-04-2020||India||No betting, kids||As children are confined to their homes due to the corona virus pandemic,they are discovering ways to spend time with friends so that they fill the long hours of the day. Classic board games with classics like Ludo, Uno and Monopoly, among others are back from the brink to beat lock down boredom but with a twist. Online versions of the game had already made it popular among millennials. But one of the things that it has led to is illegal betting which has become a cause of concern for many parents. Rohit Gupta, a 37-year-old software expert reveals that the found out that his eight-year-old son Parth was playing ludo and placing bets via paytm, “My son casually asked me to transfer his pocket money to Paytm like every month. I decided to give him only Rs one thousand as he didn’t have school or any activities to attend. In just two days, I saw that Rs 300 had already gone and I realised that he was playing online games with actual money. I couldn’t believe these kids have taken up on betting. I have taken the remaining money back.”Punit Shah a businessman from suburban Mumbai discovered that his 13 year old son Aarav was playing Monoploy with real money, “He came to me and asked for Rs 500 which he said he owed to his friend who stays in the same building. At first he told me that he had borrowed money but later he revealed the real reason and said he lost while playing the game. I asked him to immediately uninstall all the games from his phone.”On the other hand, Aarav feels that it’s just for fun and are also collecting money for donations, “We just place friendly bets. We keep aside some money from each game that we play. My friends and I have collectively decided that at the end of 21-days we will donate the entire amount. Aarav’s friend Palash Mehta argues that they are anyway saving money by not going out, “How does it matter if we spend a few bucks? We aren’t going to any coffee shops or restaurants. We are doing it just for fun.”Child psychologist Vijay Kamath feels that this behaviour could also led to bullying, “If any child loses, and isn’t a position to pay money, it can have an adverse effect. Also, I believe most children pick up these habits from their parents and we have seen how Diwali card parties have become a common trend in today’s time. Monitoring what the child plays or watches is also very important.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/no-betting-kids/story-A5qTtT7GivSIYiLdG06lkI.html
11-04-2020||India||Without containment and lockdown, Covid-19 may have spiraled to 8.2 lakh cases by now: Govt||The government on Saturday said that the country’s response to coronavirus pandemic has been pre-emptive and proactive to the extent of being over-prepared which has helped in preventing a ballooning in number of positive cases, which could have even reached a figure of 8.2 lakh by April 15 in the worst-case scenario.The health ministry presented two different hypothetical scenarios of the growth of coronavirus in India if steps were not taken to contain it.According to the first scenario, if India had not implemented either containment or nationwide lockdown, allowing for a 41% growth rate of Covid-19, then the positive cases could have spiraled to 8.2 lakh as on today.“A statistical analysis of rate of growth suggests that if there was no lockdown or containment measure then the cases growing at 41 per cent rate could have resulted in 8.2 lakh cases by Apr 15,” said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, health ministry.The second scenario measures the efficacy of containment measures alone, without taking into account the additional benefit accrued from the implementation of the three-week-long national lockdown, to say that a total of 1.2 lakh positive cases could have been reported by April 15 if the peak growth rate of the disease (28.9%) seen before the implementation of lockdown had sustained.“Before lockdown, the highest rate of growth of cases was at around 28.9 % and at that rate perhaps the numbers could have risen to 1.2 lakh cases by April 15, and if we compare it to the situation after the implementation of lockdown and containment measures after March 25 then we have seen a significant reduction in the number of cases,” Agarwal added.The third scenario is the current situation which is not hypothetical projection but the reality of 7447 positive cases in India on April 15. The health ministry official said this reduced figure (compared to the other two scenarios) has been made possible only due to the twin impact of containment measures and the nationwide lockdown. Click here for live and latest updates on CoronavirusThe ministry clarified that the first two scenarios are based purely on a statistical analysis involving the rate of growth of coronavirus cases. The data is then projected using variables to arrive at the possible number of positive cases in two different situations. It is implicit that several other variables that have an impact on the spread of the contagion have not been considered for this analysis. The purpose of this exercise is to underline the importance of containment measures and the nationwide lockdown in keeping the number of infections in India from growing exponentially, like seen in Europe and the US. The discussion on the analysis came on a day when prime minister is expected to decide if the lockdown period has to be extended beyond April 14. Most chief ministers have suggested an extension of the lockdown. The prime minister is said to be considering their suggestions. For all latest stories on coronavirus||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/without-containment-and-lockdown-covid-19-may-have-spiraled-to-8-2-lakh-cases-by-now-govt/story-M0Vc8WWZwdU3S38wcABUOK.html
11-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Maharashtra lockdown till April 30, CM warns may extend it further||The Maharashtra government on Saturday decided to extend the Covid-19 lockdown till April 30 with chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray underlining that it may be further extended if people do not cooperate.The chief minister said it looks like the situation is in control, but one will have to be cautious.Follow latest updates on coronavirus hereMaharashtra becomes the third state to extend the lockdown period after Odisha and Punjab.“The lockdown may continue even after April 30 if people don’t cooperate in preventing the outbreak,” said CM Uddhav Thackeray while addressing people via video call. Thackeray also said that while making the implementation stricter in the second phase, some of the sectors will be excluded and the government is working on it. The CM further said that 60 to 70 per cent positive patients in Mumbai have mild symptoms.Maharastra is the worst-hit state by coronavirus, with 110 dead and 1,574 casesEarlier in the day, several chief ministers impressed upon Prime Minister Modi to extend the national lockdown, which ends on April 14, to contain the highly contagious coronavirus disease.The PM not spell out his decision on the lockdown at the meeting. An official spokesperson confirmed that most states had requested the Centre to extend the national lockdown.“The Central Government is considering this request,” KS Dhatwalia, the government’s principal spokesperson KS Dhatiwala, said.Thackeray said that the issue of the extension of the lockdown was discussed in the review meeting with the PM. “I was asked to speak first about the Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra and ongoing lockdown. I informed the PM that Maharashtra is going to extend the lockdown by two weeks. The second phase of the lockdown will need to be strictly followed with more restrictions on the movement of the people. But there is not other way out to fight the war against the pandemic,” he said.Mumbai breached the 100-patient mark on March 31, almost three weeks after a couple from Andheri were identified as the first to be infected by the disease in the city. On April 2, the city’s tally crossed 200 and since then cases have tripled in the past week. The first Covid-19 death in Mumbai was recorded on March 17, when a 64-year-old man succumbed to the infection at Kasturba Hospital.Health officials in the state, which has been the worst hit in the country, have said the number of Covid-19 cases has recorded a 147.8% jump since April 4 – a week – when there were 635 infections.More than 500 cases of coronavirus disease were reported in India in the last 12 hours, bringing the number of Covid-19 patients to 7447 on Saturday, the Union home ministry data showed.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-extends-covid-19-lockdown-till-april-30-3rd-state-to-do-so/story-eoi5kMzcIapCg9R5pS8oKO.html
11-04-2020||India||I offered my hotel to health care staff so that they could rest: Sonu Sood||Sonu Sood believes that this is the when everyone should come together and help doctors, nurses and paramedical staffs who’re exposing themselves to COVID-19 on a daily basis. And so, the actor has offered his hotel in Juhu, Mumbai for healthcare workers where they can stay. “They’re the real healers. They are staying away from their families and are risking their lives. They’ll continuously be exposed to the danger until we finally get rid of this virus. They don’t have any place to rest in the hospitals,” he says.The Happy New Year (2014) actor feels that it was important to extend a helping hand to those who’re working on the field round the clock. He says, “I offered my hotel to them so that they could rest, save their travel time and spend more time serving the society. Breakfast and dinner will also be provided to them. The idea is to make them feel comfortable.”Stressing on how doctors and nurses are being ill-treated by the society who fear contracting the virus from them, he elaborates, “It’s really unfortunate that people don’t respect the kind of sacrifice that they’re making. It’s time to recognise the hard work that they put in. They, along with their families, should be provided with the best of the facilities. Doctors and other healthcare staffs are the only walls that exist between us and the virus. The only way to help them is by being kind.”Sood feels that the health crisis should call for a better healthcare infrastructure so that the infected is given the best possible care. “It’s time to build more hospitals than temples. We need to get a good healthcare system for the country and I hope that our efforts towards that continue even after the COVID-19 situation,” he signs off.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/i-offered-my-hotel-to-health-care-staff-so-that-they-could-rest-sonu-sood/story-60pt8CC0LB5GT04zxGudCI.html
11-04-2020||India||Doctor seeks change in SC order on free Covid-19 tests in private labs, cites ‘financial overburden’||An orthopedic surgeon moved the Supreme Court on Saturday, seeking a modification of the courts April 8 order directing authorities to ensure Covid-19 tests in approved government and private laboratories be conducted free of cost.Kaushal Kant Mishra has filed an intervention application in a pending PIL, saying if the testing is made free for all, private labs will be overburdened financially and slow down.Follow latest updates on coronavirus hereMishra urged the court to allow private labs to do Covid-19 testing “as per the rates stipulated in the ICMR Advisory dated March 17”. He, however, said the labs can do the testing for the EWS categories with immediate reimbursement by the government.The senior surgeon has also sought a direction to the authorities to “forthwith set up testing labs in all municipalities and panchayat areas”.Issuing the no-charge order, the Supreme Court had observed that private labs need to be philanthropic during a national crisis. Prior to this, the government allowed some private labs to charge Rs 4,500 for screening and confirmation tests for Covid-19. Mishra’s plea said the apex court’s order has “disincentivised” the labs to continue to function “at a time when testing across the country has to be ramped up”.“In the UK, private labs are charging as much as $425 per test, which is equal to Rs.32,500,” the pleas aid.It said forcing private entities shall create a sharp dip in an “already below par testing rate for Covid-19” and if the government does not provide immediate reimbursement, there is a real risk that the private labs may stop testing for Covid-19.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage “The message that has been sent out by the WHO Chief as early as the middle of March is to ‘test, test, test’... All countries should be able to test all suspected cases, they cannot fight this pandemicblindfolded,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doctor-seeks-change-in-sc-order-on-free-covid-19-tests-in-private-labs-cites-financial-overburden/story-WEcEnk5jdsYcpdHa7exY4K.html
11-04-2020||India||Trump threatens visa sanctions on countries who refuse to accept repatriation of nationals||US President Donald Trump has threatened to impose visa sanctions on countries that refuse to accept their citizens sought to be repatriated by American authorities during the Covid-19 crisis.A memorandum issued by Trump to the secretary of state and secretary of homeland security on Friday states: “Countries that deny or unreasonably delay the acceptance of their citizens, subjects, nationals, or residents from the United States during the ongoing pandemic caused by SARS-CoV-2 create unacceptable public health risks for Americans.”The memorandum indicates the move is aimed at “the repatriation of foreign nationals who violate the laws of the United States”.Trump directed the secretary of homeland security to notify the secretary of state if any country “denies or unreasonably delays the acceptance of aliens who are citizens, subjects, nationals, or residents of that country after being asked to accept those aliens, and if such denial or delay is impeding operations” of the homeland security department in response to the pandemic.The secretary of state will then adopt a plan to impose visa sanctions under the provisions of the Immigration and Nationality Act within seven days. The secretary of state is allowed to exceptions consistent with US foreign policy interests, the memorandum states.The visa sanctions will no longer be applicable if the secretary of homeland security declares that the foreign country has “resumed accepting aliens without unreasonable delay”.The memorandum will be valid till December 31, unless it is extended.The memorandum emphasised the need for cooperation between the State Department and the department of homeland security in view of the “profound and unique public health risks posed by the novel (new) coronavirus”.The move comes at a time when the Indian government has asked the US to extend the validity of visas, including H-1B and other types of visas, held by Indian nationals who have been hit by the Covid-19-related economic slump.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trump-threatens-visa-sanctions-on-countries-who-refuse-to-accept-repatriation-of-nationals/story-cPgislpFUxPN8MpSNOyNYK.html
11-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Afghanistan rejects Pak’s demand to hand over ISKP leader Aslam Farooqi & all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion curated for you. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Afghanistan rejects Pakistan’s demand to hand over ISKP leader Aslam FarooqiThe Afghanistan government has rejected Pakistan’s demand for handing over Islamic State of Khorsan Province (ISKP) leader Aslam Farooqi, saying he will be tried under Afghan laws for crimes committed in the country. Read moreAt meeting with PM, Chhattisgarh’s Bhupesh Baghel calls for continuing ban on road, rail, airChhattisgarh’s chief minister Bhupesh Baghel on Saturday suggested extending the restrictions on inter-state road, air and railway traffic to curb the spread of Covid-19 and said states should be allowed to carry out economic activities during the lockdown period. Read more BMC continues screening drive in Dharavi, 5 test Covid-19 positive in DadarThe Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Saturday resumed a screening drive in Mumbai’s Dharavi area where four people have died of coronavirus so far. Read more BJP leader in Panvel was having a birthday bash before police crashed inAt a time when the political leadership is busy making fervent appeals to people to follow the lockdown norms to maintain social distancing, considered a key tool to contain the spread of coronavirus disease, a BJP corporator from Panvel was booked by the police for openly flouting the lockdown norms by throwing a birthday bash at his bungalow. Read more Covid-19 deaths in Iran mount to 4,357Health ministry spokesman Kianoush Jahanpour told a news conference that 1,837 new infections had been confirmed in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 70,029. Read moreDon’t push ‘once in a generation’ MS Dhoni into retirement: Former England captainFormer India captain MS Dhoni has been away from cricket since the culmination of World Cup last year. The right-handed batsman was expected to feature for Chennai Super Kings in the 13th edition of Indian Premier League. Read moreCBSE releases updated FAQs about class 10 and 12 board exams 2020 at cbse.nic.inThe Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Friday released updated Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) regarding the Class 10 and 12 board exams 2020. Read more Frida Kahlo: The surrealist artist and feminist who owned her adverse life storyA coil of dark braids, usually decorated with a flower crown, a vibrant dress and her signature unibrow, were some of the distinct features that set one of the 20th century’s most celebrated female artists, Frida Kahlo, apart from everyone else. Read more Donald Trump wishes people ‘Happy Good Friday’, gets mocked on TwitterUS President Donald Trump has invited Twitter’s ire after posting a tweet wishing people “Happy Good Friday”. In a tweet shared last evening, Trump posted the message in all capitals, instantly earning backlash from people. Read moreApple’s iOS gains market share in Q1 2020 but stays behind Google’s Android: ReportThe latest report from Consumer Intelligence Research Partners (CIRP), via 9to5 Mac, is out and as has some good news for Apple. The iPhone maker saw the highest iOS adoption for new activations ever since 2016 in the quarter ending March. Read moreWatch| ‘13,500 PPE kits coming in, need around 2 lakh for Delhi’: Satyendar Jain||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-afghanistan-rejects-pak-s-demand-to-hand-over-iskp-leader-aslam-farooqi-all-the-latest-news/story-knXRTaMO4h4Ibmv32c7evJ.html
11-04-2020||India||Centre tells states to provide security to medics involved in Covid-19 care||The Centre on Saturday asked states union territories to provide security to doctors and other medical staff involved in coronavirus care in hospitals and the quarantine facilities.“Ministry of Home Affairs in a letter today requested states/UTs to provide police security to doctors and other medical staff, as needed, in the hospitals and the quarantine facilities where they are working,” Punya Salila Srivastava, joint secretary in the Union home of ministry at the daily briefing.The home ministry’s letter to states and union territories comes a day after the Federation of Resident Doctors Association (FORDA) wrote to home minister Amit Shah demanding that assaults on doctors be treated as non-bailable offence and asking the Centre brings in a law for the protection of the medical fraternity amid rising incidents of violence at a time when they are in the frontline of the fight against Covid-19.Follow coronavirus live updates here.Complainants of harassment of doctors and nurses, particularly those involved in coronavirus care have been rising. Many medical professionals say they have been harassed by landlords and fellow residents in different parts of the country amid fears that they could transmit coronavirus.Last month, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had warned people against misbehaving with doctors and nurses. A day before that, the Resident Doctors’ Association (RDA) of Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) had written to Shah about discrimination doctors, nurses and other healthcare workers involved in Covid-19 care were facing with landlords asking them to vacate their rented homesThe harassment of doctors and nurses has spiked after the country last month in response to Prime Minister Modi’s call had applauded all those including medical professionals involved in the fight against coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-tells-states-to-provide-security-to-medics-involved-in-covid-19-care/story-a6LJHxGl8BsDzYrv2lhd7L.html
11-04-2020||India||Afghanistan rejects Pakistan’s demand to hand over ISKP leader Aslam Farooqi||The Afghanistan government has rejected Pakistan’s demand for handing over Islamic State of Khorsan Province (ISKP) leader Aslam Farooqi, saying he will be tried under Afghan laws for crimes committed in the country.Pakistan had on Thursday demanded the handing over of Farooqi, a Pakistani national with long-standing ties to the Lashkar-e-Taiba and Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan. Farooqi was captured with 19 other members of ISKP during an operation by Afghan troops on April 5.The Afghan foreign ministry said in a statement in Dari issued on Friday: “Aslam Farooqi is the leader of the ISIS group who has committed many crimes in Afghanistan. He is accused of leading a series of operations that have resulted in the deaths of many civilian Afghans and soldiers. He will be treated according to the laws of Afghanistan.”The statement said another reason for treating Farooqi under Afghan laws is that “there is no agreement between Pakistan and Afghanistan on the extradition of criminals”.“Afghanistan does not discriminate against terrorists [and] unlawful behaviour and is committed to all anti-terrorism commitments,” the statement added.The foreign ministry statement suggested there could be exchanges of information under the Afghanistan-Pakistan Action Plan for Peace and Solidarity (APAPPS), “which will help fight terrorism”.Several of the terrorists captured with Farooqi are Pakistani nationals, Afghanistan’s spy agency or National Directorate of Security (NDS) has said.Farooqi has been linked to the March 25 attack on a Sikh place of worship in Kabul that killed more than 25 people, including an Indian national. Indian security officials have said the ISKP targeted the Sikhs after being unable to attack the heavily fortified Indian mission in Kabul.Pakistan’s Foreign Office had demanded that Farooqi be handed over as he “was involved in anti-Pakistan activities in Afghanistan”.Indian and Afghan security officials have been sceptical about Pakistan’s demand. They said it appeared the Pakistani side was more worried about what Farooqi could divulge about his long-standing links to the Pakistani military establishment during his interrogation.The ISKP has claimed responsibility for a string of deadly attacks on Afghanistan’s minorities such as Hazara Shias and Sikhs. However, it has been put on the backfoot after coordinated operations by Afghan forces in Nangarhar province since November led to the surrender of hundreds of the group’s fighters and sympathisers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afghanistan-rejects-pakistan-s-demand-to-hand-over-iskp-leader-aslam-farooqi/story-GAmWKefrCohEPbocmFPHoO.html
11-04-2020||India||BMC continues screening drive in Dharavi, 5 test Covid-19 positive in Dadar||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Saturday resumed a screening drive in Mumbai’s Dharavi area where four people have died of coronavirus so far.The fourth person to die in Dharavi was an 80-year-old patient of Baliganagar who passed away at the Kasturba hospital on Saturday.Dharavi has reported 28 positive cases of coronavirus cases till now.The BMC is screening around 7.5 lakh population in Dharavi, India’s largest slum cluster. The screening which started on Friday will continue for around two more weeks. Click here for full coronavirus coverage.In the screening exercise, the temperatures of the residents will be recorded and they will be checked for symptoms of coronavirus. On Friday, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said the BMC will use drones to spray disinfectants in Dharavi. Tope also said drones will be used by Mumbai Police for “effective” implementation of the lockdown in densely populated areas Meanwhile, five new cases from Mumbai’s Dadar area were reported on Saturday. Four cases are from one family who were high risk contact of one patient who was earlier tested positive from Dadar. The total number of positive cases in Dadar is now 11.The number of people affected by coronavirus in Maharashtra rose to 1,666 on Saturday after 92 new cases were reported. Mumbai has reported most of the cases with over 1,000 till Friday. Sixty four people have died of Covid-19 in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bmc-continues-screening-drive-in-dharavi-5-test-covid-19-positive-in-dadar/story-q4IaBmgGCKH5eQzfzAAvEL.html
11-04-2020||India||Terrorists escape after gun battle in Kashmir’s Kulgam||Two to three terrorists escaped from the site of a gun battle with security forces in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district, officials said on Saturday.A spokesperson for the police said an operation was launched with the army and central armed police forces at Nandimarg in Kulgam following information about the presence of terrorists in the area. “An exchange of fire took place immediately after the laying of a cordon around the target houses. It seems the militants ran away in the initial firing itself,” the spokesperson said,“One PIKA LMG (light machine gun) and material for making IEDs (improvised explosive devices) was found in the house of one Aslam. Now, a tracker dog is being used for tracking down the escaped militants,” the spokesperson added.The gun battle in Kulgam was the fourth in Kashmir since a 21-day lockdown was clamped across the country on March 25 to prevent the spread of Covid-19.Ten terrorists and five security personnel have been killed in different parts of the region in these gun battles. Two days ago, police said they had killed a 23-year-old Jaish-e-Mohammed commander, who was active since 2018, in Sopore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terrorists-escape-after-gun-battle-in-kashmir-s-kulgam/story-U3QxxbhmV81Yos0Vsp9hPP.html
11-04-2020||India||‘Jaan bhi aur jahan bhi’: PM Modi messages CMs at Covid-19 lockdown meet||Prime Minister Narendra Modi once again stressed the importance of a lockdown and social distancing in the country’s fight against Covid-19 as he spoke with chief ministers on Saturday, saying the measures will save lives.The Prime Minister also put in praise for Indian citizens, who he said have understood the importance of staying home to stay safe from the deadly infection, which has killed thousands and affected millions across the globe.Several chief ministers, including Delhi’s Arvind Kejriwal and Punjab’s Amarinder Singh, urged the Prime Minister to extend the 21-day lockdown till the end of April saying it has helped in containing the deadly coronavirus pandemic.Follow latest updates on coronavirus “Talking about the lockdown, I had said: jaan hai to jahan hai. When I had given a message to the nation, I had initially emphasised that lockdown and social distancing are very important to save the life of every citizen,” he said during his meeting with the CMs.Watch | COVID-19 l PM Modi interacts with Chief Ministers of states: Key takeaways As most of the people in the country, he said, understood their duty and importance of staying indoors, the government has also tried to save the lives of the citizens by following this mantra.“And now for the bright future of India, for a prosperous and healthy India, it’s necessary to pay attention to both the aspects—life as well as the world,” he said during the video conference.Also read: PM has decided to extend lockdown, tweets Kejriwal; Centre says it is being consideredThe Prime Minister also appealed to the CMs to share all information without any hesitation and said he is available 24/7 to talk to them, listen to their suggestions and problems and help the states.Maharashtra’s Uddhav Thackeray, Uttar Pradesh’s Yogi Adityanath and Telangana’s K Chandrasekhar Rao have also suggested extending the lockdown till April 30. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage India reported 40 Covid-19 deaths and 1035 new cases of the coronavirus disease in the last 24 hours, the sharpest increase so far, while the number of infections crossed 7400 on Saturday morning.The Union ministry of health data at 8am showed the country’s number of coronavirus cases jumped to 7447, including 6565 active cases, 643 cured, discharged or migrated people and 239 fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-jaan-hai-toh-jahan-hai-modi-tells-cms-during-meeting-to-decide-on-covid-19-lockdown/story-uoUUG9tT5abXAYFOONX8SI.html
11-04-2020||India||Nearly 10% of Covid-19 patients recover in India, maximum from Maharashtra and Kerala||As many as 7,447 people are infected from coronavirus in India. As per the latest data released by the Ministry of Health on Saturday morning, India has 6,565 active Covid-19 patients and 239 fatalities. Nearly 10% of the total Covid-19 cases in India have recovered or been discharged so far. As per the data, as many 642 patients have been reported to have beaten the deadly contagion in the country which accounts to 8.6% of the total number of coronavirus cases in the country (7,447). Maharashtra has a total of 188 coronavirus recoveries - highest in the country - followed by Kerala with 123 recovered Covid-19 patients. According to the health ministry, Maharashtra has a total of 1,872 coronavirus cases of which 1,574 are active cases, 188 are recoveries and 110 fatalities. With 123 recovered patients, Kerala is the second state with the highest number of Covid-19 recoveries. It has witnessed two coronavirus deaths while the total number of coronavirus cases in the state stands at 489. Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Telangana and Madhya Pradesh are some of the states that continue to grapple with a sharp rise in coronavirus cases. With the highest number of Covid-19 cases and recoveries, Maharashtra also has the highest number of coronavirus-related fatalities in the country. Of the 239 coronavirus deaths in the country, Maharashtra accounts for a whopping 110 deaths followed by Madhya Pradesh which has reported as many as 33 Covid-19 deaths so far as per the latest figures released by the health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nearly-10-covid-19-patients-recover-in-india-maximum-from-maharashtra-and-kerala/story-OTkqZvQ7zQF0dIkFf7VCfK.html
11-04-2020||India||Considering request, says Centre on CMs’ pitch to extend Covid-19 lockdown||Several chief ministers including Delhi’s Arvind Kejriwal urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday to extend the federal lockdown till the end of April as it is helping to contain the deadly corona outbreak. Some chief ministers also demanded financial packages while expressing concern over the impact of the pandemic on the economy.PM Modi did not spell out his decision on the lockdown at the meeting. An official spokesperson confirmed that most states had requested the Centre to extend the national lockdown. “The Central Government is considering this request,” KS Dhatwalia, the government’s principal spokesperson said. Dhatwalia’s tweet came minutes after Arvind Kejriwal appeared to suggest that PM Modi had taken the decision to extend the lockdown by two weeks. ALSO WATCH: COVID-19 l PM Modi interacts with Chief Ministers of states: Key takeawaysIn course of the meeting - this was the third conference of chief ministers on the Covid-19 pandemic - PM Modi assured the chief ministers on more than one occasion that the Centre will work in tandem with the states.In his opening speech, Modi said that the leaders must stand shoulder-to-shoulder to tackle this outbreak and insisted that there is no space of politics in the health emergency. He also said that the suggestions of all CMs would be considered with highest importance. #IndiaFightsCoronavirus #21daylockdown :During the video-conferencing on #coronavirusinindia with state CMs today, most states requested PM @narendramodi to extend the lockdown for 2 more weeks. The Central Government is considering this request.Modi also appealed to the CMs to share all information without any hesitation and underlined that he is available 24/7 to talk to them, listen to their suggestions and problems and help the states.“During the video-conferencing on #coronavirusinindia with state CMs today, most states requested PM @narendramodi to extend the lockdown for 2 more weeks. The Central Government is considering this request,” tweeted KS Dhatwalia, Principal Spokesperson, government of India. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray, UP CM Yogi Adityanath, Punjab’s Amrinder Singh and Telangana CM K Chandrasekhar Rao pitched for extending the lockdown till April 30. According to a functionary, Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chauhan didn’t give his opinion on extending the lockdown.Earlier this week, Modi had told parliament floor leaders of political parties that it is not possible to abruptly end the lockdown and underlined that lockdown is the only way to save people’s lives in India.Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh demanded extension of the nationwide lockdown by at least a fortnight but with special concessions for industry and agriculture sectors.He reiterated the need for ramping up testing facilities and urged the Prime Minister to expedite the supply of rapid test kits and sought special risk allowance for all government employees including police personnel and sanitation workers engaged in frontline duties.Singh also sought the central support for assisting the poor and bonus for the farmers to incentivise staggered and delayed procurement of wheat apart from three months waiver of interest on crop loans and deferment of recovery of crop loans by commercial banks.He urged the Prime Minister to defer recovery and waiver of interest and penalties on industrial loans for six months to enable the industry to meet urgent costs, including wage payment to workers.Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel urged the Prime Minister to give the right to the state governments to decide whether to carry out economic activities in their respective states.Given the prevailing situation, he said the states will definitely face an economic crisis and an action plan has to be prepared as per the requirement to enable them to revive the economy.Baghel and Kejriwal also sought continuation of the ban on inter-state road, air and rail facilities||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-chief-ministers-request-central-govt-considering-extending-lockdown/story-gjObauu8Bmlmb5uggQ2dEJ.html
11-04-2020||India||At meeting with PM, Chhattisgarh’s Bhupesh Baghel calls for continuing ban on road, rail, air||Chhattisgarh’s chief minister Bhupesh Baghel on Saturday suggested extending the restrictions on inter-state road, air and railway traffic to curb the spread of Covid-19 and said states should be allowed to carry out economic activities during the lockdown period.Bhupesh Baghel also demanded an early economic package from the Centre to boost the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) sector during the meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, his office said in a statement.Baghel was among the chief ministers who attended Prime Minister Modi’s video conference to discuss whether to extend the 21-day country-wide lockdown beyond next week.“The MSME sector in the state is constantly demanding an economic package. Due to the long period of lockdown, the existence of this important sector which provides maximum employment to the people has been endangered,” the chief minister pointed out.Also read: ‘I am always available’, PM Modi tells chief ministers during Covid-19 meetThe Chhattisgarh chief minister also said that given the number of coronavirus-infected people and their status, states should get to decide whether economic activities should be relaxed or not. “Given the current situation, we will definitely face an economic crisis. Action plan has to be prepared as per requirement, via which we will be able to revive our economy,” Baghel said during the video conference.Chattisgarh is among the very few states which have not reported any Covid-19 related deaths and has 18 people who have been infected with the virus. Of these, 10 have been cured and the condition of the remaining eight patients is stable. Also Watch: COVID-19| PM Modi interacts with Chief Ministers of states: Key takeaways The chief minister said Chhattisgarh was the first state in the nation to implement a lockdown by March 31. “There is a better situation here due to the complete lockdown,” he said. To further his point, Baghel said only five out of the 28 districts in the state have reported cases of the coronavirus disease. So far, 3473 samples have been taken in the state, or an average of 135 per day, which he said needs to be ramped up. “Due to less testing, it cannot be said with certainty whether the condition of Covid-19 virus is actually under control or not. There is a need to take 3000 to 5000 samples daily. A request has also been made earlier in this regard,” Baghel said.Baghel also urged the Prime Minister that the number of personal protection equipment (PPE) kits should be increased. The chief minister said that due to a lack of clear instructions in the guidelines set by the central government for buying test kits, there is a situation of doubt.He said that thousands of people, trapped and quarantined on the borders of the state, are facing trouble. “There are also many travellers and families who want to return back to their homes. Guidelines are expected in this regard,” he said.He also listed what his government was doing for the poor families in the state and said they should be allowed to carry on with procurement and sale of forest produce.Punjab and Delhi were among the states which have recommended an extension of the national lockdown by at least a fortnight as the number of Covid-19 cases in India rose to 7447 and deaths to 239. Mumbai and Delhi have reported most of these cases and experts have warned that once the lockdown is lifted and people are allowed to get out of home freely, it could lead to a spike in the infections.Odisha and Punjab have already decided to extend the lockdown until April end.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-meeting-with-pm-chhattisgarh-s-bhupesh-baghel-calls-for-continuing-ban-on-road-rail-air/story-CipRkuMFe0WakbZMVtI2PO.html
11-04-2020||India||Bengal police stops 4 weddings which were flouting lockdown; brides, 3 grooms are minors||Amid the lockdown, the Murshidabad district police in Bengal has stopped four marriages in which all the brides and three grooms were minors. The minority community families have been warned by the administration and made to sign undertakings stating that the minors will not be forced into marriage. These marriages have been organized in the district since Tuesday.The father of one of the brides is a migrant labourer who recently returned from Odisha and was asked to stay in home quarantine. He violated the order. On Tuesday and Wednesday, the Farakka community block administration halted three ceremonies being held in Maheshpur and Tarapur villages after sunset, apparently to avoid detection. All the brides and grooms were minors, officials found. Their guardians had arranged the ceremonies in the presence of a handful of relatives. Villagers were not invited.Community block development officer (BDO) of Farakka, Rajarshi Chakraborty said, “We were tipped off by Kanyashree Yoddhas (volunteers of the state’s girl child welfare scheme) and some local sports clubs. We stopped all three marriages. Stern legal action will be taken if anyone tries to break the lockdown and arranges marriages anywhere.”District administrative officials said on Friday, Akram Sheikh, a resident of Barajpara village in the Suti police station area, was about to hold the marriage of his minor daughter when police reached his house.Sheikh, a migrant labourer, returned from Odisha two weeks ago along with some fellow villagers. All these people were asked to stay in home quarantine and posters were put up outside their houses, in keeping with protocol.Sheikh, however went ahead with his plan. On Friday afternoon, the groom, Kabul Sheikh came to Barajpara from his village in Farakka. Officers from Suti police station rushed to Barajpara and stopped the marriage.Talking to HT over the phone, Sheikh said, “Right now, I have no work. So I decided to organize the marriage. I did not invite too many people. I will not get my daughter married till she turns 19.”Block development officer of BDO Suti-1 block Sourav Ghosh said, “Sheikh has given a written undertaking, hence we haven’t taken any legal action against the family. Villagers have been asked to follow social distancing guidelines.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-police-stops-4-weddings-which-were-flouting-lockdown-brides-3-grooms-are-minors/story-apwm4EyiBiRApDkyIcWwMM.html
11-04-2020||India||‘No community transmission of Covid-19 in India’, WHO rectifies error in report||The World Health Organization (WHO) admitted that one of its reports had shown Covid-19 community transmission in India due to an error which has now been fixed.The Indian government has maintained that community transmission has not yet started in India. The WHO rectified the mistake in its latest situation report on Covid-19 published on Friday and said that India came under the “cluster of cases” category, not “community transmission” as stated in the earlier report published on Thursday.Follow latest updates on coronavirus hereThe Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Friday also said that there is no community transmission in India yet and the rate of the infection of novel Coronavirus is low.Speaking to the media at a conference, Joint secretary of the Health Ministry, Lav Agarwal said: “at least 16002 samples were tested on Thursday, of which only 320 people tested positive for Covid-19. Only 2 per cent cases tested positive. Based on the samples collected, we can say that the infection rate is not high although it is dynamic.”The transmission scenarios in the WHO situation report are self-reported by the member states.The WHO has defined four transmission scenarios for Covid-19 -- no confirmed cases, sporadic cases, clusters of cases, and community transmission that are being reported.Community transmission refers to a large outbreak of local transmission.The total tally of novel coronavirus cases in India reached up to 7,447, the Union Health Ministry said on Saturday.As per the Ministry data, of the total number, 6,565 are active cases, 239 are dead, one has migrated, while 642 people have been discharged after recovery.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-community-transmission-of-covid-19-in-india-who-rectifies-error-in-report/story-akxjThGS55OF2u32BYaHYJ.html
11-04-2020||India||PM has decided to extend lockdown, tweets Kejriwal; Centre sends a clarification||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Saturday that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has taken a decision to extend the nationwide lockdown and added that he backed the prime minister’s call since the lockdown measure had helped India manage the disease much better than many other developed nations.Kejriwal’s tweet came after the prime minister discussed the possibility of extending the lockdown with chief ministers of all states and the Union territories on Saturday. ALSO WATCH | COVID-19 l PM Modi interacts with Chief Ministers of states: Key takeaways“PM has taken the correct decision to extend lockdown. Today, India’s position is better than many developed countries because we started lockdown early. If it is stopped now, all gains would be lost. To consolidate, it is imp to extend it,” Kejriwal tweeted in support of the lockdown.It has been reported that several chief ministers requested the prime minister to extend the 21-day national lockdown so that the gains from the implementation of the measure are not lost after the restrictions are lifted.Soon after Kejriwal’s tweet, the Principal Spokesperson for the government of India and the Principal Director General of Press Information Bureau of the Central government said the prime minister was considering the request made by the chief ministers in favour of the extension. “During the video-conferencing on #coronavirusinindia with state CMs today, most states requested PM @narendramodi to extend the lockdown for 2 more weeks. The Central Government is considering this request,” he said. WHO has also warned governments to not lift the restrictions too soon, fearing it could lead into a late spike in the number of coronavirus cases. Prime Minister’s meeting with chief ministers on Saturday was meant to get a sense of the situation before a considered decision could be taken on the matter of lifting the lockdown.In the last meeting with leaders of legislative parties, PM Modi had himself said that lifting the lockdown which was imposed on March 25, did not look possible at the moment.Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh is one of the CMs apart from Kejriwal to have suggested an extension of the national lockdown. A couple of states like Odisha and Punjab have already announced the decision to extend the lockdown till the end of April.While it is widely anticipated that the lockdown may be extended beyond April 14, there have been suggestions to ease restrictions in certain pockets of the country to allow for a resumption of economic activity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-has-decided-to-extend-lockdown-tweets-arvind-kejriwal-after-modi-s-video-conference-with-chief-ministers/story-aTFewAbvE6SFiZ10mlAyDK.html
11-04-2020||India||IIT Guwahati develops disinfecting system for hospitals, metros to fight Covid-19||In a bid to help the nation fight the coronavirus menace, experts at Indian Institute of Technology, Guwahati have development a disinfection system that can be used to sanitise large areas and even metros and buses. The system is low-cost and based on UVC LED technology. For now, the team has developed three models for household sanitisation and one for bigger spaces like hospital wards, buses, metros, et cetera. Last week, it was reported that a couple of experts have developed a robotic device that could help disinfect hospitals amid the coronavirus crisis.Indian Institute of Technology, Guwahati has developed a low-cost UVC LED-based disinfection system amid the Coronavirus outbreak in the country. 3 of them are designed for household sanitization & 1 for sanitizing bigger spaces like hospital wards, buses,metros etc: IIT Guwahati pic.twitter.com/uzatwMORB9IIT Kharagpur alumnus Debayan Saha and AIIMS’ Shashi Ranjan have developed a device which is called ‘Minus Corona UV Bot’, news agency ANI reported. The device is an ultraviolet light (UV C-254nm) based robot that will enable sterilisation of hospital corridors, wards, Intensive Care Unit (ICUs) and patient rooms without exposing anybody to the contaminated environment. “Ultraviolet (UV) sterilization technology has been proven to be extremely effective in killing viruses and micro-organisms of any kind which may remain on surfaces even after the minimum number of standard cleaning,” Saha said as reported by news agency IANS.India on Saturday witnessed the sharpest ever increase in Covid-19 cases with 40 deaths and 1,035 new coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours. As per the Ministry of Health,the total tally of the infected people in the country rose to 7,447 on Saturday.India on Saturday entered the 18th day of the 21-day lockdown imposed nationwide to curb the spread of coronavirus in the country. The lockdown will come to an end on April 14 if not further extended. In a meeting between chief ministers and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the heads of various states pushed for the lockdown to be extended at least by a fortnight beyond April 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-a-bid-to-covid-19-experts-at-iit-guwahati-develop-system-for-disinfecting-hospitals-metros/story-2F7guhaBosN35tUGcfatQK.html
11-04-2020||India||Delhi court sends ex-JK cop Davinder Singh to one-month judicial custody||A Delhi court has sent to one-month judicial custody Jammu and Kashmir Police officer Davinder Singh, who was  arrested while ferrying two Hizb-ul-Mujahideen terrorists in a vehicle on the Srinagar-Jammu Highway earlier this year.Special Judge Ajay Kumar Jain sent Singh to judicial custody till May 6 after he was produced before the court on Friday on expiry of his 30 days’ custodial interrogation by the Delhi police.The police told the court the accused was not required for further interrogation.The court also sent three other co-accused arrested in the case -- Javed Iqbal, Syed Naveed Mushtaq and Imran Shafi Mir -- to judicial custody.The police requested the court that all accused be sent to judicial custody as they may flee or hamper the probe if let free, defence advocate Prashant Prakash said.DSP Davinder Singh was suspended from the Jammu and Kashmir Police in January this year.  The Special Cell had brought Singh to Delhi from Hira Nagar Jail in Jammu and Kashmir.Earlier, the police had told the court that Syed Naveed Mushtaq and others were planning to execute terror attacks in Delhi and other parts of the country as well as targeted killings of protected persons.The police said Mushtaq, the commander of Shopian district of Hizbul Mujahiddeen, used to chat with the other co-accused and militants through various internet platforms, including darknet chat.“Mushtaq, along with other militants of Hizbul Mujahideen, was planning to execute terror attack in Delhi and other parts of the country and targeted killings of protected persons,” the police told the court.The Delhi Police has filed an FIR under Section 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The FIR said the youths of Jammu and Kashmir and Punjab are being trained for carrying out terrorist activities.The FIR also mentioned the mafia’s D Company and Chhota Shakeel. According to the FIR, the Delhi Police Special Cell had received an input that the D Company, run by fugitive Indian underworld kingpin Dawood Ibrahim, is funding pro-Khalistan terrorist organisations in Punjab.Davinder Singh was taken in custody under the same FIR.The Special Cell had also interrogated Singh regarding the Khalistan angle, police said.Although Singh is not named in the FIR, the Special Cell has some inputs on the basis of which the enquiry will be carried out and he will be questioned, the police had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-court-sends-ex-jk-cop-davinder-singh-to-one-month-judicial-custody/story-QlrBHwHvhdaBeA58Z1RlKL.html
11-04-2020||India||BJP leader in Panvel was having a birthday bash before police crashed in||At a time when the political leadership is busy making fervent appeals to people to follow the lockdown norms to maintain social distancing, considered a key tool to contain the spread of coronavirus disease, a BJP corporator from Panvel was booked by the police for openly flouting the lockdown norms by throwing a birthday bash at his bungalow. The police have also booked ten others for attending the leader’s party.The Panvel corporator Ajay Bahira, 42, a resident of Takka Village was found partying on the terrace of a three-storied bungalow ‘Shreyas Nivas’ on Friday night. “We received a complaint that a party was ongoing at the bungalow following which we raided the house and found them celebrating without practicing social distancing and violating lockdown norms. They were booked and given a notice for the offence,” said Ajay Kumar Landge, senior inspector at Panvel city police station.Police said Bahira was partying with five relatives and five other friends from his village. Others present at his party include a mutton shop owner, a vegetable shop owner, a chemist and an auto-rickshaw driver. None of them were wearing a mask as directed by the Panvel municipal corporation.“We also seized a bottle of alcohol from the party,” added Landge.Click here for live and latest updates on CoronavirusThe corporator and his posse were booked under sections of the Indian Penal Code, The Epidemic Diseases Act, The Maharashtra COVID-19 Regulations, 2020, Disaster Management Act and relevant sections of Maharashtra Prohibition Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-leader-in-panvel-was-having-a-birthday-bash-before-police-crashed-in/story-oGb6wtQ3gNuC6stCTbGthM.html
11-04-2020||India||‘Leading by example’: PM Modi wears home-made mask in video conference with CMs||Railways minister Piyush Goyal on Saturday urged everyone to follow Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who wore a white, homemade mask during his meeting with the chief ministers to discuss the country’s next step in the fight against Covid-19.Piyush Goyal tweeted after photographs from PM Modi’s video conference with the chief ministers showed them wearing masks.“Leading by example, PM @NarendraModi ji wears a homemade face cover during a video conference meeting on #COVID__19 with the Chief Ministers of the nation,” the minister tweeted.“Let us follow suit and protect ourselves and our fellow citizens by wearing face covers,” he said. Leading by example, PM @NarendraModi ji wears a homemade face cover during a video conference meeting on #COVID__19 with the Chief Ministers of the nation.Let us follow suit and protect ourselves and our fellow citizens by wearing face covers. pic.twitter.com/V9xZ8e9U3PThe chief ministers, including West Bengal’s Mamata Banerjee, Delhi’s Arvind Kejriwal, Rajasthan’s Ashok Gehlot, Karnataka’s BS Yediyurappa, Maharashtra’s Uddhav Thackeray were also seen in masks during the virtual meeting with the Prime Minister.PM Modi is now expected to take a call on whether to lift or extend the lockdown, which he announced on March 24. The three-week restriction is supposed to end on April 14.“I am always available. Any chief minister can speak to me and give suggestions (on Covid-19) anytime. We should stand together shoulder-to-shoulder,” Modi is understood to have said during the meeting.Most of the chief ministers, including Arvind Kejriwal and Punjab’s Amarinder Singh, suggested during the meeting that the lockdown should be enforced beyond April 14. The Delhi chief minister said during the meeting he would need two weeks to make the national capital’s containment zones airtight after each and every contact of the Tablighi Jamaat has been verified and quarantined.Delhi will follow the Centre’s decision on the lockdown, he said.The Prime Minister’s video conference with chief ministers came on a day when India reported more than 7400 cases of the coronavirus disease and 239 fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-outbreak-leading-by-example-pm-modi-wears-home-made-mask-to-cm-s-video-conference/story-UXh8f3ujtmPH0WMjR7vQzM.html
11-04-2020||India||Bengal musicians go online to uplift spirits of people during Covid-19 lockdown||Musicians from West Bengal have taken the online route to provide mental succour to people during the lockdown imposed to contain the spread of novel coronavirus.Renowned musician Ustad Rashid Ali Khan and his son Armaan recently hosted an online ‘bhajan’ programme from their south Kolkata residence while ‘bauls’ of Birbhum district sang songs on the fight against coronavirus, all trying to uplift the spirits of the people of the state where 116 coronavirus have been reported so far.Ustad Rashid Khan and his son presented a medley of three bhajans ‘Dheere dheere re mana’, ‘Yeh andhiyara mit jayega’ and ‘Subah ho shaam ho tera naam japu’.“We can overcome any crisis if we seek solace in music,” Khan told PTI on Friday.Narayan Baul of Khairasol and Ananda Khyapa of Santiniketan, both in Birbhum district, have created awareness about coronavirus through their songs and urged people to fight the disease together and defeat it.Their songs have been widely shared on social media.“Baul songs can send messages to the people and can be used as a tool for generating awareness. I have done my job,” Khyapa said.On Ustad Rashid Khan’s bhajans, Imam of Kolkata’s Nakhoda Masjid, Shafique Qasmi said, “Doesn’t the strains of shehnai played by Ustad Bismillah Khan appeal to everyone at Durga Puja marquees and on weddings? The creation of a person, irrespective of his or her religious beliefs, is for everyone.” A spokesperson of the Sri Chaitanya Math in Sodepur said, “When a musician sings a devotional song, be it a kirtan, bhajan, qawwali or choir, it ultimately connects with the soul.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-musicians-go-online-to-uplift-spirits-of-people-during-covid-19-lockdown/story-Kc0XTOqxUMWTVIRnRLtJpL.html
11-04-2020||India||Coronavirus Latest: Thane Covid-19 cases reach 160 with 4 new additions and other updates||Thane recorded the third highest number of positive coronavirus cases with 4 fresh confirmed infections on Saturday behind 72 cases in Mumbai and 5 in Malegaon, taking the total number of positive Covid-19 cases in the district to 160, said officials. The highest number of positive cases has been reported from Kalyan Dombivali Municipal Corporation limits.On Friday, Thane district authorities had made wearing of masks compulsory for everybody and also ordered the closure of all vegetable markets and shops till April 14 to enforce social distancing in a bid to contain the spread of the disease. The order was issued by Collector Rajesh Narvekar. “The decision seems drastic but was the only way to reduce crowding as all pleas to people to maintain social distancing were failing,” an official quoted by PTI said. The order will remain in force within the limits of civic bodies in the district, he added. The administration also ordered shutting down of the shops in the wholesale market in Jambli Naka and traders were told to accept online orders from the retailers. The district administration on Friday night issued an order to seal the borders of Ambernath, Kulgaon-Badlapur, Murbad and Shahapur towns adjoining Thane. The move is aimed to stop the movement of people and vehicles, except those engaged in essential services, to and from these towns.People have been warned with serious consequences including hefty penalty if the order is defied.In another move to prevent escalation of positive Covid-19 cases in the district, the state administration released 350 prisoners from the Thane Central jail on bail. They were among close to 3,500 prisoners who were released on bail from different jails in Maharashtra to prevent crowding, said PTI.Meanwhile, a senior police inspector from Thane tested positive for the virus on Friday while he was under quarantine at his Nashik home after coming in contact with the members of the Tablighi Jamaat. 92 fresh cases of Covid-19 have emerged in Maharashtra, taking the state’s tally to 1,666 on Saturday, the state health department said.Click here for live and latest updates on Coronavirus||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-latest-thane-covid-19-cases-reach-160-with-4-new-additions-and-other-updates/story-iNkQQg93TECdUImiDhtHkN.html
11-04-2020||India||Indian man, 70, stuck in Dubai due to Covid-19 lockdown dies of heart attack||A retired college professor from India, who was visiting his daughter in the UAE but could not travel back following flight suspensions due to the coronavirus outbreak, died of heart attack, his family said on Saturday.M Sreekumar, 70, and his wife Sreekumari from Kerala, were visiting their daughter Sreeja, a teacher in Sharjah. They were to return to Kerala on Saturday but that was not possible as the flights were suspended, the Gulf News reported.Sreekumar, a statistics professor, had retired from Maharajas College in Ernakulam in Kerala.“He suffered a chest pain on Thursday and was rushed to a private hospital in Sharjah. It was an acute heart attack and he passed away this morning,” the relative said.Also Watch: This is how the usually busy roads of Dubai look like during curfew “Unfortunately, we cannot fly his body to Kerala at this point of time. So, the family has decided to cremate him in Sharjah,” a relative was quoted as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/70-year-old-indian-man-stuck-in-uae-due-to-coronavirus-lockdown-dies-of-heart-attack/story-ymZWmZkOYFOzRlmNHMLqEM.html
11-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Centre exempts fisheries sector from lockdown||The Union government on Saturday exempted the fisheries and the marine food industry from the ongoing 21-day nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The government issued a fresh list of exemptions as they form a part of the farm-to-fork supply chain. Fisheries is a part of the agriculture sector and along with aquaculture production contribute around 1% to India’s gross domestic product (GDP) and over 5% to the agricultural GDP. The exemptions include feeding and maintenance of fisheries, harvesting, processing, and packaging. It also covers cold chain, sale and marketing, hatcheries and movement of fish and marine food products.“As specified in the lockdown measures, social distancing and proper hygiene practices must be maintained in each of the above activities,” an order of the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) stated while exempting the fisheries sector.An official of the animal husbandry department said keeping in view of the potential fisheries resources in the aquaculture, inland fisheries, coastal and marine fisheries, the Centre will continue administering schemes under the umbrella “Blue Revolution Scheme” for the overall development of the sector.The Centre has over the past week has taken a series of steps to shore up the agriculture sector in view of the lockdown.The Centre on Friday recommended states to suspend certain provisions of their respective Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) Acts for three months to allow farmers to sell their harvest from multiple locations and to any buyer.The APMC Act regulates buying and selling of farm produce in about 5,000 mandis or markets across the country, which fall squarely in the domain of the state. The Act empowers states to notify markets to cater to a specific area and farmers can sell in their designated markets only.“Farmers should be able to sell to any buyer. Otherwise, all farmers of an area will converge on a single market, which will obstruct the principle of social distancing,” Union Minister of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare Narendra Singh Tomar had said in a press conference held via video link. “States have been requested to sidestep this mandi Act for three months,” the minister added.Procurement of wheat is slated to start on April 15. The Centre has also asked states to start procuring 25% of pulses and oilseeds under its price support scheme.On April 9, the agriculture ministry issued orders, invoking the market intervention scheme, which will allow the Centre to compensate horticulture farmers for a dip in wholesale prices and damages to harvested fruits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-centre-exempts-fisheries-sector-from-lockdown/story-u2Vx8asl2mpuDKlDwtlDdO.html
11-04-2020||India||At PM’s video conference, Capt Amarinder moots extending Covid-19 lockdown||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday recommended extension of the national lockdown by at least a fortnight in addition to special concessions for industry and agriculture sectors urgently amid the fight against the coronavirus pandemic.He also asked for faster supply of rapid testing kits during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s video conference with chief ministers, the chief minister’s office said in a statement.The chief minister also suggested a slew of health and relief measures.“There was huge uncertainty about the likely incidence of disease and the nation was in for a long fight. Given the trend in China and several European countries, it was necessary to continue the lockdown,” Captain Amarinder said.Click here for full coronavirus coverage.“Though the restrictions were causing a lot of hardship to the people, India could not afford to take any chances. The people of Punjab have a high morale, and will continue to support government efforts to combat the pandemic,” he added.The lockdown which came into force on March 25 was intended for 21 days but many states now want it extended. He said the state government had already decided to go for curfew/complete lockdown till May 1, with all educational institutions to be closed till June 30, with state Board examinations also deferred till further orders. Section 144 remains in place, along with prohibition of public service vehicles till May 1.With harvesting and procurement operations set to begin in Punjab next week, the Chief Minister reiterated his demand for bonus to farmers to incentivize staggered/delayed procurement of wheat. He also called for quicker movement of food grains lying in FCI godowns in Punjab, along with waiver of three months’ interest on crop loans and deferment of recovery of crops loans by commercial banks.The Punjab CM sought a Special Risk Insurance for all government employees, including police personnel, sanitation workers and all other employees, who are working day and night in these trying times. “It was important for the Centre and States to keep the morale of people and frontline workers (Health staff, police. Sanitation workers, etc) high,” he stressed.Underlining the need to substantially increase the number of tests being done and go for rapid testing, at least in the state’s hotspot areas of Nawanshahar, Dera Bassi and Mohali, the Chief Minister said the Central Government should hasten supplies of required testing kits.Punjab has already ordered 10 lakh such kits from ICMR, while raising inquiry about another 10000 in the open market.The Chief Minister further requested Rs 500 crore for quick upgradation of infrastructure of government hospitals in Punjab, which is currently at stage 2 of the pandemic and has a large NRI population. He also called for speedy approval, on priority basis, by the Centre to the state’s proposal for Rs 550- crore project to set up an Advanced Centre for Virology in Punjab.On the relief measures needed urgently, the Chief Minister urged the Centre to defer recovery, and waiver of interest and penalties, on industrial loans for six months. Emphasising that the industrial establishments could not continue to look after their workers, and even pay their salaries for the period of lockdown, for a long time, he asked the Centre to think of some innovative solutions for Relief to Daily Wage Workers and Industrial Labour either through ESIC funds or under MNREGA. “The Government of India may allow village Panchayats and Municipalities to utilize the 14th Finance Commission Grants for emergency relief including food and medicines for the poor and needy”, he suggested.Thanking the Centre for releasing substantial funds since the last meeting, Captain Amarinder stressed the need for early release of pending arrears of GST on priority to help the state.Punjab has recorded 151 positive cases of coronavirus so far. Eleven people have died so far, with 17 of the 22 districts affected and 15 having more than 3 cases each. Mohali has the maximum of 48 positive cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-pm-s-video-conference-capt-amarinder-moots-extending-covid-19-lockdown/story-IddtYo3mS4NXqIvzjs5UNI.html
11-04-2020||India||MSME ministry suggests opening of units in areas that aren’t classified as Covid-19 hotspots||Manufacturers should be allowed to resume operations in areas that aren’t classified as coronavirus disease (Covid-19) hotspots and where the virus hasn’t spread widely, subject to the condition that they strictly follow sanitation and social distancing norms to curb the spread of the outbreak, says the ministry micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) .The suggestion was put forward by the ministry to the Prime Minister’s Office for consideration. Nitin Gadkari, who is in charge of the MSME portfolio, said on Saturday that the ministry was also working out guidelines in collaboration with state governments on how to bring back migrant workers to restart production in the MSME sector. Tens of thousands of migrant workers have returned home to the countryside because of the coronavirus lockdown.The minister, who also oversees road transport, highways and shipping, said in a video chat that his departments had responded positively to the suggestion that production as well as construction of roads and highways be resumed in areas that are not affected by the pandemic so that the impact of the lockdown is blunted. Gadkari, however, stressed that the onus will be on the owners of MSME and construction units and contractors to ensure that their facilities are safe for workers and that there are provisions for food, shelter and healthcare. “There are nearly 20 lakh migrant workers in government-run camps, many are stuck midway. We have to bring them back and district collectors will have to give permission for that. We are working to removed bottlenecks with the help of state governments; but the factory owners will have to ensure that workers are looked after,” the minister said.He said over 600,000 MSMES had been restructured before March and he is hopeful that another 800,000-1 million more will be restructured in the coming months.Since the nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 25 to check the spread of the coronavirus; only industries that are involved in the production of essential goods services are allowed to function.The sector with 6.33 crore MSMEs that together employ an estimated 11 crore people is staring at an acute financial crisis after production came to a grinding halt and has urged the union government to announce a financial package similar to the PM-Kisan scheme, reopening industries where work from home is impossible and complete waiver of bank charges to help them recover.The ministry of MSME is working on steps to get industries Covid-ready; which means making changes that will allow workers to resume work even as they stick to the norms of social distancing and do not violate the conditions laid down for maintaining hygiene.On the financial front, the ministry has drawn up a proposal to expand the reach of its Credit Guarantee Fund Trust for Micro and Small Enterprises (CGTMSE) scheme that offers guarantee cover for the portion of credit facility not covered by collateral.In the partial collateral security model, micro and small industries are allowed to obtain collateral security for a part of the credit facility. The remaining part of the credit facility, up to a maximum of Rs2 crore, can be covered by the credit guarantee scheme.“So far Rs90,000 crore has been insured under the scheme by the trust that has a base capital of Rs10,000 crore,” said a government functionary. “The revival plan will also look at how MSMEs can reinvent to improve productivity. The ministry is working out the details of how to help the productions units adapt to change and the challenges imposed by the pandemic. There could be consultations using IT-enabled platforms to help the MSMEs evaluate their productivity and make changes that can lead to growth and enhanced capacity. We can share best practices with them to help them meet global standards, produce cheap and world class products,” the person said.Gadkari expressed the hope that manufacturing will pick up pace and India will be in a position to not just export more but also cut its dependence on China.Also on the agenda is pacing the sanctions under the Scheme of Fund for Regeneration of Traditional Industries or SFURTI, that supports traditional village industries by offering financial assistance of up to Rs2 crore.The ministry wants to alter the slow pace of getting projects off the ground under SFURTI; apart from relaxing norms such as doing away with the need for permission from the states to kick-start projects; it will put the onus on implementing agencies to cut delays.“We will have more technological intervention and webcams on the site to see where delays are taking place. We are also making use of technological centres or tool rooms across the country where high-end machinery is installed that can be used by smaller producers or for skilling purposes. For instance the leather tool room in Chennai is being used to stitch PPEs {personal protective equipment} for healthcare workers,” the functionary cited above said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/msme-ministry-suggests-opening-of-units-in-areas-that-aren-t-classified-as-covid-19-hotspots/story-8FPwSugNNDnEPUS1BipeiL.html
11-04-2020||India||Exercising, running: Craze for army recruitment beats Covid-19 fears in west UP villages||The nasty and infectious coronavirus may have brought cities to a halt and sent people scurrying indoors but has failed to dampen the fervour of hundreds of youngsters in west Uttar Pradesh villages who aspire for recruitment in the armed forces and police.To them, it is of no consequence that the recruitment rallies have been postponed due to corona outbreak. Fascinated with the ‘uniformed job’, they are using the time to prepare for the fitness test so that their dream may come true.Groups of youths can be seen working on their exercise regimen and running on village roads every morning, some taking adequate precautions while others are nonchalant.Fitness and completing a run of 1600 metres ahead of other competitors is the first key to success. And to succeed in their efforts, they are out to even beat the looming danger of corona. Every morning and evening, the youth come out of their houses to do their exercises and running practice to keep their chance of getting selected in the next recruitment rally alive. These high spirited youngsters can be seen stretching, jogging and running on all roads passing through villages. Their concentration is solely on recruitment, with no thought to spare about corona times.Titu Pehalwan of Syal village heads a group of 20 to 25 youngsters of his village which is dominated by the Gujar community. On being asked about the danger of corona, he carelessly says,” Corona will do nothing to us. We are Gujars and will beat it off.” His disciples burst into laughter in unison.Almost 20 kms away from here on the outskirts of Amhera village, Shoaib Ali, Paritosh Sharma, Akash Siwach and Sumit are stretching to prepare for the 1600- metre run. But unlike Syal youths, they are taking all precautions during their exercise. “We are educated and pursuing bachelor’s course. So we are aware of the importance of social distancing and sanitization. We wear masks, keep bottles of sanitizer and maintain a safe distance from each other,” explains Shoaib who had participated in two recruitment rallies of the army in the past but couldn’t qualify. Explaining the recruitment procedure, Paritosh Sharma clarifies that all aspirants gather on a ground and are asked to run 1600 metres. The authorities get a few frontrunners separated from others. These lucky separated aspirants then undergo a written test followed by a medical test and other formalities.Prince, Abhishek and Saurabh of Gawdi village say, “That is why a run of 1600 metres is key to open the lock of our luck and we are aiming at the next recruitment rally without fearing corona.”Luvkush Gujar and Anuj Kumar of Syal say,” We can’t ruin our preparation for corona. The recruitment rally was to be organized in May which would be delayed because of lock-down but we need to keep ourselves prepared for a tough competition “. In fact, youngsters in villages of the entire region which includes Saharanpur, Muzaffarnagar, Shamli, Meerut, Baghpat, Hapur, Bulandshahr and Ghaziabad districts, are fascinated with recruitment in the army, paramilitary forces and police. Recruitment rallies draw a heavy influx of youngsters who prepare throughout the year to get their dream job.Shoaib Ali says, “Getting a uniformed job elevates the status of the youths and their families in villages.”An 18-year-old of Gawri village has another explanation. “These jobs suit us after getting substandard education in colleges and schools of villages and nearby towns”. His friend Abhishek explains further, “Most parents can’t afford costly education and so they encourage their wards to try for these jobs which require more physical fitness than good educational profile. And it also fulfills the wish of getting a government job.” The fascination for the ‘uniform’ has existed here since decades. Sandeep Pradhan of Sial village claims that over 300 to 400 people of his village are either in the army, paramilitary forces or UP and Delhi police. It has become an undeclared tradition in the village for youngsters to get themselves recruited and those who are in such jobs have turned their role models.Saidpur in Bulandshahr district is a village which not only has a reputation of being a patriotic village but its military legacy is also a matter of pride for its residents. It has a history of serving the armed force since the First World War (1914-1919). A group of 155 soldiers of this village participated in the First World War and 29 of them laid down their lives for the motherland during British rule. The village has an inter college which has been named Military Heroes Memorial Inter College. The villagers claim that at least 2,500 people of the village are still serving in the armed forces and police and almost every house has an ex- serviceman. Lt General (retd) Kapil Agarwal, who belongs to Meerut, digs into history to explain the reason behind the fascination for the armed forces in the region. He reminds that Meerut has a big Cantonment since British period and was a centre of Punjab, Sikh and Dogra regiments till 1980. Recruitments in these regiments were carried out in large numbers through recruitment rallies. These regiments have been shifted but the Cantonment still has two major fighting formations, which have officials and jawans in big numbers.He says,”Youths watch them doing physical training and running and find their lifestyle fascinating. Besides, many of their elders had served in the armed forces since decades and they also encourage young members of their families to join the forces, which offer one of the finest jobs in the country.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/exercising-running-craze-for-army-recruitment-beats-covid-19-fears-in-west-up-villages/story-ujUOzvvZirseX8zyXbP2iJ.html
11-04-2020||India||CMs push for lockdown extension, India sees sharpest rise in Covid-19 cases: 10 points||As per the latest figures released by the Ministry of Health, the total tally of the infected people in the country rose to 7,447 on Saturday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday held a meeting with all chief ministers via tele-conferencing on the prevailing coronavirus situation in the country and the possibility of extending the nationwide lockdown beyond April 14. The Covid-19 tally in Maharashtra nears 2,000 while the number of total cases in Tamil Nadu and Delhi sharply inch towards the 1,000-mark. Here are the key developments:1. Chief ministers like Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal, among others, urged PM Modi to extend the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown by at least a fortnight to tackle the coronavirus crisis. 2. In a meeting with chief ministers, PM Modi was seen wearing a mask, so were the various leaders of the states. “I am available 24x7. Any chief minister can speak to me and give suggestions (on COVID-19) anytime. We should stand together shoulder-to-shoulder,” PM Modi said.ALSO WATCH | COVID-19 l PM Modi interacts with Chief Ministers of states: Key takeaways3. With 40 deaths and 1,035 new coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours, India has witnessed the sharpest ever increase in Covid-19 cases, news agency ANI reported. 4. Maharashtra has reported 92 new Covid-19 cases, mostly from Mumbai. The tally, as per the state health department, has jumped to 1660. As per the Ministry of Health, Maharashtra has a total of 1,872 coronavirus cases of which 1,574 are active cases, 188 people have recovered and 110 patients have died.5. Kerala on Saturday reported its third coronavirus death. 6. After Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh records the worst coronavirus death rate with 33 fatalities. 7. The West Bengal government has decided to impose a complete lockdown in 10 Covid-19 hotspots across the state that include parts of Kolkata as well.8. Leaders of various national political parties like Mayawati and MK Stalin also pushed for a nationwide lockdown extension.  9. Rajasthan government said it will offer Rs 50 lakh to kin of those government employees who die of coronavirus during anti-Covid-19 operations in the state.10. On Friday, Delhi reported as many as 183 new coronavirus cases - the highest jump so far for the national capital, news agency PTI reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cms-push-for-lockdown-extension-india-sees-sharpest-rise-in-covid-19-cases-10-points/story-2bMJvmhK2fxZn2FxZKbdbM.html
11-04-2020||India||Coronavirus Latest: Thane senior cop tests positive, wins a salute for selfless service||A senior police inspector from Thane police commissionerate tested positive for coronavirus in Nasik hospital on Saturday. He tested positive during his stay at home quarantine, where he was put last week after he came in contact with a few attendees of the Tablighi Jamaat Markaz from Delhi’s Nizamuddin area, while in the process of locating them at a Thane Mosque.Previously, the inspector was on a round the clock deployment in Thane, a sensitive area where enforcing the lockdown was considered a challenge.A senior police official from Thane confirmed that the inspector’s result was positive for Covid-19.“The SPI was in home quarantine at his Nashik home and in few days he developed fever. His first report of Covid-19 was negative; however, the second report was positive,” he said.A social worker from Thane said the officer in question had worked hard to contain the situation on the ground without thinking about exposing himself to the possible risks like the infection.“The officer was continuously on the streets trying to control the situation and was involved in creating awareness by going from place to place. Cops do not think of the risk they are putting themselves and their family in. We salute all the cops.”The police department has made a list of persons who came in contact with the senior inspector. The list includes police officers, Thane Municipal Corporation officials, reporters and cameramen. All of them will be tested for coronavirus. Click here for live and latest updates on Coronavirus||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-latest-thane-senior-cop-tests-positive-wins-a-salute-for-selfless-service/story-uvU9sdSBTgtypcNLMQ3LXP.html
11-04-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: PM holds meeting with CMs; extension focus of discussion||As India battles the COVID-19 crisis, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday held a video conference with chief ministers primarily to take their feedback on whether the 21-day nationwide lockdown be extended beyond April 14 to stem the tide of the infections.The initial visuals of the meeting showed Modi wearing a white mask during the interaction which was among others attended by chief ministers -- Amrinder Singh (Punjab), Mamata Banerjee (West Bengal), Uddhav Thackeray (Maharashtra), Yogi Adityanath (Uttar Pradesh), Manohar Lal (Haryana), K Chandrashekhar Rao (Telangana) and Nitish kumar (Bihar). The Central government is understood to have also obtained views on the issue from all the relevant agencies and stakeholders involved in the efforts to contain the spread of the pandemic.The video conference, which began at 11am, comes amidst indications that the central government may extend the nationwide lockdown with some possible relaxations even as Punjab and Odisha have already announced extending the lockdown beyond April 14 when the current spell of 21-day shutdown across the country ends on Tuesday.The Union Home Ministry has sought views of state governments on various aspects, including whether more categories of people and services need to be exempted. In the current lockdown only essential services are exempted.This is for the second time the prime minister is interacting with the chief ministers via video link after the lockdown was imposed.During his April 2 interaction with chief ministers, Modi had pitched for a “staggered” exit from the ongoing lockdown.A PTI tally of numbers reported by various states as on Thursday at 9.30pm showed a total of 7,510 having been affected by the virus nationwide so far with at least 251 deaths. More than 700 have been cured and discharged. However, the last update from the Union Health Ministry put the number of confirmed infections at 7,447 and the death toll at 239.Addressing floor leaders of various parties who have representation in Parliament, Modi had on Wednesday made it clear that the lockdown cannot be lifted in one go, asserting that the priority of his government is to “save each and every life”.According to an official statement after the Wednesday interaction, the prime minister told these leaders that states, district administrations and experts have suggested extension of the lockdown to contain the spread of the virus.Before the lockdown was announced on March 24, the prime minister had interacted with the chief ministers on March 20 to discuss ways and means to check the spread of the novel coronavirus. PTI NAB MPB PYK PYK||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-pm-holds-meeting-with-cms-extension-focus-of-discussion/story-O3mOXZhgV5ZIHDylduG2KN.html
11-04-2020||India||Transgenders dip into their savings to feed the poor in West Bengal||Sajani Devi, a transgender person, earned their livelihood by begging from Majhpara villagers in West Bengal’s Murshidabad district until the state reported its first coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive case on March 17.Devi and her four disciples’ lives have undergone a radical change since then. They have become providers to the villagers, who gave them alms for all these years, in the district’s Beldanga-1block.They are dipping into their meagre resources to buy food for these villagers amid the ongoing 21-day nationwide lockdown that started on March 25 to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. They are distributing 3 kilograms of rice, 1.5 kg of potato, 500 grams of onion and an equal quantity of salt, 200 grams of puffed rice and a packet of soybean to each villager. The distribution is being held in strict adherence to social distancing norms.“The lockdown has hit us hard. We’ve been deprived of our daily income, as we can’t go out to beg. I’m giving back what I got from the villagers for long. We’ve helped 300 villagers so far,” said Devi.“Most of these villagers are poor. Though the state government’s ration shops are distributing rice and essential items for free, unfortunately, the quantity isn’t sufficient for many families,” Devi added.“We started buying the provisions for the people from Majhpara, Sahebpara and Paharipara villages after some of them approached us if we could organise dry food through our community, which is known for its wide network,” Devi said.“Most people in our society look down upon us, suspect us and call us all kinds of names. I hope our initiative will encourage the rich to contribute more to the vulnerable sections of the society during this unprecedented emergency,” Devi added.Rahamat Sheikh, a villager who received dry food packets from Devi, agreed with the transgender person’s perception. “We used to treat them harshly before the Covid-19 outbreak. The crisis has made me realise how sympathetic and sensitive the transgender people can be. It’s a lesson we should never forget,” Sheikh saidBeldanga-1 community block development officer (BDO) Birupakshya Mitra, who was present during the food distribution programme, praised the transgender community members’ generosity amid the healthcare crisis. “It’s a laudable initiative. I hope more people will come forward to help the poor during this crisis,” the BDO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/transgenders-dip-into-their-savings-to-feed-the-poor-in-west-bengal/story-I79jMtBlKEiVkyihC455gJ.html
11-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: India’s nationwide lockdown move to contain Covid-19 spread quicker than most nations, shows study||India’s response in tackling the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and imposing a 21-day nationwide lockdown on March 24 was quicker than almost every other country, a study by the University of Oxford’s Blavatnik School of Government has found. India is among 18 countries with a score of 100, the highest value on the Government Response Stringency Index, which records the number and strictness of government policies to contain the spread of Covid-19. The Oxford Covid-19 Government Response Tracker (OxCGRT) collects data from 73 countries, tracks and compares government responses to the outbreak worldwide.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The United States scored 66.7, lowest among the five worst hit countries. Italy, Spain, and France have scored 95.2. India was quicker to take strict measures as by the time there were 500 cases its stringency index score was 90.5, which is more than many countries at that stage. India scored 100 by the time there were 1,000 cases and on the contrary, Italy touched 95 when cases touched nearly 50,000.  Also read: ‘I am always available’, PM Modi tells chief ministers during Covid-19 meetThis ‘Stringency Index’ is a score assigned to countries by researchers at the University of Oxford based on seven indicators of government response — school closure, workplace closures, public event cancellation, public transport closure, public information campaigns, restriction on internal movement, and international travel controls. A higher score means a country has strict measures. Countries worst-hit by the epidemic have a lower score. The study also looks into the government’s fiscal and monetary measures and emergency investment in healthcare.Also read: On Covid-19 lockdown, PM Modi to strike a balance between saving lives and livelihoodAccording to the Union health ministry, the number of Covid-19 infections in India crossed 7,400 whereas the death toll from the disease touched 239 on Saturday morning. The country recorded the sharpest increase so far with 40 deaths and 1,035 new cases in the last 24 hours.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-nationwide-lockdown-move-to-contain-covid-19-spread-quicker-than-most-nations-study/story-0X4nUF6rhaNTcsH07k3P2H.html
11-04-2020||India||2 found dead day after Reliance power plant dyke breached, 4 still missing||Two of the six persons reported missing after a fly ash dyke of Reliance’s Sasan Ultra Mega Power Project in Singrauli on the Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh border breached Friday evening were found dead during a search operation on Saturday morning, officials said.“The bodies were found very far away from the ash dyke breach site. Five buffaloes have been rescued. An NDRF (National Disaster Response Force) team of 30 people from Varanasi (Uttar Pradesh), a SDRF (State Disaster Response Force) team and also district administration teams are involved in the search operation to trace other four persons missing. Boats and drone cameras are being used for search operations,” said KVS Chaudhary, district collector of Singrauli.He said the bodies were identified as those of 8-year-old Abhishek Kumar Shah and 35-year-old Dinesh Kumar. Search operations were continuing to find the other four persons missing. The four who are missing include Abhishek’s mother Choonkumari Shah, 27, a resident of Siddhikala village and his sister Seema Kumari (9), Dinesh Kumar’s son Ankit (3) of Bhamaura village and Rajjad Ali, 28, a resident of Waidhan.Reena Kumar, wife of Dinesh Kumar, and another person named Keshpati were injured. “The dyke at Reliance Power Plant (Sasan) premises near village Harrahva developed a breach on Friday evening…The injured have been hospitalised and their condition is stable,” Chaudhary said earlier on Friday evening.The project is 780 kilometres northeast of the state capital of Bhopal.Sasan Power Limited said in a statement on Friday evening that the breach in the ash dump yard wall pushed the water causing a break in the boundary wall and affected some thatched houses and minor land parcel.“We are deeply anguished by the incident involving the break in the ash dump yard wall at our Sasan Power Plant… We are investigating the reasons underlying the incident. Power Plant operations will continue as the relief and restoration work is not affected by the same,” it said.“We are closely working with locals and the District Administration in relief and restoration work,” it added.Environment expert Ashwani Kumar Dubey accused officials of Sasan Ultra Mega Power Project of negligence.“Due to negligent act of officials of Sasan Ultra Mega Power Project, the fly ash dyke breached and toxic residue and fly ash-laden water entered the houses of villagers and damaged their crops and also entered the Rihand reservoir,” Dubey said.Dubey pointed out that this was not the first such incident in Singrauli.“Earlier, the fly ash dyke of Essar breached. Then the dyke of Vindhyachal super thermal power plant breached. Now, this is the third such incident just within a year. Only a few months back the officials of the power plant told a team of National Green Tribunal (NGT) that their fly ash dyke was in a good condition,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-found-dead-day-after-reliance-power-plant-dyke-breached-4-still-missing/story-mOSj2K4Xv44MuJAetJXNxH.html
11-04-2020||India||Ex-Madras HC judge V Kanagaraj appointed Andhra Pradesh election commissioner||Former judge of Madras High Court V Kanagaraj was on Saturday appointed as the election commissioner of Andhra Pradesh in place of retired bureaucrat N Ramesh Kumar, who was removed from the post by the state government through an ordinance on Friday evening.Kanagaraj, 75, assumed charge within hours of his appointment in the state election commission thereby pre-empting his predecessor from moving the court challenging his removal.The Jaganmohan Reddy government on Friday promulgated an ordinance amending the AP Panchayat Raj Act seeking to reduce the term of state election commissioner from five years to three years.It also proposed that the election commissioner would be a judicial officer of a high court judge rank. The ordinance would be replaced by a bill in the next assembly session.A government order issued late in the night declared that Ramesh Kumar, who assumed charge as SEC on April 1, 2016, ceased to continue as SEC, as he had completed four years in service.Kanagaraj served as a judge of Madras High Court for nine years from February 24, 1997, and after his retirement, he had been working as a senior advocate in the Supreme Court.According to an official release from the chief minister’s office, Kanagaraj delivered several landmark judgements both in Madras and Madurai benches of the high court. The judgements covered various subjects of national importance such as education, social justice with special reference to women and children, weaker sections and minorities.He was also nominated to the syndicate and senate of Tamil Nadu Dr Ambedkar Law University. He was also engaged as a senior counsel in a number of cases by Tamil Nadu and Puducherry governments.The sudden removal of Ramesh Kumar from the post of SEC through an ordinance incurred the criticism of the opposition parties. They alleged that the chief minister had developed a personal grudge against Ramesh Kumar for postponing the elections to urban and rural local body scheduled to be held in the last week of March in the wake of the coronavirus threat.Jagan Reddy had also objected to SEC ordering the transfer of two collectors and superintendents of police, besides disciplinary action against police officials in Macherla and some other parts of the state for alleged malpractices during the nomination process. He alleged that Ramesh Kumar was indirectly favouring the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) led by N Chandrababu Naidu as both belonged to the same caste.Subsequently, Ramesh Kumar wrote to the Centre seeking additional security to him and his family, as he alleged there was a threat to his life from the ruling party leaders.The high court and the Supreme Court upheld Ramesh Kumar’s decision to postpone the elections because of the Covid-19 pandemic. However, the top court relaxed the poll code until the announcement of the next schedule.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ex-madras-hc-judge-v-kanagaraj-appointed-andhra-pradesh-election-commissioner/story-E70OUDwDNeRpbbLj8ImgoI.html
11-04-2020||India||Over a hundred defy Covid-19 lockdown, gather for Friday namaz in Bengal district||More than a hundred people violated Covid-19 lockdown orders and gathered to offer prayers at a mosque in Gopinathpur village in the Barwan police station area of Bengal’s Murshidabad district on Friday afternoon. A handful of policemen, headed by two officers, somehow managed to disperse the crowd.This happened on a day when the state administration announced, for the first time, that it had identified around 10 coronavirus hotspots in the state where a complete lockdown has been ordered.More than 170 people who attended the Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi’s Nizamuddin last month have been kept in quarantine at a location near Kolkata. Many of these are foreign nationals.On Friday, the police received the information that more than 100 people had gathered for Friday namaz in Gopinathpur.Sub-divisional police officer of Kandi, Kumar Sani Raj, and officer-in-charge of Barwan police station Nirmal Das rushed to the spot with a small force to vacate the mosque. Though the policemen did not encounter any physical resistance, people started arguing that they had the right to offer prayers. They demanded that the police must leave.Locals told the police that in normal times not less than 300 people gather at the mosque on Fridays and the crowd was much less because of the lockdown. The police found that nobody at the mosque was wearing any mask.Kumar Sani Raj said, “We got assistance from the Imam (main cleric) of the mosque. The people gathered out of sheer ignorance. We told them how deadly the virus is and how it spreads in the community.”“The Imam also requested the villagers not to violate lockdown orders and not to come to the mosque till things are back to normal. He asked them to offer namaz at home,” said the SDPO.The police also distributed rice, dal and vegetables among 140 poor families in the village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-a-hundred-defy-covid-19-lockdown-gather-for-friday-namaz-in-bengal-district/story-abzPWSAGuyDozBxhFFU5VL.html
11-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: In video meet with PM Modi, Arvind Kejriwal has a suggestion||Delhi’s chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to extend the nation-wide lockdown, which is supposed to be in place till April 14 to fight the coronavirus pandemic, as they met virtually. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader said it should be continued till the end of April across the country.Arvind Kejriwal’s suggestion came as several chief ministers participated in a meeting with Prime Minister Modi through video to discuss whether the lockdown should be lifted as planned and to talk about other ways to fight the coronavirus disease, which has killed 239 people and infected 7447 in the country. Kejriwal’s request for extending the restrictions came on a day when Delhi’s tally of coronavirus cases inched towards the 1,000 mark.Click here for full coronavirus coverageDelhi followed Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu with 941 Covid-19 patients, out of which 25 have been cured and 13 have died.In the video-conference, PM Modi and several other chief ministers were seen wearing a mask. Kejriwal, West Bengal’s Mamata Banerjee, Rajasthan’s Ashok Gehlot, Karnataka’s BS Yediyurappa, also wore masks during the virtual meeting after which the Prime Minister is expected to take a decision on whether to lift or extend the lockdown.“I am always available. Any chief minister can speak to me and give suggestions (on Covid-19) anytime. We should stand together shoulder-to-shoulder,” Modi is understood to have said during the meeting.Delhi’s health department’s bulletin on Friday said that 584 Covid-19 cases in the national capital are linked to the Tablighi Jamaat’s congregation at Nizamuddin Markaz last month.On Friday, the administration increased the number of Covid-19 containment zones to 30. The areas that have been included in the list of containment zones are located in west, central and south-east Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-in-video-meet-with-pm-modi-arvind-kejriwal-has-a-suggestion/story-wbnNeyWYrpNlbJhYtbVBZO.html
11-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Delhi records highest jump in Covid-19 cases, tally nears 1,000 and all the latest news at this hour||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion curated for you. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi records highest jump in Covid-19 cases, tally nears 1,000On Friday, the number of coronavirus patients in Delhi crossed the 900-mark. As many as 183 cases were reported in the last 24 hours, the highest jump so far for the national capital, news agency PTI reported. As per the latest health ministry figures, the national capital has 941 coronavirus cases of which 13 people have died and 25 patients have recovered.Read More‘I am always available’, PM Modi tells chief ministers during Covid-19 meetWearing a mask, Prime Minister Narendra Modi during a video conference with chief ministers on Saturday to discuss whether the lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus should be extended, assured them that he is open to suggestions.Read MoreCoronavirus cases in India rise to 7447, death toll at 239India reported 40 Covid-19 deaths and 1035 new cases of the coronavirus disease in the last 24 hours, the sharpest increase so far, while the number of infections crossed 7400 on Saturday morning.Read MoreWhy rescheduling of IPL will take precedence over T20 World Cup for BCCIEven if the Covid-19 pandemic recedes in time for the ICC to hold the T20 World Cup in Australia, it may face another challenge—the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI). The Indian cricket board does not overly rely on the ICC’s revenue share, but it does depend on the treasure chest called the IPL. The league currently stands suspended till April 15, but officials admit that it looks unlikely that it could resume any time soon.Read MoreThe Raikar Case review: The whodunnit has more family drama than suspense With each member of the Raikar family betraying the trust of their loved ones and hiding a secret of their own, the show makes for a gripping drama.Read MorePowerpuff Girls’ villain Mojo Jojo turns against evil, joins Mumbai Police in COVID-19 fightMost ‘90s kids love reminiscing over popular cartoons of the time and among them is the loved series Powerpuff Girls. While the animated show is about three girls who’re “fighting crime trying to save the world”, Mumbai Police decided to take someone else’s help from the cartoon to spread awareness about the ongoing coronavirus outbreak.Read MoreGoogle to start showing more virtual health care options on Search, MapsGoogle has been optimising its products to make Covid-19 news and information more prominent for users. Google is now working on making virtual health care options more visible in search results. The new changes will be available to all in the coming week.Read MoreCoronavirus outbreak: 5 indoor games you can play during the lockdownOne way of passing time during the lockdown is to revisit the games we used to play as children in school. We’ve selected a number of indoor games which you can play with those you are spending time with in the house, not only do they help pass the time, but are great fun!Read MoreWatch: Donald Trump speaks on WHO funding, promises announcement next weekUS President Donald Trump has said that he will make an announcement on the World Health Organisation next week. He added that the US has given them $500 million a year and he is going to be talking about that. Trump had earlier criticised the world health body over its ‘China-centric’ stance and said it had given a faulty recommendation in the past. Watch the full video for all the details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-delhi-records-highest-jump-in-covid-19-cases-tally-nears-1-000-and-all-the-latest-news-at-this-hour/story-YEwRRWWm8XsBFojx9UiW9N.html
11-04-2020||India||Villagers in Tripura struggle for survival on Indo-Bangla border amid lockdown||There is little food left at home, and no monetary aid or medical assistance on the horizon. They cannot even afford to fall sick amid the COVID- 19 lockdown.The people of Kali Krishna village of Tripura are on edge, literally, living as they are on a narrow strip of land on the Indo-Bangladesh border. The village stands hemmed in between the international border and the barbed wire fence India has erected 150 yards away from it on its side.Jahangir Hossain, a peasant, is among the 3,000 odd neither-here-nor-there people for whom the March 24 lockdown came as a bolt from the blue as the border gates closed abruptly at midnight hour, shutting them out from the rest of the country.Fear and uncertainty have gripped people in the godforsaken place.“We do not know who to approach for assistance, as the officials on the Indian side are not opening the gates. We are trapped here,” 42-year-old Hossain told a PTI by phone.India has raised barbed wire fences across its 4,096- km border with Bangladesh, 150 metres ahead of the zero line, in accordance with the 1971 Indira-Mujib pact.Another resident of the neighbouring Nabadeep Chandra Nagar village, who preferred not to be named, said some villagers, with no solution in sight, were entering Bangladesh to buy essentials, and sell poultry and agricultural produce.Subrata Majumder, the sub-divisional magistrate of Sonamura in Tripura’s Sipahijala district, insisted people living on the other side of the fence visit Bangladesh often to buy and sell items, and that there is nothing new about it.According to BSF Chief Public Relations Officer C L Belwa, certain guidelines have been issued to the paramilitary force as part of the efforts to contain the spread of COVID- 19, but claimed its local unit has been distributing food and other essential items among those stuck outside the fence.Selim Khan, a resident of Nabadeep Chandra Nagar Village, however, alleged that the rations they receive is not enough to sustain a family.“With the gates closed on the Indian side, we are facing difficult times buying essential supplies and tending to our fields, part of which fall in the mainland. Add to that, our foodstock is depleting fast, he added.Shyamal Muhuri, a member of the Kali Krishna Nagar panchayat, said the villagers had been told to come to the mainland but they refused.“We made an appeal to the villagers to shift to the Indian side, but they refused to respond to the plea, claiming that their livelihood would be at stake. They also said that there would no one to look after their houses, land, poultry and cattle, if they were to move to the mainland,” Muhuri told PTI.Echoing him, Joydeb Sarkar, a local leader of the ruling BJP, said his party had called upon the villagers to take shelter in government buildings, but they turned down the offer.“People living on the other side of fence are mostly daily wagers, having no permanent source of income. We are looking for government land for their rehabilitation and resettlement, but the process is taking longer due to unavailability of a suitable plot, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/villagers-in-tripura-struggle-for-survival-on-indo-bangla-border-amid-lockdown/story-iV82Wo9uMmp3uk9UT1qwkI.html
11-04-2020||India||Cash-strapped Punjab gets a boost as Centre sanctions Rs 1,237 crore grant||The Union finance ministry has sanctioned Rs 1,237 crore grants-in-aid to Punjab that was pending arrears for previous two financial years accrued to the state after the revenue for the base year was revised, a government official said Saturday. “The sum is arrears for the loss of revenue in financial years 2017-18 and 2018-19 because of revision 2015-16 revenue, which is the base year,” the official said requesting anonymity.Punjab has been hard pressed for funds in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic.In a letter to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday, Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal said, “The financial support has come at a critical time when we are confronted with meeting the greatest challenge that humanity has ever faced.” “It has emboldened our faith in Almighty that no matter what the odds are there is always someone out there wanting to lend a helping hand just when you begin to feel than none exists,” he said in the letter reviewed by HT.He thanked Sitharaman for keeping her promise to release Goods and Services Tax (GST) arrears and appreciated her for a “fair play”. “In retrospect I feel that the delay has turned out to be a blessing in disguise allowing us to obtain this reserve when it would be most needed,” he wrote.Singh was responding to a Union finance ministry order dated April 8, 2020 to the Pay and Accounts Officer at the revenue department about a payment of Rs 1,237 crore as grants-in-aid to the government of Punjab.“Taking into account the payment of this amount and earlier release of ad-hoc GST compensation amounts of Rs 4,618 Cr and Rs 8,239 crore, respectively for financial years 2017-18 and 2018-19, total release of GST compensation to Punjab for the period of July 2017 to March 2019 becomes Rs 14,094 crore,” the official mentioned above said.This release of non-plan grant is arrears of GST compensation for FY 2017-18 and FY 2018-19 worked out as per entitlement of the state government on the basis of revision of base year 2015-16 revenue and is subject to the certified figures for FY 2017-18 and FY 2018-19 to be provided by the government of Punjab, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cash-strapped-punjab-gets-a-boost-as-centres-sanctions-rs-1-237-grant/story-o5fT6lwVn3k6DXTh26GKbN.html
11-04-2020||India||Rs 1,237 crore sanctioned as grants-in-aid to Punjab govt||The Union finance ministry has sanctioned Rs1,237 crore as grants-in-aid to Punjab from pending arrears accrued to the state for the two previous fiscal years after revenue for the base year was revised, a government official said on Saturday. “The sum is arrears for the loss of revenue in the financial years 2017-18 and 2018-19 because of the revision of 2015-16 revenue, which is the base year,” the official said on condition of anonymity.In a letter to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday, Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal said: “The financial support has come at a critical time when we are confronted with meeting the greatest challenge that humanity has ever faced.” Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicHe added in the letter reviewed by HT: “It has emboldened our faith in Almighty that no matter what the odds are there is always someone out there wanting to lend a helping hand just when you begin to feel than none exists.”Badal thanked Sitharaman for keeping her promise to release Goods and Services Tax (GST) arrears and appreciated her for her “fair play”. He wrote, “In retrospect I feel that the delay has turned out to be a blessing in disguise allowing us to obtain this reserve when it would be most needed.”Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreakHe was responding to a Union finance ministry order dated April 8 to the Pay and Accounts Officer at the revenue department about the payment of Rs1,237 crore as grants-in-aid to the Punjab government.“Taking into account the payment of this amount and earlier release of ad-hoc GST compensation amounts of Rs4,618 crore and Rs8,239 crore, respectively, for financial years 2017-18 and 2018-19, the total release of GST compensation to Punjab for the period from July 2017 to March 2019 becomes Rs14,094 crore,” the official cited above said.This release of non-plan grant is arrears of GST compensation for the fiscal years 2017-18 and 2018-19, worked out according to the entitlement of the state government on the basis of revision of base year 2015-16 revenue, and is subject to certified figures for fiscal years 2017-18 and 2018-19 to be provided by the Punjab government, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rs1-237-crore-sanctioned-as-grants-in-aid-to-punjab-govt/story-28izQLLiZRqxmWZwgo9UzH.html
11-04-2020||India||Covid-19 update: PM Modi wears mask, so do chief ministers during virtual meeting||Prime Minister Narendra Modi had a message for the people on Saturday as he was seen wearing a mask during his video-conference with chief ministers over the coronavirus pandemic.The Prime Minister was seen in a white homemade cloth mask during the video conference with chief ministers to discuss the way forward as India reported more than 7400 cases of the coronavirus disease, which has also killed 239 people, on Saturday. Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The chief ministers, including West Bengal’s Mamata Banerjee, Delhi’s Arvind Kejriwal, Rajasthan’s Ashok Gehlot, Karnataka’s BS Yediyurappa, were also seen in masks during the virtual meeting after which the Prime Minister is expected to take a decision on whether to lift or extend the lockdown.“I am always available. Any chief minister can speak to me and give suggestions (on Covid-19) anytime. We should stand together shoulder-to-shoulder,” Modi is understood to have said during the meeting.Prime Minister Modi had asked his Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) leaders and workers to distribute masks to at least five to seven people and even wear them at home, if possible. Also read: On Covid-19 lockdown, PM Modi to strike a balance between saving lives and livelihoodAddressing the BJP’s cadre through a video link on the 40th foundation day of the party on Monday, Modi had underlined the importance of wearing masks to avoid getting infected.Last week, the Centre had also said last week that people can use homemade, reusable cloth mask as an alternative to retail ones.Also read: Coronavirus cases in India rise to 7447, death toll at 239Click here for complete coronavirus coverage||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-pm-modi-wears-mask-so-do-chief-ministers-during-virtual-meeting/story-OoC3wWdx3Am37EpedegsBO.html
11-04-2020||India||‘I am always available’, PM Modi tells chief ministers during Covid-19 meet||Wearing a mask Prime Minister Narendra Modi during a video conference with chief ministers to discuss whether the lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus should be extended, assured them that he is open to suggestions.“I am available 24x7. Any chief minister can speak to me and give suggestions (on COVID-19) anytime. We should stand together shoulder-to-shoulder,” Modi said.Many other chief ministers were also seen wearing masks.Follow live updates on coronavirus hereThe pandemic has affected more than 7400 people across India and killed 239 people so far. This is the third time the PM has communicated with CMs through a video conference. On Tuesday, he took feedback from the chief ministers on whether the three-week lockdown scheduled to end on April 14 should be extended.Odisha and Punjab have already extended the lockdown toll April 30 while many other states have said they want to extend the lockdown.The government is trying to strike a balance between life and livelihood as India the lockdown has rendered thousands of workers jobless while the medical infrastructure is under strain amid rising cases of coronavirus.Ahead of the meeting, the West Bengal government decided to impose a total lockdown in 10 Covid-19 hotspots and clusters from where positive cases have been reported.Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram had urged chief ministers to demand cash transfer to families of the poor who have been hit hard by the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-am-always-available-pm-modi-tells-chief-ministers-during-covid-19-meet/story-cTIndjGB8VTFbmOGrlPTtJ.html
11-04-2020||India||Delhi Covid-19 tally nears 1000; 13 dead, over 20 recover: Ministry of Health||Coronavirus cases in the country continue to rise unabated. The national capital has 941 coronavirus cases of which 13 people have died and 25 patients have recovered, the latest health ministry figures released on Saturday indicated.This comes after the number of coronavirus patients in Delhi on Friday crossed the 900-mark. As many as 183 cases were reported on Friday - the highest jump so far for the national capital, news agency PTI reported. According to the bulletin issued by Delhi’s Health Department on Friday, 584 Covid-19 cases in the national capital are linked to Tablighi Jamaat’s Nizamuddin Markaz. The administration also increased the number of Covid-19 containment zones across Delhi to 30 on Friday. The areas that have been included in the list of containment zones include Nabi Karim, E pocket GTB enclave, Street no 18 to 22 of Zakir Nagar and nearby area of Abu Bakar Masjid, Zakir Nagar. All these areas have been earmarked as containment and sealed.As per the latest figures released by the Ministry of Health, the total tally of the infected people in the country rose to 7,447 on Saturday. With 40 deaths and 1,035 new coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours, India has witnessed the sharpest ever increase in Covid-19 cases.Meanwhile, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday held a tele-discussion with various chief ministers on the prevailing coronavirus situation in the country and the possibility of the extension of the lockdown beyond April 14.Odisha and Punjab have already announced the extension of lockdown till April 30.   (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-recorded-highest-jump-in-covid-19-cases-on-friday-final-tally-inches-toward-1-000/story-GnSnzfjLblm4iaSIN64wKN.html
11-04-2020||India||With 92 new Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra now has 1666 infections||Maharashtra on Saturday reported 92 new cases, mostly from Mumbai, of the coronavirus disease, taking the state tally to more than 1660, officials said.The numbers on Saturday were less than those recorded on Friday and Thursday when more than 200 people tested positive for Covid-19 on both the days.Out of the 92 coronavirus infections, Mumbai had 72, Malegaon five, Thane four, Panvel and Aurangabad each had two and one each was reported from Kalyan Dombivali, Palghar, Nashik rural, Nashik city, Ahmednagar, Pimpri Chinchwad and Vasai Virar.On Friday, 210 new infections were reported and the state’s tally stood at 1574. The death toll had risen by 13 to 110 across the state on Friday.Mumbai’s Covid-19 count crossed the 1,000-mark on Friday, a month since the first coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patient was reported in the city. The city had reported 132 new cases and 10 deaths on Friday, taking its tally to 1,008 and toll to 64.Also read: Coronavirus cases in India rise to 7447, death toll at 239Mumbai breached the 100-patient mark on March 31, almost three weeks after a couple from Andheri were identified as the first to be infected by the disease in the city. On April 2, the city’s tally crossed 200 and since then cases have tripled in the past week.The number of deaths has also jumped in the past four days, with the city reporting 24 deaths. The first Covid-19 death in Mumbai was recorded on March 17, when a 64-year-old man succumbed to the infection at Kasturba Hospital.Health officials in the state, which has been the worst hit in the country, have said the number of Covid-19 cases has recorded a 147.8% jump since April 4 – a week – when there were 635 infections. The capital city of Mumbai has also seen a spike of 167%—from 377 to 1008—in the number of cases during the same period.The officials attributed the rise in Covid-19 cases to more testing across the state, especially in Mumbai. According to the health department’s data, Maharashtra has conducted 33,093 tests so far—the highest in India.Also read: On Covid-19 lockdown, PM Modi to strike a balance between saving lives and livelihoodThe state government, however, is looking to extend the lockdown in urban areas but it may ease a few restrictions in rural areas, especially where there are not many cases. A decision on the lockdown extension is expected to be taken on Saturday, after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s video conference with chief ministers of all states.State health minister Rajesh Tope had earlier indicated that the situation “would not come back to normal after the 21-day lockdown ends on April 14”.Senior state government officials have said the government is looking at various options, including keeping Mumbai, Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad – the areas with most of the cases – under lockdown.They said the restrictions could be relaxed in other parts of the state. However, movement of people between districts and curb on transportation is likely to continue, said the officials on condition of anonymity.Rajesh Tope, the state’s health minister, had held a meeting with Union health minister Harsh Vardhan via video conferencing on Friday.Tope had sought quicker standardisation for personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, so that its manufacturing can begin. The state sought additional testing facilities in five cities – Nanded, Aurangabad, Jalna, Latur and Amravati.Maharashtra, Tope said, has 325,000 PPE kits, 825,000 N95 masks, 2125 ventilators, but needs more such equipment. “Maharashtra has five to six manufacturers, but the standardisation has to come from the Centre. The chief minister has already written to the government of India seeking a timeframe to provide additional PPE, masks and ventilators,” he said.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, state health department officials said, would take up the issue with the Prime Minister during the meeting on Saturday.More than 500 cases of coronavirus disease were reported in India in the last 12 hours, bringing the number of Covid-19 patients to 7447 on Saturday, the Union home ministry data showed.The country has registered 239 fatalities as of 8am on Saturday, on a day Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to hold a meeting with chief ministers of all the states to decide whether to extend the 21-day lockdown. The country-wide restrictions are to end on April 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-92-new-covid-19-cases-maharashtra-now-has-1666-infections/story-614HyEtjOBwjBnNc2XUIjN.html
11-04-2020||India||Four, including two paramedics, test positive for Covid-19 in Himachal||The number of Covid-19 cases in Himachal Pradesh climbed to 32 as four people, including two paramedics from Baddi town in Solan district, tested positive for coronavirus late on Friday and Saturday.Additional chief secretary, health, RD Dhiman said that 127 samples were tested at three facilities in the state of which 125 came out negative and two positive. On Saturday, 64 samples were tested of which 57 came out negative and two positive while results of five are awaited.“Among the fresh cases two are paramedical staff of a private hospital in Baddi. They were primary contacts of a Delhi-based industrialist’s 70-year-old wife who died of Covid-19 at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh, on April 3,” he said.Apart from this, a 24-year-old man from Kuthera Kherla village of Amb sub-division of Una has also tested positive.Another primary contact of the Jamaat workers from Nakdoh village also tested positive.Being a son of the cleric at a local mosque, he was primary contact of Tablighi Jamaat workers, who tested positive for COVID 19 on March 2 and now have been cured.With this, the number of active Covid-19 cases is 21 in the state.4 JAMAAT ACTIVISTS AMONG SIX PEOPLE CUREDSix people, including three Jamaat workers from Una district, have been cured and four patients have been shifted out of the state for treatment.A US-returned Tibetan died in Kangra on March 3.The second follow-up samples of three more Jamaat workers, whose first follow-up sample came out negative, will be tested on Saturday.Himachal Pradesh had reported its first two Covid-19 cases on March 20 and the third on March 23. The number rose sharply after April 1, as 27 people tested positive within 10 days, most of them who attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi last month.CM asks Centre to provide PPE, rapid diagnostic kits The state government has urged the Centre to provide adequate number of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) and rapid diagnostic kits to effectively fight Covid-19 in the state. In a video conference with Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Friday, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur also asked for providing 60 ventilators to HP. The Union minister ensured that the Centre would provide all possible help to the state government.Thakur informed the minister that the state government has notified six hospitals—Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College Nerchowk Mandi, ESIC Hospital Katha Baddi, Charitable Hospital Bhota in Hamirpur, SS Memorial Ashirwaa Hospital in Chamba, Civil Hospital Sarahan in Sirmaur, and Agarwal Hospital Jwalamukhi in Kangra— as Covid-19 hospitals in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-paramedics-from-himachal-s-solan-test-covid-19-positive/story-gJGXodiINmOjfzVJGn18YO.html
11-04-2020||India||West Bengal to impose total lockdown in 10 Covid-19 hotspots including parts of Kolkata||Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee-led West Bengal government is set to impose a total lockdown in 10 Covid-19 hotspots in the state, news agency PTI reported. The lockdown will also be imposed in parts of Kolkata, an official said. This comes after the West Bengal government on Friday said that it had identified “9-10” coronavirus hotspots in the state, including one in Kolkata and another in Howrah.The administration, however, refused to name any of the hotspots as “a matter of principle”.“We have identified 9-10 hotspots. Complete lockdown will be maintained in these hotspots. The state will, however, ensure the supply of food and essential commodities for people living in these containment zones,” chief secretary Ravija Sinha said.This comes on the day when Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a tele-discussion with various chief ministers on the prevailing coronavirus situation in the country. A decision on the extension of the 21-day nationwide lockdown is likely to be taken during the meeting. Odisha and Punjab have decided to extend the lockdown till April 30. Several states, including Uttar Pradesh, Telangana, Maharashtra and Karnataka, have called for lockdown enforcement beyond April 14.Parts of Uttar Pradesh and three major cities in Madhya Pradesh have been completely sealed in the wake of the rising Covid-19 cases.  As many as 15 districts in Uttar Pradesh came under a strict lockdown from Thursday till April 15. Delhi administration has also sealed moe than 20 Covid-19 hotspots in the national capital to contain the spread of novel coronavirus.Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, earlier this week, ordered three major cities - Indore, Ujjain and Bhopal - to be sealed in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak.As per the latest figures released by the Ministry of Health on Saturday, the total number of coronavirus cases in the country have jumped to 7,447. The figure includes 6,565 active cases, 239 deaths and around 642 people who have recovered from the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-west-bengal-to-impose-total-lockdown-in-10-covid-19-hotspots-including-parts-of-kolkata/story-ESCiYKY7ns9IO1MWjVK9QJ.html
11-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Software engineers join hands with Cyberabad Police to deliver essential services||K Amarnath hates to sit at home idle just watching movies on the television and browsing the internet during the ongoing lockdown on account of Covid-19.So, the software engineer with Cognizant Technologies in Telangana’s Cyberabad has chosen to spend his time serving food to thousands of poor who have lost their livelihood due to the 21-day lockdown.“I thought the best way to reach out to one’s heart is through the stomach. So, I have taken up preparing food at a kitchen of my friend’s restaurant at Gachibowli which has since been closed and supplying breakfast and lunch to the hungry,” the 35-year-old, who has been on a paid holiday for the last two weeks, says.Amarnath is one of the 300-odd volunteers associated with Society for Cyberabad Security Council (SCSC), a collaborative venture of information technology and IT-enabled services companies located in and around Madhapur and Cyberabad police stations.Though the council is primarily meant for ensuring safety and security for the software hub using high-end technology, it has taken up social service during the ongoing Covid-19 crisis and is involved in various activities.From serving food to the poor, distributing groceries and medicines in various localities, arranging ambulance services in emergency situations and educating people about the disease, besides helping the police in implementing the lockdown are some of the things they are doing.The council has set up a Covid-19 control room on the premises of Cyberabad Police Commissionerate at Gachibowli, where around 40-50 software employees work in three shifts round-the-clock.“On an average, we received 1000 to 1300 calls every day, from various parts of Hyderabad and Cyberabad, requesting us to supply food or groceries in a particular area for lunch or dinner, or from people who need ambulance service or even for supply of masks or medicines or water bubbles. Our volunteers quickly plunge into action and attend to the needs of the people, with the help of the police,” Chinnam Rajasekhar, an engineering graduate who had worked for a VFX firm in Madhapur till recently, says.On average, the council supplies food packets to around 25,000 people in different parts of the city.“On my part, I supply food to around 1500-2000 people. The menu comprises flavoured rice made of tomato or brinjal or potato or even pickles, besides curd rice. Every day, I also supply breakfast like Vada or Mysore Bajji, to police personnel and also SCSC volunteers at the control room,” Amarnath says.“From tomorrow, we are planning to supply 10,000 buttermilk sachets to the people every day,” he adds.Rajasekhar, whose father has a job in an ordnance factory near Sangareddy, works from 9am to 11pm at the control room and also looks after issuance of vehicle passes, preparation of schedules and route maps for the distribution of food and other material the following day. The 30-year-old also replies to emails from people who have queries.“The team of volunteers has been doing excellent service. Many software engineers are working from home for their offices during the morning hours and coming to the voluntary service in the evenings. Hats off to their dedication,” Krishna Yedula, centre head of software firm Virtusa and the secretary of SCSC, says.Apart from people like Amarnath, SCSC has also tied up with the Ramakrishna Mission and NGOs like Akshaya Patra for the preparation of food and procuring groceries.“Apart from huge contributions from our own software companies, we have been getting liberal donations from a cross-section of people and that is serving our purpose,” Yedula says.Cyberabad police commissioner V C Sajjannar said a large number of police personnel belonging to law and order and traffic wings were working along with SCSC volunteers in distribution of grocery bags and food packets, water bottles, buttermilk packets, vegetables and other essential items to the needy.“Our volunteers are also looking into the complaints of violation of home quarantine norms, social distancing rules and lockdown orders and are reporting to the control room. We advise people to break the chain of coronavirus by staying at home, staying safe and rule-bound during the lockdown period,” Sajjannar says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/south/coronavirus-update-software-engineers-join-hands-with-cyberabad-police-to-deliver-essential-services/story-ySyXBN6dFxfZG8iGrBRURP.html
11-04-2020||India||Rajasthan to give Rs 50 lakh to kin of govt employees who die of coronavirus during anti-Covid-19 ops||Rajasthan Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has announced a financial assistance worth Rs 50 lakh to family of any government employee in matter of his death being reported due to coronavirus during the anti-Covid-19 operation in the state.The central government had earlier announced a medical insurance cover of Rs 50 lakh to the corona warriors, including medical staff. However, now, the state government has extended it to other employees as well who are part of the anti-Covid-19 operation.The state government said the employees working on contract basis would also be covered under this financial assistance scheme. Patwaris, gram sevaks, constables, contract employees including safai karmacharis, health workers and those employed on honorarium like Home Guard, civil defence, Asha and anganwadi workers have also been included amongst the beneficiaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-to-give-rs-50-lakh-to-kin-of-govt-employees-who-die-of-coronavirus-during-anti-covid-19-ops/story-kqaiB7Fjtojox0kBUJJyVK.html
11-04-2020||India||Covid-19 cases near 2,000 in Maharashtra, cross 900 in Delhi and Tamil Nadu: A statewise tally||The Ministry of Health updated the total number of coronavirus cases in the country on Saturday to 7,447. The figure includes 6,565 active cases, 239 deaths and around 642 people who have recovered from the virus.While Covid-19 cases in Tamil Nadu and Delhi have crossed the 900 mark, Maharashtra is now nearing to report 2,000 cases. Maharashtra accounts for the highest number of Covid-19 fatalities followed by Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat.Here’s taking a look at the statewise breakup of coronavirus active cases, deaths and the number of patients who have cured or discharged. MaharashtraWith 1574 Covid-19 active cases, Maharashtra has registered the highest number of coronavirus cases in the country. The state has recorded 110 deaths so far while 188 patients have recovered.Tamil NaduThe southern state has the second-highest number of Covid-19 cases in the country which now stand at a whopping 911. Tamil Nadu has seen 44 recoveries and 8 Covid-19 deaths.DelhiDelhi closely follows with the third-highest number of coronavirus cases in the country. As many as 903 people have tested positive of coronavirus in the national capital. 13 people have died from the infection while 25 people have made a recovery, as per the health ministry’s data.RajasthanCoronavirus cases in Rajasthan touched 553 on Saturday. The state has reported 3 fatalities. 21 patients have recovered from the infection.Telangana473 positive cases of coronavirus have been reported from the state so far. 43 people have made a recovery from the virus while seven people have died from Covid-19.Madhya PradeshThe state has reported 435 positive cases of coronavirus. 33 people have died from Covid-19 here.Uttar Pradesh431 people have been infected from Covid-19 in the state. While 32 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, 4 have died from the infection here.Andhra PradeshThe state has witnessed 363 positive Covid-19 patients and 7 cases of recovery. 6 people have died.KeralaWith 364 coronavirus cases, Kerala is the fifth most coronavirus-affected state in the country. As per the latest data by the Ministry of Health, Kerala has witnessed two deaths due to Covid-19 while 123 people have successfully recovered.GujaratPrime Minister Narendra Modi’s home state has registered 308 coronavirus cases and 31 recoveries so far. 19 people have died from the infection in the state.KarnatakaThe state has recorded 207 Covid-19 cases and 6 deaths. 31 people have been cured and discharged.Jammu and KashmirThe union territory of Jammu and Kashmir has seen the number of Covid-19 patients rising to 207. 4 people have died from the infection while 6 were cured.Haryana and PunjabThe neighbouring states have 177 and 132 Covid-19 cases respectively. While 11 people have died in Punjab, Haryana has seen three deaths. 29 people have recovered from Covid-19 in Haryana, 5 in Punjab.116 people have been affected by the Sars-CoV-2 virus in West Bengal. There have been 5 deaths and 16 recoveries in the state. Odisha has 48 Covid-19 positive patients, 2 have recovered while one person has died. In Bihar, 60 people have tested positive for coronavirus, one has died.Assam has reported 29 Covid-19 cases, one person has recovered. Uttarakhand has 35 coronavirus patients, five patients have recovered from the infection. In Chandigarh, 18 people have contracted the Covid-19 disease and 7 have recovered. Andaman has recorded 11 coronavirus cases. Chhattisgarh has recorded 18 cases of coronavirus and 9 people have recovered. Ladakh has 15 patients, 10 people have recovered. Goa has reported seven cases of Covid-19 disease, one patient has recovered. Himachal Pradesh has 28 cases, one patient has died and 6 have recovered. Pondicherry has reported five cases, one has recovered. Jharkhand has 14 Covid-19 cases, one patient has died. Two coronavirus cases have been reported in Manipur, one has recovered.States and Union territories with just one positive Covid-19 case include Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram, Tripura.Sikkim, Meghalaya and Nagaland have not reported any Covid-19 case yet.India entered the 18th day of the 21-day coronavirus lockdown on Saturday which will end on April 14, if not extended. Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-cases-near-2-000-in-maharashtra-cross-900-in-delhi-and-tamil-nadu-a-statewise-tally/story-kGuN9jBRhsdzK8aQOp4UWM.html
11-04-2020||India||Jamaat members hiding travel history could incur murder charges in Chhattisgarh||Rajnandgaon Collector JP Maurya on Friday directed all the followers of Tablighi Jamaat in the district to disclose their travel history since March 1, 2020, to prevent the spread of coronavirus. Maurya in his order said that if the concerned persons are found hiding any information “they will be booked under IPC 302 or 307 (murder or attempt to murder)”.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic“As there has been a significant number of positive coronavirus cases among the people who attended the Tablighi Jamaat event, they are requested to disclose any travel history after March 1, 2020, or if anyone has visited their place from in or outside Chhattisgarh is also to be notified,” the order said. Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreakRajnandgaon Collector also highlighted in the order that people from all religions are restricted from holding or conducting any religious gatherings like Puja, Aradhna, Darshan. Only priests are allowed to carry out the daily rituals. “This order is for all religions and everyone should abide by it,” it read. The Tablighi Jamaat event emerged as a hotspot for COVID-19 after hundreds of positive cases across the country were linked to the congregation, including deaths in Maharashtra, Karnataka, and Telangana.Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel had on Thursday said that situation in the State is under control and that his government is trying all possible ways to increase the number of tests. The coronavirus tally in the State currently stands at 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jamaat-members-hiding-travel-history-could-incur-murder-charges-in-chhattisgarh/story-ODi70tgOWCEDX01za6nycI.html
11-04-2020||India||On Covid-19 lockdown, PM Modi to strike a balance between saving lives and livelihood||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hear out all the Chief Ministers on their views and suggestions on whether to lift or extend the lockdown, but his decision will be communicated directly to people closer to April 14.On April 9 and 10, PM Modi had six hours of presentations made by his principal advisors and empowered groups each to strike the balance between life and livelihood as India does not have the medical infrastructure to handle the community transmission of the coronavirus.Click here for full coronavirus coverage “The easiest call to make is to extend the lockdown, the toughest one is how to lift it so that India does not go into negative growth,” said a senior member of one of the empowered committees.On Thursday, Prime Minister Modi heard his key advisors led by Principal Secretary PK Mishra, National Security Advisor Ajit Doval, Principal Advisor P K Sinha, Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba, CEO NITI Aaayog Amitabh Kant and Additional Secretary (PMO) AK Sharma.It is understood that while all were in agreement to save Indian lives, they also wanted economic activity to be revived as the ports are jammed with containers and major port cities like Mumbai and Chennai are hit by the pandemic.“We have to revive activity in ports so that essential containers are locked behind non-essential containers and hence required to be removed. If we start the essential activity, then the patrol constable on the road must learn to distinguish between the essential and non-essential,” said a senior official.It is understood that one of the proposals to revive economic activity with a graded lift of lockdown was to demarcate the country into red, yellow and green zones. The Red zones with major corona activity will remain sealed, the yellow with very limited number of cases will be monitored but movement will be allowed and the green zones will be allowed to come back to normal.“ There are some 400 districts in this country that are not affected by the virus. We may look at opening them to activity and take a graded call on other districts by labelling them in yellow and green zones. One must not forget that the harvesting season begins from April 14 and India is a largely agrarian economy ,” said an official.While PM Modi went into micro details including supply of PPE, HCQ and masks at these meetings, it is understood that he will study the full impact of lockdown over this weekend to decide on the final call. Given his credibility with the masses, PM Modi’s decision will be followed to the last word.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-covid-19-lockdown-pm-modi-to-strike-a-balance-between-saving-lives-and-livelihood/story-YDfgytD5CaDnjRRGaA2vtM.html
11-04-2020||India||People panic-buy vegetables, breaking social distancing norms in Delhi’s Okhla Mandi||In complete violation of the social distancing norms amid the coronavirus lockdown, people at Delhi’s Okhla mandi were seen rushing inside the vegetable market, here on Saturday.The vendors were seen in large numbers at the entry points and ‘panic-buying’ vegetables and fruits in large quantities.“We check whether people are wearing masks or not and we also ask them to maintain a certain distance among each other before entering the market,” a security guard at the entry point of the market told ANI.He also claimed that precautions are taken and norms are adhered to.With regards to the build-up of a crowd at the market on Saturday, he said that it is because of the lockdown that has been imposed, vegetables have been in short supply.“It is because of the nationwide lockdown being imposed leading to a low supply of vegetables that people come here to buy vegetables in large numbers fearing that the lockdown may get extended,” he added.According to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, the total numbers of positive Covid-19 cases in the national capital are 903 with 25 patients have been recovered/discharged and 13 people have died from the deadly virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/people-panic-buy-vegetables-breaking-social-distancing-norms-in-delhi-s-okhla-mandi/story-8tPkzlNAYAH60wWvwk3U3K.html
11-04-2020||India||PM Modi to meet CMs, vaccine likely by 2021: Covid-19 news today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to hold a video-conference with chief ministers on Saturday to discuss issues related to the coronavirus disease, including the lifting of the lockdown triggered by it. As the global death toll surpassed 100,000 on Friday, an analysis said five Covid-19 vaccine candidates are in phase 1 (clinical trials to determine safety for humans) and 73 in the exploratory stage. The analysis hoped a vaccine will be available by 2021 with work continuing in unprecedented pace and scale.Coronavirus crisis: 100,000 dead in 101 days, halfOn Friday, the toll surpassed 100,000, a milestone that could well be dwarfed soon at the current rate of the pandemic’s growth: fatalities have doubled and the total number of infections grew by 600,000 in the last week alone, according to the Johns Hopkins University Coronavirus Research Center.Read MorePunjab extends curbs; PM Modi to meet CMs todayWith Prime Minister Narendra Modi scheduled to hold his third video conference with chief ministers on Saturday to discuss the coronavirus pandemic, including reviewing the lockdown, which ends on April 14, Punjab became the second state — after Odisha — to extend the lockdown till the end of the month. Read MoreCondom-maker PSU at forefront of antibody testing kitsThe state-owned HLL Lifecare Limited (the HLL stands for Hindustan Latex Limited, its avatar in its condom making days, but no one uses that name anymore), has emerged an important part of the government’s fight against Covid-19.Read MoreCovid-19: What you need to know todayThe total number of people infected by Sars-CoV-2, the virus which causes the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has crossed 1.6 million. Of these, at least 100,000 have died. And at last count, 177 of the 195 countries in the world had confirmed cases. In India, the number of cases on Friday night was 7,556, and there have been 250 deaths attributed to Covid-19. Read MoreTo boost sales, Centre asks states to suspend farm lawThe Centre has recommended that states suspend certain provisions of their respective Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) Acts for three months to allow farmers to sell their harvest from multiple locations and to any buyer, Union farm minister Narendra Singh Tomar said on Friday.Read MoreFor complete coverage of coroanvirus, click on this linkGovt plans changes in law to allow 12-hour shifts in factoriesThe Union government is considering a change in a 1948 law to allow longer shifts in factories as it works out ways to help factories cope with fewer workers and high demand -- and all against a context where the ongoing nationwide lockdown is likely to continue beyond April 15.Read MoreCovid-19 in India: Rising infections among medical staff raise preparedness concernsAcross the country, the total number of health workers who have tested positive for Covid-19 has increased to 200 and as many as 12 private hospitals have been sealed.Read MoreCovid-19: As race for vaccine heats up, new techs come to foreThe development of a vaccine for Covid-19 is proceeding at an unprecedented pace and scale, and also using innovative technologies, according to an analysis of the global Covid-19 vaccine development database, published in the journal Nature Reviews Drug Discovery.Read MoreHT Salutes: Everyday heroes of the pandemic As the numbers go up of people coronavirus-infected (5,274), dead (165), hospitalised and quarantined, staying home is seen as the only way India’s citizens can save others, but not everyone is convinced this is all they can do to help. So, while they follow the official rules and restrictions, thousands of Indians are finding ways to help those who are more vulnerable. Meet some of India’s corona volunteers.Read MoreThe government is discussing a calibrated reopening of the economy with industry associations and experts who have said a prolonged nationwide lockdown could lead to shortfall of essential goods, and that it would not be easy to stop the economic engine altogether during the battle against covid-19 pandemic.Read More‘Must prioritise labour intensive sectors’: Vikram Kirloskar, CII PresidentIndian industry expects a prolonged recovery period after the national lockdown is eased and is hoping for government support, especially to small and medium enterprises, to help mitigate the pain, Vikram Kirloskar, president, Confederation of Indian Industry told Goutam Das during an interview. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-meet-cms-vaccine-likely-by-2021-covid-19-news-today/story-kG40Ms6dXA16xJiasHtzTJ.html
11-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Chidambaram urges chief ministers to make a ‘unanimous demand’, ask Centre to ‘remonetise the poor’||Former finance minister and Congress leader P Chidambaram on Saturday took to Twitter and urged various chief ministers to tell Prime Minister Narendra Modi that the “livelihood of the poor” is equally important amid this coronavirus crisis. “Chief Ministers - @capt_amarinder @ashokgehlot51 @bhupeshbaghel @VNarayanasami @uddhavthackeray @EPSTamilNadu  should tell the Prime Minister today that just as LIVES are important LIVELIHOOD of the poor is important,” Chidambaram tweeted out. He said that the government must work for the cause of the poor as well while the country fights the coronavirus menace. Chidambaram said that poor are hit due to the Covid-19 crisis and have lost their jobs amid the lockdown. “The poor have lost their jobs or self-employment in the last 18 days. They have exhausted their meagre savings. Many are standing in line for food. Can the State stand by and watch them go hungry?” Chidambaram posted.He asked the chief ministers to demand for the immediate transfer of cash to the families of the poor. Chief Ministers - @capt_amarinder @ashokgehlot51 @bhupeshbaghel @VNarayanasami @uddhavthackeray @EPSTamilNadu should tell the Prime Minister today that just as LIVES are important LIVELIHOOD of the poor is important.“CMs should demand that cash be transferred to every poor family immediately. ‘Remonetise the poor’ should be their unanimous demand,” Chidambaram said. This comes on a day when PM Modi is set to hold another round of video conference with all chief ministers today to discuss the coronavirus crisis in the country. A decision on lockdown extension is likely to come after the meeting.So far, Punjab and Odisha have already extended the lockdown till April 30. India entered the 18th day of the 21-day coronavirus lockdown on Saturday which will come to an end on April 14 if not extended.Meanwhile, the Ministry of Health has updated the total number of coronavirus cases in the country to 7,447. The figure includes 6,565 active cases, 239 deaths and around 642 people who have recovered from the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-chidambaram-urges-chief-ministers-to-make-a-unanimous-demand-ask-centre-to-remonetise-the-poor/story-YSl8hRAuICgCcL5cN1tfkN.html
11-04-2020||India||Kerala reports 3rd coronavirus-related death, 71-year-old dies in hospital||A 71-year-old resident of Puducherry’s Mahe, who was admitted in Pariyaram Medical College in Kerala’s Kannur, died early on Saturday, officials said.The man was suffering from multiple complications and was on ventilator support for the last two weeks, according to doctors.Click here for full coronavirus coverageHe was admitted to a local hospital on March 27 and later discharged. Later, he was again rushed to the hospital after he developed pneumonia and both his kidneys were damaged, said doctors.They added he didn’t have any travel history but participated in many functions before he fell ill. Kerala was the first state in India to report coronavirus disease cases and has the least number of deaths and a good recovery rate. There are 363 positive cases in the state to date after the first Covid-19 patient was reported in January.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/south/kerala-reports-3rd-coronavirus-related-death-71-year-old-dies-in-hospital/story-k1FAaDP4QSwErOeMadhOAP.html
11-04-2020||India||6 missing, 2 injured after Reliance power plant in MP develops breach||Six people went missing and two women sustained injuries after a fly ash dyke of Reliance’s Sasan Ultra Mega Power Project in Singrauli on the Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh border developed a breach on Friday evening, officials said.KVS Chaudhary, the district collector of Singrauli, said those reported missing include Choonkumari Shah, 27, a resident of Siddhikala village, her son Abhishek, 8, and daughter Seema Kumari, 9, Dinesh Kumar, 35, a resident of Bhamaura village and his son Ankit, 3, and Rajjad Ali, 28, a resident of Waidhan.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicReena Kumar, wife of Dinesh Kumar, and Keshpati Shah have been injured.“The dyke situated on Reliance Power Plant (Sasan) premises near village Harrahva developed a breach on Friday evening…The injured have been hospitalised and their condition is stable,” Chaudhary said.The project is 780 kilometres northeast of state capital of Bhopal.Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreak“The relief work is going on a war footing. A survey will be conducted to provide compensation to the villagers and action will be taken against those responsible for the incident,” Chaudhary said.Sasan Power Limited said in a statement that the breach in the ash dump yard wall pushed the water causing a break in the boundary wall and affected some thatched houses and minor land parcel. “We are deeply anguished by the incident involving the break in the ash dump yard wall at our Sasan Power Plant… We are investigating the reasons underlying the incident. Power Plant operations will continue as the relief and restoration work is not affected by the same,” it said.“We are closely working with locals and the District Administration in relief and restoration work,” it added.Environment expert Ashwani Kumar Dubey condemned the incident.“Due to negligent act of officials of Sasan Ultra Mega Power Project, the fly ash dyke breached and toxic residue and fly ash-laden water entered the houses of villagers and damaged their crops and also entered the Rihand reservoir. There is a fear of loss of life as well,” Dubey said.Dubey pointed out that this was not the first such incident in Singrauli. “Earlier, fly ash dyke of Essar breached. Then dyke of Vindhyachal super thermal power plant breached. Now, this is the third such incident just within a year. Only a few months back the officials of the power plant told a team of National Green Tribunal (NGT) that their fly ash dyke was in a good condition,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-missing-2-injured-after-reliance-power-plant-in-mp-develops-breach/story-SnhU3OabCtB4mItTRD22PJ.html
11-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Madhya Pradesh has highest death rate, poor state response||Madhya Pradesh on Friday reported the highest death rate of Covid-19 patients in India with almost the entire health department either in quarantine or in hospitals. The health experts said the high deaths and spurt in cases indicated poor state response to the deadly virus in the state.The first four cases in the state were reported from Jabalpur on March 20, the day when chief minister Kamal Nath resigned from his post two hours before he was to face a floor test in the state assembly to prove the majority of his government. Bhopal joined the list of Covid-19 affected cities in the state on March 22 with one patient.On March 23, Bharatiya Janata Party leader Shivraj Singh Chouhan took over as the new chief minister for the fourth time but without any cabinet minister. That day, the state had seven cases in total.In the next two days, the number of Covid-19 positive cases went up to 15 and the number of districts from where the cases were reported increased to six from two. Till the end of March, the number of cases increased to about 66 with five deaths. Only 1,000 samples for the Covid-19 test were collected and there were only three labs approved by ICMR , according to the health department bulletin.By then, there was a clear indication that Indore was turning out to be the Covid-19 hotspot in the state with 66% of the total cases and three of five deaths. Officials said the local administration failed to enforce the nationwide lockdown in Indore in letter and spirit after which Chouhan replaced the collector and deputy inspector general (DIG) Police in Indore.“But it was too late and too little. Damage had been done. Those who had contracted virus in Indore were spreading within their areas. The situation was about to explode and it happened. Had there been testing of samples on a large scale, Indore’s story would have been different today,” said an official from Indore who was not willing to be named.In a fortnight since then, the state on Friday had 451 cases in 20 out of the total 52 districts and 36 deaths in 6 districts. Indore accounted for 235 of these cases and 26 deaths. Madhya Pradesh has conducted only 70 Covid-19 tests, per million population, as per the analysis of data provided by the state government.Within 24 hours of his taking over, the CM replaced Chief Secretary Gopal Reddy and appointed Iqbal Singh Bains in his place. Reddy had taken over just 7 days back. Amid the spread of coronavirus cases, the CM also replaced health secretary Prateek Hajela on April 1, blaming him for poor response to the pandemic with Faiz Ahmad Kidwai. Pallavi Jain Govil, principal secretary in the health department had not reported to authorities that her son had returned from the US.On April 2, a managing director and IAS officer in National Health Mission (NHM) tested Covid-19 positive. On April 4, another IAS officer in the health department tested positive. Children of the IAS officer and another director in directorate who also tested positive for Covid-19 had returned from abroad, which was not reported to authorities. After being tested positive, both insisted to work from home saying they did not have any Covid-19 symptoms. On April 8, both of them were forcefully taken to a hospital.Till then, 18 health department officials, including the director of health services, had tested positive and 40 others were in mandatory home quarantine. “The two IAS officers heading the department showed symptoms of cold and cough almost the same time but they continued to attend the meetings in the directorate and the state secretariat,” a health department official said, requesting anonymity. He said the two were responsible for more than 50 officials including several IAS officers having to self-quarantine. Some of these IAS officers were heading important departments.  Giving an example of how lightly the officials took the Covid-19 situation, another health department officer said even social distancing norm was not practised in the Covid-19 control room at state’s health directorate. “The control room later became an epicentre of coronavirus as the two IAS officers and the director used to come there regularly,” he said. However, the state government in an official statement sought to justify the stand of the officers and said their sons had cleared the screening at the airport. They had no symptoms and they had completed the quarantine period.Amid all this, the health department employees across the state threatened to go on strike claiming that there were not enough Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits for health workers. Despite efforts, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan could not be reached for his comments. Additional chief secretary, health, Mohammed Suleman, who has now been asked to handle the Covid-19 situation as the head of health department, didn’t respond to calls and text messages.Public health expert Amulya Nidhi said the CM didn’t hold even a single video conference with the chief medical officers of all districts or public representatives. It was on April 10 that the CM sought suggestions from former chief minister Kamal Nath and leaders like Digvijaya Singh and Uma Bharti, he said.“The way the officers were shifted demoralised other officers. In fighting corona, the government’s entire focus was on social distancing, which is not bad. But there should have been an equal focus on procuring test kits, PPE and other equipment. To me, MP is the worst managed Covid state in the country,” he said.  Former minister and Congress leader, Ajay Singh said, “Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan messed up everything in trying to become a one-man army. Also, when the entire world was concerned over the corona pandemic the CM was busy in toppling the then Congress government.”However, state BJP spokesperson Rajneesh Agrawal said, “When the BJP government came the situation was very bad. The then Congress government had not taken any measures. There was no effort to procure PPE kits, testing kits etc. The BJP government took prompt measures to control the situation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-madhya-pradesh-has-highest-death-rate-poor-state-response/story-qj5UbOxyGLxJMlK7BlF5BJ.html
11-04-2020||India||Delhi govt shuts paid quarantine at Aerocity hotels as people move out||Once the largest quarantine cluster facility in the country, the paid quarantine centres in Aerocity near the Indira Gandhi International (IGI) Airport were shut by the Delhi government on Friday. From now, all Covid-19 suspected patients will be taken directly to government quarantine centres set up in various parts of the national capital.The paid centres were opened on the night of March 16 at five hotels of Aerocity — Red Fox, IBIS, Aloft, Holiday Inn, and Pride Plaza — and as many as 608 people were put under quarantine. Most of the them were passengers who had arrived at the Delhi airport from other countries and had to undergo the mandated quarantine. According to district magistrate (New Delhi) Tanvi Garg, of the 608 people under quarantine, five tested positive for Covid-19. Three of them had come from the USA while two were from Australia. “The Aerocity’s paid quarantine facility saw the last batch of passengers check out on Thursday. With this, the paid quarantine achieved its purpose successfully with only five positive (asymptomatic) cases. The remaining 603 persons were discharged after they tested negative for Covid-19,” Garg said. The five Covid-19 patients are being treated at Lok Nayak hospital. Piyush Rohankar, the area’s subdivisional magistrate and the nodal officer of the paid facility, said the facility has now been closed. “Now, every district has quarantine centres, so there is no need for the paid facility anymore. In case there is a spurt in cases, then the government itself will book the hotels,” he said.A few who stayed at the quarantine facility told HT over phone that some of them had to remain even after their 14-day mandatory quarantine was over as the government did not have a standard operating procedure (SoP) in place for their movement.It was only on April 4 that Delhi chief secretary Vijay Dev issued the SoP which allowed persons who have completed their quarantine to return home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-govt-shuts-paid-quarantine-at-aerocity-hotels-as-people-move-out/story-uEmiC20SlnhbfKhLNr19PK.html
11-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times| Covid-19 in India: Rising infections among medical staff raise preparedness concerns and all the latest news at this hour||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion curated for you. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19 in India: Rising infections among medical staff raise preparedness concernsIn the past two weeks,at least 90 doctors and medical workers have tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19 ) in Mumbai hospitals, raising questions about the preparedness of hospitals to tackle the pandemic.‘My kids are getting to understand how I grew up in Zimbabwe’“We didn’t grow up in front of a TV. We had to make things with our own hands. Everything was not readily available,” says Tatenda Taibu, former Zimbabwe wicketkeeper about life in lockdown and its similarities to his early life in Zimbawe,Covid-19: Researchers develop smart dustbins for contactless garbage disposal in hospitalsResearchers from the Lovely Professional University, Punjab have developed a smart dustbin called Ally that follows voice commands and moves on predefined paths to collect and dispose of garbage in a completely contactless manner.Happy Easter 2020: History, significance and celebrations of the festivalEaster marks the completion of the Passion of Christ, beginning from Lent and ending with Holy Week, which includes Holy Thursday (also Maundy Thursday which celebrates Jesus’ Last Supper with his 12 Apostles), Good Friday (when Jesus’ crucifixion is observed) and finally ending with Easter Sunday.Kerala: Applause for 17 COVID-19 patients after being discharged from hospitalAs many as 17 patients in Kerala recovered from COVID-19. The patients were discharged from Kerala’s Kasaragod hospital. Other patients were seen cheering for the discharged patients. Kasaragod district in Kerala is one of the hotspots for COVID-19. Kerala has over 340 COVID-19 positive cases. Over 150 cases in Kerala are reported from Kasaragod.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-covid-19-in-india-rising-infections-among-medical-staff-raise-preparedness-concerns-and-all-the-latest-news-at-this-hour/story-QmdIegptDfe1Ub5EP9ZyEN.html
11-04-2020||India||Coronavirus cases in India rise to 7447, death toll at 239||India reported 40 Covid-19 deaths and 1035 new cases of the coronavirus disease in the last 24 hours, the sharpest increase so far, while the number of infections crossed 7400 on Saturday morning.The Union ministry of health data at 8am showed the country’s number of coronavirus cases jumped to 7447, including 6565 active cases, 643 cured, discharged or migrated people and 239 fatalities.The report of the new cases comes of a day when Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to hold a meeting with chief ministers of all the states to decide whether to extend the 21-day lockdown. The country-wide restrictions are to end on April 14.Click here for full Covid-19 coveragePunjab and Odisha have already declared they will not ease the strict restrictions and said they will continue till the end of April.Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh said on Friday that community transmission has started in the state with 27 positive cases coming from secondary sources, a claim contested by the Union health ministry.Punjab, which was one of the first states to impose a statewide lockdown and stop public transport, has reported 132 Covid-19 patients till Friday.“We had around 1,40,000 NRIs and foreign returnees, including from those countries where the virus had spread. They were the primary ones. Now, with 27 positive cases of secondary transmission, we have entered the stage of community transmission. That is a serious cause of worry,” Amarinder Singh said during a press conference.However, responding to a question during the daily Covid-19 press conference in New Delhi, Union health ministry joint secretary Lav Aggarwal said there is no community transmission in the country yet and there is no need to panic.“Today, the challenge is not local or community transmission. Whenever the community transmission stage comes, we will inform you. There is no community transmission in the country yet. There is no need to panic,” Aggarwal said.The World Health Organization says community transmission is “evidenced by the inability to relate confirmed cases through chains of transmission for a large number of cases”.Community transmission is the third of the four stages of the spread of an infectious disease. The first is travel history, the second is local transmission, the third is community transmission, and the fourth is epidemic.The WHO in the latest Covid-19 situation report number 80 has termed India’s virus transmission classification as “cluster of cases” and not “community transmission” as of now.Also read: On Covid-19 lockdown, PM Modi to strike a balance between saving lives and livelihoodThe Centre has already reached out to state governments asking them to assess if some categories of services and people needed to be exempted from the lockdown, which many have seen as an indication that some restrictions will continue to be in place even after April 14.In Maharashtra, the numbers of Covid-19 patients stood at 1872, according to the Union health ministry data, and there have been 110 deaths in the worst-hit state in the country.In Tamil Nadu, there were 963 cases of the coronavirus disease with eight deaths. Delhi followed with 941 Covid-19 patients, out of which 25 have been cured and 13 have died.There have been over 1.6 million confirmed cases globally, with the death toll topping 100,000 on Friday.The US reported 18,600 deaths on Friday as officials warned that fatalities would likely peak this week as then decline as there was evidence that the number of new infections was flattening in New York state, the epicentre of the outbreak in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-cases-in-india-rise-to-7447-death-toll-at-239/story-CCiR5GjmhtuQDtYQikP6pM.html
11-04-2020||India||Odisha orders suspension of immunisation and sanitation drives in villages with Covid-19 cases||The Odisha government on Friday ordered the suspension of village health and sanitation days and the immunisation drive for four weeks in any village or urban areas where Covid-19 positive cases have been detected.In a letter to all district health authorities, director of National Health Mission Shalini Pandit said the earlier order of maintaining social distancing in village sub-centres during immunisation and sanitation drives was being amended because of the rise in Covid 19 cases. Odisha has so far seen 48 positive cases.The Village Health, Sanitation and Nutrition Day is organised once every month in village Anganwadi to expand the reach of health, early childhood development, nutrition and sanitation services to millions of households and contribute towards their well-being. The session is conducted for a minimum of 4 hours and is attended by multi-purpose workers, Accredited Social Health Activists, Anganwadi workers, and Anganwadi Helpers.Meanwhile, the government disclosed that two minor girls from Jharpara area in Bhubaneswar, one aged 5 years and another 9 years, have tested positive for Covid-19. Their 37-year-old mother has also tested positive. Officials said the girls were the granddaughters of the 72-year-old man who died on April 6 at AIIMS Bhubaneswar and later tested positive for Covid 19 while the woman was his daughter-in-law.Revealing their travel history, the state health and family welfare department said the two minor girls and their mother remained at home along with the 72-year-old man between March 22 and April 3. On April 4 and 5, they visited AIIMS Bhubaneswar to see their grandfather in the hospital. After their hospital visit, they remained in home quarantine between April 6 and 9. Their samples collected on April 8, as part of contact tracing, came positive for Covid-19 on April 9. They were admitted to KIMS Covid Hospital on April 10.However, Dr Binod Patro, head of Covid-19 at AIIMS Bhubaneswar said the two children did not visit their grandfather in the hospital. “We have checked the CCTV camera feeds of the day and there is no presence of the children,” he said.In a related development, the state government demanded that the Centre provide more funds as well more Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) for doctors and healthcare workers engaged for patients with suspected or confirmed Covid-19 infection.In a high-level meeting held through a video conferencing programme, state health and family welfare minister Naba Kishore Das urged Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan to release more funds for the state amid the coronavirus crisis. So far, the Centre has approved Rs 46.35 crore for Odisha in its battle against Covid-19. Das demanded at least 5 lakh PPE, an adequate quantity of Hydroxychloroquine and Vitamin-C tablets, masks and hand sanitisers for the state. He also urged the Centre to provide Covid-19 RT-PCR testing kits and sought the permission for state-run medical institutions, including VIMSAR in Burla, Bhima Bhoi Medical College & Hospital in Balangir and SLN Medical College & Hospital in Koraput, to set up a laboratory for Covid-19 test in Odisha.He also sought Cobas 6800, the automated testing machine capable of conducting Covid-19 tests of more number of samples, for the laboratories approved by ICMR-RMRC.The developments come on the day when 10 Covid-29 positive patients were discharged from various hospitals, taking the total number of recovered patients in the state to 12. Yesterday, two more positive cases were reported from Bhubaneswar taking the total number of positive cases to 50.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-orders-suspension-of-immunisation-and-sanitation-drives-in-villages-with-covid-19-cases/story-ep7uZapAghp36SmsTwS0AP.html
11-04-2020||India||Coronavirus Update: 110 people arrested in Kashmir for defying Covid-19 restrictions||More than 100 people have been arrested in different districts of Kashmir for defying government orders in force amid the Covid-19 pandemic and eight vehicles seized police officials said on Friday. They said police acted against the violators of the government’s prohibitory orders in Srinagar, Bandipora and Handwara districts.“In Srinagar, police have arrested 26 persons, including seven shopkeepers, in the jurisdictions of police station Shaheed Gunj, Nowgam, Khanyar and Parimpora and also seized two vehicles,” a police spokesperson said.In north Kashmir’s Bandipora, police have arrested 50 people and seized six vehicles for breaching the prohibitory orders of the district magistrate across the district.“Cases under relevant sections of the law have been registered and investigations in the cases have been initiated,” the spokesperson said. In Handwara, 10 people were arrested for violating prohibitory orders imposed under section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) in Qalamabad police station have arrested while 19 were arrested in Kralgund for violating the prohibitory orders. Similarly, five were arrested for violating similar prohibitory orders imposed by the district magistrate in Handwara police station. “Police have once again requested the general public to follow the restrictions imposed by the government in order to prevent the spread of Covid-19 and those who are violating the restriction orders will be dealt strictly, “ the spokesperson said. So far, 207 people have tested positive for the coronavirus disease in Jammu and Kashmir and four have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-110-people-arrested-in-kashmir-for-defying-covid-19-restrictions/story-QIAjhDOablFWwzi15Mm1tN.html
11-04-2020||India||PM Modi to interact with CMs today, discuss lockdown extension||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold another round of video conference with all chief ministers on Saturday to discuss the coronavirus pandemic and is expected to take a call on extending the lockdown, which will end on April 14.The Centre is considering extending the three-week nationwide lockdown over the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak after some states asked its enforcement beyond April 14. It will also keep the option of lifting the restrictions in a staggered manner in mind.Punjab and after Odisha have already extended the lockdown till the end of the month. Also read: What you need to know todayUttar Pradesh, Telangana, Maharashtra and Karnataka have said that the threat of Covid-19 would be easier to handle if the lockdown, which took effect on March 25, remains in force for a longer duration.Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Puducherry are also among others who have favoured an extension of the lockdown. Prime Minister Modi on Wednesday stressed ‘lockdown is the only way to save our people’ as he ruled out lifting the nationwide restrictions in one go.He had said that life will not be the same again after the coronavirus pandemic and that there would be “pre-corona and post-corona” for times to come.“I am regularly talking to CMs, districts and experts. Nobody is telling me to lift the lockdown. We need strict rules to maintain social distancing. We have to take many unexpected steps too,” Modi said.“I will talk again to CMs. But as of now, the mood is that entire lockdown lifting is not possible. We are also talking in district levels. For us, lockdown is the only way to save our people,” Modi added.Also read: Rising infections among medical staff raise preparedness concernsThe number of Covid-19 cases in India on Friday reached 6761 and 206 have so far died of the disease. Experts have raised concern that once the lockdown is lifted and people are allowed to get out of home freely, it could lead to a spike in the number of cases, negating the gains from the lockdown. However, there are also worries that continuing with a strict lockdown could cause long-term damage to the economy.The Union government has asked for strict enforcement of the current lockdown and reached out to states to assess if some categories of services and people needed to be exempted, in a sign that a set of restrictions will continue to be in place.The Union health minister, Harsh Vardhan, on Friday met state health ministers and urged them to ensure that the lockdown was strictly followed.“I request health ministers of all states to ensure that lockdown is followed 100% in your respective states. If we lag behind in this, it will be difficult for us to win this fight against Covid-19,” he said.The Centre also constituted 10 high-level multi-disciplinary central teams to help states from where a high number of cases are being reported. These teams have been rushed to Bihar, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, and Uttar Pradesh, to aid them in containment preparedness, hospital preparedness and ventilator management.The Union home ministry has also reached out to states and asked whether more categories of people and services need to be exempted, officials familiar with the development said on Friday. The step is also being widely seen as a sign that the lockdown will continue in some form.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-interact-with-cms-today-discuss-lockdown-extension/story-0ZR30SdEoLiLBTyzvrktPL.html
11-04-2020||India||Migrant workers demanding to return to their homes in Surat torch tyres, vegetable carts||Police have detained around 80 migrant workers, mostly from Odisha, for allegedly going on a rampage and setting many handcarts afire in Surat demanding that they be allowed to return to their native places amid the lockdown, an official said on Saturday.Hundreds of migrant workers stuck in Surat due the lockdown torched handcarts and tyres in Laksana area of the city on Friday night.After the incident, police personnel were deployed in large numbers in the area and the situation was brought under control, the official said. Gujarat:Migrant workers in Surat resorted to violence on street allegedly fearing extension of lockdown."Workers blocked road&pelted stones.Police reached the spot&detained 60-70 people.We've come to know that they were demanding to go back home",said DCP Surat,Rakesh Barot(10.4) pic.twitter.com/q09Z7lsLwR“Hundreds of workers, mostly from Odisha, hit the streets demanding that they should be sent to their native places. They also claimed that the food served to them by an NGO is tasteless and they have to stand in queue to get the meal,” ACP C K Patel said.“Out of anger, they torched some handcarts and tyres in Laskana area. We have detained 80 migrant workers. Heavy police deployment and strict vigil by the administration has brought the situation under control,” he said.On March 30, over 90 migrant labourers were arrested in Surat city for defying the nationwide lockdown and attacking police over a similar issue.On Friday, the number of coronavirus cases in Gujarat rose to 378 after 116 new cases were reported since Thursday night. With two more deaths reported during this period, the death toll due to coronavirus reached 19, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrant-workers-in-surat-resort-to-violence-fearing-lockdown-extension/story-elV4P4cpWl8eBk1cISeaxI.html
11-04-2020||India||3 terrorists escape after encounter in Kashmir’s Kulgam||Two to three terrorists escaped from the site of a gun battle with security forces in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district, officials said on Saturday.A spokesperson of the police said an operation was launched along with the Indian Army and Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) in Nandimarg of Kulgam based on credible inputs. “Some exchange of fire took place immediately after laying a cordon around the target houses. It seems that the militants ran away in initial firing itself,” the spokesperson said,“One PIKA LMG (light machine gun) and material for making IED (improvised explosive device) have been found from the house of one Aslam. Now, a tracker dog is being used for tracking down the escaped militants,” the spokesperson added.The encounter in Kulgam is the fourth in Kashmir since the 21-day lockdown was clamped across the country to break the chain of Covid-19 infections.Ten terrorists and five security force personnel have been killed in different parts of the region in these encounters in the past few days. Police claimed to have killed 23-year-old Jaish-e-Mohammed commander in Sopore, who was active since 2018, two days ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/encounter-erupts-in-kashmir-s-kulgam-officials/story-MJ5ayPwnuxsY9app2DJirK.html
11-04-2020||India||Tripura reports second Covid-19 case, had travelled with first patient||Tripura reported its second case of the coronavirus disease on Friday, four days after a woman tested positive for the infection, officials said.The northeastern state’s Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Deep Kumar Debbarma informed about the second positive case late in the evening.The patient is a trooper in the 13th Battalion of Tripura State Rifles (TSR), who went to meet his family in Madhya Pradesh and returned on March 21, he said. Also read: What you need to know today"The patient was shifted to quarantine. All other TSR personnel would be tested as well," Dr Debbarma said while speaking to reporters.Also read: Tripura becomes second state to invoke ESMA to manage Covid-19 outbreakChief minister Biplab Kumar Deb wrote about the second Covid-19 patient of the state on Facebook. “The patient is 32 years old Male from Madhya Pradesh and currently staying at Damcherra and has travelled along with the last COVID19 positive patient in train. Don't Panic, we are taking all possible measures to keep everyone secure. Stay Home Stay Safe and Co-operate with Government,” Deb wrote in his post. The state government has converted two buildings of two state-run hospitals, GBP and IGM hospitals, as Covid-19 hospitals, according to a notification released on Friday. Currently, 844 people are quarantined in the state. As of now, 299 samples have been tested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-reports-second-covid-19-case-had-travelled-with-first-patient/story-ASlpFv8epzoqlQa4FkYOfO.html
11-04-2020||India||85% of Covid-19 cases in Telangana linked to Tablighi: E Rajendra||Telangana Health Minister Eatala Rajendra on Friday said that 85 per cent of COVID-19 cases reported in the State are linked to Nizamuddin Markaz.“Of all the positive cases reported in Telangana, 85 per cent of cases are linked to Nizamuddin Markaz,” Rajendra said while speaking at a video conference with Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic“If they are cured then the positive cases will decrease in the State and measures can be taken to ensure that infection doesn’t spread further,” the minister added. Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreakHe also said that so far a total of 8,500 people have been tested for COVID-19 in the State of which 471 persons have tested positive and 45 have been discharged. Twelve have succumbed to the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/85-of-covid-19-cases-in-telangana-linked-to-tabligi-e-rajendra/story-iXnBrL4t29kYKeqZqTFY1L.html
11-04-2020||India||Coronavirus: All shops shut in Maharashtra’s Thane till April 14||In a bid to implement social distancing norms strictly to combat the coronavirus outbreak, the Thane district administration on Friday decided to shut all vegetable markets and shops till April 14.The order was issued by Collector Rajesh Narvekar late evening, said officials.“The decision seems drastic but was the only way to reduce crowding as all pleas to people to maintain social distancing were failing,” an official said.The order will be in force in the limits of civic bodies in the district, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-all-shops-shut-in-maharashtra-s-thane-till-april-14/story-u88TkaiVu5XKb2AH1eSNmJ.html
11-04-2020||India||New environmental public hearing policy soon||The Union environment ministry is revising its public hearings policy and is likely to release it by next week keeping in mind the social distancing required in view of the Covid-19 pandemic that has prompted a 21-day lockdown in the country, a top official said. Public hearings are consultations with local people who are either displaced or affected by any infrastructure project. The local people can object to the project or voice specific concerns at these hearings. Company representatives and state pollution control board officials are present during the hearings and are supposed to record people’s comments. These comments are also considered by the ministry’s expert appraisal committee to clear or reject a project.CK Mishra, the ministry secretary, said they were working out the policy for the pending public hearings. “...during the lockdown period public hearings should be avoided unless very urgent. A case-by-case approach will be taken. The district administrations have also been informed about not holding public hearings during lockdown. For later, we are deciding on a strategy.”The Gujarat Pollution Control Board has, for instance, scheduled a public hearing for the expansion of a refinery and petrochemical complex at Vadinagar on May 1. The residents said they may be unable to participate in the hearing amid the lockdown.Virendrasinh Vadher, a local farmer leader, said he has written to the board about their concerns. “In this situation, it is not possible for most persons concerned to know that the public hearing has been announced because distribution of newspapers is affected.’’ “People concerned have no way to connect with their communities and discuss issues.”He has not received a response to his letter dated April 6.Public hearings related to infrastructural projects are pending across the country. Dubna-Sakridihi iron ore and manganese mines in Odisha had started mining without any prior environmental clearance. When the ministry’s Expert Appraisal Committee (EAC) heard this violation case in January last year, it recommended a public hearing, which remains pending. Kanchi Kohli, a legal researcher with the think tank, Centre for Policy Research, said public hearings ought to have been conducted for many more projects. “We do not know how many in total because respective state pollution control boards notify these public hearings.”Separately, meetings of EAC on mining were held on March 25 and 26 and that of the National Board for Wildlife (NBWL) on April 7 during the lockdown and decisions on significant infrastructure projects were taken. The NBWL’s meeting was chaired by Union environment minister, Prakash Javadekar, via video conferencing and wildlife clearances for projects in 11 states were approved. The EAC on March 25 recommended public hearings on several projects. Kohli said there is a the visible one-sidedness in how the environment ministry is presenting itself during lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-environmental-public-hearing-policy-soon/story-2gZMioXbH1WV9Eua43UpbO.html
11-04-2020||India||Supreme Court, high courts hear interesting cases amid curbs||Interesting cases have come up for hearing in high courts and the Supreme Court since the lockdown was imposed on March 25 to check the spread of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. Here are some of them:‘Animals have the right to life’: Kerala resident N Prakash moved the high court via video conferencing on April 4 seeking permission to travel for purchasing food for his cats. He submitted that as a vegetarian, he does not cook meat at home and his three cats were being fed special biscuits. Prakash said police rejected his request for an online pass to travel to a pet hospital to procure the biscuits.HC heard Prakash via video conferencing April 6 and allowed his plea noting that animals also have the right to life as laid down in a 2014 Supreme Court judgment. It referred to Constitution’s article 51 A (g), which says it shall be the duty of every citizen to protect forests, lakes, rivers and wildlife, and to have compassion for living creatures.‘Let the curse of corona fall upon you’: The Calcutta high court on March 23 initiated contempt proceedings against lawyer Bijoy Adhikari after he cursed Justice Dipankar Dutta that “may the coronavirus infection befall” on him after the latter’s refusal to hear his case.In his order, Dutta said Adhikary on March 23 interfered when the court was dictating a ruling and “thumped the addressing table and then banged the microphone on it.” It said Adhikary was warned to behave but instead of heeding to such warning, he was heard to say that “my future shall be doomed by him and for such purpose, he cursed I be infected by the coronavirus”.No ban on newspapers: The Madras high court on Thursday dismissed a plea seeking a ban on newspapers. The plea claimed coronavirus can spread through contact with newspaper and prayed that the exemption given to print media from lockdown restrictions be withdrawn.The court said restricting or prohibiting the publication of newspapers will be violative of the right to free speech and independence of media. “More research is needed to establish that the virus could spread easily through newspapers. When such is a position based on these preliminary researches and in the absence of sufficient data, the prayer sought for by the petitioner cannot be granted.”Centre on government-approved news on Covid-19: The Supreme Court on March 31 rejected a plea of the Centre for a direction to the print, electronic and social media against publishing anything on Covid-19 without first ascertaining facts through a mechanism of the central government. The direction was sought in response to two petitions filed in the court highlighting the plight of migrant workers, who were forced to return from big cities to their homes on foot after the lockdown was announced. “Any deliberate or unintended fake or inaccurate reporting either in electronic, print, or social media and particularly web portals has a serious and inevitable potential of causing panic amongst large sections of the society,” the Centre said it in its affidavit.‘Lockdown impossible without the declaration of emergency’: The Centre for Systemic Accountability and Change, an NGO, moved the Supreme Court on March 31 arguing the lockdown has effectively led to the suspension of fundamental rights and the same can be done only through the imposition of emergency and not under the Disaster Management Act as was done by the central government.The NGO sought imposition of financial emergency under Constitution’s article 360 arguing it was essential to tackle the threat of coronavirus and to ensure recovery of the economy after the lockdown is lifted. The court adjourned matter when it came up for hearing on April 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-high-courts-hear-interesting-cases-amid-curbs/story-u6sQzgt5Zo3dcFUreHBjtI.html
11-04-2020||India||Uddhav Thackeray to be MLC for 2 months if Maharashtra governor nominates him||The Covid-19 outbreak has created troubles for the chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s election to the state legislature. While the state cabinet has passed a resolution asking governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari to nominate Thackeray from his quota to the Legislative Council, the CM will get only about two months’ tenure to Upper House as the term of the two vacant seats from the quota ends on June 6. Notably, elections to the Council have been postponed due to the coronavirus pandemic.Thackeray, who took over the reins of the state on November 28, is not a member of either Legislative Council or Legislative Assembly, and has six months to get elected to either of the House. The CM’s six-month period ends on May 28, and if he is not nominated or elected during this time, not just him but the entire cabinet would have to resign.“Uddhav Thackeray will not get full term of six years. He will be able to get only remainder term as an MLC and term of that particular seat is ending on June 6. He will have to be re-nominated by the Governor to continue to work as the CM,” said a senior official from the state legislature. Given the uncertainty due to the outbreak, the question is what will happen after June 6 when Thackeray’s term as a potential MLC ends. If the governor re-nominates him to the Upper House, all may be well. But, there could be a legal tangle over whether a person can be reappointed as a minister without being elected to any House.A Supreme Court judgment issued on August 17, 2001 has termed such re-appointment of a minister in Punjab government without getting elected as “improper and undemocratic”.“Tej Prakash Singh had resigned from the position as a minister on March 8, 1996 but was reappointed without getting elected to the legislative assembly as a minister on November 23, 1996, which was challenged in the court of law,” said a law department official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uddhav-thackeray-to-be-mlc-for-2-months-if-maharashtra-governor-nominates-him/story-Eb1pwER78cV3zxRvDQSNRP.html
11-04-2020||India||India hits at Pakistan for conditional pledge||India on Friday responded to Pakistan’s conditional decision to pledge $3 million to the Saarc Covid-19 Emergency Fund by saying each member of the grouping is free to decide the manner and implementation of its commitment.Pakistan had on Thursday made a contribution to the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation’s (Saarc) Covid-19 Emergency Fund on the condition that the facility be administered by the Saarc secretariat.It was the last of Saarc’s eight members to contribute to the fund, which was created with an initial corpus of $10 million from India following a video conference of leaders of the grouping on March 15. Pakistan also proposed that the contribution be used in accordance with the Saarc Charter.Responding to Pakistan’s position, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said: “It is for each Saarc member state to decide on the timing, manner and implementation of their Saarc Covid-19 Emergency Response Fund commitments.”He added, “Where India is concerned, the commitment made by the prime minister is today in an advanced stage of implementation. Assistance in material and services has been extended to Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Maldives, Nepal and Sri Lanka.”The other members of Saarc have also “made early commitments to the Fund” and the “degree of seriousness of each nation can be gauged by their behaviour”, Srivastava said.According to New Delhi, India’s engagements with Saarc members on Covid-19 related matters are stand-alone events, whereas Pakistan has sought to bring all issues under the Saarc secretariat in a bid to block Indian initiatives.On Wednesday, Pakistan skipped a video conference of senior trade officials of Saarc, saying it chose not to participate since the Saarc secretariat wasn’t involved in organising it.Saarc groups Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, the Maldives, Nepall, Pakistan and Sri Lanka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-hits-at-pakistan-for-conditional-pledge/story-aWlx8RvXx0RqbEkgWmjHvN.html
11-04-2020||India||Indian Army targets terror launch pads across LoC||The army on Friday targeted Pakistani positions across the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir’s Keran sector with artillery guns and caused severe damage to posts, terror launch pads and an ammunition dump in Pakistan Occupied Kashmir, said two officials familiar with the details of the operation.The assault was launched in response to an unprovoked ceasefire violation by the Pakistani army days after five commandos belonging to an elite army Special Forces (SF) unit were killed in action along the LoC, the de facto border, in the same sector on Sunday during an intense close-quarters battle with an equal number of terrorist infiltrators who were all eliminated.The army had received intelligence inputs on Friday about another infiltration attempt in the same sector, said one of the officials cited above. Terrorists often sneak into Jammu & Kashmir under cover fire from the Pakistani army.The Indian army released a 48-second video clip showing heavy artillery blasting some positions, including an ammunition dump that is seen exploding in a huge ball of fire.As reported by HT on April 8, there has been an unusual spike in ceasefire violations by the Pakistan army along the LoC this year to help infiltrators sneak into Jammu & Kashmir compared to border violations in the previous years. The Pakistani army has carried out more ceasefire violations during January-March this year compared to the corresponding periods of the previous two years. Pakistan violated the ceasefire 1,144 times between January and March, with the highest number of violations (411) being recorded last month when Covid-19 cases started peaking globally. It has carried out 53 ceasefire violations this month (as of April 6). Figures show that the Pakistan army violated the ceasefire 685 times in 2019 and 627 times in 2018 from January to March. The J&K police said Pakistan violated the ceasefire in Uri sector of Baramulla district as well. Last month, a house was damaged when Indian and Pakistani troops exchanged fire along the LoC in the Uri sector. The Pakistani troopers attacked Indian posts with small arms and mortar shells along the LoC in Poonch district through this week.Last week, six security personnel were injured in Sunderbani-Nowshera sector when Pakistan violated ceasefire.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-army-targets-terror-launch-pads-across-loc/story-i0uTke0MA4YMUHoVHqCjKI.html
11-04-2020||India||‘Must prioritise labour intensive sectors’: Vikram Kirloskar, CII President||Indian industry expects a prolonged recovery period after the national lockdown is eased and is hoping for government support, especially to small and medium enterprises, to help mitigate the pain, Vikram Kirloskar, president, Confederation of Indian Industry told Goutam Das during an interview. Edited excerpts:What sort of stimulus will India need to emerge out of the Covid-19 crisis?We believe the stimulus has to be twofold. One would be to assist and support the affected population through relief and cash transfers. This can be an additional ₹2 trillion given directly to the beneficiaries. The second would be to support enterprises, especially MSMEs (micro, small and medium enterprises), to avert mass-scale closure of businesses and loss of jobs. We have suggested that this support can be extended through banks. This could be in the form of extra credit limits for wage payments and interest obligations of stressed sectors. Also, additional loans are required to enable MSMEs and stressed sectors to overcome the loss of business. Expansion of working capital loan to all enterprises would greatly help address present challenges... the government could consider a fund of ₹30,000 crore for banks, which would enable a leverage of five-six times.We have recommended that the government limit its fiscal spending to contain the crisis at an additional 2% of the gross domestic product (GDP) over and above the allocation of ₹1.7 trillion. This is a prudent level that would prevent flight of capital and safeguard the macroeconomic fundamentals.What should be the government’s exit strategy from the lockdown?From an industry perspective, we will abide by the decisions of the government as far as exit timing and strategy is concerned. The key ask is that the strategy be communicated well in advance to industry to enable restart plans. It is perhaps important that labour intensive sectors such as manufacturing and construction be given priority...What are the supply-chain constraints the manufacturing industry will face after the lockdown?The manufacturing industry restart will depend critically on two things. The first is the return of workers to the workplace. We need to reassure workers that their safety and health will be of paramount concern through a strong messaging exercise. Next, we must ensure safe travel means. We have suggested that a QR code can be used by local authorities to permit workers to travel to their workplaces... The second is the smooth movement of goods across the supply chain. What is the industry’s ask from the government in terms of easing the pain?The government has proactively been consulting with the industry on a continuous basis on the modalities of exit, and this process will lead to an orderly exit. However, we are in a situation where we can expect a protracted recovery period. The government should consider conserving its firepower to last it over a length of time, even while providing succour to the most needy sections of society.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/must-prioritise-labour-intensive-sectors-vikram-kirloskar-cii-president/story-CA4p4U1Z3TIQO8og4wuzcO.html
11-04-2020||India||Coronavirus in India: The importance of testing for Covid-19||An analysis of fatality or death rates (proportion of those infected who die) and testing rates (per million of population) throws up some interesting results and serves to highlight an important aspect of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19): states that test more, will, over time (and this is a mater of a few weeks to a month) end up showing lower fatality rates than states that test very selectively. To be sure, even the best Indian states (from the perspective of testing) aren’t doing enough, but, in general, states that test more will, over time expand the denominator (people tested), which will reduce the proportion of people found to be infected. It will also serve to reduce the death rate, which is a subset of those infected. In the absence of widespread testing, a comparison of death rates is, at best, a road approximation of how the virus has affected various states; however, with 7556 people being infected with Covid-19 as of Thursday night, and the death toll crossing 200 (250), it makes sense to look at these numbers. As the numbers change appreciably, HT will revisit this analysis.On the basis of the current analysis, Madhya Pradesh has the highest fatality rate of 8% and Delhi has done the most testing per million population (594), leaving out Ladakh whose small population skews the number. Maharashtra has tested 274 per million , which puts it in fourth place.But if, as the state claims, the high number of cases in it (1574 on Thursday night) is a result of aggressive testing, then the state’s fatality rate (currently 7.1%) will reduce over time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-in-india-the-importance-of-testing/story-yQpnxiZFPChp11GXF2boIJ.html
11-04-2020||India||Sonia Gandhi tells Congress state units to keep eye on govt relief work, ensure PPE supply||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday asked her party’s state leaders to play an active role in the fight against Covid-19. She wanted them to reach out to as many people in distress as they can and assess the government’s work in containing the pandemic.Interacting with Congress state unit chiefs through video-conferencing for over three hours, Gandhi asked them to regularly update her on the party’s relief works.She hoped that the Centre would come out with a plan to help the poor, farmers and labourers who were suffering the most due the lockdown.She urged her party to ensure that reliable and free testing mechanisms were ramped up and also that steady and sufficient supply of personal protective equipment (PPE) reached those at most risk of infection.For their part, some state units pointed out that certain governments were deliberately obstructing and preventing Congress workers from carrying out the necessary relief measures‘save indian jobs in US’The Congress Friday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to impress upon the United States to prevent job losses of Indians holding H-1B visas.“After compromising the ‘India First’ policy in the HCQ (hydroxychloroquine) drug, the government is again failing to secure the safety and livelihood of Indians in the US,” Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala said. “Time for the PM to ensure that our soft power of ‘Namaste Trump’ converts into fair treatment of H-1B visa holders.”Congress leader Rahul Gandhi hailed accredited social health activists, auxiliary nurse and midwives and anganwadi workers for being at the forefront in the fight against coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-gandhi-tells-congress-state-units-to-keep-eye-on-govt-relief-work-ensure-ppe-supply/story-0hJNeq0tcmK0xpQmwoL69L.html
11-04-2020||India||CBI, ED write to Satara admin over Wadhawans||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate (ED) have asked authorities in Maharashtra’s Satara not to release Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Ltd (DHFL) promoters Dheeraj and Kapil Wadhawan from a Covid-19 quarantine facility without their approval. The two, accused of financial irregularities, had been absconding since March. The two were traced to Mahabaleshwar on Wednesday after going into hiding in March and ignoring summons from investigators. They had travelled from Khandala to Mahabaleshwar on the basis of an authorisation letter from a Maharashtra police officer. The state government has ordered an inquiry and sent the officer, Amitabh Gupta, on leave. The two were quarantined for violating the national lockdown imposed to check the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. They are facing investigations for allegedly diverting money from DHFL using fake borrowers and in the matter of alleged kickbacks taken by Yes Bank promoters in exchange for a loan.“On April 9, information was received by the CBI that both the accused were located in district Satara ... Thereafter, an email has been sent to DM and SP of Satara (Maharashtra) for not releasing them without an NOC from the CBI or order of the court and taking steps to prevent them from absconding,” a CBI spokesperson said. The ED too has written a similar letter to the Satara administration. Meanwhile, a political blame game has started in the state, with the ruling and opposition parties accusing each other of aiding the family.Leader of Opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis accused the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government of “facilitating the accused”. “Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray should tell the people that under whose pressure the letter was issued,” he said.Maharashtra Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant hit back, saying, “We suspect that the permission given to Wadhwans was at the behest of some BJP leader as the family has been very close to the party.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-ed-write-to-satara-admin-over-wadhawans/story-2AqEpgpzFbSx697jmm5QeJ.html
11-04-2020||India||Coronavirus lockdown: Punjab, Uttarakhand want national curbs extended||The Punjab and Uttarakhand governments recommended on Friday that the ongoing national lockdown be extended beyond April 14, when it was supposed to end, and restrictions not be lifted until the end of the month. The Punjab announcement came hours after chief minister Amarinder Singh insisted it was the only way to fight Covid-19 as the community transmission has started in his state with 27 cases linked to secondary sources.Later in the day, the Uttarakhand government recommended the extension of lockdown till April 30, closure of all educational institutions till May 15 and made masks mandatory for all residents.The recommendations came a day after Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik extended the lockdown in his state till April 30. There were calls from states such as Tamil Nadu for extending the curbs. The BJP-ruled states have left it to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to take a decision on extending the lockdown. Modi on Wednesday indicated that his government is not inclined to lift the emergency protocol in its entirety on April 14. He is due to discuss extending the lockdown with chief ministers on Saturday. “The number of positive Covid-19 cases will increase as is happening across the world and even in India. How can Punjab be isolated from it? We have contained the pandemic to some level as compared to other states. But this will spread,” Singh told media via video-conferencing. He said the 27 positive cases of secondary transmission were a serious cause of worry and that is why the Centre has to consider extending the lockdown. Punjab has reported 151 cases and 11 deaths. “We had around 140,000 NRIs and foreign returnees... They were the primary ones. Now, with 27 positive cases of secondary transmission we have entered the stage of community transmission.” The Union health ministry has denied that India had reached the community transmission stage, insisting that it was still at the local transmission stage.Singh said he would convey the decision of his cabinet to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday. Singh said in view of the harvest season in Punjab starting from April 15, the state government will allow district-wise exemption for farmers to harvest the rabi crop with appropriate social distancing.“We are expecting another bumper crop of 185 lakh tonnes of wheat this year and for that we will have to make adequate arrangements,” he said.In Uttarakhand, the policy enumerating steps to move out of lockdown was formulated at a meeting at the residence of chief minister, Trivendra Singh Rawat, on Friday evening. Madan Kaushik, cabinet minister and spokesperson, said the decision regarding extending lockdown till April 30 will be sent to the Central government for approval. “Regarding other points in the policy like making masks compulsory, the state government has taken them on its own and doesn’t need the permission of Centre,” he said. In Tamil Nadu, a panel of health care experts on Friday recommended extending the lockdown till the end of April. After meeting with them, chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami said the final decision would be made on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-lockdown-punjab-uttarakhand-want-national-curbs-extended/story-GUgG6YVM2894ZcbCosN1uM.html
11-04-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||The total number of people infected by Sars-CoV-2, the virus which causes the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has crossed 1.6 million. Of these, at least 100,000 have died. And at last count, 177 of the 195 countries in the world had confirmed cases. In India, the number of cases on Friday night was 7,556, and there have been 250 deaths attributed to Covid-19. Like many parts of the world, India is in the midst of a nationwide lockdown. Most people who can work from home are working from home; many factories are shut; all recreational facilities are closed; and there’s no work happening in construction, and very little in agriculture, the most employment-intensive sectors of the economy. Across 32 states and Union territories affected by the disease, local administrations have declared containment zones, and almost completely sealed these off from the rest of the neighbourhood, or city, or district, or state as the case may be.Apart from affecting lives and livelihoods, Covid-19 has affected our very way of life. And it has changed the way we work. Many believe that things will never be the same again — even when we have vanquished the virus.What little we know of Sars-CoV-2 tells us that it is highly infectious. That it can live on metallic surfaces for days. That it can be transmitted through mere exhalations. And that apart from social distancing, self-isolation, simply not going out and interacting with as few people as possible is the best way to prevent infections (and also break the chain of infections). Yet, there are people who are out and about, doing what they usually do.The newspaper vendor delivering papers.The municipality worker sweeping the streets. The sanitation worker disinfecting a neighbourhood.The grocer and the pharmacist who remain open for business.The delivery people who drop off food or other purchases. The police who man pickets and maintain order.The health care workers who care for the ill. The volunteers who feed the poor (and, lest we forget, those who feed stray dogs and cows). There are more — from the researcher experimenting with cures, to the worker in a factory making protective overalls — but you get the picture. All of them go on about their work as if nothing has happened. But what may have been the ordinary in the past is now the heroic. Mundane acts of drudgery are now selfless acts of courage. These people, and what they do isn’t just our link with the past — but makes the present bearable.Most of these people go on about their work as if it is business as usual — either the significance of what they do is lost on them, or they do not want to make much of it. I’d like to think it is the latter. These are ordinary men and women doing extraordinary things without making a big deal of it.Yet, at a time when staying in is the surest way to stay safe, the mere act of venturing out to perform what the law calls an “essential service” is a display of selflessness. Of courage in the face of adversity. Of resilience. When (not if, but when) we defeat the virus, it will be because of these people. And so, starting today, Hindustan Times will feature as many of such people as it can on its pages in a series branded HT Salutes. They may not need the recognition (and probably don’t want it), but a country in want of positivity and heroes desperately needs their stories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today-april-11-2020/story-UTcox9HE60qnjPWx3uojtO.html
11-04-2020||India||Covid-19: PM Modi explains why India needs more downloads of Aarogya Setu App||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday requested for downloading of the Aarogya Setu App in large numbers and said that for the App to be effective in preventing rise of coronavirus infections, it was important that more and more people used it.Aarogya Setu app has been developed by the government to track the progress of coronavirus in the country through its users and alert those who may have either come into contact with a positive case or a suspect by using location tracking technology. The App also provides important and credible information on the containment of the disease.“Aarogya Setu is an important step in our fight against COVID-19. By leveraging technology, it provides important information. As more and more people use it, its effectiveness will increase. I urge you all to download it,” PM Modi tweeted on Friday night.Earlier this week, the prime minister had urged all BJP workers to spread the word about Aarogya Setu, which was launched at the beginning of the month.“At least 40 people should be told about this and how to use this,” he had said on April 6.Approximately 5 million people had downloaded the App within the first few days of its launch and the number of downloads went beyond 10 million by April 8, as per the data available on the Google playstore.Developed with the public-private partnership, the Aarogya Setu App is available for installation in both android and ios based smartphones. “The app will calculate the risk score based on their interaction with others, using cutting edge bluetooth technology, algorithms and artificial intelligence,” Neeta Verma, director general, national informatics centre, government of India had said after its launch.Once installed it asks users to switch on the Bluetooth technology on the phone and to turn location sharing feature to “always”.The App uses technology to detect other devices that have Aarogya Setu installed on them and that have come in the bluetooth/GPS proximity range of the user to assess the risk one runs of contracting the disease by applying the principle of contract-tracing.Apart from its primary function, the app also encourages people to donate to PM CARES Fund, which was set up especially after the coronavirus outbreak to invite donations to generate resources to deal with crisis of this magnitude.The Prime Minister on Friday night also lauded contributors to the fund including the railways, Ola cabs and the international consumer internet group Prosus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-pm-modi-explains-why-india-needs-more-downloads-of-aarogya-setu-app/story-603Mgoh3ZC2JcbYH0S4PPO.html
11-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: With 400,000 kits, Tamil Nadu to ramp up Covid-19 testing||Tamil Nadu has tested 8410 samples for Covid-19 as of Friday, of which over 10% of cases have tested positive. While nearly half or 4167 of those tested are people who attended the Tablighi Jamaat conference in New Delhi in March, which was seen as priority testing by the state, the government is now looking to expand testing across the state.The first step towards large-scale testing was to procure 400,000 rapid test kits. An official at the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation (TNMSC) told Hindustan Times that the state has also procured 100,000 more real-time PCR kits.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here India has been using the RT-PCR, or reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction, test on nasal or throat swab samples of suspected patients to test for Covid-19. These tests can take between 12-24 hours to show results. In comparison, the rapid antibody tests identify disease-fighting antibodies in blood samples and can deliver results in 45 minutes to two hours. According to an ICMR advisory, rapid testing kits (for antibody tests or blood tests) need to be deployed in areas where mass testing is required, such as evacuation camps, large cluster areas, and camps for migrant workers.“Our priority is to stop the spread of any new cases outside containment zones or quarantined areas. That is the main objective,” chief secretary K. Shanmugam told reporters on Friday. “TNMSC has started preparatory work from January. Whether it is PPE kits, triple masks, or ventilators, we have been procuring them directly. The order for testing kits were also made directly (with suppliers) apart from the ones we will receive from the Central government,” he said,Chief minister E. Palaniswami had said last week, “Once the test kits arrive, we will be testing the family members of those who are already tested positive for COVID-19. After that, tests will be performed on those who have come in contact with these people. Then people living in the areas around the spot will be subjected to testing. That is why we have procured 4 lakh rapid test kits.”While Palaniswami had said the pandemic is at Stage 2 or local transmission and that it has chances of moving on to the next stage, the chief secretary told reporters on Friday that not one case of severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) tested over the last 24 hours showed a positive result. “There are only 23 cases overall in the state for which there is difficulty in determining with certainty how the person became infected,” he said. “At this stage we are not at Stage 3 (community transmission).”Click here for complete coronavirus coverage “We are going to increase testing centres to all government medical colleges. We are also encouraging private labs with accreditation to apply to be testing facilities,” director of public health K. Kolandaisamy told HT. “Now the infection is clustered in containment zones, so we are only taking samples from there and apart from testing SARI cases,” he said. Tamil Nadu has 220 containment zones. There are 19 testing facilities across the state – 12 government, 7 private -- at this stage. Dr. Ram Gopalakrishnan, an infectious disease specialist at Apollo Hospital who is a committee of healthcare and medical experts that consults with the government, told HT that there was a need to test more people with existing PCR tests and conduct serology tests on a widespread basis as soon as kits are available.“There is no question that there is community transmission within hotspots. While it is probably also true that there is little or no community transmission in areas outside these hotspots, we don’t know unless we test more on a systematic basis,” he said. “The government criteria was quite restrictive till a couple of weeks back, now they have liberalised testing. They have also introduced serological tests which will certainly help make the diagnosis much easier. The government has its own constraints, there is a shortage of kits. Their concern is if we just open up testing all kinds of wrong testing will be done, kits will get exhausted and people who truly need tests will not have them.”Also read: How false negative results are complicating Covid-19 testingThe lockdown was a game changer as it halted the spread of the coronavirus, but widespread testing, aggressive contact tracing and isolation was the only way to fight the pandemic effectively, Gopalakrishnan said. “If this gets into hospitals, we are finished, healthcare workers will be the first to be wiped out,” he said. “This will always be a low-grade chronic illness and that is the best case scenario. If you have this as a low-grade sporadic illness like H1N1 influenza has become then the hospital systems can handle it.”Neuberg Diagnostics in Royapettah in Chennai is amongst the private laboratories approved to test for Covid-19. “We were one of the first ones in Tamil Nadu to get approval. Currently we are carrying out the RT-PCR tests as antibody tests are not approved for private labs in India,” its chief operating officer Aishwarya Vasudevan said. “Over the weeks, the guidelines have been constantly changing depending on the changing nature of the virus. Currently with the support the state government, we are encouraging walk-ins as well as samples from hospitals.”Also read: Covid-19 cases near 2,000 in Maharashtra; cross 900 in Delhi, Tamil NaduNeuberg Diagnostics has done close to 1000 tests so far. Vasudevan said that there was scope for widespread testing in India. The country has one of the largest number of RT-PCR machines but only 56 private labs are approved to test, so far. “Of course there is scope for ramping up testing. The government will have to help link it to the private sector,” she said. “But the routine sample testing business (outside of Covid-19 tests) has come down by 80-90% and we still have about 60% of fixed costs to run our operations,” she said. The lab has been testing samples of patients with Below Poverty Line cards for free.The expert committee on Friday recommended extending the lockdown in the state by another fortnight to the end of April. After a meeting with the committee Palaniswami said that the final decision on whether the lockdown will be extended or not would be made after cabinet consultations on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-400-000-kits-tn-to-ramp-up-testing/story-GyQ1gZbOr9oVumdeagzK3M.html
11-04-2020||India||WCD ministry initiative: Online sessions for childcare workers||From young women in Hamirpur slum not receiving sanitary pads amid the national lockdown to runaway children in a Moga childcare institute(CCI) not wanting to go home, women and child development minister Smriti Irani had to take queries on all kinds of problems during a live orientation session for childcare workers earlier this week.Following Supreme Court orders which listed out steps that child welfare committees (CWCs), juvenile justice boards (JJBs) among others must take to ensure the safety of children in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, the ministry started these live online sessions on April 3.So far, most of the sessions have been hosted by the WCD ministry officials with the help of experts from UNICEF, NIMHANS (National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences), ChildLine, among others where care workers are instructed on how to look after women and children during the unfolding coronavirus pandemic. Speaking to an audience of over 825 officials during one of the live sessions, Irani asked the Hamirpur NGO worker to get in touch with the district officials. Irani, who has attended two such sessions till now, also asked frontline the workers such as anganwadi workers, to download the Aarogya Setu app, and told them that protective gear will be provided to those delivering ration. The rising cases of violence against women and children were discussed in some sessions and emergency helpline ChildLine highlighted that it saw a 50% jump in distress calls, with many children asking for food. Maximum distress calls regarding Covid-19 were received from Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, and Punjab.On Friday, the UNICEF in a statement said as over 99% of children and young people under 18 worldwide live in one of the 186 countries which have placed some form of restrictions on movement, childcare officials must pledge to keep children healthy and safe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wcd-ministry-initiative-online-sessions-for-childcare-workers/story-QfWCM2cdNrBhAqESa9hG8K.html
11-04-2020||India||Condom-maker PSU at forefront of antibody testing kits||In the 1970s, it played a key role in India’s family planning programme, manufacturing condoms branded Nirodh. Just around three years ago, dismissed as a mere condom maker (it was more), there was an attempt to privatise the company. Over the past month, it has been at the centre of controversies -- on how it delayed placing orders for protective equipment for health care workers, or the margin it was adding to such equipment it sourced. Meet the state-owned HLL Lifecare Limited (the HLL stands for Hindustan Latex Limited, its avatar in its condom making days, but no one uses that name anymore), which has emerged an important part of the government’s fight against Covid-19. The Thiruvanthapuram, Kerala-based company has developed a rapid antibody diagnostic kit to test Covid-19 patients (in a mere 15-20 minutes, the company claims). According to EA Subramanian, director of technical operations of HLL Lifecare, the company was able to develop the test kit within a month. It has had experience in developing test kits for TB, dengue and malaria.The rapid antibody diagnostic kit to test Covid-19 patients has been approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research, and validated by the National Virology Institute in Pune. “We have got an order of 2 lakh kits to begin with and are planning to produce 20,000 per day in our Manesar plant in Haryana. Mass production will begin on Monday and two lakh kits will be dispatched within the next 10 days,” said Subramanian. The production is scalable, he added. The Union government has already placed an order worth ~2,000 crore for the kits and other equipment. In fiscal year 2018-19, HLL Lifecare’s standalone revenues were ~1,471 crore and net profit , ~15.36 crore. Even including its five subsidiaries it had revenues of ~1,696 crore and made a small loss of ~12.96 crore. The test kits are important because governments across the world are scrambling to manufacture or buy enough test kits. India, too, ordered on April 7 half-a-million rapid antibody test kits with at least seven Chinese companies receiving import licenses from the Drug Controller General of India (DGCI ) for the same. Established in 1967, HLL Lifecare played a crucial role in the family planning campaign of the country, distributing condoms at subsidised rates. Its brand Nirodh was the mascot of the family planning campaign and almost became a generic name for condoms in the country. Later it diversified into other areas, making intrauterine devices, contraceptive pills, blood bags, surgical sutures, and Ayurvedic preparations. The company says that unlike imported Covid-19 test kits, which cost ~700-800, its own kits will be priced ~350-400 (the final prices have not been fixed). The health ministry has already authorised HLL Lifecare as the nodal procurement agency for all medical requirements to fight Covid -19. It has been entrusted with procurement of N95 surgical masks with respiratory valves, personal protective garments, nitrile gloves, goggles, hand-held infrared thermometers and hand sanitisers .Since there is mounting demand for these products across the country, HLL floated an open tender and shortlisted some of manufacturers who will now supply these, said a company official who asked not to be named. The company is also manufacturing some protective equipment in-house.  “We have also entered into an agreement with Sree Chithira Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology for developing patient examination and disinfection booths. The World Health Organization is also funding us to make and procure more ventilators,” said Subramanian. Meanwhile, employees of the public sector unit are upbeat about the role their firm is playing in the Covid fight. “Good the government did not sell it off. Now it is playing a key role in the health sector of the country. Hope this will open the eyes of the government,” said an office- bearer of the Hindustan Latex Employees Union who did not want to be identified.The union, the Kerala government and the Union ministry of health are believed to have scotched efforts to privatise the company.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/condom-maker-psu-at-forefront-of-antibody-testing-kits/story-6t6sh7Z96zhfYGiQ66fs9O.html
11-04-2020||India||Coronavirus crisis: Punjab extends curbs; PM Modi to meet CMs today||With Prime Minister Narendra Modi scheduled to hold his third video conference with chief ministers on Saturday to discuss the coronavirus pandemic, including reviewing the lockdown, which ends on April 14, Punjab became the second state — after Odisha — to extend the lockdown till the end of the month. The Union government has also asked for strict enforcement of the current lockdown, and reached out to states to assess if some categories of services and people needed to be exempted, in a sign that a set of restrictions will continue to be in place. With the number of positive cases in India growing to 7,556 — Friday witnessed 850 new cases — a fresh debate also broke out on whether the country has entered the stage of community transmission. Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh suggested the spike of secondary infections in the state indicated it had; the Union health ministry continued to deny it; and the World Health Organization (WHO) bracketed India in the category of a “cluster of cases”, which is a stage before community transmission.In Punjab, CM Singh chaired a meeting of the council of ministers, which decided to extend the lockdown to check the community spread of the pandemic and to prevent overcrowding at the mandis in the light of the ensuing wheat harvesting and procurement season, an official statement said. Singh said in a tweet, “Given the seriousness of the situation arising out of #Covid19, Cabinet has decided to extend lockdown & curfew till May 1.” He told the media that most of the 27 positive cases reported in Punjab on Thursday (the maximum daily increase for the state) were those of secondary transmission and expressed apprehension that the state may be entering the community transmission stage of the outbreak. Odisha had, on Thursday, extended the lockdown to April 30. Back in Delhi, there was a spurt of activity within the government. The Union health minister, Harsh Vardhan, chaired a meeting of state health ministers. He urged them to ensure that the lockdown was strictly followed — failing which India would find it hard to battle the pandemic. “I request health ministers of all states to ensure that lockdown is followed 100% in your respective states. If we lag behind in this, it will be difficult for us to win this fight against Covid-19,” he said.The Centre has constituted 10 high-level multi-disciplinary central teams to help states from where high number of cases are being reported. The teams have been rushed to Bihar, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, and Uttar Pradesh, to aid them in containment preparedness, hospital preparedness and ventilator management. “The minister assured all help, including providing adequate supply of personal protection equipment (PPE), N-95 masks and ventilators, in all states. A detailed discussion was also held among the group of ministers yesterday [Thursday] on the existing lab strategy, especially how to increase sampling in hot spots and clusters,” informed Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, health ministry, during a media briefingSeparately, the Union home ministry reached out to states and asked whether more categories of people and services need to be exempted, officials familiar with the development said on Friday. This is being widely interpreted as a sign that the lockdown will continue in some form — but may see the staggered re-emergence of certain more segments of people, as indicated by PM Modi in his last video conference with the chief ministers. A review meeting was also held by the Prime Minister’s Office during the day on various efforts to check the coronavirus spread, including the production of PPEs, the absence of which has emerged as a key obstacle in securing health workers who are in direct contact with patients. Meanwhile, despite the Punjab CM’s statement on possible community transmission, and the fact that data from an Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) study said that samples of about 2% of the Severe Acute Respiratory Infections (Sari) cases lifted from within the community had tested positive for Covid-19, the health ministry reiterated that there was no community transmission.“If there is community transmission in the country then we will be the first ones announcing it, as we would need people to take extra precautions,” said Lav Agarwal. The WHO also put India in a category named “cluster of cases” — a notch below the community transmission stage and a classification used by the global body for cases “clustered in time, geographic location and/or by common exposures”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-extends-curbs-pm-to-meet-cms-today/story-OJ3QYStq8PXVanmW09Pr3M.html
11-04-2020||India||Covid-19: As race for vaccine heats up, new techs come to fore||The development of a vaccine for Covid-19 is proceeding at an unprecedented pace and scale, and also using innovative technologies, according to an analysis of the global Covid-19 vaccine development database, published in the journal Nature Reviews Drug Discovery.With five coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine candidates in phase 1 clinical trials to establish safety for humans and 73 in exploratory or preclinical stages, a vaccine is likely to be ready in early 2021, the analysis says. As many as 78 projects have reached the active stage of development within three months of genetic sequence of Sars-CoV-2, the coronavirus that is causing the current pandemic, being published on 11 January 2020, according to the Coalition of Epidemic Preparedness (Cepi), one of the world’s biggest public funders of vaccine development.Adaptive and parallel vaccine development phases, innovative regulatory processes and advanced manufacturing capacity have helped fast-track development, which traditionally takes an average of a decade. Even accelerated efforts, such as that for the first Ebola vaccine, took five years.Of the confirmed active vaccine candidates, 56 (72%) are being developed by the private sector, with the rest being led by academic, public sector and other non-profits. There are 37 unconfirmed projects for which development status cannot be determined from publicly available or proprietary information sources, according to the analysis. Most Covid-19 vaccine development activity is in North America, with 36 (46%) developers of the confirmed active vaccine candidates, compared with 14 (18%) in China, 14 (18%) in Asia (excluding China) and Australia, and 14 (18%) in Europe. There is no public information on vaccine development in Africa or Latin America, said the report.A range of new technology platforms are being used, including nucleic acid (DNA and RNA), virus-like particle, peptide, viral vector (replicating and non-replicating), recombinant protein, live attenuated virus and inactivated virus approaches, many of which have never before been used to develop vaccines that are currently licenced for use.“Most vaccine development focuses on identifying the genetic code of the protein that a virus uses to enter human cells, which is then used in the vaccine to trigger an immune response against subsequent exposure in people who are vaccinated. The virus can also be genetically modified to be rendered harmless to make inactivated vaccines, such as polio, rabies, and hepatitis A and B, which often require multiple doses,” said Dr N K Ganguly, former director general, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).Scientists are leveraging existing work on vaccines against the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (Mers) coronavirus and rapid response platforms with 2 Sars-CoV-2 genetic sequences inserted to speed up vaccine development against the novel virus. “The speed with which we have [produced these candidates] builds very much on the investment in understanding how to develop vaccines for other coronaviruses,” said Richard Hatchett, CEO, Cepi.Most developers for the Covid-19 vaccine are focusing on platforms based on nucleotides, which are the building blocks of genetic material, DNA and RNA, because of their potential for speed and flexibility for antigen manipulation. Sars-CoV-2 consists of a strand of RNA enclosed in shell covered with crown-like spikes (explaining its name; Corona is derived from the Latin for crown) . Producing an immune response against the viral spike (S) protein can prevent it from entering cells and multiplying to cause infection.“Vaccines based on viral vectors offer a high level of protein expression and long-term stability, and induce strong immune responses,” said Dr Ganguly.Vaccine development, on average, takes 10.71 years from the preclinical phase, and has a market entry probability of 6%, according to a study in journal PLOS One.“Any vaccine development requires a lot of testing for to establish it’s efficacious and safe, we need to make sure countries licence the vaccine through proper procedure. They then need to get a massive build up in manufacturing capacity and have a system to ensure that those who need the vaccine the most get it first,” said Dr David Nabarro, the World Health Organisation’s special envoy on Covid-19.“Accelerating vaccine discovery process should not compromise safety and evaluation of effectiveness and safety at each step is imperative. Countries need to also build manufacturing, distribution and delivery capacity to ensure it reaches those who need it most,” said a public health specialist in India, requesting anonymity.Animal models that specifically assess vaccine efficacy have been developed, using ACE2-transgenic mice, hamsters, ferrets and rhesus macaques. A small study from China posted in the preprint database medRxiv, found rhesus macaques don’t get re-infected with Sars-Cov-2, which provides evidence that vaccines will offer protection, though for how long remains unclear.“The changes in a virus’ genetic sequence must also be tracked to establish patterns and predict its behaviour, on how it will spread and whether it is likely become more virulent. To develop an effective vaccine, we need study consistent virus change,” said Dr Ganguly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-race-for-vaccine-heats-up-new-techs-come-to-fore/story-2AxMOPhPyeCHKS1nQbUMKO.html
11-04-2020||India||Coronavirus crisis: 100,000 dead in 101 days, half of them in just a week||In the 101 days since the world first heard about the mysterious new virus behind Covid-19, a person has, on average, succumbed to the illness every 90 seconds. On Friday, the toll surpassed 100,000, a milestone that could well be dwarfed soon at the current rate of the pandemic’s growth: fatalities have doubled and the total number of infections grew by 600,000 in the last week alone, according to the Johns Hopkins University Coronavirus Research Center.In India, national capital Delhi recorded 183 new cases on Friday – the largest single-day jump. Most of these (154), however, were related to the Nizamuddin cluster from where roughly 2,300 have been taken to hospitals and quarantine centres. Overall, the country recorded 855 new cases and 19 new deaths, taking total infections to 7,549 and fatalities to 250.The numbers, which came on the 39th day of the outbreak in India, represent a steady flow that, while not ballooning in the way they did in many populated countries, threaten to quickly go out of hand. In western countries, the virus tore through in approximately six weeks: the United States and Europe together account for over 77% of all infections and close to 87% of all deaths.“The attention now should be on lower and middle income countries like India and the sooner you start testing at a widespread level, the better you will know what is going on in your country,” said Bhramar Mukherjee, the head of biostatistics at University of Michigan. “The acceleration curve in India looks completely different than other countries – India is doubling infections in about six days while a country like UK takes three days,” she said, adding that it is important to determine whether this is because of lack of reporting or other factors such as temperature and genetics.India is at present in the middle of a three-week lockdown that has brought the economy to a halt and led to a massive spike in unemployment, but is also credited with averting an endemic crisis. The government is likely to retain much of the curbs, maybe even extend the lockdown which is scheduled to end on April 14. “From an epidemiological perspective, you start seeing an appreciable drop in case counts when you lock down for 42-56 days but that may not be practical. You have to come out of a lockdown soon,” added Mukherjee, who is among a dozen academicians from three American universities studying the disease’s progress in India and other nations.Since the middle of March, some of the biggest economies of the world have locked down their cities and are now struggling with the question of when to lift some of these curbs and let industries restart to fend off further economic devastation.The head of the International Monetary Fund warned on Thursday the global economy is headed for the worst recession since the Great Depression of 1930s, and the UN labour organisation said 195 million full-time jobs could be lost in the second quarter alone. The rate of unemployment in India shot up from 8.41% to 23.81% in the week when the country was forced into a near-complete shutdown, according to estimates by Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy.Scientists and researchers say the way forward for the world will require new, focussed steps to enforce social distancing that are more sophisticated than population-wide lockdowns. “It is important that we start to think of exiting lockdowns as combination of policies. People will need to be allowed greater social flexibility and there will need to be innovative solutions, such as contact tracing through mobile apps,” said Steven Riley, professor of Infectious Disease Dynamics at Imperial College London, in a video published on Thursday by the varsity’s Abdul Latif Jameel Institute for Disease and Emergency Analytics.On Friday, Apple and Google -- who together control the mobile phone software market almost entirely -- said on Friday that they will work together to create contact tracing technology that aims to slow the spread of the coronavirus by allowing users to opt into a system that catalogs other phones they have been near. They will work together on technology that will allow mobile devices to trade information via Bluetooth connections to alert people when they have been in close proximity with someone who has tested positive for Covid-19.In India, authorities will also need to focus on mobilisation of resources since infections are likely to peak in different regions at different times. “We have seen that hot spots go through peaks at different times. India will need to find a way to move resources rapidly so that health care systems don’t collapse,” said Mukherjee. “Our lives are going to be constrained and restricted for a while everywhere in the world. It is important to be intelligent how we emerge from this, because cases will rise when we do and instead of having pickets, we need to build check dams to handle if there is a flood of cases,” she added.The unprecedented crisis has been met with unparalleled efforts in the scientific community that has raced to develop a vaccine to protect people from Sars-Cov-2 , the pathogen that causes Covid-19. According to an analysis in the journal Nature Reviews Drug Discovery, five vaccine candidates are in phase 1 clinical trials and 73 in exploratory or preclinical stages. A vaccine, the analysis says, is likely to be ready in early 2021 – the earliest estimate available at present. At the same time, however, there are many aspects of the pathogen that are still to be known. South Korean officials said on Friday that they had launched an epidemiological investigation after 91 patients thought cleared of the new coronavirus had tested positive again. Jeong Eun-kyeong, director of the Korea Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (KCDC), said the virus may have been “reactivated” rather than the patients being re-infected.Other Korean experts said patients had likely “relapsed” rather than been re-infected and that false test results could also be at fault, or remnants of the virus could still be in patients’ systems but not be infectious or of danger to the host or others.(With inputs from Reuters)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/100-000-dead-in-101-days-half-of-them-in-just-a-week/story-2wNOEIKWM7u9FhrgeqS7oI.html
11-04-2020||India||Coronavirus crisis: Blood donors to be asked about health status for Covid-19||Blood donors are now asked for the health status, including symptoms of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), but they are not being tested for it even as the numbers of cases cross 6,500.Despite the lockdown, there is no shortage of blood and its components as requirement for trauma cases and elective surgeries have gone down substantially.“We have started thorough screening of all donors; they have to fill up a detailed form informing about their health status and also details such as their Covid-19 status, or if anyone they knew had tested positive, or someone in their neighbourhood had any Covid-19 like symptoms. We are doing our own risk profiling before allowing them to donate,” said RK Jain, secretary general, Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS).With the number of blood donation camps in summer months going from 35, on an average, to none in Delhi since lockdown was imposed to contain the pandemic, the ICRS is reaching out to individuals to motivate them to donate.The ICRS has recently tied up with residents’ welfare associations and plans to send mobile-collection vans to residential colonies from Monday. Since the government has declared blood as an essential supply on Thursday, vans for blood collection can move without restriction.“We reached out to our voluntary donors individually, arranged pick up and drop for them, and even forwarding short videos of children who need regular blood transfusions to motivate these people to come out and donate blood. I have been issuing passes to ensure their movement isn’t hampered in any way. In areas where there were multiple donors, we would even send our mobile van,” says Dr Vanshree Singh, director (blood bank), IRCS.“Since elective surgeries are not happening, and trauma cases have gone down, what we these days are getting is request for blood from people who undergo regular blood transfusions, such as people suffering from thalassemia and other blood disorders, chemotherapy patients, anaemic pregnant women etc. By and large, we managed to stay afloat due to demand from a particular set of people going down that compensated for the reduced blood donations,” says Jain.With the Centre issuing an order declaring blood services as essential services, the society will start holding blood donation camps by sending mobile blood collection units to various localities across Delhi from Monday.“…addressing concerns of those running blood centres and blood transfusion services, especially regarding concerns with managing safety and adequacy of blood during this period of restrained gatherings and social distancing… it is essential that the supplies of safe blood continue to be maintained at licensed blood centres in the country. Activities for blood collection and voluntary blood donation therefore are required to be continued judiciously during this period to meet the blood requirements,” said Union health ministry recommendations to states on April 9.Blood banks the world over are dependent on voluntary blood donations from healthy individuals to demand for blood and its components. “We are tying up with various residents’ welfare associations to park our blood collection vans near residential localities so that people don’t have to travel long distances to donate blood. And at the time we will follow all infection control and social distancing measures such as two couches instead of the earlier practice of four to draw blood. There will be at least 3 metre gap between the two couches and at one time there will be no more than three people allowed in the camp. The vans will be disinfected on a regular basis,” says Singh.Apart from the camps, the society will also run a fleet of cars to pick up donors from their homes, take them to the blood donation centre and drop them back home again.The news of donation camps being held will put a lot of harried minds at ease. “The challenge is that thalassemia patients need fresh blood, which should ideally not be more than five to seven days old. The guidelines say less than two weeks old because if the blood is older, the haemoglobin doesn’t rise enough in these patients. So holding camps will help as donors otherwise have to go to a hospital and donate. We alerted patients that they should try to arrange for donors, should such a problem arise,” says Shobha Tuli, founder, Thalassemics India.Dr RN Makroo, president, Indian Society of Transfusion Medicine, says that many of the blood banks have started pooling in resources. “We are sharing the supply because this is an extraordinary situation. We also tell regulars to try and inform the centre in advance of their arrival preference and requirement, so that the centre is prepared to make adequate arrangements.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/blood-donors-to-be-asked-about-health-status-for-covid-19/story-m07CIcZbZXNhSCaEtvXJIP.html
11-04-2020||India||HT Salutes: Everyday heroes of the pandemic||There is little to be cheerful about in a world battered by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The global tally stands at 1,447,471 confirmed cases and 83,401 deaths even as the pandemic peaks in one country after the other. In India, the news is becoming grimmer: infections, fatalities, shortages. As the numbers go up of people infected (5,274), dead (165), hospitalised and quarantined, staying home is seen as the only way India’s citizens can save others, but not everyone is convinced this is all they can do to help.So, while they follow the official rules and restrictions, thousands of Indians are finding ways to help those who are more vulnerable. They are publishing data and insights, launching donation drives, sewing masks, video-chatting with senior citizens, mobilising support for migrant workers, countering fake news and fake science, feeding stray dogs, and making viral memes to remind people to do the simple things like washing their hands. Meet some of India’s corona volunteers.Naveen MS, Karnataka Sahaya, Challkere“Today, we don’t have solution to coronavirus, but we have a solution to the fear and rumours,” says Naveen MS, a civil service aspirant based in Challkere taluka in Chitradurga district of Karnataka. While he worries about the impending damage to the economy from the pandemic, his immediate concern is for people’s “psychology.” In his own town, he says, panic is widespread.“Minimum people are infected (Karnataka has 181 positive cases so far) but maximum people are fearing. Facts are being manipulated in private WhatsApp groups and prime-time news alike,” he said. In the cities, he points out, people have easy access to verified facts and official information, but not so in the rural areas. “In the villages, no one has a Twitter account, and no one is using Telegram (messenger), so the responsibility is on the educated people such as myself who have access to technology. Even if one person in a village is using Telegram, he can share the right information with the rest of the population.”In Mid-March, Naveen joined the Telegram group Karnataka Sahaya which was launched by the state information department to circulate official information and counter fake news. The open group has over 21,000 members of whom most are citizen volunteers. “We deal with three kinds of inquiries. There are medical enquiries where people are dropping in to ask if they should be tested in the case of a cough; then there are official enquiries where people ask about rules and restrictions in their areas; and third are basic enquiries about general facts – how many infections, what are the precautions, etc. As laypeople, us volunteers don’t know anything, so our job is to connect doctors and officials who show up in shifts on the group with those who have queries,” he said.Hundreds of questions are posed and answered on the group every day.“Do gas cylinders come under essential commodities?”“When will Covid-19 tests be available for general public in private labs?”“There are rumors going on about one confirmed case in Koppal. Can I know?”As an information warrior, one of Naveen’s major tasks is to spot and call out fake news. So far, he says, he and his fellow volunteers have busted a handful: “Jio offering lifetime free recharge for Rs 498. There is a cure for novel coronavirus in a book by Dr Ramesh Gupta. A medicine has been discovered for Covid-19. Russia has unleashed 500 lions on the roads to keep people indoors.”On Monday, Paramesha C from Kanataka’s Davanagere district posted a query on the Telegram group. He wanted to know if a message he was sent via WhatsApp contained real or fake news. The message alerted recipients that the police would act against anyone posting or forwarding any coronavirus-related update on social media as per a new government mandate. “I wanted to check if it was true before I believed it or forwarded it. I was told it was fake news.”Naveen thinks it’s equally important to find and share uplifting information about the human battle against the virus. “I collect positive news from around the world and share it with as many people as possible, like China closing down its coronavirus hospitals, doctors in India being successful in treating many cases, a network of Canadian scientists making excellent progress in Covid-19 research, number of cases declining in South Korea.” He says the work has filled him with purpose like never before. “You feel a sense of nationalism, a sense of belonging.”Anupriya Singh, Corona Warriors, BahraichOn March 24, when Prime Minister Narendra Modi declared a national lockdown, millions of migrant wage labourers employed in urban centres rushed to their villages, but thousands have since found themselves stuck far from home without work or food, or a future plan. On March 26, Anupriya Singh, who lives in Bahraich, Uttar Pradesh, started a Facebook group to get them help wherever they are. “The first alert we received, just a friend and I, was about a group of migrant workers in a Noida market. They are entirely dependent for their meals on the local carts that sell lunch and dinner for Rs 10 or Rs 15, but as lockdown curfew struck, the carts vanished, and the workers were stranded without any gas cylinders or cooking supplies. A friend drove 50km with food to reach them, explaining to the police every few kilometers that this was an urgent matter.”Since then, Singh says, the group has grown to 5,000 members who respond to messages posted on the group all day from across India.“In Surat, 20 labourers are stranded and there is no ration. They are from Ara district of Bihar.”“Ten labourers stuck in Santacruz, Mumbai. They are from Giridih in Jharkhand. Food is a problem”“Thirteen people from Hardoi in UP stuck 100 km from Hyderabad in Kandukur.”Singh says most of the appeals for help are coming from Delhi and Maharashtra, but the problem is nationwide. “We recently heard from a group of migrant workers from Nagaland -- 20 of them. They said they would never have asked someone for help, but they are struggling to find any food. One of our volunteers there got in touch with the local administration which came to their rescue immediately.”Typically, she says, once they receive an alert from a place, they try to mobile local support in one way or the other. “We are fairly spread out by now, so usually one of us knows someone in local police or administration or political party or NGOs, and irrespective of jurisdiction or affiliation, most of them have been helpful. At times, we are even able to arrange food or medicines for stranded labourers through an individual or shopkeeper near them.”Stranded in Moradabad after his metal-works factory shut down and the borders closed, daily-wage worker Kamal Saxena ran out of food supplies and cooking gas. “My family is in Bareilly and I am in Moradabad, living alone and waiting to be paid by the factory contractor my pending salary. Last week, I couldn’t leave the house because of lockdown and had nothing to eat. I had no money either. My daughter found out about this Facebook group and gave me a number to call. I called it and gave my details, and some hours later, someone came by with a bag of groceries -- atta, daal, oil, chawal, salt.”The volume of posts on the Facebook group is going up steadily. “There is a lot of panic among migrant workers. Not each of them needs to rush home, but many are fleeing because they believe this is a city virus and it will consume everyone who remains in the cities,” she said. Currently, Singh says her volunteer shift begins at 8am and ends at 2am the next day. She has made her peace with it: “We live in India. In this country, people stand up for each other.”Megha Jose, The Pawsome People Project, CoimbatoreJust days into the social isolation sparked off by Covid-19, Megha Jose and her team noticed that many of Coimbatore’s estimated 30,000 street dogs were leaving the streets. “They began to migrate kilometers beyond their areas and organised into groups – possibly to hunt for food. As people stopped coming out to feed them and shops and restaurants closed, a lot of dogs were starving. Street dogs are known to hover in the vicinity of open garbage, but now they were literally in the middle of it,” said Jose, who runs a volunteer-driven initiative for the street dogs of Coimbatore called the Pawsome People Project.The team also began to hear from people anxious about their proximity with their own pets as rumours about dogs being carriers of the coronavirus went viral on social media. “A lot of people were calling to say, ‘we don’t know if we can keep the dog around while we have old people living in the same house.’ They were also concerned about their residential societies banning dogs. We saw some purebred dogs, including a Pitbull and a Doberman, left in the streets,” Jose said.Down to 40 volunteers from their usual strength of 150, the Pawsome people reacted to the emergency by doing what they do: finding street dogs and feeding them. “People were sending us messages whenever they saw a group of dogs at a location, and we would go out with food and follow their directions. The first few days, some of us were stopped several times by the police because of the curfew, but then we got 40 passes from the district magistrate who had heard about our hurdles and asked us to get in touch,” Jose said.Weeks into the routine, their popular social media pages display a wide range of photos and videos of volunteers feeding the dogs whatever was available, from idlis to packaged treats. “We have put up memes and stories saying, ‘look at us, we have been hanging out with the dogs for a month now, and nothing has happened to us’.” Seeing these visuals, Jose said, more and more people have been shrugging off the rumors and helping the “streeties.”Their work at the moment goes beyond feel-good messaging. The Pawsome volunteers also use their wide social media network, including WhatsApp groups, to make people aware of the punishments under the Indian Penal Code for killing, caging, poisoning, and maiming animals. They also regularly file police cases in partnership with the local animal shelter against individuals or housing societies breaking these laws. “The good thing is most of our volunteers are young, so they are not shy to speak their minds,” Jose said.The results are already showing. “We are hearing back from some people who are saying that they changed their minds about giving up their pets. People are also uploading photos and videos feeding street animals and tagging us in their posts.”It’s not only the dogs on the streets who are being fed but also goats, cows, and even horses who find themselves abandoned during the lockdown. “Four or five days ago, the volunteer for PN Pudur road went to feed the dogs but before they could even taste the curd-rice, a goat came and ate it all. The dogs didn’t mind; they were quietly watching!”In Coimbatore, said district collector Thiru K Rajamani, “the street animals have been taken care of by individuals from day one of the lockdown. These animal lovers -- girls and boys both – have been tracking each neighbourhood and making sure that no dog or cat on the street goes hungry.”Riddhi Mittal, CovidIndia.Org, BengaluruOn March 11, Riddhi Mittal, a startup entrepreneur based in Bengaluru, had her ‘oh no’ moment with regards to the global spread of coronavirus. She had just read the now-viral Medium article ‘Coronavirus: Why You Must Act Now’ by fellow Stanford alumni Tomas Pueyo. “It was a 25-minute read, and I thought I will give it five minutes, but I ended up reading it over and over again,” she said. Mittal spent the following 48 hours researching Covid-19 “like a maniac”.When she was done, she cleared up her calendar for the next six months and made about 50 phone calls. “To people in startup ecosystem, industry bodies, government, policy community, health tech network,” she said. “I understood how dire the situation is going to become in India.” On March 13, she joined CovidIndia.org, her friend Girish Khera’s all-encompassing tech platform aimed at battling the spread of the coronavirus in India. Spread out over a website, multiple social media channels and partnerships with stakeholders, Covid India aggregates data, builds and reviews tech products, aids sourcing and supply of health equipment, and strategizes with governments and companies. It’s a “100% volunteer effort. Everyone has a day job,” Mittal points out. “Since March 14, when we had 40 volunteers, we have been growing by 200-300 every day. Today we number over 1,000. The volunteers bring such diverse experiences -- some I couldn’t have imagined in my wildest dreams, from election management to social work.”They start by asking everyone fighting Covid-19 in India the same question: what do you need to know? Bridging the “information asymmetry”, Mittal points out, is central to India’s coronavirus challenge. So their website is designed around providing constantly updated information from multiple sources -- ministry of health and family welfare, Indian Council of Medical Research, state and district governments, individuals (verified by official sources) – about multiple dimensions of the virus’s spread: number of infections and deaths, testing history, state-wise numbers, quarantine capacity, drug availability, ICU beds. Mittal says aggregating data at that scale in India isn’t easy. “We need access to data top down and bottom up. No one right now has the access to data that people need to take decisions in the correct fashion. We get a lot of requests for data: what is the production capacity of mask manufacturers in India, what is the list of pan-India hospitals treating Covid-19 cases, what is the exact need for ventilators in all Covid-19 hospitals. But this data exists in silos. And when you go bottom to top, data quality control is a challenge.”She says the CovidIndia.org team is doing its best at making the flow of information smoother among governments (central, state, and district), companies and individuals while factoring in their respective concerns and interests. Their methods are complicated, but their goal is simple: “We want to help Indian citizens and Indian government.”“Governments should work closely with citizens,” said Captain Manivannan, the IAS officer leading Karnataka government’s information department, on volunteer-driven initiatives such as CovidIndia.org. “I am delighted to see them. Those times are gone when the government used to handle everything on its own. In this era of complex issues and need for faster solutions, we need to ramp up the delivery mechanism with the best options we have, government or non government.”Shivendra Kumar, Dignity Foundation, Delhi-NCRKumar and his team of volunteers and coordinators have been spending a lot of time on video communication apps lately. “Zoom, Skype, WhatsApp,” he said. Active in six cities across India, the Dignity Foundation’s mission is to “enable senior citizens lead active lives through easy access to trusted information, opportunities for productive ageing and social support services”. Daily meetups with the members at its physical centres was one of their core activities until Covid-19 struck Indian cities. In Delhi-NCR, where the foundation has 110 senior-citizen members, Kumar says the social distancing rules have led to a “complete lockdown” for them because old age and existing illnesses make them especially vulnerable to infection. Cut off from their social and support networks, many of them face a wide range of worries, from filling up their days to finding groceries and medicines. “No gardens, no roads, no going up to the neighbour for a chat. Those who only had domestic staff find themselves alone with nobody else in the house,” Kumar said. So, while many of the foundation’s volunteers are delivering essential supplies to their houses, some are also helping them socialize over video.“On Zoom calls with our volunteers and other members, they are showcasing their talents and pastimes. Some sing, some talk about the books they are reading, mainly motivational titles at this time. Some talk about their cooking,” Kumar said. His team is using the video platforms to connect them to the resources they need to carry on with the curfews. “Depending on their need, we have them on video with dieticians, Yoga teachers, doctors. To keep physically active while indoors, we are trying new things. Like teach them yoga postures they can practice while standing or working in the kitchen. Or yoga with meditation or yoga set to songs rather than structured exercises.”For some of them, Kumar points out, this is the first exposure to live video. “Of our 110 members in Delhi-NCR, 60 have joined us on video calls so far. It hasn’t been easy for some of them. They get frustrated if the connection breaks down. Some had been using 2G handsets so far, so their families are helping them move on to advanced smartphones,” he said. Many are learning fast. “From not using smartphones, some have progressed to leaning how to cook by watching YouTube videos. They like learning things on YouTube -- someone is talking to them while teaching them something. Some are chatting with multiple people at the same time on different screens.”For 69-year-old Surinder Mohan Sharma, a resident of Safdarjang Enclave, the days are now structured around these Zoom sessions. “We have a yoga session 4-5 days a week with an instructor from Gurugram who teaches 15 of us. I also have individual video calls with the volunteers. A quiz session is coming up later this week to keep us mentally active, and we are also looking forward to our next singing get-together.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/everyday-heroes-of-the-pandemic/story-CAQb1pj8Es94mIOVAFRLNL.html
11-04-2020||India||Most coronaviruses seasonal; Sars-CoV-2 presents mystery||Out of the seven coronaviruses known to infect humans, four are seasonal and cause common respiratory infections that transmit similar to influenza, according to a new paper by public health researchers at the University of Michigan. The authors of the study, published in the Journal of Infectious Diseases on April 4, say that their findings may help investigators better prepare for the Covid-19 pandemic. But it is not possible to say that SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19, will also behave as the four do, they say. The researchers used data from an ongoing 10-year household influenza vaccine evaluation study based on hundreds of individuals infected by the four mild coronaviruses: OC43, 229E, HKU1, and NL63. The rest of the three are SARS-CoV, MERS or EMC, and SARS-CoV-2.The researchers from the epidemiology department of the University of Michigan School of Public Health found that 9% of adult cases and 20% of cases in children associated with these four coronaviruses involved doctor visits. During year-round surveillance, most coronavirus cases were detected between December and May with a peak in January-February. Only 2.5% of cases were seen between June and September.The highest infection frequency was among children under five. Of 993 infections, about 260 were acquired from an infected household member. The transmission window for the infection acquired from a household member ranged from 3.2 to 3.6 days. Cases in children under five and adults over 50 were more likely to manifest themselves as severe disease.Coronaviruses have long been recognised as human respiratory pathogens manifesting as mild respiratory illnesses. But when animal coronaviruses spill over to humans, they are known to cause severe diseases as in the case of the severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) in 2002 and Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) in 2012.“Even though the seasonal coronaviruses found in Michigan are related to SARS-CoV-2, we do not know whether that virus will behave like the seasonal coronaviruses,” said Arnold Monto, a professor at the University of Michigan and co-author of the study, in a statement.Amit Singh, an associate professor at Bengaluru’s Indian Institute of Science, said based on the clues from other coronaviruses that infect humans, it is possible that Covid-19 will eventually become seasonal. “A 10-year-old study conducted in the UK on three coronaviruses isolated from humans showed marked winter seasonality. Several unpublished observations seem to suggest that higher temperatures are linked to lower incidences of Covid-19. However, without data assembled over a number of seasons, the relation between Covid-19 and seasonality is mostly a prediction.”Singh said if the incidence of Covid-19 reduces over the coming months, it could be due to a number of reasons: effective lockdown, the build-up of immunity, or high temperatures. “Since the virus is new, we do not have immunity against it. However, once infection happens and people recover, we are likely to grow immunity against the pathogen,” he said. He added most of the pathogens like to persist in the host to maintain the reservoir. “If Covid-19 mutates at a much slower rate, then the ongoing wave of Covid-19 will generate immunity in the population, which eventually reduces the transmissibility and pathogenicity of the virus.”Dr T Jacob John, a former head of virology at Vellore’s Christian Medical College, said the future is very predictable. “At the end of 21 days, the government may extend the lockdown [imposed to check the spread of the disease]... lifting the lockdown would mean opening the floodgates. The initial spread of the infection will be very slow; a few cases here and there. Then cases will increase...like an avalanche. Maybe the speed of transmission will slow down in summer and then catch up again when the temperature falls. For prevention, people should continue to exercise physical distancing of about six feet but continue with social life and relationships.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-race-for-vaccine-heats-up-new-techs-come-to-fore/story-obw3C8MO20E108VnnVnVBP.html
11-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Truckers demand Rs 50 lakh insurance in meeting with govt||The Centre reached out to road transporters on Friday to resolve problems being faced by stranded truck drivers during the coronavirus lockdown so that essential supplies reach their destinations.At a meeting with the transport ministry through video conference, transporters sought safeguards including Rs 50 lakh insurance cover for those engaged in the supply chain and free medical treatment for those who test positive for the virus. “We have been in touch with various transport associations since the lockdown and have assured government support. We have remained in touch with the home ministry and are tracking issues with the movements of goods. A decision on the demand for insurance cover will be taken soon,” a senior government official said, requesting anonymity. Trucks will be sanitized and their drivers will undergo screening at the loading and unloading poingts and also every 200 kilometres along the highways, under one recommendation by the ministry. Testing stations and screening of drivers has been suggested at strategic locations. Transporters have also asked the government to allow five drivers to travel in one truck with their driving licenses deemed as valid passes to enable them to reach transportation centres. Minister of state for road transport and highways Gen VK Singh (retd), transport secretary Sanjeev Ranjan and other senior ministry officials attended the meeting via conference with the apex road transport body All India Motor Transport Congress. “The movement of essential goods to the remotest corner of the country could get jeopardised due to restricted mobility of the drivers, first, due to lack of means of transportation and secondly due to stringent lockdown measures of certain hotspot areas by local administrations, which are also hubs of the {truck} driver community, like Mewat in Haryana,” said Kultaran Singh Atwal, president, AIMTC. A location suggested for the screening of drivers includes NH 1, Palwal in Haryana, a gateway to Mewat that is home thousands of truck drivers. “We have apprised the minister of challenges like non-percolation of the directives of the home ministry to the enforcement personnel at the ground level; scarcity of drivers, our efforts in counselling and motivating them and how to motivate the drivers to come back and mitigate fear psychosis,” Atwal said. Tens of thousands of trucks have been left stranded across state borders since the lockdown took effect on March 25. The government has issued several advisories to state chief secretaries that movement of both essential and non-essential goods be allowed, seeking to avoid shortages.“ We have to work to avert another major crisis of disruption of supply chain of essential commodities across the country. Several interventions are needed to encourage the labour workforce and drivers to return,” Singh said. Hindustan Times on Friday reported that prices of key staples, barring cereals, have surged nearly three times from a month ago because of a noticeable supply shock amid the three-week nationwide lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/truckers-demand-rs-50l-insurance-in-meeting-with-govt/story-YNd5lZ3TeinQ0Or44c2sWK.html
11-04-2020||India||Coronavirus: Mumbai’s cases cross 1,000 after 132 more test positive||Mumbai’s coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases crossed 1,000 on Friday, taking just 10 days to multiply tenfold, as health workers in India’s commercial capital ramp up testing for the infection, which has so far left 64 people dead in the city. The city recorded 132 cases on Friday, including two nurses at a hospital that was ordered to stop admitting new patients and two Tablighi Jamaat followers, taking the number of people confirmed to have been infected by the virus to 1,008. Ten more deaths took the count of fatalities to 64 in the Maharashtra capital, the Indian city worst hit by the pandemic.It took Mumbai 20 days to breach the 100-case mark after the first two patients, an Andheri-based couple, were identified on March 11. On March 31, the city crossed the 100-patient mark, taking the number to 151. Since then, the number of coronavirus disease cases has been multiplying faster.The city crossed the 200-patient mark (235 cases) on April 2, the number doubling in two days. The number of Covid-19 cases tripled in the next six days. Similarly, the death count due to the virus has increased at a faster pace.By April 9, the city had registered 54 deaths, which rose to 64 on Friday.Mumbai’s first death linked to the virus was reported on March 17 when a 64-year-old man died in Kasturba Hospital. It then took 13 days to register 10 deaths. The death count tripled to 30 on April 5, and more than doubled to 64 on Friday, April 10 . Mumbai municipal commissioner Praveen Pardeshi said the rise in the number of coronavirus cases and the death count was directly proportional to the higher level of testing for the disease in the city. “High-level testing is our weapon through which we have identified many positive cases at an early stage, thereby, reducing the chances of community transmission. We are extracting more and more cases before the 14-day cycle of the virus so that these numbers don’t burst and emerge as community spread,” Pardeshi added.Mumbai’s G south ward that spans areas like Worli and Prabhdevi has reported the maximum number of positive cases at 199. The E ward, which covers Byculla, Mazgaon and Central Mumbai, ranks second with 69 positive cases, followed by the D ward that includes areas like Malabar Hill and Grant Road with 61 positive cases. Medical experts said the government should opt for random community testing to for a true picture of the virus’s spread. “Yes it is necessary to do testing on large scale, but it is not enough. In addition to that the government should go for random testing in areas like Dharavi and Worli to get information about the community spread of the virus,” Dr Shashikant Ahankari, a community health specialist and president of the Halo Medical Foundation, said. To deal with the challenge of testing people in densely populated areas like Dharavi, Asia’s largest slum, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to procure 50,000 rapid testing kits. This antibody test kits will be made available within next three-four days (Wednesday-Thursday ), said a senior official from the civic health department. On Friday, six more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Dharavi, taking the total in the slum to 28, a BMC official said. These included two persons who returned from the Tablighi Jamaat religious event held in mid-March in the group’s Markaz headquarters in Delhi’s Nizamuddin basti, which has emerged as India’s biggest coronavirus hotspot.“Among those identified as Tabligi attendees in our search operation, two tested positive on Friday. One of them is from Dr Baliga Nagar and another from the PMGP Colony. We have already started tracing their high-risk contacts,” Kiran Dighavkar, assistant commissioner of the G/North Ward, said. Two nurses, aged 27 years and 42 years, of Dadar’s Shushrusha Hospital also tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday following which authorities asked the hospital to stop taking in any new patients. The BMC has asked the hospital to quarantine nearly 28 nurses who are employed there.The civic body has given 48 hours to the hospital to discharge all existing patients after proper screening.(With inputs from Sagar Pillai)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-s-cases-cross-1-000-after-132-more-test-positive/story-UhMjZJJNLP9r1UgHm9O2wN.html
11-04-2020||India||Covid-19 in India: Rising infections among medical staff raise preparedness concerns||In the past two weeks,at least 90 doctors and medical workers have tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19 ) in Mumbai hospitals, raising questions about the preparedness of hospitals to tackle the pandemic. In all, eight private super speciality hospitals, having 1,500 beds, have been sealed in Mumbai. Across the country, the total number of health workers who have tested positive for Covid-19 has increased to 200 and as many as 12 private hospitals have been sealed. On Thursday, a doctor died in Indore, Madhya Pradesh’s Covid-19 hotspot, but he was not on Covid-19 duty, the government clarified. Still, in both Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra, health workers’ associations have complained of inadequate masks, gloves and personal protection equipment (PPE). Globally, many health workers have died after getting infected.  The list of hospitals and clinics in Mumbai that have been restricted from taking new admissions include major medical centres such as Saifee, Jaslok, Breach Candy and Wockhardt. On Friday, another new hospital, Shushrusha Hospital in Dadar, was sealed after two nurses were diagnosed with Covid-19. Apart from the medical staff, which includes at least 50 doctors who are being treated for Covid-19, another 200 health workers, including doctors and nurses, have been quarantined for 14 days at these hospitals. “It is essential to keep the hospital closed for a period of 14 days for the safety of other patients. We disinfect the wards and take samples of the close contacts. This is as per the protocols set by the Union Health Ministry,” said Dr Daksha Shah, deputy health officer, BMC.Sealing off hospitals for 14 days during an epidemic is not a good idea, said doctors.“A rescue plan to isolate infected workers and the sanitisation of premises should be formulated to reopen these institutions within 24-48 hours instead of a prolonged shutdown of 14 days or more,” said Dr Ramen Goel, President, Indian Association of Gastro-intestinal Endo-Surgeons (IAGES). In Rajasthan, a small private hospital in Jaipur’s Surajpole area was sealed on Thursday, after the health workers there tested positive for Covid-19, officials said, as the total number of health workers infected with the deadly virus increased to around 50 in the state. Some of them have recovered. Earlier, a private hospital in Bhilwara, where three doctors and 14 health care staff tested positive, was sealed. In Haryana, a nurse at the general hospital, Panchkula, a microbiologist at the civil hospital, Gurugram, and a malaria worker at Faridabad, tested positive , leading to the closure of some wings of these hospitals.“While the microbiologist has been completely cured, the nurse and malaria worker have also been responding well to the treatment,” said Haryana director general, health services, Dr SB Kamboj .In Uttar Pradesh, one resident doctor at King George’s Medical University in Lucknow was infected. In West Bengal, the superintendent of Howrah district hospital, where two persons who tested positive for Covid-19 died over the past 10 days, tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday night, following which he was admitted at a Covid-care hospital on Thursday morning. A health worker at the hospital has also tested positive.All health workers are now covered under the national health insurance scheme, Ayushman Bharat. Some state governments have also provided them additional health insurance cover. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced compensation for any health worker dying because of the coronavirus disease. Several other state governments have announced similar compensation packages.(with inputs from state bureaus)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/early-curbs-screening-help-state-stay-clear/story-cYxZxze8rXDDLlhlQNU1RI.html
11-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Early curbs, screening help Sikkim stay clear||Siliguri: Strict screening of travellers since January and banning the entry of foreigners and residents of other states since the first week of March has helped the small Himalayan state of Sikkim, which shares its borders with China to the north, Nepal to the east, Bhutan to the west, and West Bengal to the south, remain clear of Covid-19 till date. As of Thursday, its international neighbours had 1160, 8 and 3 active cases respectively, while West Bengal has reported 107 cases till date. Sikkim banned the entry of foreigners and Indians from other states in the first week of March well before the nationwide lockdown began on March 25. Even before that, in January, Sikkim began to screen travellers at Rangpo and Melli, the two main entry points into the state — their details were jotted down, and their health status was checked. Jacob Khaling, political secretary to the chief minister, said, “The state government started taking precautionary measures much before the coronavirus was taken seriously in the country. From January 28 we started sanitization programmes at Melli and Rangpo borders and started keeping records of all travellers and screened them.”The landlocked state, Sikkim chief minister Prem Singh Tamang said, has enough rice to feed people for three months and there is no fund crunch to fight Covid-19. Tourism is Sikkim’s primary industry and the state stands to lose revenue with the lockdown. But for now, it has managed to stave off Covid-19 cases. “For the sake of the safety of the people we did not look at economic losses and took early and hard decisions, which includes sealing the borders and banning entry of international and domestic tourists,” Tamang told HT.Most of the essential commodities needed by Sikkim are sent from Siliguri in West Bengal. Vehicles carrying essential goods have been given special permission to ply between Sikkim and Siliguri, The government has also been getting its supplies of pulses and edible oil from Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh.Wire fences have been put up along some parts of the border that are unmanned and wild, particularly along shallow rivers and streams from where people can cross into the state. More than 2000 policemen have been deployed to keep vigil on hill tracks, rivulets and forest paths adjoining Darjeeling and Kalimpong hills in Bengal that are used regularly by people.Sudhakar Rao, special director general of police, Sikkim, said that all loop roads in the hills are guarded round the clock and not a single person is being allowed to cross the border. M K Sharma, state health minister, said, “More than 500 people including students returned from other states and they are in quarantine at different locations in all four districts. Some have also returned home (after spending time in quarantine). The state government has made arrangements for isolation in government hospitals equipped with ventilators.” In addition to Rs 50 crore allotted as part of the State Disaster Management Fund, Rs 175 crore has been sanctioned from the North East Council to tackle Covid 19 cases in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/early-curbs-screening-help-state-stay-clear/story-CIoJLBQh2VnB380zK3PC8L.html
11-04-2020||India||20-year-old cycles 2,000 km from Maharashtra to reach home in Odisha in a week||A 20-year-old migrant worker returned home in Odisha this week after cycling around 2,000 km for seven days from Sangli-Miraj in Maharashtra after the factory where he worked was closed when the 21-day national lockdown to check the spread of the coronavirus pandemic was announced last month.The lockdown triggered an exodus of tens of thousands of migrant workers left jobless. Many of them returned from big cities to their homes on foot. The Centre has directed all states and Union territories to use their State Disaster Response Fund to provide temporary accommodation, food, clothing and medical care to migrant labourers left jobless because of the lockdown.Mahesh Jena on April 7 arrived in Odisha’s Jajpur town, where he was stopped at a check post installed to stop outsiders from entering the district. “With a rucksack on his back, he was cycling. After lockdown was announced, the factory in Maharashtra where he worked as a daily labourer was closed leaving him and several others in great misery. He somehow managed to get a rickety bicycle from a local there and started cycling to his home in Odisha,” said police inspector Ashish Kumar Sahu.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicJena was first screened as per protocol at the district headquarters hospital and found without any symptoms of Covid-19. He was then sent to a government quarantine centre set up at a high school in the district, where he would be kept for 14 days. Jena said he was left with no options when the factory was closed. “When the factory was closed we were told that it would not reopen for the next five months. I figured out that if I continued to stay then I would run out of money quickly. So the only option was leaving the place at any cost,” said Jena. He bought a rickety bicycle for Rs 1,200 on March 31 and then spent another Rs 500 to replace its tyre and tube. On April 1, Jena began his journey at 4.30 am. His initial plan was to reach his village in 15 days. “When I started, I did not want to stop, I rode during the daytime and carried on till 12 in the night. I would then look for a temple or roadside dhaba to sleep,” said Jena. He ate at roadside dhabas or at places where local police and some voluntary organisations offered free food. During the journey, he had to replace his cycle tyres. His phone too conked off.Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreakHis initial plan was to reach his village in 15 days. “When I first arrived in Sangli along with my village friend 7 months ago, I had hazy idea about the route. On April 1 when I started from Sangli, I thought I could cover about 120-130 km a day on the cycle and reach home. But when I started, I did not want to stop, I rode during the daytime and carried on till 12 in the night. I would then look for a temple or roadside dhaba to sleep off,” said Jena.After reaching Sholapur, he rode towards Hyderabad and then towards Vijayawada. From there he went to Vishakhapatnam and Srikakulam in Andhra Pradesh till he entered Odisha at Ganjam. From Ganjam he cycled to Bhubaneswar, Cuttack and finally Jajpur on April 7 evening.“I was worried about being picked up by police during my journey. I was stopped twice by police on Andhra-Maharashtra border and Andhra-Odisha border, but I was allowed to go,” said Jena, who lived with his uncle and father in a dilapidiated asbestos-roofed home in Jajpur before leaving for Maharashtra. He has not seen his mother from his childhood.Jajpur block development officer Sourav Chakraborty said it was incredible the way he cycled to his home. “His journey would make a very good script for a movie,” said the BDO. Jena has not shown any symptoms of Covid -19.Avid cyclist and president of Bhubaneswar Cycling and Adventure Club, Sanjeeb Panda said the journey of the youth showed his grit and deternination. “As cyclists, we take lot of precautions during long journey and are careful about adequate consumption of electrolytes. We ride cycles that are geared for such long journeys. What the youth achieved without having access to modern bicycle is fabulous achievement,” said Panda.Having spent 5 days in the quarantine home, Jena said the meal of rice and dalma(a boiled curry of lentil and vegetables) being served twice a day was getting too boring. “How long can you eat the same food twice a day? After I am discharged from the quarantine centre, I plan to go back home and have a nice meal. Once the factories reopen I would again go back,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/25-year-old-cycles-1k-km-from-maha-to-reach-home-in-odisha-in-a-week/story-KhYozURsZEJpSBE7wwmnIN.html
11-04-2020||India||Coronavirus in India: No religious meets during lockdown, Centre tells states||The Union home ministry on Friday directed all states and Union territories not to allow any religious or social gathering during upcoming festivals, and appealed to the citizens to observe the lockdown imposed to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).States/UTs have been asked to inform district authorities and field agencies of prohibitions clamped as part of the lockdown and take measures for the maintenance of law and order, peace and public tranquillity, according to a government order. The Centre also asked the authorities to keep tabs on social media and act against objectionable content.“Clause 9 & 10 of the Consolidated Guidelines (on the lockdown) state that no religious congregation will be permitted without any exception and all social/cultural/religious functions/gatherings shall be barred,” the order said.For the attention of the public authorities, social/religious organisations and citizens, guidelines of the lockdown should be widely circulated. People violating the guidelines will face penal action under provisions of the law, the order said.“There are several festivals in the coming week. In this regard, several community leaders have come forward and are convincing their respective communities to assist the government in strictly implementing lockdown,” a spokesperson for the home ministry tweeted. Shab-e-Barat was marked on Thursday and Good Friday was observed on April 10. Festivals such as Baisakhi, Rongali Bihu, Vishu, Poila Boishakh, Puthandu and Maha Vishuba Sankranti too fall in April.The 21-day nationwide lockdown announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi is set to end on April 14. Although the government is yet to decide whether it should be extended. there are indications that the restrictions would be prolonged.A senior Indian Police Service officer in Uttar Pradesh, who didn’t wish to be named, said the state was deploying an adequate number of personnel at places of worship ahead of the festivals, and drones were being used to monitor the movement of people in such areas. “Anybody violating the lockdown will face strict action,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-religious-meets-during-lockdown-centre-tells-states/story-slUlpM44fIKSQiFvRSMApN.html
11-04-2020||India||More hospitals being approached to join Ayushman Bharat||With many of its 20,000 empanelled hospitals being converted into dedicated coronavirus disease (Covid-19) hospitals, the implementing agency of the Ayushman Bharat health insurance scheme has launched an express empanelment service to rapidly get on board more hospitals so non-Covid beneficiaries don’t lose out on medical treatment. For Covid-19 treatment, separate treatment packages are being created that states government will take a final call on. Several medical colleges, civil hospitals and district hospitals, which were otherwise treating the bulk of Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojna (AB-PMJA) patients, are being converted into dedicated Covid-19 facilities in States.The National Health Authority (NHA), which implements the state-run insurance scheme, has started a new service called Hospital Empanelment Module (HEM) Lite, for patients suffering from serious illnesses such as cancer, cardiac issues and diabetes that require continuous treatment.“We are also dividing our empanelled hospitals under Covid-19 and non-Covid-19 hospitals, largely to prevent cross-infection. Since most of the hospitals are providing Covid-19 treatment, we decided to bring more hospitals on board for non-Covid patients,” said Dr Indu Bhushan, chief executive officer of AB-PMJAY.“The packages, especially for Covid-19 treatment, are being designed since it is a new disease and doesn’t fit into our regular package structure. We have given states a free hand and they will be designing as per local needs. These hospitals have the choice whether to provide regular treatment under the scheme or convert themselves into dedicated Covid-19 hospitals,” he said.The express empanelment will be open for three months, and later extended if a hospital desires but it will have to go through the usual empanelment process that may take longer. “We are merely fast-tracking the process now keeping in mind the outbreak situation,” said Dr. Bhushan.Using the HEM Lite process, it will take less than one hour for a hospital to fill the application form along with documents. The system has been built in a way to ensure that the rest of the process of approvals by concerned authorities is expeditious, say NHA officials.Last week, the government had brought testing and treatment of Covid-19 under AB-PMJAY so as to provide free testing and treatment to the beneficiaries at private labs and hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-hospitals-being-approached-to-join-ayushman-bharat/story-sXtFn1dWfP4DrHn9ZLhlnM.html
11-04-2020||India||Govt plans changes in law to allow 12-hour shifts in factories||The Union government is considering a change in a 1948 law to allow longer shifts in factories as it works out ways to help factories cope with fewer workers and high demand -- and all against a context where the ongoing nationwide lockdown is likely to continue beyond April 15. The change will allow companies to extend the daily shift, from the current accepted norm of 8 hours, six days a week (or 48 hours) to up to 12 hours, six days a week (72 hours).  According to two senior officials in the know of the matter, a proposal is under “active consideration” to amend the Factories Act of 1948. Section 51 of the Act says “No adult worker shall be required or allowed to work in a factory for more than forty-eight hours in any week.”Although there are provisions of overtime in the same act, which has been providing the key legislative framework in Indian industries for the past 72 years, the feeling in the government is that exceptional circumstances call for exceptional provisions. One of the eleven empowered groups of senior bureaucrats, the one on “facilitating supply chain and logistics management for availability of necessary items such as food and medicine” is pushing for the amendments to allow up to 12-hours of daily shifts from the 8-hour schedule in factories making essential goods.An executive at a large consumer products company that also makes essential products said on condition of anonymity that the shortage of workers is a real problem -- not because his company employs contract workers (it doesn’t) but because local administrators have to take a call on how many workers they will allow so-called curfew passes to. In some cases, this person adds, it is 50%. In some, lower. Longer shifts will help in this context -- as long as the workers are paid proportionately more, something that is part of the plan. The proposal is being backed by a bunch of senior officials including consumer affairs secretary Pawan Agarwal and Guruprasad Mohapatra, secretary of Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade, according to the two officials. Both Mohapatra and Agarwal are part of the empowered group mentioned in the first instance, that is headed by drinking water and sanitation secretary Parameswaran Iyer. The first official official, who is directly involved in the discussions said: “It can ensure lesser physical movement of a large number of workers amid restrictions. But longer working hours would also mean restarting production lines to higher capacity. Since workers will get paid extra money it will also solve their liquidity issues.”While a factory worker is already entitled to overtime, the factories act restricts such overtime to a maximum 120 hours over three months.The law also stipulates that for each hour of overtime, a worker is entitled to double the normal rate of wages.“The amendments will ensure higher earnings for a worker and also reduce the requirement of workers by 33%. The entire scheme perfectly fits the current situation when a large number of workers are at home or in the shelters provided by the states,” said the second official.According to the two officials, the government is also aware that only 270 out of 700 districts in India have reported Covid-19 patients. It has already received suggestions, they added, that in the remaining districts, industries should be allowed to reopen . On Friday, union commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal interacted with industry bodies over their concerns which included shortage of labour, liquidity issues, cancellation of orders and massive losses.Trade union leaders, however, remain unimpressed with the proposal of extending the shift hours. “In some enterprises, workers are already working overtime. This is the government’s long term project to extend working hours and eventually, workers will work more with less payment. Instead of these cheap tactics, the government should look into the large-scale retrenchments that is talking place in industries across India now,” said CITU general secretary Tapan Sen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-plans-changes-in-law-to-allow-12-hr-shifts-in-factories/story-eODI0qrWT6p757VMRPSqTP.html
11-04-2020||India||To boost sales, Centre asks states to suspend farm law||The Centre has recommended that states suspend certain provisions of their respective Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) Acts for three months to allow farmers to sell their harvest from multiple locations and to any buyer, Union farm minister Narendra Singh Tomar said on Friday. The move is aimed at encouraging social distancing and also ending farmer distress during the ongoing lockdown to fight the coronavirus disease, with disrupted supply chains forcing many producers to destroy their harvests. The APMC Act regulates buying and selling of farm produce in about 5000 mandis or markets across the country. The Act empowers states to notify markets to cater to a specific area and farmers can sell in their designated markets only. “Farmers should be able to sell to any buyer. Otherwise, all farmers of an area will converge in a single market, which will obstruct the principle of social distancing,” Tomar said in a video press conference. “Therefore, states have been requested to sidestep this Act for three months.”Tomar said procurement of wheat should start on April 15. The Centre has also asked states to start procuring 25% of pulses and oilseeds under the Centre’s price support scheme. On April 9, the agriculture ministry issued orders, invoking the market intervention scheme, which will allow the Centre to compensate horticulture farmers for a dip in wholesale prices and damages to harvested fruits. A nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease has impacted farmers as labour shortages and lack of buyers have thrown farm operations into disarray. This has also upended the farm-to-fork supply chain, as India fights the Covid-19 pandemic. Farmers in many states have been forced to dump perishable harvest due to lack of buyers, which has also depressed farmgate prices. Most farmers in northern and central India are in the middle of harvesting the biggest winter staple, wheat. “We can’t deny that farmers would have suffered losses, especially in perishable commodities. States are on alert. They have to do the assessment of such losses. If they want Centre’s help to compensate, we have a laid-down process and we will look into it with full compassion,” Tomar said. The minister added that if states grant exemptions to certain aspects of the APMC Act, then finding buyers should not be a problem. The Centre has therefore allowed large farmer producer organisations, which are rural agricultural businesses, large buyers, cooperatives and individual traders to buy farm produce, sidestepping the APMC regulations. The government has kept over 300,000 trucks ready to ferry harvests under the aegis of the national agriculture markets, an online trading platform, that has been updated to meet the needs of farmers during the lockdown.The farm sector, which employs nearly half the population, has been roiled by the lockdown. Arrivals (of farm commodities) in APMC markets have plunged sharply, down almost 60% in some markets from a month ago. Land transportation costs have risen sharply, as truckers struggle to cross interstate boundaries, despite exemptions from the lockdown. Restrictions and quarantine measures have resulted in crippling labour shortages, affecting loading, unloading and sorting of food commodities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-boost-sales-centre-asks-states-to-suspend-farm-law/story-wDIqQt1wdLzt6mxX3zBEwN.html
11-04-2020||India||900 patients, 30 hotspots: How Jamaat-linked cases push Delhi’s Covid-19 count||The Delhi government on Friday expanded the list of Covid-19 hotspots in the city to bring three more localities, a desperate effort to stop the spread of the disease that has infected more than 900 people.The decision to include 3 more localities - Nabi Karim and Chandni Mahal in central Delhi and parts of Zakir Nagar in south - was driven by reports that 183 more people had tested positive.Most of them, a whopping 154, had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at a seven-storey building last month or were among the 2,000-plus evacuated from there. It had taken the intervention of National Security Adviser Ajit Doval to get them to vacate the building.Also read: Full list of 26 Delhi coronavirus hotspots after 3 additions on FridayThere were 24 who had already tested positive and at least 200 more already showed symptoms of the disease. Those who had the symptoms were moved to hospitals; the others to state-run quarantine centres. Nationwide and in Delhi, a massive search was also launched to quarantine every person who had been to the congregation or had come in close contact with those already tested positive. Across the country, there are over 22,000 such people in quarantine centres.A similar search in Delhi also led the police to hundreds of Jamaat followers including foreigners who had been hiding in the capital’s mosques. There were scores of others from the city who had gone home.According to a home department official in the city government, Tablighi Jamaat-linked cases accounted for a total of 554 out of 903 cases. That number is expected to increase over the next few days and weeks when test results for 176 more people come in. They had been in the government’s quarantine facilities for some days and were shifted to hospitals after they developed symptoms.Also read: 3 more Delhi areas under Covid-19 hard lockdown over Tablighi Jamaat casesThe authorities concede, as they did at a meeting chaired by Lt Governor Anil Baijal yesterday, that there could be scores of others. They have no way to be certain. And there could be more Covid-19 clusters that originated at the Markaz, the Jamaat headquarters in Nizamuddin.Three such clusters were identified on Friday and placed under a hard lockdown that bars people from stepping out of their homes. Instead, the authorities try to make arrangements to supply groceries and other essentials where possible.Friday’s decision raises the total number of localities in containment zones to 30. There were a few other localities that were brought under containment strategy but the details had not been released to the media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-900-patients-30-hotspots-how-jamaat-linked-cases-push-delhi-s-covid-19-cases/story-OydcTdL2b1HRG4rwdbUemM.html
11-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Telangana to decide on extending lockdown today, Andhra in waiting mode||The Telangana government is likely to take a call on the extension of the lockdown in the state on Saturday, while the Andhra Pradesh government will wait for a decision to be taken by the Narendra Modi government in this connection.An official release from the Telangana chief minister’s office said chief minister K Chandrashekar Rao had called for a special cabinet meeting at his camp office Pragati Bhavan at 3 pm on Saturday to discuss the need to extend the lockdown implemented to curtail the spread of the coronavirus.The cabinet meeting would also discuss at length other issues like the prevailing situation in the state on account of Sars-Cov-2, the future course of action to revive the state’s financial situation, assistance being given to the poor in the state and others who have migrated into the state and procurement of the agriculture produce.The Telangana government has already conveyed to the Centre that it is better to extend the lockdown in the country to prevent the Covid-19 situation from going back to square one. “Any relaxation at this stage will nullify all the efforts that we have done so far to contain the spread of the virus. The situation may likely to go out of hand causing more deaths. We can always revive the economy at a later stage, but we cannot bring back the lives,” KCR said at a press conference on Monday.Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy also held a high-level meeting to discuss the strategy to be adopted if the lockdown is continued or lifted. It was decided to work out a comprehensive strategy in all sectors in the event of continuation of lockdown.The government will take a call after the Centre takes a decision and the state is prepared for both the situations, an official familiar with the development said.The meeting also discussed in detail the steps being taken in the Covid-19 cluster zones where there are a large number of positive cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-to-decide-on-lockdown-extension-on-saturday-andhra-will-wait-and-watch/story-eY3KO46zH9Dwsi1k4rgoBJ.html
11-04-2020||India||Times like this bring friends closer; shall win together, says PM Modi to Trump||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said India will do everything possible to help humanity’s fight against COVID-19, responding to US President Donald Trump thanking him for allowing the export of anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine (HCQ).HCQ is deemed as a possible cure for the deadly coronavirus. “We shall win this together,” Modi said, responding to a tweet by President Trump.“Fully agree with you President @realDonaldTrump. Times like these bring friends closer,” he said, adding that the India-US partnership is “stronger than ever”.“India shall do everything possible to help humanity’s fight against COVID-19,” the prime minster said.Earlier, in a tweet, President Trump had thanked India and the Indian people for the decision on HCQ, saying it would not be forgotten.“Thank you Prime Minister @NarendraModi for your strong leadership in helping not just India, but humanity, in this fight,” he had said. India, the largest producer of hydroxychloroquine, agreed to lift the ban on the export of the medicine to the US after Trump spoke to Modi on phone last week.President Trump and Prime Minister Modi spoke over the phone last week. During the call, Trump had requested Modi to lift the hold on the American order of hydroxychloroquine, of which India is a major producer.Trump described Modi as “terrific” for allowing the export of hydroxychloroquine to the US, saying India’s help in the extraordinary times “will not be forgotten”.(With inputs from Agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/times-like-this-bring-friends-closer-shall-win-together-says-pm-modi-to-trump/story-UV3FBn00JIKZgXwvLNwTDJ.html
11-04-2020||India||Top brass of MP health dept under quarantine after 11 test positive||Nearly the entire top brass of Madhya Pradesh’s health department is under quarantine after 11 of department, including two Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers and the director of health services, have tested positive for Covid-19 since Saturday.Eight of them have tested positive on Sunday.The number of officials who tested positive on Sunday, including an additional director, a joint director and four deputy directors, has thrown the health department into a tizzy and has driven several other officers from health and other departments into self-quarantine.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicAll the officers were a part of meetings held in the state secretariat and health directorate to discuss plans to combat the disease and monitor implementation of the measures mandated by the government across the state. The Char Imli locality, where most of these bureaucrats reside, has been gripped with fear as an IAS officer, who has tested positive, insists on being treated at home so that she can continue her work with the department. The Bhopal district administration tried to convince her into being hospitalised, but she refused. However, the administration pasted a sticker outside her bungalow on Sunday advising people not to visit her.An IAS officer said, “She should understand the gravity of the problem and cooperate with the administration. A hospital-like facility can’t be created at home, and it is beneficial for her and all other officers in the colony that she be treated at a proper health facility.”The officer did not respond to phone calls. However, the officer in a video message on Sunday evening said, “I was working with health department personnel. It is possible that I got infected from any of them. But I don’t have any symptom of Covid-19 and I am completely healthy. As per doctors’ advice, I am working from my room. I am having no problem.” A government officer, who didn’t want to be named said, “At least 50 officers including several IAS officers from various departments have chosen to self-quarantine and they are working from home.”An officer of the health department, on the condition of anonymity, said, “I am having no symptom unlike a few of my colleagues but our samples have been sent for the test. We are waiting for the reports.”Chief medical and health officer (CMHO), Bhopal Sudhir Kumar Deharia said, “Out of 97 samples sent for test 23 have been found positive for Covid-19. Most of these people are either related to health department or from Jamaatis who came from outside. However, there is no situation of community transmission in Bhopal.Hence, Bhopal people need not to be worried.”In addition to them, 13 Jamaatis, who attended different Nizamuddin religious congregation, also tested Covid-19 positive, taking the total number of corona virus positive cases in Bhopal to 40. Madhya Pradesh has 193 cases with majority of them from the business city of Indore. Test reports of several other Jamaatis is awaited, official said. Four Jamaatis had tested Covid-19 positive in Bhopal on Saturday.As per the health department’s state bulletin the number of Covid-19 patients rose to 193 on Sunday, half of which were in the business city of Indore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-brass-of-mp-health-dept-under-quarantine-after-11-test-ve-for-covid/story-WvCcnyff14Rg3Ep0quBvcP.html
