12-04-2020||India||Telangana reports 2 more deaths, 28 new Covid-19 cases; state count at 531||With Telangana reporting two more deaths and 28 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, chief minister K Chandrashekar Rao called upon people to be more cautious and urged the official machinery to be more vigilant to prevent the spread of the virus.“If we observe development world wise, country-wise and state-wise, it is clear that the coronavirus is spreading and not stopping. On Sunday, the number of positive cases has increased considerably. In Telangana, besides 28 new cases, two people have died. The death toll in the state has gone up to 16 and the total number of positive cases to 531,” KCR said.He said the situation was scary in neighbouring Maharashtra. There is an increase in positive cases all over the country and death toll has also increased. “It is precisely for this reason that we have decided to extend the lockdown. People should understand the intensity of the situation. They should confine themselves to their homes as much as possible,” the chief minister said.Stating that personal hygiene is a must, KCR said in case anyone had any doubts, one should go for tests. “The government has identified the places where there were coronavirus positive cases and special measures have been taken in those places. People should cooperate with these measures. They should realize that coronavirus is real and they should be more vigilant and cautious than before,” the chief minister said.He directed that the official machinery should also be on high alert. “Conduct tests whenever there are symptoms. Collect data of the people whom all the Covid-19 positive patients had met and interacted with and find out where they had gone. Conduct tests for them. Increase checks at the inter-state borders, step up restrictions,” he said.In neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, too, one death and 15 new cases were reported on Sunday, taking the total number of deaths to seven and the total number of positive cases to 420.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-reports-2-more-deaths-28-new-covid-19-cases-state-count-at-531/story-8hpSiri1L3YGKaeliOIUvK.html
12-04-2020||India||Row over RSS workers at police post in Hyderabad||Alleged enforcement of the lockdown by volunteers of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) on the outskirts of Hyderabad has triggered a controversy.Pictures of lathi-wielding RSS volunteers stopping people at a barricade on the highway and checking their documents and identity cards have been going viral on social media over the last two days.The pictures were posted by Friends of RSS. “RSS volunteers helping the police department daily for 12 hours at Yadadri Bhuvangiri district check post, Telangana,” read the caption of the pictures.On Sunday, Amzadullah Khan, president of Majlis-Bachao-Tehreek, a Hyderabad-based political outfit, questioned the propriety of the Rachakonda police (under whose jurisdiction Yadadri Bhuvanagiri falls) in engaging the RSS volunteers.In a statement, Khan sought to know whether the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) government headed by chief minister K Chandrashekar Rao had nominated or officially given permission to the RSS to work for the state departments or it was mischievous conduct by pro-Hindutva officials.Tagging Telangana CMO, IT minister KT Rama Rao and the director general of police, Khan tweeted: “Sir, why are you silent on this issue of RSS workers with sticks manning police check post in Telangana, people are asking whether @TelanganaCOPs also outsourced to #RSS? Please break your silence.”RSS Prant Karyavah (state secretary) Kacham Ramesh said in a statement that there was no truth in the reports that their volunteers had checked ID cards. “It is a false allegation and motivated by narrow and vested interests,” he said.He said Swayamsevaks do not interfere with the work of the administration and perform activities only after getting proper and full concurrence from the administration.On the photographs posted in the Friends of RSS Twitter handle, RSS Telangana unit media coordinator Nadimpalli Ayush said the Sangh volunteers had participated in checking of commuters only with the consent of the police.Rachakonda police commissioner Mahesh Bhagawat admitted that some RSS volunteers had visited the Alair check post. “We have stopped them and in the last two days, they have not been going there. Our police personal are effectively handling situation. We don’t want to get associated with any religious or political group while doing law enforcement. We are empowered by the government to do that,” Bhagawat said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/row-over-rss-workers-at-police-post-in-hyderabad/story-02oaYqR5kgWMF23JBtj4sO.html
12-04-2020||India||Woman tests positive for Covid-19 minutes after giving birth in Jammu||Amid the spike in Covid-19 cases across Jammu and Kashmir, a woman tested positive minutes after she gave birth to a baby at SMGS Hospital in the winter capital a couple of days earlier.SMGS Hospital’s medical superintendent Dr MK Chalotra said, “The woman delivered a baby at SMGS Hospital on Friday. She belongs to Tringli village in Akhnoor sub division of Jammu district.”Soon after giving birth to her baby, the woman tested positive for Covid-19, Dr Chalotra said.“We have also sent samples of her baby and her husband for tests and their reports are awaited,” he added.“They have been shifted to the Government Hospital in Gandhi Nagar which has been converted into a Covid-19 hospital. In fact, we had five positive cases in the SMGS hospital’s isolation ward for the past ten days but then Gandhi Nagar hospital was designated as a Covid-19 hospital and therefore we shifted all of them there on Saturday,” Dr Chalotra said.The mother, her newborn and husband will be treated at the Covid-19 hospital in Gandhi Nagar and shall be discharged only after they test negative, he added.When asked how the woman contracted the disease, Dr Chalotra said that the family’s contact history needs to be traced by the police.“She or someone else in the family might have concealed their travel history and that remains a subject of investigation by the police and health teams dedicated for contact tracing. She was in labour pain and was hospitalized at the SMGS Hospital on April 9 and the next day she delivered a baby,” said Dr Chalotra.“The woman was coughing and running fever as well that aroused the suspicion of the gynaecologists inside the labour room, who went for tests after her delivery. The reports tested positive,” he added. This the first case of a Covid-19 positive patient giving birth to a child in the region.“17 new cases were reported in Jammu and Kashmir. 5 from Jammu Division and 12 from Kashmir. The total number of positive cases now stand at 224,” government spokesman Rohit Kansal tweeted on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-tests-positive-for-covid-19-minutes-after-giving-birth-in-jammu/story-uYmrXZ8Dxaj1QwwSsd68aO.html
12-04-2020||India||221 new cases push Maha closer to 2K-mark||MumbaiMaharashtra recorded 221 coronavirus cases and 10 deaths on Sunday, taking the state closer to the 2,000-case mark at 1,982. The death toll has reached 149, state figures revealed.The state had crossed 1,000 cases just last Tuesday, but the past five days reported more than 100 per day, including three days that saw more than 200 cases. Mumbai has 1,298 positive cases and 92 deaths. The state has tested 41,109 people. It has also kept 5,064 suspected patients under government quarantine facility, while 61,247 are quarantined at home, said the health officials.Senior officials have indicated that the rate of the virus’s spread will be arrested, but it could take a couple of days. “The rise is on and for two days, the number of new cases had even crossed the 200 mark, but on Saturday, it came down to 187. We have taken adequate measures to curb the spread and are hoping that the decline in new cases will start in the next couple of days,” said a senior official, requesting anonymity.The rising numbers had forced chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday to extend the lockdown till April 30, so as to prevent the state from slipping in to phase three — community spread — of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, said the official. He has also said that they may have to extend it even further if people did not co-operate. However, the state is also mulling to relax restrictions in areas where there are no cases. “There is a meeting with the chief minister on Monday where the issue is likely to be discussed. We have suggested that the areas that are completely unaffected should be given some relaxations,” said another senior official, wishing not to be named.Meanwhile, the state medical education department on Sunday directed all government and private medical colleges to send their proposals to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for starting Covid-19 tests. “There are eight government and 33 private medical colleges, where the facility is yet to be started. We have asked all of them to send their proposals to ICMR so that the facility can be started there as well,” said Dr Tatyarao Lahane, director, Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER).The testing facility for Covid-19 is currently available at 17 government and 15 private medical colleges across the state.Meanwhile, the state government decided to cancel this year’s geography paper of Class 10. It has further decided to cancel the second semester examinations of Classes 9 and 11. The results will be declared based on performance of the students for the entire year, said school education minister Varsha Gaikwad.Geography paper of Class 10 was supposed to be held on March 23, but was postponed following the outbreak. The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary & Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) will come out with a fair marking formula for Class 10 students, said the education minister.To curb practice of overpricing and black-marketing in the lockdown period, state food and civil supplies minister Chhagan Bhujbal also directed the legal metrology department to form squads with the help of police, revenue officials and inspect godowns, shops of retail and wholesale traders and take action accordingly. “They can be booked for violating Commodities Act and can face imprisonment up to seven years, said an official from food and civil supplies department.Meanwhile, the district administration of Wardha in Vidarbha has decided to disinfect the vehicles entering the district for supplying essential commodities. Wardha collector Vivek Bhimanwar issued orders on Sunday. He has also directed to stop vegetable supplies from the districts affected by the epidemic.Wardha has no case of coronavirus so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/221-new-cases-push-maha-closer-to-2k-mark/story-UKOckG1RJ8vnX6EkNzpwcI.html
12-04-2020||India||Rickshaw-puller uses up savings on needy||AGARTALA: Goutam Das is a rickshaw puller in a village near Tripura. The 51-year-old earns around Rs 200 a day, and had Rs 10,000 as savings. But even as the nationwide lockdown was announced to quell the spread of Covid-19 and he was gripped by worries about making ends meet, Das has, over the past few days, spent nearly Rs 8,000 to buy food for poor families.He lives alone in a mud house in Sadhutilla village near Agartala, after his wife passed away a few years ago. His children live separately. However, while Das was worried when the lockdown was announced, he said he was more struck by thoughts of people less fortunate than him, which is when he decided to help as best he could. “ I was very worried after lockdown was announced. Before the lockdown, I used to earn around Rs 200 a day, and had Rs 10,000 that I managed to save from my daily earnings. While thinking about my livelihood during the lockdown, I also thought of poor families and daily wage labourers like me. Then I thought of helping them as much as possible,” he said. After this thought, Das bought rice and pulses and poured them into small packets and started distributing them among poor families, on his rickshaw.Das said he had distributed these packets to at least 160 families so far. “ I have spent around Rs 8,000 so far to buy rice and pulses for poor people like me. I understand that many people find it tough to make arrangements for food during lockdown. I have plan to continue giving food, if the lockdown is extended,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rickshaw-puller-uses-up-savings-on-needy/story-cvS53pvu15tOPmjARmdCxN.html
12-04-2020||India||Hyderabad man distributes alcohol pegs amid lockdown||Amid the nationwide lockdown, a Hyderabad resident distributed alcohol pegs among the people here on Sunday morning. Speaking to ANI, Kumar said, “Yesterday I was returning to my residence in Hyderabad’s old city after completing my work, meanwhile in Champapet area I noticed that a woman suffering from convulsion/fits due to alcohol. She was shifted to a hospital later on.”“Other people are also there who desperately need alcohol as they are addicted to it. I had an alcohol bottle at my residence. So, I thought of distributing alcohol pegs to such people,” he added.Kumar said that he distributed the alcohol this morning to the people who desperately needed it. He claimed that his intention was not to violate the government norms but to help the people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hyderabad-man-distributes-alcohol-pegs-amid-lockdown/story-iKyfNJwWjcPR4NnFGKmplM.html
12-04-2020||India||106 fresh Covid-19 cases in Tamil Nadu, state tally mounts to 1,075||Tamil Nadu reported 106 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday taking the total number of infections in the state to 1,075, Tamil Nadu Health Secretary Beela Rajesh said in a statement.The Health Secretary said of the 106 positive cases that have emerged, as many as 16 had “inter-state travel history” and the remaining were their contacts. According to a government estimate, 90 people out of the 106 new cases can be traced to “single source conduct”.Similarly, of the total count of 1075 cases in Tamil Nadu, at least 971 cases are from a single source.Till date, the southern state has reported 11 deaths due to the highly contagious disease. Six people have been cured and discharged, taking the total number of those who have recovered to 50 in the state, Rajesh said.Among the frontline health workers, two government doctors, two railway hospital doctors, four private hospital doctors and five nurses have tested positive for Covid-19, the health secretary said.In Chennai, a student startup meanwhile has developed a prototype of a ventilator which could be used in an emergency situation.The Intermittent Positive Pressure Breathing Ventilator (IPPV) has been developed by a start-up by students of the Rathinam Group of Institutions at the Atal Incubation Centre (AIC), which is funded by the Centre..“During this pandemic, we came up with this low-cost ventilator. When we started we thought that ventilators are huge and sophisticated machines. But when we thought of designing one, we got to know that most emergency ventilators use the same mechanism and the base technology is the same. We started making a prototype of the intermittent positive pressure ventilation,” Ebin, Microbiology Engineer and senior manager at Atal Incubation Centre said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/106-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-tamil-nadu-state-tally-mounts-to-1-075/story-OU09gsnMiIiNcLKDpavSHK.html
12-04-2020||India||Trucks carrying essentials being detained by police in states, may lead to shortage: Govt||The Union government on Sunday said that guidelines on exemptions during lockdown were not being followed properly in some parts of the country and vehicles carrying essential and non-essential items were being detained by police that could lead to potential shortage of commodities. In a communication to chief secretaries of all states and Union Territories, Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla said it has come to the notice that in some parts of the country the guidelines and clarifications on exemptions given to people and services are not being implemented in letter and spirit during the ongoing 21-day lockdown. Specifically, trucks carrying essential and non-essential goods are being detained and workers needed for operation of manufacturing units of essential goods, and other exempted categories are not getting authorisations/passes for their movement during lockdown, he said. Any restriction of activities specifically permitted by the home ministry has the potential of creating shortages of essential commodities, he said. With a view to bring clarity at the implementation level, the official listed the measures for strict observance by authorities at various levels. Inter-state and intra-state movement of all trucks and other goods/carrier vehicles with one driver and one additional person is allowed as long as the driver is carrying a valid driver’s licence. This is irrespective of the nature of the cargo, whether essential or otherwise. No further permit or approval would be required, the home secretary said.  The home secretary said inter-state movement of goods and personnel with passes and authorisations issued by authorities of one state or UT government are not being respected by the authorities of other States/ UTs. Operations of cold storage and warehouses are not being allowed. As per the guidelines issued by the home ministry, empty trucks/ goods carriers should also be allowed to operate while on way to pick up goods, or returning after completing a delivery. Hence, there is no cause to stop empty trucks provided they have valid documents such as driving license and road permit etc, Bhalla said. Local authorities should actively facilitate the movement of truck drivers and cleaners from their place of residence to location of their trucks. Local authorities should facilitate the easy to and fro movement of workers to workplace and back, in respect of all the permitted industrial/ commercial activities. The home secretary said railways, airports, seaports and customs authorities have already been authorised to issue passes for their staff and contractual labour and this should be ensured. Regarding issuance of passes to workers engaged in the manufacturing of permitted categories, the state/UT governments have been advised to expeditiously issue passes on the basis of authorisations issued by companies/ organisations.The state/UT governments shall ensure that these passes are honoured both for movement within their areas and in bordering areas of other states/UTs. Bhalla said MSMEs engaged in the manufacture of essential items like wheat flour (atta), pulses (dal) and edible oils should be allowed to function freely, without any hindrances. Warehouses/ cold storage should be allowed to freely function with allowance for to and fro movement of trucks and without regard to the nature of the goods whether essential or otherwise. These stipulations will apply to all areas other than the areas requiring containment, quarantine and surveillance measures (hotspots) as per the guidelines of Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) where state governments/ local authorities have imposed restrictions for preventing the spread of COVID-19. “It is clarified that movement of persons and vehicles, as above, shall be subject to strict adherence to norms of hygienic and social distancing, as is required in the context of COVID- 19,” the letter said. Bhalla said all district authorities and field agencies must be informed of the above instructions, so that there is no ambiguity at the ground level, and activities allowed by the home ministry are carried without any hindrance. The 21-day lockdown was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 24 in a bid to combat coronavirus. PTI ACB RT||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trucks-carrying-essentials-being-detained-by-police-in-states-may-lead-to-shortage-govt/story-GKchqPf6ByemwFpG7gaHAP.html
12-04-2020||India||Kolkata doctor helps pregnant woman in distress, names newborn Coronash||Sikha Mondal, wife of a car driver, has found a messiah in Kaushik Roy Chowdhury, a doctor at Thakurpukur in the southern fringes of Kolkata.On April 7, when the woman was having labour pain, her husband, Gaurab Mondal ran from pillar to post for a doctor but no one was available. Acting on the advice of some friends, he went to Roy Chowdhury.The doctor immediately arranged for the delivery of the baby at a private nursing home at a minimal cost. However, with no ambulance and taxi available, taking Sikha to the nursing home in Behala became a problem. The doctor offered his own car and Gaurab took the wheels.After Sikha gave birth to a boy on the evening of April 7, Roy Chowdhury named the child ‘Coronash’, which, in Bengali, means one who destroys Corona. He also did not take any professional fee, said Gaurab.For all latest stories on coronavirus“It is hard to come by people like Dr Roy Chowdhury these days. We will never forget what he did for us,” Gaurab told a news channel.“If everybody gets scared and shies away from responsibilities, how will society go forward? I did my duty as a doctor,” Roy Chowdhury said.Click here for live and latest updates on Coronavirus||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kolkata-doctor-helps-pregnant-woman-in-distress-names-newborn-coronash/story-YdW1w4xy1flgU4t5vxsSMM.html
12-04-2020||India||Jharkhand crowd violates lockdown to protest burial of coronavirus victim||Jharkhand residents in Ranchi took to the streets in large numbers on Sunday to oppose the burial of a coronavirus victim in one of the local graveyards fearing it may lead to the deadly Covid-19 virus’s spread, reported a news agency. According to the reports the crowd violated the lockdown norms in large numbers to gather near the Ratu Road Graveyard despite police’s assurance that no corona casualty will be buried there. “We assured people that body of Covid-19 patient will not be brought here, still they are protesting & not following lockdown norms,” a police official quoted by ANI said.Jharkhand has seen two deaths due to coronavirus and witnessed 17 positive cases so far.The police officer added that all the gates of the graveyard had been closed but the crowd was still not convinced. He added that police will have to resort to booking the violators if the situation didn’t improve.“Also, we’ve closed all gates of the graveyard. Still, if they continue to create ruckus FIR will be filed against violators,” said AP Dung, Traffic SP Ranchi.For all latest stories on coronavirusIn another related incident, the Ranchi district administration is reported to have completely sealed the Hindpiri area after declaring it a containment zone. Eight positive coronavirus cases were from the area.India has a total of 8,447 positive cases including 273 deaths, as per the health ministry data.Click here for live and latest updates on Coronavirus||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-crowd-violates-lockdown-to-protest-burial-of-coronavirus-victim/story-uEI1ZLHJLFQE7ha4kL0b7I.html
12-04-2020||India||State govts working to ensure home delivery of essential items in Covid-19 hotspots: MHA||Various state governments are working to ensure that essential items are provided at the doorsteps of people living in areas identified as COVID-19 hotspots to restrict their movement, a senior official said on Sunday.Punya Salila Srivastava, a joint secretary in the Union home ministry, told reporters her ministry has reiterated to the states and union territories that inter-state and intra-state movement of all kinds of goods is allowed and vehicles transporting them should be permitted to ply unrestricted.“State governments are working to ensure that essential commodities are provided door-to-door in the hotspot areas so that people do not go out of their homes,” she said.“For this, they (state government authorities) are also taking help of volunteers and civil society organisations,” Srivastava said. COVID-19 hotspots have been declared in various districts of the country by respective state governments to contain the spread of the disease. Movement of people in such areas is strictly curtailed and all activities are being monitored round-the-clock by police and civic authorities.The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), she said, has again clarified to the states and UTs that there is “no restriction on inter-state and intra-state cargo movement whether it is essential goods or any other item”.Godowns and cold stores can also keep all kinds of goods. Godowns in the premises of companies are also included in the exempted category under the list that specifies allowed services during nationwide lockdown, the officer said.  All state authorities have also been directed to ensure that employees and labourers of essential goods manufacturing units are able to get passes easily so that there is no obstruction in the functioning of these units, Srivastava said.  Talking about the measures to provide food to the needy and stranded and undertaking awareness about the pandemic, Srivastava said “at some places army units have also come forward”.  Updating about the availability of essential commodities in the country, she said the situation was under control.  “In the Ministry of Home Affairs control room, representatives of ministry of consumer affairs, railways, civil aviation and other officials are resolving all kinds of logistical problems in coordination with state governments,” she said.The officer also urged people to follow the ‘cyberdost’ Twitter handle run by the MHA to obtain information about measures to combat cyber crimes, especially of the financial kind, adding that these instances have increased as a “lot of people are now doing work from home” in the wake of the ongoing lockdown in the country.She said people can also register complaints incase of encountering a cyber crime at the government portal cybercrime.gov.in.“We are sure with these measures in place we will be able to have security and safety in the cyber space,” the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/state-govts-working-to-ensure-home-delivery-of-essential-items-in-covid-19-hotspots-mha/story-CGdmQnMVDCWTPOVafFPzTI.html
12-04-2020||India||MHA gets a SOS message on reopening industries amid lockdown. It is official||The Union home ministry has been asked to look into the possibility of letting a select group of industries resume production to revive economic activity and provide liquidity in the hands of the people.The recommendation, made by the department for promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT), said the home ministry should expand the list of activities that are permitted once the Centre decides how to move on the Covid-19 lockdown. It came up with a list of 12 categories of industries that should be allowed to resume production in the first instance.Also read: For businesses, strategies to deal with the aftermath| AnalysisThe recommendation comes before the 21-day lockdown ordered by Prime Minister Narendra Modi is to end on April 14. PM Modi hasn’t indicated his mind on the subject yet but stressed at his video conference with chief ministers that the government would need to strike a balance between “jaan” (lives) and “jahan” (the outside world). It was interpreted to imply that the restrictions will continue in some form to preserve lives but with relaxations to resume economic activity and preserve livelihoods.Top government officials told Hindustan Times that while the decision on the lockdown is work in progress, the PM Modi-led government had been very clear that it should not sequester millions of people from 161 districts that do not have a single case of coronavirus disease. Not even a suspected case.The officials pointed to health ministry data that indicated the four worst-affected states are Maharashtra, Delhi, Tamil Nadu and Rajasthan. These four states account for nearly half of India’s Covid-19 cases.Also read: Tax refunds to EPF withdrawals: Govt’s economic measures to aid individuals amid coronavirus crisisIt is in this contect, one official explained, that the government is looking at a graded response to lifting the lockdown, depending on the Covid-19 cases in the district and the state.According to top government officials, around 100-odd districts are severely hit by the coronavirus disease and hence there was a need to seal these hotspots. In districts that have isolated instances of Covid-19 cases, many of the restrictions could be lifted to allow economic activity.In its decision, the Centre will also account for the stand taken by the states such as Delhi, Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu that have spoken in favour of a two-week extension. For instance, in Delhi, the state administration feels they need two weeks to unearth all the contacts of the Tablighi Jamaat.Given that health is a state subject, the government may consider the demands of the chief ministers for extension.“But it will be a nuanced approach,” a senior government functionary aware of the developments, told HT.Even in these states, he explained, the game plan would be to have containment zones with no movement while allowing economic activity to pick up outside these hotspots with social distancing and masks.Officials said it was in this context that the DPIIT secretary Guruprasad Mohapatra’s communication to the home ministry had to be seen.Also read: Coronavirus crisis | ₹10 lakh crore stimulus need of the hour, experts estimateMohapatra reasoned that the industrial units which may be allowed to operate must meet five conditions. It should have a single entry points for workers, sufficient space to ensure social distancing, use of separate transport to ferry workers if they can’t be accommodated in the factory premises and high quality regular sanitisation of the premises. Also, state and district authorities, while allowing these new activities, should ensure strict observance of these conditions.The first ones to be permitted could be large industrial units that have proper sanitation and distancing norms in place such as textiles, automobiles and electronic manufacturing. To begin with, they could start with utilising only 20% to 25% capacity in a single shift.The DPITT letter also listed 16 sectors that could be allowed this plan. This list includes heavy electrical items like transformers and circuit vehicles, telecom equipment and components including optic fibre cable, compressor and condenser units, steel and ferrous alloy mills, spinning and ginning mills, power looms, defence and defence ancillary units, cement plants, pulp and paper units, fertiliser plants, paints and dyes manufacturing, all types of food and beverages, seeds processing units, plastic manufacturing units, automotive units, gems and jewellery sector units (big and organised) and all units in Special Economic Zones and export-oriented units.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-gets-a-sos-message-on-reopening-industries-amid-lockdown-it-is-official/story-OefUgzrPUr7W5mvD3n1ocJ.html
12-04-2020||India||Punjab police officer’s chopped-off hand re-implanted after 7-hour long surgery||Punjab Police’s assistant sub-inspector’s hand that was chopped off by a group of Nihangs, has been re-implanted in a seven-hour long operation at the PGIMER. However, the next 48 hours will be crucial in determining if the surgery has been successful, said the doctors.The police officer’s left hand was chopped off by the Nihangs on Sunday when he stopped them from entering the vegetable market due to the Covid-19 curfew in Patiala. Seven Nihangs were arrested after the incident.Policeman’s hand chopped off in Punjab by group of ‘Nihangs’“First thing is the survival part of the hand. We will see whether the muscles have been repaired through this surgery. It will be too early to celebrate but we are hopeful that if everything goes well there are chances of 90 percent recovery,” Dr RK Sharma, head of plastic surgery said.The 50-year-old officer had an amputation through the proximal wrist of the left hand. The re-implantation was started around 10 am after initial preparation.“This is technically a complex and challenging surgery, which has been successfully done. It was evaluated at the end of surgery that the hand is viable and warm with good circulation,” PGIMER spokesperson, Dr Ashok Kumar said.Dr Sunil Gaba, Dr. Jerry R John and Dr Suraj Nair were among the doctors who performed the surgery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-police-officer-s-chopped-off-hand-re-implanted-after-7-hour-long-surgery/story-yuk3ucSsU0nxms0dnte9kK.html
12-04-2020||India||Delhi Health Bulletin: Capital’s Coronavirus cases touch 1,154; 24 dead so far||Delhi’s coronavirus cases mounted to 1,154 on Sunday with 85 new cases and 5 deaths being reported in the last 24 hours, according to the Delhi government’s health bulletin.In the national capital, 24 people have died so far due to the infectious Covid-19 disease.At least, 26 coronavirus positive cases have emerged in Delhi on Sunday, who have foreign travel history or have had contact with those who have travelled abroad earlier, according to the Delhi government data. The data also reveals that 325 positive cases of the total count have foreign travel history.According to the Delhi Health Department, among the total 1,154 cases, 746 cases are from the Nizamuddin Markaz, with 34 new cases in the last 24 hours. The health bulletin refers to the ‘Markaz’ cases as ‘Positive cases under Special Operations’.Among the total number of coronavirus patients, 27 were cured and discharged while one patient has migrated. “A total of 1,102 patients are in various hospitals. While 50 are in the ICU, six are on ventilators and 20 are on oxygen support,” the medical bulletin said.The positive cases in Delhi have seen a sharp spike after a large number of people were evacuated from the Markaz building in south Delhi’s Nizamuddin, where over 2,100 people from different parts of the world and country were staying under one roof without following any social distancing norms.Delhi Government authorities had last month carried out steps to quarantine such people who had links with the religious congregation that had taken place in Nizamuddin in mid- March.So far, 14,036 tests have been conducted in the city and 984 reports are pending. “While 1,154 reports were positive, 11,748 reports were negative,” the report said. There were 720 cases in the national capital on Thursday; the tally crossed the 900-mark on Friday, which jumped to 1,069 on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-health-bulletin-capital-s-coronavirus-cases-touch-1-154-24-dead-so-far/story-WqZTw0O6E4YxmWmrhKtijI.html
12-04-2020||India||Covid-19: MEA reaches out to Indians abroad, Cong says help students||In the absence of international flight operations and owing to the ongoing nationwide lockdown in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, the ministry of external affairs has stepped up the process of reaching out to people of Indian origin abroad through high commissions and embassies, said an official aware of the details.The ministry gets hundreds of phone calls, emails and messages on social media platforms from people seeking help in flying back as well as for aid in visa renewals.Minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan said on Sunday apart from the helplines that are operational, he has also started answering phone calls from Indian nationals who call on dial-in programmes on Malayalam television channels.“In the last few days I was part of at least four such programmes where I answered calls from people based in the Middle East, United Kingdom and other countries. These were on Malayalam channels, since a large number of people from Kerala are in countries around the world,” he told HT.Even as the Congress has criticised the ministry for failing to bring back Indians stuck abroad, especially students, the minister said high commissions and embassies are taking care of students whose universities and colleges are shut.“In the United Kingdom for instance, we are providing food at subsidised rates for students, who could not take the flight back home. Temporary arrangements have also been made for their accommodation. Helplines are being run across many countries and our missions are taking all the steps required to help people,” he said.Citing examples, he said the mission in Dubai was able to reach out in hours to an expectant woman who needed medicines and to a group of three people who needed quarantine facilities after a fourth person sharing space with them tested positive for Covid-19.The minister said special arrangements have been made to help those whose visas are expiring or have expired during the pandemic.From March 20, the ministry has received as many as 7,100 calls from Dubai and Abu Dhabi; 450 from Jeddah, 700 from Riyadh, 920 from Oman, over 200 from Qatar.Arrangements have also been made for Indian students in Bangladesh. These students are being put up in Dhaka, where their food and other necessities are being looked after, said a person aware of the details.But Congress spokesperson Jaiveer Shergill alleged that while the BJP government is in “active mode” for foreign nationals, it is in “sleep mode” for the Indian students stranded abroad.As per the external affairs ministry, he said, over 20,000 foreign nationals have been evacuated to different parts of the world by India while there over 200,000 Indian students stranded in the United States, 300 at Heathrow airport, 16.000 in Philippines besides hundreds of others in Australia, Canada and Malaysia.“When the India government can facilitate evacuation of 20,000 foreigners then why not adopt the same approach for stranded Indian students?” Shergill asked. He said the government should give a “definitive timeline” of their evacuation to the worried parents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-mea-reaches-out-to-those-stuck-abroad-cong-says-help-students/story-Au1O5yL5XQuVvhKO8L0s1K.html
12-04-2020||India||Maximum temperature starts rising, some places record 40°C||Maximum temperatures have started rising across the country with many districts in central and west India recording over 40 degrees C. Heat wave conditions are likely to develop in Saurashtra and Kutch in Gujarat.Heat is likely to intensify at these places during the next two to three days. Heat wave is also likely to develop over southwest Madhya Pradesh and northwest Vidarbha on April 14 and 15, according to the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD).Sunday bulletin.“Many places have started recording above normal temperatures now. This is mainly because there is no intense weather system or a western disturbance which is bringing rain. Maximum temperatures across the country are likely to rise even further next week,” said K Sathi Devi, head, national weather forecasting centre.IMD’s heat bulletin for Sunday said maximum temperatures were above normal by 3.1 to 5 degrees C at a few places over Saurashtra, Kutch, Jammu and Kashmir, Assam, Meghalaya, Manipur, Tripura and Nagaland; by 1.6 to 3 degrees above normal over parts of Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, and over a few places of east Rajasthan, west Madhya Pradesh, Kerala, coastal Karnataka, Odisha, Goa and West Bengal.The maximum temperature in Srinagar on Saturday was 24.4 degrees C, 4 degrees above normal; Shimla also recorded a maximum temperature of 24 degrees C, 4 degrees above normal. Many towns and cities have started recording maximum temperatures of over 40 degrees C --- Ahmedabad at 42 degrees C (3 degrees above normal); Bhuj at 42.5 degrees C; Naliya at 40.8 degrees C (6.4 degrees C above normal); Gwalior at 40 degrees C (1.6 degrees C above normal); and Akola at 42 degrees C (1.3 degrees above normal), according to IMD.“There is an anti-cyclone (which causes calm weather) over Gujarat. The temperature hasn’t risen much over northwest India yet because of western disturbances that are affecting the region. But in central India, parts of Gujarat, Odisha, Telangana, which are in heat wave zone, have started recording higher temperatures. They have clear skies and less wind,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist at national weather forecasting centre. He added that Delhi too could record 40 degrees C next week.According to IMD, heat wave is recorded when the departure of maximum temperature from normal is + 4 degrees C to + 5 degrees C or more for the regions where the normal maximum temperature is more than 40 degrees C. Another criterion for IMD to declare heat wave is when the departure of maximum temperature from normal is + 5 degree C to + 6 degree C for regions where the normal maximum temperature is 40 degrees C or less. (Heat Wave is declared only when the maximum temperature of a station reaches at least 40 degrees C for plains and at least 30 degree C for hilly regions).Heat wave can also declared when actual maximum temperature remains 45 degrees C or more for a day irrespective of normal maximum temperature, officials said.A Western Disturbance as a cyclonic circulation is lying over west Afghanistan. Under its influence, scattered to fairly widespread rain and snow, gusty winds and lightning is likely over the Western Himalayan region (Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand) on April 14 and 15. Another WD is also expected to impact the Western Himalayan region on April 19 and again bring rain and snow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maximum-temperature-starts-rising-some-places-record-40-c/story-WlHWgbGRavawpE6WNwaGbN.html
12-04-2020||India||We need to take lockdowns, curfews seriously: Sachin Pilot||Rajasthan’s deputy chief minister and state Congress chief Sachin Pilot spoke to Aurangzeb Naqshbandi about the Bhilwara containment model, the national lockdown, raising awareness among people, and getting back to business in the time of Covidd-19. Edited excerpts: People are talking about the Bhilwara model of containment of coronavirus but there are also several other hot spots in Rajasthan, such as Ramganj in Jaipur city. How are you dealing with the situation in those areas? Every city has a different composition. In Bhilwara, all the Covid-19 positive cases have now turned negative. We were able to achieve this because the curfew and lockdown were very strictly adhered to. The local administration imposed a “super curfew” with no vehicle and person allowed to move out. But it is true that the number of cases is rising in Rajasthan, as it is in other parts of the country. We really need to take our curfews and lockdowns seriously. No lockdown can be successful without the full participation and cooperation of the people. You talked about spike in positive cases? Is it because that we have now started testing more? Certainly, the testing has been slow and we need to test more. We are now going to start doing random sampling in Rajasthan. We’re acquiring adequate number of testing kits to do that. The number of tests conducted all over India is still quite limited. We have to scale up our testing and that is the only way to get a true pictureThe spike is also attributed to Delhi’s Tablighi Jamaat congregation. Now some people are saying there is an attempt to give a communal colour to the crisis. First - authorities should explain how they allowed such a large congregation despite prohibitory orders. There should be an inquiry to fix the responsibility. Second, action should be taken against those who held that meeting and violated restrictions that were in place. This virus has shown around the world that it does not differentiate between religion, colour, race, language, ethnicity, rich and poor. Whether it is Ram Navami, Hanuman Jayanti or Shab-e-Baraat, all these should have been postponed. This is the time for all of us to come together to fight this crisis as one country, one nation, and one people.Is it important for people to know they need to come forward and get tested. How do you spread that awareness? We have to work hard in the rural areas not only in Rajasthan but across the country. Even though there is technology and mobile phones, the resistance to change is far more in rural areas as compared to urban centres. We were lucky to start as early as mid-March in rural parts of Rajasthan through the rural development, panchayati raj and activating sarpanch-level platforms. We started general awareness programmes and used the Swachh Bharat platforms to sensitise people. You said lockdown is the only way out but it has also stalled economic activity? My heart goes out to the people, especially to those who are at the bottom of the pyramid. I know the hardships and it is very important to ensure essential supplies are maintained. But one cannot prematurely lift the lockdown and allow the infection to spread rapidly in a big country like India. We don’t have the capacity to deal with a large number of infected people. There has to be a middle ground. We have to start economic activities in a gradual staggered manner and at the same time maintain all precautions.But do you have a lockdown exit strategy in place in Rajasthan? Lockdown and restrictions have to be uniform in India. There is no point in three states having the lockdown and two states not having it. What we saw in the beginning of the lockdown, lakhs of people were stranded at different state borders. We can’t have a repeat of that. In Rajasthan, we have to gradually start crucial sectors of our economy. The harvest season is on. I’m hopeful that the Centre will procure the harvest at the minimum support price (MSP). Once reserves dry up, we will need to procure foodgrains and give money in the hands of farmers and weaker sections. What are your views on the issues of CSR funding and suspending of MPLADS?I am of the opinion that if the money is given for the same cause whether to the PM Relief Fund or the CM Relief Fund, it should be treated at par. There should be parity and same exemptions and same benefits must be extended to both. About MPLADS, my view is that while the central government needs resources, it should consult the MPs on how best to use it.As Rajasthan Congress president, what role is the organisation playing in the fight against Covid-19 and do you face any coordination issues with the government? We are political workers and our job is not limited to only campaigning and contesting elections. Our primary job is to do social service that is what we are doing today. Irrespective of parties and ideologies, we have to come forward and together fight this pandemic. The Congress party has set up control centre in Jaipur and 33 district headquarters. We, as a party, are a bridge between the administration and the people.Are you satisfied with the state government’s efforts in dealing with the crisis?I think everyone is putting the best effort given the resources and conditions. We are doing the best we can. Obviously, more support from the central government would be welcomed and we will be able to do more. All hands are on deck.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-need-to-take-lockdowns-curfews-seriously-sachin-pilot/story-g4aceOLkN9S6j17kG3fMWM.html
12-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Some Covid-19 patients test positive after discharge, trigger worry and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion curated for you. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Some Covid-19 patients test positive after discharge, trigger worryScientists have called for urgently revisiting the discharge protocol for Covid-19 patients after recent international studies showed people can test positive for the virus even after two consecutive negative results.The first study, by Chinese medical experts in the Clinical Infectious Diseases journal, found that 14.5% of 172 patients discharged from the Shenzhen Third People’s Hospital between Jan 23 and Feb 21 tested positive again.Read more. 15 Pak soldiers, 8 terrorists killed in Army’s LoC action, says intel reportThe Indian Army’s artillery assault on terror launch pads at Dudhnial facing the Keran sector across the Line of Control (LoC) on April 10 killed eight terrorists and 15 Pakistan Army soldiers, two people in the security establishment told Hindustan Times. Read more. 12 new neighbourhoods in Delhi’s 43 containment zones, mostly in South DelhiThe government on Sunday ordered 12 South Delhi neighbourhoods to be brought under the containment zones, reportedly after fresh confirmed cases were reported from these localities. Sunday’s orders increase the total number of containment zones in Delhi to 43. Read more. Vishu 2020: Importance and significance of the festivalIn Kerala, the beginning of the Zodiac New Year is celebrated as the festival of Vishu. While it is referred to as Vishu only in Kerala, the same spirit is shared in various festivals over India- such as Ugadhi in Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka, Bihu in Assam and Baisakhi in Punjab. Read more. This Twitter thread is full of derpy dogs, it’s bound to make you smile. WatchIt is no lie that we love our furry little dog friends. They bring us so much joy, much-needed cuddles, and endless licks. On this Twitter thread, their dopey behaviour is brightening up almost everyone’s Sunday. On April 10, a Twitter user asked people on the microblogging platform to share the most absurd thing their doggos had ever done. Read more. Zoom’s top five features every user should knowEven as millions of users around the world are working remotely, videoconferencing applications are gaining huge traction. Pick of the season is Zoom. The video conferencing app has become quite popular as its daily meetings topped 200 million in the month of March. Read more. Zoa Morani gets discharged from hospital after treatment for coronavirus, shares photoActor Zoa Morani has been discharged from Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital after recovering from the coronavirus. She took to her Instagram stories to announce the good news with a selfie. Read more. Didn’t have sponsors, had limited clothes, kits: How Adam Gilchrist made Deccan Chargers IPL 2009 champions, Pragyan Ojha revealsUncertainties are the only certain factors – IPL proved that in its second season itself. Royal Challengers Bangalore and Deccan Chargers (now renamed as Sunrisers Hyderabad) – the two bottom-ranked teams of the inaugural edition in 2008, faced off in the final of IPL 2009 with Deccan Chargers – the team finishing last in 2008 – emerging as champions. But it wasn’t that simple for the Hyderabad-based franchise. Read more. ‘Won’t let anyone fall’: IG MP Police’s inspiring message to cops on dutyInspector General, Madhya Pradesh Police, Vivek Sharma sang ‘Hum Honge Kamyab’ to uplift the spirits of cops on duty in Indore. He sent an inspiring message to the cops on the frontline fighting the pandemic. Sharma said, “If we walk together, we will win this battle. We fill not fear corona. Some of us will definitely fall but we won’t let anyone else fall.” Watch the full video for more details. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-some-covid-19-patients-test-positive-after-discharge-trigger-worry-and-all-the-latest-news/story-0tQcMBhuXrgGLtr66N3AlO.html
12-04-2020||India||List of Delhi’s 43 containment zones to check Covid-19 pandemic||The number of coronavirus containment zones in Delhi rose to 43 on Sunday after 12 south Delhi localities were added to the list. Following is the list of localities in the containment zones:1. Entire affected street near Gandhi Park, Malviya Nagar2. Entire affected street of Gali No 5, 6 &7, L 1 Sangam Vihar3. Affected area around H. No.A-176, Deoli Extension4. Shahjahanabad society, plot no 1, Sector 11, Dwarka5. Dinpur Village6. Gali No. 5 & 5A, H-2 Block, Benagli Colony, Mahavir Enclave7. Markaz Masjid and Nizamuddin Basti8. Nizamuddin West (G and D block) areas9. Area of Street/Gali No. 18 to 22 of Zakir Nagar and nearby area of Abu Bakar Masjid of Zakir Nagar 10 (Core) rest of Zakir Nagar as Buffer Zone11. H. No. 811 to 829 and 842 to 835 - Khadda Colony, Jaitpur, Extension, Part-II12. H. No. 1144 to 1134 and 618 to 623 - Khadda Colony, Jaitpur, Extension, Part-II13. Gali No. 16, Kachhi Colony, Madanpur Khadar, Extension, Delhi14. Mehela Mohalla, Madanpur Khadar, Delhi15. H-Block, Near Umra Masjid, Abu Fazal Enclave16. E-Block, Abu Fazal Enclave, Delhi17. H No. 97 to 107 and H. No. 120-127 Kailash Hills, East of Kailash18. E-Block (E-284 to E-294) East of Kailash, Delhi19. H. No. 53 to 55 & 25, Shera Mohalla, Garhi, East of Kailash20. B Block Jahangirpuri21. Gali No. 1 to 10 (1 to 1000) C Block Jhangirpuri22. H. No 141 to H. No 180, Gali no. 14, Kalyanpuri23. Mansara Apartments , Vasundhara Enclave24. 3 Galis of Khichripur including Gali containing H. No. 5/387 Khichripur25. Gali No 9, Pandav Nagar26. Vardhaman Apartments , Mayur Vihar, Phase I , Extension27. Mayurdhwaj Apartments , I P Extension, Patparganj28. Gali no. 4, from H. No. J- 3/115 (Nagar Dairy) to H. No. J- 3/108 (towards Anar wali Masjid Chowk), Kishan Kunj Extension29. Gali No. 4, from H. No J- 3/101 to H. No. J - 3/107 Krishan Kunj Extension30. Gali No. 5, A Block ( From H No. A- 176 to A-189), West Vinod Nagar31. E-Pocket, GTB Enclave32. J & K, L and H pockets Dilshad Garden33. G, H, J, Blocks old Seemapuri34. F- 70 to 90 block Dilshad Colony35. Pratap khand, Jhilmil Colony36. Shastri Market, including J.J. Cluster of South Moti Bagh37. Bengali Market/ Babar Road adjoining area of Todarmal Road, Babar Lane and School Lane Sadar Bazaar38. Chandni Mahal39. Nabi Karim40. In and around area of G-174, Capital Greens, DLF, Motinagar41. In and around area of B- 1/2, Paschim Vihar 42. In and around area of 11/3, 2nd Floor Ashok Nagar43. In and around area of H. No. A-30, Mansarovar Garden||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/list-of-delhi-s-43-containment-zones-to-check-covid-19-pandemic/story-q6o1K68XAI826Z6Huuq5yK.html
12-04-2020||India||Viral pictures of RSS workers checking documents at a Telangana check-post trigger row||The enforcement of the lockdown allegedly by volunteers of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) on the outskirts of Hyderabad triggered a controversy on Sunday.Pictures of lathi-wielding RSS volunteers stopping people at a barricade on the highway and checking their documents and identity cards have been going viral on social media in Telangana for the last two days.The pictures were posted by Friends of RSS from its Twitter handle. “RSS volunteers helping the police department daily for 12 hours at Yadadri Bhuvangiri district check post, Telangana,” read the statement posted along with the pictures.On Sunday, Amzadullah Khan, president of Majlis-Bachao-Tehreek, a Hyderabad-based political outfit, questioned the propriety of the Rachakonda police (under whose jurisdiction Yadadri Bhuvanagiri falls) in engaging RSS volunteers in manning the checkposts.In a statement, Khan sought to know whether the Telangana Rashtra Samithi government headed by chief minister K Chandrashekar Rao had nominated or officially given permission to the RSS to work the state government departments. He sought to know whether it was a policy of the TRS party to work with RSS or it was some mischief done by pro-Hindutva officials.Tagging Telangana CMO, IT minister K T Rama Rao and Director General of Police, Khan tweeted: “Sir, why are you silent on this issue of RSS workers with sticks manning police checkposts in Telangana, people are asking whether @TelanganaCOPS also outsourced to #RSS? Please break your silence.”RSS State Secretary Kacham Ramesh said in a statement that there was no truth in the reports that Sangh volunteers had checked the ID cards in Telangana. “It is a false allegation and motivated by narrow and vested interests,” he said.He said Swayamsevaks do not interfere with the work of the administration and perform activities only after getting proper and full concurrence from the local administration.On the photographs posted on the Friends of RSS Twitter handle, RSS Telangana unit media coordinator Nadimpalli Ayush said the Sangh volunteers had participated in checking of commuters only with the consent of the local police.When contacted, Rachakonda police commissioner Mahesh Bhagawat admitted that some RSS volunteers had indeed come to the Alair checkpost. “We have stopped them and in the last two days, they have not been coming there. Our police personal are effectively handling the situation there. We don’t want to get associated with any religious, political group while doing law enforcement. We are empowered by the government to do that,” Bhagawat said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/viral-pictures-of-rss-workers-checking-documents-at-a-telangana-check-post-trigger-row/story-YLMnSk4CdOYi4scQ8FI07J.html
12-04-2020||India||12 new Delhi areas turn Red Zone after Kejriwal’s concern over rise of Covid-19||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said he was concerned with the rising number of coronavirus positive cases reported in the last couple of days in the city and his government was taking all necessary steps to put a brake on its spread.Kejriwal said that several areas in the city were going to be declared containment zones in the next couple of days to intensify the fight against Covid-19 in the national capital. Soon after the announcement, 12 south Delhi neighbourhoods were added to the list to take the total number of Red Zones to 43.With the announcement, the administration moved to seal all these Sars-Cov-2 hotspots.Kejriwal’s concern follows a spike in the total number of positive cases taking it to 1139, the second highest in the country after Maharashtra.19 coronavirus patients in the capital have died so far and 25 others have recovered, as per the latest health ministry data. The chief minister said the containment zones were coded Red, and other areas, where cases were seen to be mounting, have been classified as Orange zones. The areas in Orange zones may turn Red if the cases continued to rise.Kejriwal added that a new programme named Operation Shield will be implemented in all the Red Zones after a pilot was tested successfully in East Delhi’s Dilshad Garden area for the last 10 days after a foreign-returned woman had tested Covid-19 positive and also infected about six, seven others.Kejriwal said the area was completed sealed with people inside the area banned from moving outside and those outside, banned from entering, apart from strict enforcement of other containment measures like sanitization. The government had taken over the job of delivering essential items including food in the area. No new cases were reported from Dilshad Garden after the experiment named Operation Shield, Kejriwal added.The 12 new containment zones announced on Sunday include areas in the Bengali Colony, Mahavir Enclave, multiple areas in the Khadda Colony, Jaitpur, Extension, Kachhi Colony, Madanpur Khadar Extension, Mehela Mohalla, Madanpur Khadar, couple of areas in the Abu Fazal Enclave and multiple localities in the East of Kailash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/12-new-delhi-areas-turn-red-zone-after-kejriwal-s-concern-over-rise-of-covid-19/story-SI3yi7suymSS3Bmt4EBfoI.html
12-04-2020||India||Delhi govt to launch massive sanitisation drive in fight against Covid-19||The government will start a money transfer scheme for autorickshaw and taxi drivers in Delhi from Monday to help them tide over the loss of income during the lockdown, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said Sunday.“There are two conditions – the license and the badge have to be valid. Beneficiaries have to visit the transport department’s website and upload their bank details following which a sum of Rs 5,000 will be transferred money will be transferred to their accounts,” Kejriwal said in a video addressFollow coronavirus latest updates here.A few days earlier, he had announced that the government would make a one-time cash transfer to ease the pain of autorickshaw and taxi drivers.The Delhi government will also launch an extensive sanitisation drive in Covid-19 containment zones, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said Sunday.“We will carry out a massive sanitisation drive in Covid-19 containment zones from Monday onwards,” he said in a video address.The chief minister said containment zones in the city have been colour coded zones to tackle the coronavirus threat.“We have identified containment zones as ‘Red Zone’, high-risk zones as ‘Orange Zone’. Orange Zone will be sanitised as well,” Kejriwal said.“More areas will be brought under containment zones in the fight against coronavirus,” he said.By Sunday evening, the number of designated hotspots in Delhi as Covid-19 containment zones rose to 43.Kejriwal said he was concerned about the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in Delhi and that the government was taking all steps to contain the outbreak.Delhi has reported more than, 1,000 cases of coronavirus so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-govt-to-launch-massive-sanitisation-drive-in-fight-against-covid-19/story-YaPRYODlZHoOZfO4mQ6PXN.html
12-04-2020||India||As Covid-19 relief, around 85 lakh people given free LPG cylinder in April||The government has distributed around 85 lakh cylinders free of cost in the month of April alone to the beneficiaries of the centrally-run Ujjwala scheme. The free cooking gas cylinder distribution is part of the special relief measure announced by the Central government under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana to mitigate against the economic losses suffered by the poor due to coronavirus pandemic outbreak.As per the scheme, three free LPG refills will be provided to the Ujjwala beneficiaries from April to June 2020. This measure along with several others, including direct cash transfer, additional ration supply and increased wages under the national employment guarantee scheme, is meant to provide succour to the poor, who are hit hard by the disruption in economic activity due to the outbreak and resultant nationwide lockdown. “As on date, Oil Marketing Companies have initiated transfer of Rs 5,606 crore into 7.15 crore PMUY beneficiary accounts for availing the free delivery of LPG cylinder under the PMGKY,” the official release stated. The release added that booking of 1.26 crore cylinders have been done in this month by the beneficiaries, out of which about 85 lakh cylinders have been delivered to the beneficiaries under the Ujjwala scheme.According to the government data, there are 27.87 crore active LPG consumers across the country including 8 crore beneficiaries of PM Ujjwala Yojana.The government said that 50 to 60 lakh cylinders were being delivered every day ever since the lockdown began on March 25, and despite the challenges, the waiting period in most of the places was under two days. It also spared a thought for the personnel involved in the supply chain of this enormous exercise.“When there is a nationwide lockdown and the people are staying home to stay safe, LPG delivery boys and all those in the supply chain of LPG are working tirelessly to ensure that clean fuel reaches people directly at their homes,” the release added.These corona warriors have been secured with a relief package announced by the oil marketing companies which promised an ex-gratia amount of Rs 5 lakh each in case of a death reported among the show-room staff, godown-keepers, mechanics and delivery boys.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-covid-19-relief-around-85-lakh-people-given-free-lpg-cylinder-in-april/story-2172LpX5TCstZDqbuFB2gJ.html
12-04-2020||India||12 new neighbourhoods in Delhi’s 43 containment zones, mostly in South Delhi||The government on Sunday ordered 12 South Delhi neighbourhoods to be brought under the containment zones, reportedly after fresh confirmed cases were reported from these localities. Sunday’s orders increase the total number of containment zones in Delhi to 43.A government order expanding the list of containment zones came hours after Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced the city government’s decision to seal every locality that reports a Covid-19 case. These areas, he said, would be declared as containment zones and brought under the government’s ‘operation shield’.All the containment zones have been classified as red zones, areas where movement of people is strictly prohibited. Areas which are seen as high-risk zones are being classified as orange.In both these areas, the government will launch a massive sanitisation drive to minimise spread of the infection.The details of the cases reported from these 12 localities weren’t immediately available.In containment zones, all shops are closed and essentials, including medicines, are procured through orders routed though appointed community leaders and residents’ welfare association office-bearers. These are delivered to common collection points by health workers and sanitation workers.In the buffer zones, shops dealing in essentials are open but have been subjected to staggered timings. Police and government officials personally monitor social distancing norms outside these shops when open.The spike in the list of containment zones in Delhi comes a day after Delhi saw the highest jump in coronavirus patients with 183 fresh cases. The national Capital had 903 coronavirus positive cases till Friday evening, which included 14 deaths and 26 recoveries.Of the 903 cases, 584 were linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation, while 269 were related to foreign travel and local transmission. The number of new Nizamuddin Markaz cases on Friday were 154.List of 12 new containment zones (Red Zones)1. Gali No. 5 & 5A, H-2 Block, Bengali Colony, Mahavir Enclave, New Delhi2. H. No. 811 to 829 and 842 to 835 - Khadda Colony, Jaitpur, Extension ,3. Part-II14. H. No. 1144 to 1134 and 618 to 623 - Khadda Colony, Jaitpur, Extension ,5. Part-II6. Gali No. 16, Kachhi Colony, Madanpur Khadar, Extension7. Mehela Mohalla, Madanpur Khadar8. H-Block, Near Umra Masjid, Abu Fazal Enclave9. E-Block, Abu Fazal Enclave10. H No. 97 to 107 and H. No. 120-127 Kailash Hills, East of Kailash11. E-Block (E-284 to E-294) East of Kailash12. H. No. 53 to 55 & 25, Shera Mohalla, Garhi, East of Kailash||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/12-new-neighbourhoods-in-delhi-s-43-containment-zones-mostly-in-south-delhi/story-q4Dj4poouizbLtgDmqimVM.html
12-04-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: Three weeks on, groom, his guests stuck at bride’s village in UP’s Aligarh||Savitri cannot go to her marital home despite the baraat waiting for three weeks and some baraat members have started to lose patience. But no one is able to do anything and Savitri does not say much but she must be confused. Vidhipur villagers say none of them would ever forget this marriage.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Savitri’s baraat arrived on March 21 and it was to return to Dhanbad district in Jharkhand on March 23, but then the nationwide lockdown was announced and it got stuck, along with the bride and the groom.Savitri’s family has been hosting the guests since and arranging their meals. The district administration has pitched in to help the family by providing one meal a day.The 12 baraat members have been tested for coronavirus and they were found negative for it. They told mediapersons that they did not have the slightest idea the trouble they will find themselves into when they left their hometown on March 20. It’s not clear when Savitri and the baraat will leave for Dhanbad.The lockdown is set to end on April 14 but states have pitched for an extension. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-three-weeks-on-groom-his-guests-stuck-at-bride-s-village-in-up-s-aligarh/story-uUPvpmrI1bAaAxDwom1x0H.html
12-04-2020||India||Survey, identify, quarantine: A look at the Agra model in Covid-19 fight||The “Agra Model” for tackling Covid-19 has been lauded by the central government, which plans to replicate it nationwide, even though the number of positive cases in the area has crossed the 100 mark.Officials say the local administration’s proactive approach in identifying cases, a door-to-door survey, the number of samples sent for testing, adequate quarantine measures and recovery of infected people are what makes the “Agra Model” special in the fight against the Coronavirus.Agra has recorded one death – a 76-year-old woman suffering from asthma who was infected by her grandson after he returned from abroad.District magistrate Prabhu N Singh said the first six positive cases in Agra were detected on March 3. “With this, we focused on the door-to-door survey, identification of infected cases and placing them in quarantine. The outcome is that cases testing positive now are mostly those already in quarantine,” he said.Agra listed people who had returned from abroad and identified their family members and those in contact with them. Areas with positive cases were declared “hot spots” with the area within a three-kilometre radius acting as a containment zone, and the area within a five-kilometre radius as a buffer zone.“We succeeded in curing 10 patients, including three who were treated at SN Medical College in Agra. Another aspect was the success in getting hot spots de-listed with an extensive door-to-door survey and sanitising the area with strict measures to avoid movement within hot spots,” said Singh.The authorities had designated 38 areas as hot spots and after some of them were removed from the list, the total now is 28.Chief medical officer Mukesh Kumar Vats said more than 2,000 health workers toiled round the clock alongside 3,000 Asha workers for the door-to-door survey to identify suspected cases. The survey by 1,248 two-member teams covered some 160,000 houses in Agra, checking about a million residents, he said.About 2,500 people were found symptomatic, including 36 who had a history of travel and were subjected to testing.A fool-proof quarantine approach was developed and those found to be asymptomatic were put in home quarantine while those who were symptomatic were put in quarantine in special facilities. “Thus, we are mostly testing those already in quarantine,” said Vats.The initial cases from early March were those with a history of travel and authorities focused on tracing their contacts and prepared a list of susceptible people who were tested. “In this process, we worked on clusters and got them sanitised and [removed them] from the list of hotspots, allowing us to focus on new clusters,” Vats added.Singh said 2,144 samples from Agra had been tested so far, of which 104 were found to be positive as of Sunday, when 12 more Covid-19 cases were found. Most of these new cases were staff of a private hospital and their contacts. “This hospital alone had 16 cases testing positive and has turned into a major hot spot. Our team is planning to take some drastic measures,” he said.By the end of March, Agra had only 12 cases, of whom eight had recovered and the rest were being treated. With the detection of cases linked to the Tablighi Jamaat gathering in New Delhi, the overall number began rising in April.Of the 104 positive cases so far, exactly half were linked to the Tablighi Jamaat gathering, and this led to a setback for all the work done by the Agra administration, officials said.“We had to search for these Jamaat members and their contacts and extensive work was done in tracing them. This increased the number drastically,” Vats said, adding about 28 Jamaat members had travelled to Agra.A control room, established in the Agra Smart City office, has heard about 7,000 complaints and taken steps to resolve them.Officials said a fresh challenge now is positive cases being reported in rural areas such as Saiyyan, Fatehpur Sikri, Khandoli and Iradat Nagar.Vats said authorities have framed a plan for these rural areas and health staff had begun thermal screening in villages. Infected people are being included in two categories – those who had brought infections to rural areas, and those working in cities in places such as hospitals where they can be infected. Joint secretary Lav Agarwal of the Union health ministry had lauded the “Agra Model” during a news briefing in New Delhi on Saturday. “The district authorities in Agra used the Smart City Control Room as a war room and included the private sector in catering to the vulnerable sections to maintain the food chain. The focus remained on contact tracing and isolating patients, for which the Agra district administration identified all who were in contact with the first cases identified,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/survey-identify-quarantine-a-look-at-the-agra-model-in-covid-19-fight/story-mQemI8jQatmgDicZf7WNZK.html
12-04-2020||India||Covid-19 Update: India’s coronavirus cases touch 8,447, 34 people dead since Saturday||India’s coronavirus cases climbed to 8,447 on Sunday with the death toll at 273 across the country, the Union Health Ministry said.At least 34 people have died since Saturday and 764 Covid-19 patients have recovered from the infection and been discharged from various hospitals nationwide. The health ministry data also indicated that 909 new cases have been reported in the last 24 hours.The Health Ministry has identified 14 national institutes including AIIMS and NIMHANS to mentor both government and private medical colleges and expand the country’s Covid-19 testing capacity.“We are putting in a great deal of effort to hike our testing capacities and both private and government medical colleges are being roped in. National institutes of repute such as AIIMS and NIMHANS have also been identified to mentor other institutes in testing procedure. Our major focus is also on the proper clinical management of coronavirus positive patients,” Health Ministry’s Joint Secretary Lav Agarwal said at a news briefing.On the frantic research by Indian scientists for a vaccine for the deadly pathogen, an ICMR official said that work was being carried out at various research facilities. “More than 40 vaccines are being developed but none of them have reached the next stage. As of now, there is no vaccine for the disease, “Dr Manoj Murhekar, Indian Council of Medical Research said.According to ICMR officials, a total of 1,86,906 samples have so far been tested across the country, of which 7,953 have been found positive for Covid-19.“In the last five days, on an average, 15,747 samples were tested per day and 584 of those were found to be positive per day,” an Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) official said at the news briefing.A day earlier, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had held a four-hour meet with 13 chief ministers via a video conference and indicated that the nationwide lockdown would be extended by two more weeks. PM Modi is also likely to address the nation once again to announce the extension of the lockdown, which began on March 25 to control the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-india-s-coronavirus-cases-touch-8-447-34-people-dead-since-saturday/story-85RaBO7hyepBCnYmnjHXUN.html
12-04-2020||India||Operation Shield to be implemented in several new coronavirus hotspots in Delhi: CM Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi government is planning to implement Operation Shield in the national capital for the effective containment of coronavirus. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Sunday that several new areas will be declared containment zones in addition to the 33 Covid-19 hotspots that have already been sealed by the state administration.Kejriwal said all the containment zones will now be brought under Operation Shield which was first implemented successfully in Dilshad Garden in East Delhi.“We had experimented at Dilshad Garden when one foreign returned woman had turned positive and infected six or seven other people who came in contact with her. We then sealed the entire area. Operation shield was implemented there,” Kejriwal said.Explaining what Operation Shield meant, chief minister Kejriwal said an area under the programme is completely sealed and the movement of people in and out of that area is banned. Administration takes over the supply of essential services including grocery in the area and an extensive sanitization drive is launched within its perimeter.“All the steps taken under Operation Shield resulted in no new cases of Coronavirus being reported from the area (Dilshad Garden) in the past 10 days,” he said.Kejriwal said all new areas in Delhi with a rising number of infections are being identified and will be soon declared containment zones where Operation Shield will come into effect.“Our team has identified several new areas apart from the existing 33 or 35 which will be declared containment zones in the next couple of days. Operation Shield will be enforced in this area in a very strict manner,” Kejriwal said.Delhi chief minister said he recognized that the containment measures had inconvenienced people a great deal but added that it was important to stop the spread of the disease.“We have seen that 2000 people have died in America in the last 24 hours, we don’t want a repeat of this horrifying situation in Delhi,” he said while presenting the rationale for bringing more and more areas into the Operation Shield fold.Click here for live and latest updates on Coronavirus||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/operation-shield-to-be-implemented-in-several-new-coronavirus-hotspots-in-delhi-kejriwal/story-MUFKFbK8kcP4MsHEZASw8J.html
12-04-2020||India||‘Hope everyone is safe’: Kejriwal after earthquake of magnitude 3.5 strikes Delhi||Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR) were rocked by an earthquake late Sunday afternoon.The earthquake measuring 3.5 on the Richter scale, had its epicentre near Delhi’s Sonia Vihar area according to National Center for Seismology under the ministry of earth sciences. The location coordinates are latitude 28.7 N and longitude 77.2 E, depth 8 km.Soon after, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted, “Tremors felt in Delhi. Hope everyone is safe. I pray for the safety of each one of you.” Tremors felt in Delhi. Hope everyone is safe. I pray for the safety of each one of you.The quake forced people staying indoors due to the lockdown to rush out of their homes. There have been no immediate reports of damage in the quake.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/earthquake-tremors-felt-in-delhi-ncr/story-AHCQ2cpwAWuh5dgaeFLCKM.html
12-04-2020||India||Andhra Pradesh to test 45,000 high-risk people to check spread of Covid-19||The Andhra Pradesh government has decided to conduct tests on 45,000 high-risk people with health issues in Covid-19 affected areas in order to assess the level of infection in the state.Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy, who held a high-level meeting at his camp office at Tadepalli on Sunday, ordered that Covid-19 tests be conducted on every suspect in the state as part of the ongoing comprehensive family survey in line with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines.An official spokesman said the health department officials told the chief minister that 1.43 crore people were mapped during the third phase of the intensive family survey, out of the total population of 1.47 crore. During the survey, as many as 32,349 people were referred for medical examination by the field staff.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.The doctors were asked to carry out tests on 9,107 among them. However, the chief minister said the officials should not take any chance during these tough times and ordered that they conduct tests on all the 32,349 members. There should be special focus in the zones where Covid-19 is prevalent, he said.The chief minister sought details on the clusters, red zone, and hotspot areas in the state. He instructed the officials to prioritize high-risk patients such as senior citizens and those suffering from blood pressure, diabetes and other diseases.“Covid-19 tests should be conducted on 45,000 such people to rule out the possibility of the spread of the disease,” he said.The government did not say how long it would take to test them but it has the capacity to conduct 2,400 rapid tests per day.Jagan also instructed that the officials immediately provide high care medical facilities to the high-risk patients who show any Covid-19 related symptoms.The chief minister also decided to distribute around 16 crore masks among the people since wearing masks has been made mandatory during the lockdown.He instructed the officials to distribute 3 masks each to 5.3 crore people in the state. Stating that implementation of social distance everywhere should be made mandatory Jagan said that markings at the supermarkets, shops, and Rythu Bazaars were necessary to maintain physical distance.The cluster and zones should be updated regularly based on the level of virus infection so that it can be restricted. He also ordered officials to ensure qualitative treatment and train every medical and paramedical personnel in the treatment of Covid-19.As on Sunday morning, the state reported as many as 417 active positive Covid-19 in the state. Among the active cases, 13 are foreign returnees, 12 are infected from the foreign returnees, 199 are Markaz returnees, 161 are those who came in contact with Markaz returnees, and 32 cases are of those who returned from other states and other means.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-pradesh-to-test-45-000-high-risk-people-to-check-spread-of-covid-19/story-ouFP36EIfAoscKo6PX9O2N.html
12-04-2020||India||14 new Covid-19 cases in Haryana, state tally touches 179||Fourteen more people have tested positive for coronavirus in Haryana taking the number of those infected by the disease in the state to 179.With the first positive cases reported in Kurukshetra and Yamunanagar districts, coronavirus has now entered 19 of the 22 districts of the state.As per the morning bulletin of the state health department, 7 new cases have been reported in Nuh district, two each in Kurukshetra, Yamunanagar and Faridabad and a nurse of Karnal’s Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College and Hospital has tested positive.With 45 infected people, including 7 new cases, state’s Nuh (Mewat) district has the maximum number of coronavirus patients, followed by 32 in Gurugram, 31 in Faridabad and 29 in Palwal.At present, the state has total 151 active coronavirus patients and 26 patients have been cured and discharged and two patients have died, the bulletin reads. .However, the health department officials said that the fresh samples of the new patients will be sent for the second test.First cases in Yamunanagar and KurukshetraWith the government likely to take a decision on the extension of the lockdown, the first coronavirus patients have been reported in Yamunanagar and Kurukshetra districts. Chief Medical Officer, Yamunanagar, Vijay Dahiya said that two persons of Mumidi village have tested positive. “We had sent their samples for medical examination at BPS Government Medical College for Women, Khanpur on April 8,”As per the information both persons -one is a 19-year-old and the other is 35 years old, along with 12 other people had gone to Gujarat to join a Tablighi Jamaat in February 2020 and they returned to their homes in Yamunanagar on March 20.In Kurukshetra, CMO Sukhbir Singh said that a 20 year old woman from Taraori of Karnal district and a 32 year old man resident of Kurukshetra have tested positive in the initial reports. He said that they are suspected coronavirus patients and another sample will be sent for a second examination. In Karnal, another staff nurse of Karnal’s Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College and Hospital has tested positive of coronavirus, taking the number of infected health officials to three in the hospital and infected people to six in the district.Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Yadav has confirmed that the 36 years old staff nurse of KCGMCH has tested positive in her report from the newly set up lab at KCGMCH Karnal. Earlier, a woman doctor and staff nurse of the KCGMC also tested positive as they were in contact with a 58 year old first coronavirus patient of the district, who was admitted in the hospital from March 25 to April 1 and died on April 4 at PGI Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/14-new-covid-19-cases-in-haryana-state-tally-touches-179/story-aakvhu5Me0ImIkygdEs5ZI.html
12-04-2020||India||After Yamraja, Corona demon descends on Uttarakhand streets to enforce lockdown||Days after taking the help of an artist dressed up as Yamraja to create awareness among people on COVID-19 pandemic, Haridwar police came up with another unusual idea to parade an artist dressed as the Corona demon to stress on the need for the people to stay indoors during the lockdown. The artist dressed up as Corona demon moves along with the cops patrolling the city and delivers awareness messages in a dramatic fashion accompanied by a demonic laugh on the public announcement system. In a video shared by the Uttarakhand police on social media, the artist could be seen saying “Corona, mera hi naam hai Corona. Yadi aap nikle gharon se bahar, to ho jaoge sab bimar (Corona, my name is Corona. If you come out of your home, then you will fall sick)” followed by a demonic laugh. Click here for live and latest updates on CoronavirusSenthil Avoodai K Raj, senior superintendent of police, Haridwar district said “It was the checkpost in-charge of Har ki Pauri in Haridwar who came up with this idea and took the help of an artist to create awareness among the people on this deadly virus.”Senthil added, “Like the Yamraja move, this Corona demon is also an out of the box idea which easily draws people’s attention unlike the conventional methods. Hence, it is being used to create as much awareness as we can, asking people to stay home to avoid getting infected.”Lauding such efforts by police officers across the state, Ashok Kumar, director general (law & order) Uttarakhand police said the “Department will reward the police officers for coming out with such innovative methods to create awareness.”For all latest stories on coronavirusUttarakhand is under lockdown since March 23 due to the COVID-19 pandemic. So far, there are 35 positive patients in the state with several areas witnessing restrictions on non-essential movement of people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-yamraja-corona-demon-descends-on-uttarakhand-streets-to-enforce-lockdown/story-GFtJlNBPWIAoJHLLRHUwFL.html
12-04-2020||India||Covid-19: IT-enabled platform to keep tabs on hydroxychloroquine supply||The central government’s department of pharmaceuticals is developing a platform driven by information technology (IT) to monitor the availability of anti-malaria drug hydroxychloroquine after allegations of supply crunch in several places, according to officials.But industry players said there is no shortage of hydroxychloroquine, which is used as a prophylaxis (a treatment to prevent a disease) for people at high risk of contracting the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). They added that reports of shortages could be attributed to a popular brand running out of stock because of hoarding by patients.Hydroxychloroquine pills are prescribed to non-Covid-19 patients with conditions such as rheumatoid arthritis.Acting on the complaints, the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA), which functions under the pharmaceuticals department (ministry of chemicals and fertilizers), is working on developing the IT-driven platform to monitor hydroxychloroquine at all distribution channels starting from customs to warehouses to distributors and finally retailers.NPPA and the Drugs Controller of India, which is under the health ministry, have approached all stakeholders to ensure information on the supply of the medicine is uploaded and updated on the platform on a regular basis. This will help officials keep tabs on the medicine’s availability and address gaps as and when they surface.“…it is informed that all sellers of drugs are requested to register first in the platform to create master data, and then upload details…It is to ensure availability of these drugs to all needy people,” read a message from the drugs controller’s office to those involved in the supply chain. HT has seen the communication.Basant Goel, the president of Retailers and Distributors Chemist Association (RDCA), said there is a particular brand that is facing supply shortage though others are available in the market.“The initial shortage was reported because, when there was no restriction on the sale of hydroxychloroquine, people started hoarding a popular brand. But now we will be getting more supplies. Also, the sale of hydroxychloroquine is restricted by the government, and you need to have a valid prescription to buy it,” he said.On March 26, the Union health ministry restricted the over-the-counter sale of hydroxychloroquine. It is now available only on prescription. While health ministry says all departments are taking extra steps to ensure the supply of hydroxychloroquine, the external affairs maintains that only the surplus stock is being exported after the recent relaxations of rules.“We have adequate manufacturing capacity, today, in the country and have sufficient supply to meet both domestic and export demand,” the Indian Pharmaceutical Alliance said in a statement on Sunday, adding that companies are ramping up production to ensure an uninterrupted supply for domestic and export markets.India has recommended the use of hydroxychloroquine for asymptomatic (not showing symptoms of the disease) health care workers treating suspected or confirmed Covid-19 patients, and asymptomatic household contacts who live in close proximity with patients. The medicine, along with antibiotic Azithromycin, is given to Covid-19 patients in intensive care units.The government has warned people against the indiscriminate use of hydroxychloroquine, which can have severe side effects in people with a history of heart and kidney ailments, among other underlying conditions.Last week, the government relaxed restrictions on the export of the medicine as several countries, including the US and Brazil, sought supplies from India, which is hydroxychloroquine’s largest producer.According to government data, against the projected requirement of 10 million tablets (including those for health workers dealing with Covid-19 patients, ICU cases and high-risk contacts), the availability is 32.8 million tablets a day. In addition, there is a buffer stock of about 20-30 million tablets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-it-enabled-platform-to-keep-tabs-on-hydroxychloroquine-supply/story-mAYNLqK6Z0QveUwLlgfnoK.html
12-04-2020||India||PhD scholar lies to parents, travels 1,500 km to help with Covid-19 testing||One of the many ‘corona warriors’ on the frontlines of the fight against Covid-19, Ramakrishna literally dropped everything he was doing back home in Telangana and headed 1,500 km to Lucknow when he got a call from his guide requesting that he return to his ‘post’ – his laboratory. The PhD scholar at the microbiology department of Lucknow’s King George Medical University was helping his parents farm their land in their village in Khammam district when his head of department Amita Jain phoned him. His help was needed in testing samples for the infection that was spreading rapidly.Follow latest updates on coronavirus hereAnd like a soldier called back in war-time, Ramakrishna said he immediately packed his bags and even lied to his parents, worried like everybody else about the spread of the infection. In an hour he was ready.“I initially told my parents I will be staying with my friends from the village who are studying in Hyderabad. Now, with the attention I got, they know I am working in Lucknow in this fight against coronavirus and they are fine with it,” the 29-year-old microbiologist told PTI.It was March 21 and Ramakrishna set off immediately, telling his parents that he was going to Hyderabad to write his thesis at a friend’s place. His parents were not too convinced, unwilling to let their son make even the 270 km journey to the city but finally agreed.He reached Hyderabad on March 22, the day of the ‘Janta curfew’ when all routes to Lucknow or anywhere else were blocked. Before daybreak, in the early hours of March 23, he headed to the airport.The going was not easy there either. Ramakrishna said he was stopped by police. However, when he explained his reason for heading to the airport, they helped him get there.  He caught a flight to Lucknow, much to the delight of his guide and the team at KGMU that is tirelessly working to test more and more samples each day.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Ramakrishna, who hit the public spotlight when Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra tweeted about him, insisted he was just doing his duty like all the others in the medical fraternity to fight this pandemic.The PhD scholar had completed his project six months ago and returned to his village. He was working on his thesis and also helping his parents in farming.Jain, head of department, microbiology, KGMU, said she had called four of her students for help. Two were in Lucknow and joined immediately, while Ramakrishna and one more person were away and immediately came to help.  Asked what she told Ramakrishna on the phone, Jain said, “I told him that we need him if he can help. He asked for an hour to convince his parents and within an hour, he said he is coming.” “Their research scholars helping out in testing) commitment is akin to soldiers reporting to their battalions in times of war. This time soldiers wore masks,” Jain told PTI.Ramakrishna’s contribution and commitment came into focus when Priyanka Gandhi sent him an appreciation letter last week and also tweeted about his selfless act.Hailing the microbiologist, she said they are lakhs of such “soldiers” in India who should be honoured and encouraged.Jain also appreciated the dedication of Ramakrishna and many others who have come to help at the KGMU’s microbiology department, saying all of them just came without once asking about remuneration or incentives.“All of them will be paid, but they never asked about it, such is their commitment,” the head of the microbiology department said.The virology laboratory at KGMU has been testing suspected samples for Covid-19 under the headship of Jain since February.The laboratory’s technicians, virologists and scientists, attendants and research scholars have been working on a war footing 2X7 to deal with the pandemic. Uttar Pradesh has reported 452 cases of coronavirus and five fatalities, according to Health Ministry data. The disease has infected more than 8,000 people and claimed at least 273 lives across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/corona-warrior-lies-to-parents-travels-1-500-km-to-help-with-covid-19-testing/story-47qU3vv9yueBQMvDbia7tK.html
12-04-2020||India||India over-prepared, always a step ahead of Covid-19 curve, says Health Ministry||The Centre on Sunday allayed any concerns over India’s preparedness to tackle rising number of coronavirus cases and said the government has always been on top of the challenge by using the mantra of “over preparedness”.Health ministry’s joint secretary Lav Agarwal presented data to indicate that the country has been sufficiently scaling up its capacity in areas of testing, training and hospitalization to stay ahead of the curve of the disease.“As of today, if we need 1,671 beds for Covid-19 patients, but we have over 1 lakh 5 thousand beds available,” said Agarwal.He added, “We are increasing Covid-19 hospitals and isolation beds, this pandemic can result into an exponential rise in cases, which is why we are preparing in advance. Continuous training of medical professionals to manage Covid-19 cases has been done at the national and the state level. We are over-prepared.”An ICMR representative present at the daily joint briefing added that the government’s testing capacity had steadily increased to 219 labs including 68 from the private sector. He added that the average number of tests per day for the past five days has consistently been over the figure of 15,000.“A total of 1,86,906 samples have been tested so far, of which 7,953 were found to be positive for Covid-19,” said the official.Additionally, the government has taken a major decision to ramp up testing facilities further by roping in both private and public medical colleges, along with 14 mental health institutes across the country.“14 identified institutes including AIIMS, NIMHANS to mentor medical colleges and expand COVID-19 testing capacity,” Agarwal said.For all latest stories on coronavirusThe health ministry official added that a total of 8447 positive cases have been recorded since the outbreak of the disease in the country. 909 additions registered since yesterday. A total of 273 deaths have been reported so far including 34 during the day. The good news, however, was the recovery of 716 positive cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-always-a-step-ahead-of-covid-19-curve-says-govt/story-C5oLwWngsbhLMhWfyHRp6L.html
12-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Covid-19 package offers eight 5kg cooking gas refills for free till June and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion curated for you. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19 package offers eight 5kg cooking gas refills for free till JunePoor households using 5kg cooking gas cylinders will be entitled to eight free refills in three months as a relief from the disruptions due to the Covid-19 outbreak, while the number of free refills will be limited to three for beneficiaries using 14.2kg cylinders, an oil ministry spokesperson said. Read more. As some states extend curbs, India awaits Centre’s Covid-19 lockdown decisionA section of government functionaries believes that Prime Minister Narendra Modi may make public his decision on whether to extend the nationwide lockdown after a key meeting on April 14, while others expect an announcement as early as Sunday. Read more. Tax refunds to EPF withdrawals: Govt’s economic measures to aid individuals amid coronavirus crisisThe Government of India has taken a slew of measures to aid the economy and benefit citizens in the wake of the coronavirus crisis. Last month, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced a relief package worth Rs 1.70 lakh crore in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak.The government has also released around Rs 30,000 crore in assistance to various sections of the society. Read more. ‘Covid-19 lockdown was delayed because...’: Kamal Nath jabs CentreFormer Madhya Pradesh chief minister and senior Congress leader Kamal Nath on Sunday alleged that Bharatiya Janata Party-led central government delayed imposition of lockdown over Covid-19 to ensure their government is formed in the state. Read more. Covid-19: IIMs consider online interviews to admit studentsAbout half of the 20 Indian Institutes of Management (IIMs) are exploring the possibility of conducting some of the pending interviews online to complete their admission processes as the Centre has indicated that it is not inclined to lift the lockdown imposed to check the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic when it lapses on April 14. Read more. Mumbai Police tweets Main Hoon Na scene to emphasis on the importance of wearing masksWith the entire country under lockdown, several police authorities are taking to social media to spread messages of awareness related to coronavirus preventative measures. One department which often shares messages with a touch of wittiness is Mumbai Police and their latest tweet shows that perfectly. Read more. ‘The way he was hitting the ball...’: CSK teammates reveal MS Dhoni’s form in pre-season campFormer India captain MS Dhoni was pinning his hopes on this year’s IPL to make a return to the Indian team. However, owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, the prospect of the league looks bleak which has now jeopardised Dhoni’s chances of a comeback. However, as per his CSK teammates, the former wicket-keeper batsman looked in great touch in the pre-season camp. Read more. Sony PS5 DualSense vs Xbox Series X controller: Design, features and compatibility comparedSony has unveiled its PlayStation 5 controller but is yet to show the PS5 itself that will be coming later this year. On the other hand, Microsoft’s Xbox division has unveiled the console and the Xbox Series X controller, giving us a fair idea of what’s there to come. Read more. 5 poems to feed your soul during the lockdown and social distancingPassing each day is becoming difficult for some of us at times during the current lockdown situation. Cooped up inside our homes, not going out for fresh air or to meet friends and see new places, does affect us after a certain point of time. But there is one thing which has time and again come to our rescue in the past, and can do so again in the current scenario- poetry. Read more. ‘4 rotis for 6 people’: Slum dwellers in Chandigarh struggle amid lockdownMany residents of Kacchi Colony who have failed to get ration and supplies struggle to keep themselves sustained amid the lockdown. The only source of food for them is the community food being given twice a day by various NGOs and the administration, who are also struggling to reach out to the real needy. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-covid-19-package-offers-eight-5kg-cooking-gas-refills-for-free-till-june-and-all-the-latest-news/story-wImMIYBItmKlMDfVOnVC2N.html
12-04-2020||India||43 Covid-19 cases, 4 deaths: How coronavirus spread in Dharavi has kept authorities on toes||Dharavi reported 15 new coronavirus disease cases taking the tally to 43 so far on Sunday, 12 days after Asia’s biggest slum cluster in Mumbai saw the first patient of Covid-19. Among the 15 new cases in this slum pocket are nine contacts of a victim who succumbed to Covid-19 earlier and now the authorities have taken up a full-scale investigation of those who fall under the high-risk category.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here An 80-year-old man died at Kasturba Hospital on Saturday taking the death toll in the slum area to four. His 35-year-old daughter, too, had tested positive for Covid-19.Police, civic, and health authorities are working non-stop to implement the lockdown in the area housing nearly 800,000 people.What are the concerns?Short on space and basic amenities, residents of Dharavi are all the more vulnerable. The 240-hectare slum pocket has 850,000 residents and a population density of 66,000 per square kilometre, making it one of the most congested spaces in Mumbai. The Union health ministry on Tuesday cited an Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) study that claims one Covid-19 patient can infect 406 people in 30 days if preventive measures such as lockdown and social distancing are not implemented.Activists and health workers have raised concerns over how social distancing is practically impossible in an area where an average of 10-12 people live in each of the 57,000 housing units measuring around 250 sqft.Also read: As some states extend curbs, India awaits Centre’s Covid-19 lockdown decisionThey have said social distancing and self-isolation are hardly possible in slums where an average family has four to five people living in one room. Self-isolation is hardly possible.Lack of amenities, such as potable water and toilet facilities, also force these people to break the social distancing protocol.What are experts saying?They have said there is a need to revisit how social distancing is being imposed in slum clusters like Dharavi during the ongoing lockdown.Amitabh Kundu, a distinguished fellow at the New Delhi-based think tank Research and Information System for Developing Countries, said the lockdown has been largely successful in urban areas, among the middle and the upper classes because of a lot of social vigilantism, but the same cannot be said for those living in slum clusters or in areas inhabited by lower-income groups.Also read| Over 35,000 abuse lockdown in Maharashtra, cases near 9000 in India: 10 points“Residents’ welfare associations are taking extra care; there is limited entry of people, quarantine notices were put up on houses with members having travel history and effective monitoring is being done, often at the irritation and violation of the privacy of the affected households. But we are really worried that the hotspots should not extend to the rural areas, low-income areas and slums in towns and cities,” he said.Kundu said the concept of social distancing is difficult in lower-income groups because of the lockdown since most of them spend more time in confined spaces.“As per Census 2011, about 25% of the people living in urban slums still have to go out for toilet and drinking water; for them, the lockdown means standing in long queues (where social distancing is not possible). About 45% of these people are workers mostly employed in the informal sector. They are not allowed to go out unless they are part of the essential services,” he said.Manoj Misra, head of Yamuna Jiye Abhiyaan, a non-government organisation that works for the revival of the Yamuna, pointed out that the sense of hygiene maintenance in India is already compromised. “For people in slums, access to space, safe water and privacy is a daily struggle that has been heightened by the lockdown, so the immediate steps that can be taken now are focusing on the most susceptible in this group, those above 60,” Misra said.What are authorities doing?The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) started screening around 700,000 residents of the cramped slum cluster of Dharavi on Saturday—an exercise that is expected to take around two weeks to complete.Door-to-door screening of people living in Dharavi is being done by a team of 150 doctors from Maharashtra Medical Association and other BMC workers.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage “We have formed 10 teams to conduct screening of all residents in Dharavi. We are using 500 sets of personal protection equipment (PPE), 2,000 masks, and 18 thermal scanners for this purpose. Screenings are being done at Kalyanwadi, Mukund Nagar, Social Nagar, Muslim Nagar, Madina Nagar, etc,” Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner, G/North ward under which Dharavi is located, said.Mumbai Police on Sunday barricaded the Dharavi and deployed personnel in the area to keep a watch on the movement of people.The civic body has already planned a 1000-bed quarantine facility in Dharavi, where those wanting institutional quarantine will be kept. Of these, 300 beds will be available at the Rajiv Gandhi District Sports Club and the remaining 700 are being planned at the Dharavi transit camp municipal school.Dharavi has around 225 public or community toilets that are also being disinfected daily for which a special treatment solution and machine has been imported from New Zealand.Mumbai council spokesman Vijay Khabale-Patil said Sunday testing sites have also been set up in recent days to pick up on asymptomatic carriers of the virus, adding that “as a result, more positive cases have emerged”.“We have been running extensive medical camps in Dharavi and other areas of Mumbai to test more people for coronavirus and make sure carriers are not ignored just because they don’t display symptoms,” he said while speaking to wire agency AFP.All shops, except pharmacies, near so-called “containment zones” in Dharavi has been closed from Friday to limit the number of people in public spaces.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/43-covid-19-cases-4-deaths-how-coronavirus-spread-in-dharavi-has-kept-authorities-on-toes/story-EpYz64OPD8yUdzEXotpDBI.html
12-04-2020||India||‘May use it if data suggests’: Delhi AIIMS expert on plasma therapy for Covid-19||All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS) Delhi director Randeep Guleria on Sunday talked about the possibility of using plasma therapy in treating Covid-19.Guleria said that blood plasma can be taken from a Covid-19 patient who has recovered from the illness. The plasma from a recovered coronavirus patient contains antibodies which, when transfused to a sick patient, can help in recovery. “Plasma from blood of a person who recovered from Covid-19 is taken and then plasma’s anti-bodies are transfused into another patient’s blood which boosts their immune system,” he said.Guleria said that there are very few studies that indicate the effectiveness of plasma therapy as the treatment of Covid-19. He added that the therapy has previously been used in other illnesses such as Ebola.  #WATCH Delhi AIIMS' Randeep Guleria explains how plasma therapy works in treatment of #COVID19 patients - Plasma from blood of a person who recovered from COVID-19 is taken & then plasma's anti-bodies are transfused into another patient's blood which boosts their immune system. pic.twitter.com/FMcuVxEvvB“If the data suggests it’s useful, then we may be able to use it in a larger number of patients but we must remember that it depends on blood being donated by Covid-19 patients who have recovered and their plasma being available to be given to the patient,” Guleria added.  Guleria also said that there is no data to suggest that pets can spread coronavirus.“The spread of Covid-19 is mainly from human to human. Chances of its spread from pets to humans are very very unlikely. So having pets at home is safe,” he said. The number of Covid-19 cases in the country climbed to to 8,356 on Sunday. As per the data released by the ministry on Sunday morning, India now has 7,367 active cases, 715 people have been cured or discharged while 273 people have died from Covid-19.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/may-use-it-if-data-suggests-delhi-aiims-expert-on-plasma-therapy-for-covid-19/story-imNMv8t7UY0yfQuMwEEzpJ.html
12-04-2020||India||India reports 273 coronavirus deaths, total number of positive cases touch 8,356||India’s coronavirus cases climbed to 8,356 on Sunday with the death toll rising to 273 across the country, the Union Health Ministry said adding that 909 new cases were reported in the last 24 hours.At least 34 people died since Saturday and 716 patients have recovered from the infection and been discharged.“We are putting in a great deal of effort to hike our testing capacities and both private and government medical colleges are being roped in. National institutes of repute such as AIIMS and NIMHANS have also been identified to scale up testing capacity. Our major focus is also on the proper clinical management of coronavirus positive patients,” Health Ministry’s Joint Secretary Lav Agarwal said at the daily news briefingA day earlier Prime Minister Narendra Modi had held a four-hour meet with at least 13 chief ministers on video conference, indicated that the nationwide lockdown would be extended by two weeks. PM Modi is also likely to give a televised address to the nation again to announce the extension of the lockdown, which began on March 25 to control the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-273-coronavirus-deaths-total-number-of-positive-cases-touch-8-356/story-SWq2BRjg8DPxewxSEOoG5M.html
12-04-2020||India||15 Pak soldiers, 8 terrorists killed in Army’s LoC action, says intel report||The Indian Army’s artillery assault on terror launch pads at Dudhnial facing the Keran sector across the Line of Control (LoC) on April 10 killed eight terrorists and 15 Pakistan Army soldiers, two people in the security establishment told Hindustan Times.It was a message to Pakistan, one of them said, that nothing goes unpunished.On the banks of Kishanganga river, Dudhnial was targeted to retaliate to ceasefire violations by Pakistan. It was from this mountain town that the five terrorists neutralised by the Indian Army special forces in the Keran sector on April 5 had been launched.Out of five terrorists killed, three belonged to Jammu and Kashmir and the other two had trained with Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM), people familiar with the development said. Efforts to establish their identity are still on.Pakistan Army has confirmed that Indian Army fired in Sharda, Dudhnial and Shahkot sectors along the LoC, the de facto border. But it had claimed that only four civilians including a 15- year- old girl sustained serious injuries. Islamabad also blamed the Indian Army of 708 ceasefire violations in 2020, that it said, killed two civilians and injured another 42.The Pakistan Army spokesperson also said the Pakistan Army countered the Indian assault by targeting Indian Army posts along the LoC with matching weapon calibre or simply put artillery guns and heavy mortars.This, according to Indian intelligence reports, was an effort to camouflage the extent of the casualties on the Pakistani side.According to these intelligence reports, 15 Pakistan army troopers were killed along with eight terrorists on April 10 when the army hit targets in the Keran sector using long-range ammunition. Some collateral damage, mostly shops where food and logistics supplies were stored, in the Dudhnial area have also been reported.Pakistan watchers say that Indian Army had no option but to target the launch pads as nearly 160 terrorists of mixed tanzeems—Lashkar-e-Tayyiba, Jaish e Mohammed and Hizbul Mujahideen — were waiting in the area to infiltrate into Kashmir.The situation is no different in locations south of Pir Panjal in Rajouri and Jammu sector where intelligence reports pointed to the presence of 70 Jaish terrorists waiting for an opportunity to cross into India.A senior intelligence official told HT that it was not a coincidence that violations of ceasefire are being reported from Balakote and Mendhar sectors, firing mortars along LoC. “The situation along the LoC is very hot right now as we speak,” he said.Terrorists often sneak into Jammu and Kashmir under cover fire from the Pakistani army.Intelligence agencies have estimated that there are a total of about 242 terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir. According to Kashmir experts, past experience shows that the moment this number crosses 300, there will be a spike in violence and targeted attacks on security forces and political leaders who speak out against Pakistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/15-pak-soldiers-8-terrorists-killed-in-army-s-loc-action-says-intel-report/story-WAUDUY2MEJNLV6jFZ4qyTM.html
12-04-2020||India||Rajasthan Covid-19 task force for lockdown withdrawal in phases||Rajasthan’s Covid-19 task force has recommended the phased withdrawal of the lockdown, ideally in districts with no infections, by allowing movement of vehicles transporting goods and agricultural value chain operations with conditions.The task force, headed by the additional chief secretary, was set up to suggest ways to withdraw the lockdown. The panel has submitted its report to the chief minister, and it will now be sent to the Central government.O April 4, chief minister Ashok Gehlot had formed two task forces to give suggestions on the phased withdrawal of the lockdown and on bringing the economy back on track.A senior official said on condition of anonymity that the 12-member task force has recommended that the lockdown should be withdrawn in phases, and not in one go, based on the number of infections in districts.The panel has placed districts in four categories based on the number of Covid-19 cases – high risk, medium risk, low risk, and districts with no cases, such as Bundi, Jalore, Sirohi, Hanumangarh and Baran. The report recommended allowing agricultural value chain operations (production, marketing and consumption) with conditions. The task force emphasised the need to strengthen National Agriculture Marketing (eNAM), a pan-India electronic trading portal, which connects all agricultural markets (mandis), the official said.The task force also recommended allowing the transportation of goods and opening up of the services sector, including electricians, and repairs of coolers and air conditioning units, along with the supply of medicines and groceries and the continuation of banking operations, the official said.In addition, food delivery services, including by restaurants, and services such as plumbers, hair salons, laundries, cobblers and tailoring should be considered for resumption, the official said.“The report said schools, colleges and libraries should stay closed, and factories with labour staying in the premises and major mining operations may be allowed,” he said.The task force recommended that some activities should be permitted only after the return of normalcy, such as social gatherings of more than 20 people, markets in narrow lanes, cinemas, gyms, clubs and swimming pools, the official said.“The panel has suggested ensuring that those given permits are bound to follow the advisories of the health department, such as wearing masks, using sanitisers and maintaining social distancing,” he said. The report also gave details of the Covid-19 situation in Rajasthan, including hotspots and growth charts for infections.Rajasthan had imposed a lockdown on March 22, three days before the nationwide lockdown announced by the Central government. The 12-member task force comprised officials and experts such as additional chief secretary (home) Rajeeva Swaroop, additional chief secretary (health) Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary (industry) Subodh Agarwal, director general of police Bhupendra Singh, additional director general of police (crime) BL Soni, the heads of the energy, agriculture, food and civil supply, and labour departments and health experts Ashok Pangariya, Virendra Singh and SD Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-covid-19-task-force-for-lockdown-withdrawal-in-phases/story-Y14I6vvgAh6Mm8iNsm7S9I.html
12-04-2020||India||‘I have come with corona’: Currency notes found outside houses in Bihar town||The lockdown, imposed to check the spread of coronavirus disease Covid-19, has led to some strange events in a small town in Bihar.According to Hindustan Times’ Hindi language publication Live Hindustan, people are finding currency notes kept outside their homes along with a paper slip. A note scribbled on the piece of paper says ‘I have come with corona. Accept this note, otherwise I will harass everyone’, reported Live Hindustan. (Read This Story in Hindi)The currency notes found outside the homes are of denominations 20, 50 and 100. And the handwriting used on the pieces of paper is similar, pointing towards the work of a single person, Live Hindustan quoted locals as saying.So far, people from three houses have reported finding such currency notes and pieces of paper. This has been happening in the town since Friday.The police have said that they are investigating the matter.The spread of coronavirus has led to adoption of strict social distancing norms by the people, who are now averse to touching things which are potential carriers of the Sars-CoV-2 virus.Last month, the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) had requested Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman to order investigation to assess chances of Covid-19 spreading through currency notes.CAIT, an umbrella body representing about 50 million small traders, had also written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi.There is no scientific evidence or study to link spread of Covid-19 to currency notes. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has so far not issued any statement on avoiding the use of paper currency.Meanwhile, the number of Covid-19 positive cases crossed the 8000-mark in India on Sunday. According to health ministry, 8,356 people have contracted the coronavirus disease and 273 have died across the country, with more than 900 cases and 34 deaths in the last 24 hours.In Bihar, 63 confirmed Covid-19 cases have been reported from Bihar. One person has died due to the disease while 18 others have been cured, said the state Health Department in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-have-come-with-corona-currency-notes-found-outside-homes-in-bihar-town/story-mKsvzfF8g2EzP9ujzJsmKJ.html
12-04-2020||India||Covid-19 package offers eight 5kg cooking gas refills for free till June||Poor households using 5kg cooking gas cylinders will be entitled to eight free refills in three months as a relief from the disruptions due to the Covid-19 outbreak, while the number of free refills will be limited to three for beneficiaries using 14.2kg cylinders, an oil ministry spokesperson said. The Rs 1.7 lakh crore Covid-19 welfare package that the government announced on March 26 (a day after a nationwide lockdown came into effect) specified only three free cooking gas cylinders to about 80 million poor households, which led to some confusion about the entitlement of number of refills for the beneficiaries using economical 5kg cylinders, he said.“Those who are using small cylinders will get eight free cylinders in three months – April, May and June – under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY),” he said. Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageTill now, oil marketing companies have initiated a transfer of Rs 5,606 crore into the bank accounts of more than 71 million Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY) beneficiaries as advance in order to ensure that they can avail free delivery of LPG cylinder under the PMGKY, he said.PMUY was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on May 1, 2016 in Ballia (Uttar Pradesh) to provide free cooking gas connections to 50 million poor households. Later the target was raised to 80 million households, which was achieved six months in advance on September 7, 2019.An executive of India’s biggest fuel retailer, state-run Indian Oil Corporation (IOC), said the company has transferred about Rs 2,780 crore in the bank accounts of its 37 million PMUY customers so that they can get the first cooking gas cylinder free of cost.Along with the other two state-run companies – Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd (HPCL) and Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL) – the public sector oil marketing companies have so far distributed 8.5 million cooking gas cylinders for free to poor households, the spokesperson said.“Booking of 1.26 crore cylinders has been done in this month by the beneficiaries, out of which about 85 lakh cylinders have been delivered to PMUY beneficiaries. This is aimed at alleviating the hardships faced by poor due to economic disruption by coronavirus (COVID-19),” he said.The number of active cooking gas customers (including beneficiaries of subsidy) in India are 27.87 crore.“Since the lockdown, 50 to 60 lakh cylinders are being delivered daily in the country. When there is nationwide lockdown and the people are staying home to stay safe, LPG [liquefied petroleum gas] delivery boys and all those in the supply chain of LPG are working tirelessly to ensure that clean fuel reaches people directly at their homes,” he said.Even in these trying times, the waiting period for cylinders at most of the places is less than two days, he added.Oil marketing companies -- IOCL, BPCL and HPCL -- have announced an ex-gratia amount of Rs 5 lakh each, as a one-time special measure, in the unfortunate case of demise of personnel (showroom staff, godown-keepers, mechanics and delivery boys) attending duty in the LPG distributorship chain due to the infection and impact of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-package-offers-eight-5kg-cooking-gas-refills-for-free-till-june/story-eGfIin2jJYEiFLWhELDhCL.html
12-04-2020||India||Covid-19: AIIMS chief warns against banking on Hydroxychloroquine as cure||Hydroxychloroquine is not a magic bullet for Covid-19 and can be harmful for the general public, Dr Randeep Guleria, Director of Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS) has warned.Hydroxychloroquine or HCQ, anti-malarial drug, has emerged as a much sought-after medicine after preliminary trials in China suggested it boosted recovery and lowered the severity of coronavirus disease.“Hydroxychloroquine is not a treatment for everyone. It can have cardiac toxicity leading to irregular heartbeat. Like any other drug, this also has side effects. It can do more harm than good for the general public,” Dr Guleria told ANI.He said the data is not strong enough to support that HCQ is a cure for Covid-19 but since no other treatment is available, it was felt that the drug should be used.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.“Some lab data show that hydroxychloroquine may have some effects in Covid-19. But the data are not that strong. Experts at ICMR felt that it may be helpful in close contacts of Covid-19 patients and healthcare workers taking care of the patients. Studies in China and France say that combination of HCQ and Azithromycin may be helpful if given to Covid-19 patients with moderate to severe illness. Since, no other treatment is available, it was felt that it should be used,” Dr Guleria saidOn Thursday, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said that it won’t recommend hydroxychloroquine for Covid-19 patients unless satisfactory results are seen during tests.ICMR said hydroxychloroquine is recommended only to those asymptomatic healthcare workers involved in the care of suspected or confirmed cases of Covid-19 and asymptomatic household contacts of laboratory-confirmed cases.India produces nearly 70 per cent of the world’s supply of HCQ. India recently agreed to export the medicine to the United States following a request by President Donald Trump who had said that the drug would be a game-changer in the battle against Covid-19 pandemic.India had banned the export of hydroxychloroquine and any formulation containing it on March 25. Earlier this month, the government expanded the ban to cover exports from special economic zones, blocking pending orders, including from the US before it decided to accede to Trump’s request.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-aiims-chief-warns-against-banking-on-hydroxychloroquine-as-cure/story-MADeNBZy9X78E9BB1ovGSJ.html
12-04-2020||India||Over 35,000 abuse lockdown in Maharashtra, cases near 9000 in India: 10 points||The Ministry of Health on Sunday updated the number of coronavirus cases in the country to 8,356. As per the data released by the ministry on Sunday morning, India now has 7,367 active cases, 715 people have been cured or discharged while 273 people have died from Covid-19.Maharashtra continues to lead the tally with nearly 2,000 coronavirus cases in the state followed by Tamil Nadu. The southern state of Kerala reported no change in its tally as compared to Saturday. India entered the 19th day of the 21-day coronavirus lockdown which will come to an end on April 14, if not extended. Here are the top developments:1. The government plans to set up a chain of 20 lakh retail shops called ‘Suraksha Stores’ across India which will provide daily essentials to citizens while maintaining stringent safety norms, news agency PTI reported.2. Maharashtra Police has registered over 35,000 offences across the state against those violating prohibitory orders and quarantine guidelines during the lockdown.3. Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally soared to 1,895 on Sunday, said a state health official.4. Delhi administration on Sunday added three more areas in its list of Covid-19 containment zones. The number of containment zones in Delhi rose to 33 on Sunday. The three areas are in Deoli Extension, Mansarovar Garden and in Jahangirpuri. 5. The World Bank on Sunday said the coronavirus outbreak has severely disrupted the Indian economy, magnifying pre-existing risks to its outlook.6. The Union ministry of human resource development (HRD) is planning to launch a web portal with study material for school students from Class 1 to those studying in colleges. 7. India’s consignment of hydroxychloroquine, the anti-malarial drug being cited as many as a game-changer in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, arrived at Newark, New Jersey on Saturday.8. The Centre may divide the country into red, orange and green zones depending on the number of Covid-19 cases during the proposed extended period of lockdown, news agency PTI reported.9. Three journalists in Mumbai tested positive for Covid-19 and were moved to the civic isolation facility at Powai.10. An eminent Indian-American epidemiologist has said that a three-week lockdown is a reasonable starting point to contain the coronavirus pandemic in a country like India.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-35-000-abuse-covid-19-lockdown-measures-in-maharashtra-as-cases-near-9-000-in-india-10-points/story-onWLSzgg0XtpicaEACQqPI.html
12-04-2020||India||Wearing masks in public places compulsory in Ahmedabad, offenders to face fine or 3 yrs in jail||The Ahmedabad civic body has made it compulsory for people to wear masks in public places from Monday, failing which offenders will be fined Rs 5,000 or sentenced to three-year imprisonment, an official said.“Wearing masks has been made mandatory for everybody while stepping out of their homes, starting 6 am on Monday,” Ahmedabad Municipal Commissioner Vijay Nehra told reporters.Those who fail to comply with the order will be fined Rs 5,000or sentenced to three years in jail, Nehra said.An order to this effect has been passed under the Epidemic Diseases Act, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wearing-masks-in-public-places-compulsory-in-ahmedabad-offenders-to-face-fine-or-3-yrs-in-jail/story-UrBdajYnemeEuiHcRRYH5K.html
12-04-2020||India||Covid-19 update: With a song and slogan, Indore top cop keeps up police force’s morale||Inspector general of police (Indore zone) Vivek Sharma has a message for the police personnel on duty in the Madhya Pradesh city, which has emerged as the Covid-19 hotspot in the state. Vivek Sharma’s message came on a day when officials said two more people tested positive for the coronavirus infection in Indore after their death, taking the toll to 32 in the city.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Sharma sang a line from Hum Honge Kaamyaab to encourage the police personnel. “Friends there is a big message hidden in this song that if we walk together hand in hand, we will win this war. We won’t be scared,” he said.Next was a slogan. “Corona se daro na (Don’t be scared of corona) and we will win again. Some of us will definitely fall during this battle but we won’t let others fall. If we keep walking like this, peace will definitely be there,” Sharma said.  #WATCH Madhya Pradesh: Inspector-General of Police Vivek Sharma sings "Hum honge kaamyaab" & gives a message to encourage the Police personnel who are carrying out their duties in Indore, amid #CoronavirusPandemic. Total positive cases in Indore has risen to 298, death toll 32. pic.twitter.com/wBGVIiWASZ“Please take this opportunity as a challenge, which has come as an unprecedented way to connect with people. Please keep a positive mindset and keep each other’s spirit up… I salute your spirit once again,” he added.Praveen Jadiya, Indore’s chief medical and health officer, said on Sunday that the test reports of the two patients, aged 75 and 65 years, came positive for coronavirus, Jadiya, however, did not immediately disclose when did the two patients die.Officials have said that in the last 48 hours, 49 new cases of coronavirus have been found in the city, including a doctor from a private hospital and a nurse. With this, the number of Covid-19 patients in Indore, the state’s industrial hub, has gone up to 298.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Of these, 32 people, or 10.74% of the patients in Indore, have succumbed to the viral disease.The death rate of Covid-19 patients in the city has remained higher than that at the national level for the last several days.The city administration has imposed curfew in the urban limits of Indore since March 25.Madhya Pradesh has conducted only 70 Covid-19 tests, per million population, as per the analysis of data provided by the state government.(With agency inputs)Also read| ‘Covid-19 lockdown was delayed because...’: Kamal Nath jabs Centre||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-with-a-song-and-slogan-indore-top-cop-keeps-up-police-force-s-morale/story-SKxz5NxTPuQVQq3bEJbg5H.html
12-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Madhya Pradesh TikTok user who poked fun at masks tests Covid-19 positive||A 25-year-old man, who in a TikTok video ridiculed the use of masks for protection against Covid-19, has tested positive for the disease in Madhya Pradesh’s Sagar district, an official said on Sunday.Authorities at the hospital where he is admitted had to seize his mobile phone as he kept posting more videos from the isolation facility even after testing positive.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here His condition is stable, Sagar’s Government Bundelkhand Medical College Dean Dr G S Patel told PTI.In one of the videos, apparently shot after the Covid-19 outbreak in the country, the man was purportedly seen sitting on a bike and when someone asked him to wear a mask, he dismissed it saying, Is kapde ke tukde par kya bharosa rakhna, rakhna hai to us upar wale par rakho (why to trust a piece of cloth, keep faith in God).In later part of the video, he was seen throwing a piece of cloth in the air while the song ‘Faya Kun, Faya Kun’, from the movie “Rockstar” played in the background.Patel said the man came to the government hospital with complaints of cough and fever and tested positive for coronavirus on Friday.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage This is the first Covid-19 case reported from Sagar district, the official said, adding that the man does not have any travel history.Even after testing positive for the disease, he posted a video on TikTok from the isolation facility of the hospital where he is admitted.In this video, he was seen sporting a mask and asking people to pray for him.Also read| ‘Covid-19 lockdown was delayed because...’: Kamal Nath jabs Centre“Following complaint that the coronavirus patient shot the video from the quarantine centre and uploaded it through internet, we took his mobile phone in our custody,” Patel said.After the man uploaded these videos on TikTok, several people mocked him for making fun of the mask.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-madhya-pradesh-tiktok-user-who-poked-fun-at-masks-tests-covid-19-positive/story-wjMers9YBtAcSlCBNdyJTL.html
12-04-2020||India||As some states extend curbs, India awaits Centre’s Covid-19 lockdown decision||A section of government functionaries believes that Prime Minister Narendra Modi may make public his decision on whether to extend the nationwide lockdown after a key meeting on April 14, while others expect an announcement as early as Sunday.A Union minister, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said PM Modi has called a meeting of stakeholders at the central level on Tuesday --- the day the ongoing restrictions imposed to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) are set to end.“…the announcement may come afterwards…it looks like we may have an extension of the lockdown since that’s what a majority of the states also want,” this minister said.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageA government official, who has been involved in working out a strategy for a staggered lifting of the lockdown (or gradual easing of curbs), said: “The Prime Minister’s statement will come in a day or two.”But there’s another section of government officials who believe that an announcement on the lockdown strategy would come on Sunday.India imposed sweeping restrictions banning commercial rail and air travel, interstate movement and social and religious gatherings on March 25 to fight the Sars-CoV-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, as life came to a halt in the country of 1.3 billion people. Only essential services, such as health care and policing, are exempt.Several states such as Odisha, Punjab and Mahrashtra have already taken state-specific decisions to extend the curbs at least till the end of the month. There has been no announcement at the central level though.But after talks between Modi and chief ministers on Saturday, Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal and West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee claimed that the PM had agreed to extend the lockdown.During the video conference, Modi told chief ministers that India will have to strike a balance between “jaan” (lives) and “jahaan” (the outside world), in a sign that the restrictions may continue in some form after April 14 but there could also be relaxations in order to kick-start economy amid grim growth projections.Central officials aware of the matter say the PM’s message meant that the government may move towards a “smart lockdown” — with severe restrictions in affected districts to tackle the health challenge, and partial lifting of restrictions in unaffected districts along with the opening up of some sectors to meet the economic challenge.While micro, small and medium enterprises Nitin Gadkari has favoured restarting manufacturing units that don’t require mass transport, others have expressed concerns about the increasing stress on prices of essentials due to supply chain disruptions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-some-states-extend-curb-india-awaits-centre-s-covid-19-lockdown-call/story-8tzSfawo06blH7VbHPjFAN.html
12-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Karnataka govt studying in-depth consequences of lockdown norms relaxation||The Karnataka government is studying in-depth the consequences of possible relaxation of lockdown norms after April 14 and plans to come out with a clear roadmap in a day or two, a key Minister said on Sunday.Medical Education Minister Sudhakar K, who is in-charge of all matters related to Covid-19, told PTI that the pros and cons of any decision that the government intends to take is being looked at in detail.“We are trying to understand how the situation would be of any action that we intend to take. We need to foresee the repercussions or results of our action.That we have to keep it in mind and take a decision.After-effects of the decisions we intend to take, that is more important, he said.You will have clarity (on the possible relaxation of lockdown norms) in a day or two.For everything (government decisions) we will give reasoning for what action we would like to take; with the reasoning we will give decision” , the Minister added.Government sources said some relaxation in liquor sales, stopped during the lock-down period, is likely after the ongoing 21-day national clampdown ends on April 14.Twelve of the state’s 30 districts remain free from the Covid-19 pandemic.Till Saturday, Karnataka reported 215 Covid-19 positive cases, including six deaths and 39 discharges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-karnataka-govt-studying-in-depth-consequences-of-lockdown-norms-relaxation/story-6467keYmeJHAD178WrXvFO.html
12-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Delhi govt designates three more areas as containment zones||The number of containment zones in Delhi has risen to 33 after the government added three more areas to the list from where Covid-19 cases emerged.The three areas are in Deoli Extension, Mansarovar Garden and in Jahangirpuri. Police have barricaded all containment zones.“Special attention is being paid to the 33 areas which are sealed. Most importantly every individual in all houses is being screened. If someone is even a little symptomatic, they’re being tested to see that they don’t spread the infection,” said Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain according to ANI.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.Delhi has recorded 1069 cases of coronavirus so far. Nineteen of them have died while 27 have been discharged from hospitals. On Thursday, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had unveiled “Operation SHIELD” to curb the spread of the coronavirus pandemic in the national capital.Under Operation SHIELD, residents of the hotspots will be under home quarantine and those testing positive for coronavirus in these areas will be isolated. “SHIELD” is an acronym for “Sealing, Home Quarantine, Isolation and Tracking, Essential Supply, Local Santisation and Door-To-Door Checking”.Delhi’s roads were deserted on Sunday as people kept indoors. For the first time that Sacred Heart Cathedral in the heart of the national capital remained closed on Easter amid the lockdown and social distancing to contain the spread of Covid-19 .The 21-day lockdown announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi last month to contain the spread of novel coronavirus which is set to end on April 14, is likely to be extended. At a video conference on Saturday, most chief ministers batted for an extension of the lockdown.While Odisha and Punjab had announced extending the lockdown till April 30 even before the video conference, Maharashtra did so later Saturday.The total number of coronavirus cases in India on Sunday climbed to 8356, including 716 cured and discharged and 273 deaths, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-delhi-govt-designates-three-more-areas-as-containment-zones/story-8wFNfV9Qptd7IK0DuGFeMN.html
12-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update- Other states adopting UP model of sealing Covid-19 hotspots: Official||Other states had started implementing the UP model of sealing hotspots to protect people from the coronavirus, additional chief secretary, Home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi said here on Saturday.About 125 hotspots have already been sealed in 15 districts of Uttar Pradesh.Asserting that the strategy to take strict action will pay dividends, he said Uttar Pradesh was the most populous state, but it ranked sixth in the tally of positive Covid cases in the country.“Our strategy is to take strict action in the hotspots that have become a breeding ground of the coronavirus. The district administration officers have been directed to implement the orders strictly. Along with conducting house-to-house survey, the movement of people and vehicles has been banned,” he said.Addressing a press conference on Saturday, Awasthi said the state government agencies surveyed 1.42 lakh houses and nine lakh people residing in the hotspots within three days. The hotspots were sealed from April 8-9 midnight.The health department identified 2,942 suspected Covid-19 cases in the hotspots and 2,863 of them were quarantined, the additional chief secretary said.The hotspots were located in 89 police station areas of the 15 districts, he said.Another 68 positive Covid cases were detected at 55 spots in 25 other districts. The district magistrates of these districts marked the areas, in which one or more positive cases were reported, as hotspots.The hotspot areas were barricaded and the supply of essential items was being maintained with doorstep delivery, he said. The police checked 638 vehicles in the hotspots and 80 were seized, he said.In Meerut, a mob pelted a district administration team with stones when they were taking a few people to quarantine facilities. The city magistrate was injured and police arrested three accused. Strict action will be taken against the anti-social elements, Awasthi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-other-states-adopting-up-model-of-sealing-covid-19-hotspots-official/story-M3FdVgWOfU9hCXNJekm7OK.html
12-04-2020||India||‘Covid-19 lockdown was delayed because...’: Kamal Nath jabs Centre||Former Madhya Pradesh chief minister and senior Congress leader Kamal Nath on Sunday alleged that Bharatiya Janata Party-led central government delayed imposition of lockdown over Covid-19 to ensure their government is formed in the state.Nath was addressing a press conference through video-conferencing.“I resigned on March 20, but lockdown was announced after Shivraj Singh Chouhan took oath as chief minister on March 23,” said Nath. “Rahul Gandhi had said in February itself that the coronavirus pandemic will turn into a big problem but nothing was done then.”“Various state Assemblies were adjourned over Covid-19 fears, but Parliament kept running to ensure our government is gone. It was obvious,” Nath said.He also said that as chief minister, he had taken some decisions to check the spread of the disease. “We ordered closure of shopping malls, schools etc on March 8. There was no lockdown, but we took measures looking at the gravity of the situation,” Nath said.“When the Speaker announced that he is adjourning the House over Covid-19 fears, he was mocked. Look what happened afterwards. The entire country was put under lockdown,” said the Congress leader.He said that all the testing is being done in cities and urban centres, and not in villages. “Madhya Pradesh borders five states, and 25-30 per cent of the state’s population has come back and is living in villages. They are not being tested, what about these people? It is a threat,” said Nath.Nath resigned from his post on March 20, hours before proving his majority on the floor of Madhya Pradesh Assembly, as ordered by the Supreme Court. He was heading a minority government after having failed in his attempts to woo back 23 rebel Congress MLAs, including six ministers, who had resigned owing allegiance to BJP leader and former Union minister Jyotiraditya Scindia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-waited-because-kamal-nath-links-lockdown-announcement-with-his-govt-s-fall/story-0FeDj3NcuFCRAaBe1BFGTP.html
12-04-2020||India||Tax refunds to EPF withdrawals: Govt’s economic measures to aid individuals amid coronavirus crisis||The Government of India has taken a slew of measures to aid the economy and benefit citizens in the wake of the coronavirus crisis. Last month, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced a relief package worth Rs 1.70 lakh crore in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. The government has also released around Rs 30,000 crore in assistance to various sections of the society. Here’s taking a quick look at some other financial announcements by the government amid the Covid-19 crisis:1. Earlier this week, the finance ministry announced that it will make an immediate release of ₹18,000 crore in tax refunds to individuals and businesses.“In context of COVID-19 situation & to grant immediate relief to taxpayers, GOI has decided to issue all pending income-tax refunds upto Rs.5 lakh & GST/Custom refunds with immediate effect,” a tweet by Income Tax Department read.   In context of COVID-19 situation & to grant immediate relief to taxpayers, GOI has decided to issue all pending income-tax refunds upto Rs.5 lakh & GST/Custom refunds with immediate effect.@nsitharaman @nsitharamanoffc @Anurag_Office @FinMinIndia @PIB_India @cbic_india #StaySafe pic.twitter.com/sF0cU8WyA12. Under a special provision, the government had announced that individuals could now withdraw three months salary from Employees’ Provident Fund (EPF) account amid the coronavirus crisis. The EPF withdrawals have been exempt from service charge. 3. The last date for filing income tax returns for the financial year 2018-19 has been extended to June 30, 2020. The interest rate on delayed income tax payment has been decreased to 9% from 12%.4. The deadline for filing GST returns for March, April, May has been extended to June 30, 2020. There will be no interest or penalty on late fee for delayed returns for companies with turnover up to Rs 5 crore.5. Deadline for linking Aadhaar with PAN card has also been extended from March 31 to June 30, 2020.The government has also introduced measures to provide financial assistance to various sections of the society under its schemes such as PM-KISAN, Jan Dhan, Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana, Ujjawala scheme and National Social Assistance Programme.Hundreds and thousands of beneficiaries including farmers, women, underprivileged, disabled, among others, would benefit amid the Covid-19 crisis by measures introduced in the above mention schemes. The number of coronavirus cases in the country on Sunday crossed the 8,000-mark. As many as 8,356 total cases of coronavirus infection have been reported in the country. As per the data released by the Ministry of Health on Sunday morning, India now has 7,367 active cases, 715 people have been cured or discharged and 273 Covid-19 related fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tax-refunds-to-epf-withdrawals-govt-s-economic-measures-to-aid-individuals-amid-coronavirus-crisis/story-gb4qkv97bYVqbkORJMFoJK.html
12-04-2020||India||A rickshaw cart driver used his savings to feed poor in lockdown-hit Tripura||If you decide to help someone in the hour of crisis, financial constraint will not pose any roadblock to this ‘will’. Fifty-one-year-old Goutam Das of Tripura, who earns Rs 200 daily, proved this right.Das, a rickshaw cart driver, had savings of Rs 10,000, of which he spent nearly Rs 8,000 to give rice and pulses to the poor amid Covid-19 lockdown.Das’ wife passed away a few years ago; he now lives alone in a mud house at Sadhutilla village, near capital Agartala. His children live separately.Like many others, Das also got worried when a 21-day lockdown was announced. He though about its impact on the poor people and daily-wage labourers and decided to help them as per his capacity.“I was very much worried after lockdown was announced. Before lockdown, I used to earn Rs 200 on an average. I had savings of Rs 10,000 which I had managed from my small earnings. Thinking about my livelihood in lockdown, I simultaneously thought of poor families and daily wage labour like me. Then I thought to help them in whatsoever manner possible from my side,” Das said. Using the money he saved, Das bought rice and pulses and poured them into small packets. Then he took out his rickshaw cart and started distributing these packets to the poor without any cost.According to Das, he has so far distributed such packets to at least 160 families. “I spent Rs 8,000 as of now to buy rice and pulses for poor people like me. I understand that many people find it tough to arrange for food during lockdown. I have plan to continue if there is an extension of the lockdown,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-rickshaw-cart-driver-used-his-saving-to-feed-poor-in-lockdown-hit-tripura/story-iQKInMOcFCP32r0VfvRyML.html
12-04-2020||India||7 Nihangs arrested for chopping off Punjab cop’s hand during Covid-19 curfew||A group of Nihangs chopped off the hand of an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) of Punjab police with a sword and injured two other personnel when they were not allowed to enter a vegetable market in Patiala district on Sunday morning during a curfew over the coronavirus pandemic.ASI Harjeet Singh, whose left hand was chopped off from the wrist, was rushed from Balbera village to the Government Medical College in Patiala and then referred to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) in Chandigarh. He is being operated upon at PGIMER, senior officials said.Also Read: At PM’s video conference, Capt Amarinder moots extending Covid-19 lockdownStation house officer (SHO) of Sadar police station Bikar Singh and ASI Raj Singh received injuries in their legs. Yadwinder Singh, an official of the Punjab Mandi Board, was also injured in the assault.Senior superintendent of police Mandeep Singh Sidhu along with other officials reached the spot after which a police team cordoned off the gurdwara at Balbera, where the Nihangs were hiding after attacking the personnel.Karan Bir Singh Sidhu, Punjab’s special secretary, tweeted that all the seven Nihangs had been arrested and that one of them was injured in police firing and hospitalised. He said the operation was supervised by Jatinder Singh Aulakh, the inspector general of police of Patiala zone.Punjab Police chief Dinkar Gupta also tweeted about the incident. I have spoken to Director PGI who has deputed top Plastic surgeons of PGI for surgery, which just started. The Nihang group will be arrested and further action taken soon.“I have spoken to the PGI director, who has deputed top plastic surgeons for the surgery that has started. The nihang group has been arrested and further action will be taken soon (sic),” Gupta wrote.“Grateful to PGI for full support. Two senior surgeons are doing their best. All of us are praying to Waheguru for his full recovery!” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7-nihangs-arrested-for-chopping-off-punjab-cop-s-hand-during-covid-19-curfew/story-uuBzPVwKqkhApmGzspK4YN.html
12-04-2020||India||3 Mumbai journalists test positive for Covid-19, put in isolation||Three journalists in Mumbai who tested positive for Covid-19 were moved to the civic isolation facility for asymptomatic Covid-19 positive persons at Powai after they reported their test results to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) Friday night, officials said Sunday. The three are part of a team of 40 journalists who were staying at a hotel in Bandra from where they were commuting to South Mumbai for work every day. The other 37 people in the team have now been quarantined at the Bandra hotel itself as their test results reported negative. Follow coronavirus latest updates here.Vinayak Vispute, BMC’s assistant commissioner of the H West ward said, “The media house these three journalists are employees of called me on Friday night, and informed about three Covid-19 positive cases. The tests were done privately by the media house, so the three persons are not tested and recorded by BMC. However, as a precautionary measure, they have been immediately moved to the asymptomatic positive persons to isolation facility. Their tests will be conducted by BMC.”“The media house has arranged for quarantining the remaining 37 teammates at the same hotel, at their own expense and understanding with the hotel management. The media house has assured BMC that these persons will be strictly quarantined in their rooms,” he said.The journalists are from the Times Group, the officer said.All three persons who tested positive worked on the news desk, and not in field reporting. Maharashtra has the highest number of coronavirus cases in the country at 1,895 and a majority of them are in Mumbai. One hundred and twenty seven people have died of Covid-19 so far while 208 patients have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-mumbai-journalists-test-positive-for-covid-19-put-in-isolation/story-2nswanIpGR5QMsdQmZ8V2H.html
12-04-2020||India||Coronavirus lockdown plays spoilsport for Rongali Bihu in Assam||Assam’s biggest festival, Bohag Bihu—better known as Rongali Bihu - which heralds spring and marks beginning of the Assamese New Year, will miss the usual feasting and festivities this time, thanks to the lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus.The week-long Bihu celebrations, which start with Goru Bihu - the bathing and worshipping of cattle - falls on Monday, but the lockdown will result in curtailing of most rituals.Follow coronavius latest updates here.The Assam government has asked the public to follow lockdown guidelines by staying indoors and directed Bihu committees to restrict celebrations by just hoisting a flag.“I request all Bihu committees to conclude this year’s programme by hoisting the flag in presence of no more than 5 persons,” Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said following a cabinet meeting last week.Bihu is marked by preparing various sweets and delicacies called ‘pitha’ and ‘laru’, making ‘gamochas’ (traditional towels) in handlooms, which are distributed among loved ones and month-long cultural programmes across the state.The first day of the year, which falls on Tuesday, is marked as Manuh (human) Bihu, when young ones touch the feet of elders in the family to seek their blessings—but that ritual is likely to get affected due to social distancing norms.In view of the spread of coronavirus- 26 Bihu committees in Guwahati had decided to cancel cultural programmes this year on March 20 itself, five days before the three-week lockdown was announced and 11 days before the first Covid-19 case was reported in Assam.The All Assam Students Union (AASU), the influential students’ organization, which has been holding Mukoli Bihu (Open Bihu) at the Judge’s Field in Guwahati since 1982, had decided to do away with the event this year and won’t be hoisting the flag as well to mark the event.“Let us all resolve this Bohag to fight the menace of coronavirus unitedly. Let us maintain all rules and safety measures. Only then we will be able to win this battle,” AASU general secretary Lurinjyoti Gogoi said in a statement.Assam has recorded 29 Covid-19 cases till date. One patient, a 65-year-old from Hailakandi, died this Friday at Silchar Medical College Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-lockdown-plays-spoilsport-for-rongali-bihu-in-assam/story-kyKeIL6se5wI93BN7jraQI.html
12-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: In Bengal, smuggling through Bangladesh border drops drastically amid Covid-19 lockdown||The Covid-19 outbreak has impacted lives of everyone including contraband operators as smuggling of cattle, fake Indian currency notes (FICN) and marijuana as well as infiltration through the Indo-Bangladesh border in the West Bengal sector has dropped to an all-time low in the past few weeks, BSF officials said. For decades, the porous Indo-Bangladesh border in West Bengal has been notorious for smuggling and infiltration, which has also been a burning political issue in the state. “We have kept up the vigil. There has been no relaxation in that aspect. But in the South Bengal frontier region, smuggling, FICN trade, and infiltration have reached a rock bottom level. It’s negligible,” BSF IG South Bengal Frontier YB Khurania told PTI. The illegal trade of FICN, gold, and marijuana has taken a hit in south Bengal due to the coronavirus pandemic and the lockdown. “The FICN trade mostly takes place at the Rajshahi sector of the Indo-Bangla border. The notes that they are throwing at this side of the fence now are of very poor quality - basically just photocopies. We can safely say the high-quality FICN trade has taken a huge hit,” another senior BSF official of Bengal frontier said. The BSF gives credit for this success to increased vigil at the border and sealing of the border with Bangladesh. “Smugglers and FICN couriers are not able to come out of their home. There has been a sense of fear due to the Covid-19 pandemic, plus there has been an increase in patrolling in the porous region,” the BSF official said. Bangladesh and West Bengal share about 2,216.7 km of border. Out of the 915 km of border in the South Bengal frontier, only 371 km is fenced. The official said infiltration from Bangladesh had already come down after passage of the Citizenship Amendment Act in December last year and apprehensions about a pan-India NRC. The outbreak of Covid-19 has added to it and infiltration is at an all-time low, he said. Only 13 Bangladeshis have been captured between March 25 when the lockdown was announced, and April 10, the official said. During the same period in 2018 and 2019, the figures were 76 and 33, he said. In terms of cattle smuggling too, there has been a significant success. “The number of cattle apprehended during this period this year is just 45. During the similar period last year, the number was around 1,700. We have broken the backbone of cattle smuggling in the past one year,” the BSF official said. Seizure of marijuana has also decreased during this period over the years. The border guards seized 154.5 kg in 2018, 41 kg in 2019 and 35 kg in this year. The picture is also similar in the North Bengal Frontier of BSF where both infiltration and smuggling are also at an all-time low. Keeping in mind the protection of its troopers in Covid-19 time, the BSF has come up with standard operating procedures while dealing with smugglers and infiltrators. “There are proper guidelines for troopers on the field while dealing with miscreants. They have been provided with protective gear including masks, gloves and suits,” a BSF official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-in-bengal-smuggling-through-bangladesh-border-drops-drastically-amid-covid-19-lockdown/story-OaajbCPP7MY8QCfppqgrNO.html
12-04-2020||India||Odisha’s Covid-19 case count at 54 after 4 new infections||Covid-19 infections in Odisha rose to 54 after four news cases, including two from the tribal-dominated district of Sundargarh, were reported on Saturday.The Odisha health and family welfare department said late on Saturday night that samples of four more persons have tested positive. Of the four new cases, two are from Bisra area of Sundargarh district. So far 3,551 samples have been tested in Odisha --- of which 3497 were negative. So far 12 patients have been discharged from hospitals following treatment. A 72-year-old man of Bhubaneswar, who tested positive for the coronavirus disease, has died.National Health Mission director Shalini Pandit said just 35 of the cases needed hospital care. Pandit said 80% of the patients in Odisha were asymptomatic (not showing symptoms) carriers. “Therefore, surveillance is the best weapon against the disease,” Pandit said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-s-covid-19-case-count-at-54-after-4-new-infections/story-CELlpaFtJRxw3jTxQSWg4L.html
12-04-2020||India||HRD ministry to launch web portal for students in schools, colleges||The Union ministry of human resource development (HRD) is planning to launch a web portal with study material for students from Class 1 in school to those studying in colleges. The move comes in the wake of a shift to e-learning amid the ongoing lockdown to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease. According to a senior government official, the idea of an online resource for students was pitched during discussions with the Prime Minister’s Office, and the ministry has already begun working towards it.Since the lockdown was imposed on March 25, the ministry has been publicizing its own e-learning initiatives, like the ‘e-pathshala’ portal for students.The ministry is also planning to undertake a consultation with states to discuss issues like the academic calendar and holding of examinations, according to senior government officials..“Naturally, it is important that there is coordination (with states). For this purpose, the HRD ministry is planning to hold a consultation with the states,” said a senior ministry official. It is being considered that the HRD minister will interact with education ministers of states next week, said a senior official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hrd-ministry-to-launch-single-web-portal-for-students/story-k9henNhPkuTeJPDEf5rsAK.html
12-04-2020||India||Is this Indian state close to ‘flattening’ its Covid-19 curve?||While the coronavirus cases continue to mount across the country, the southern state of Kerala seems to have reported a slump in its Covid-19 cases. A look at the number of coronavirus cases reported in the state suggests that the state administration has been able to tighten its grip on the spread of the deadly contagion. The state accounted for the second-highest coronavirus cases in the country just a few weeks back after Maharashtra and now stands way below on the Covid-19 state tally as the number of cases sharply rise in states like Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and others. Does this mean the land of coconut has managed to ‘flatten’ the Covid-19 curve? My compliments to CM @vijayanpinarayi & people of Kerala for remarkable handling of #COVID__19 It’s daily discharges far exceed daily new infections. It has restricted secondary spread & while international mortality rate is 5.75, rate in Kerala is mere 0.58 with just 2 deaths. https://t.co/L3T82tNGLAAs per the data released by the Ministry of Health on Sunday, Kerala has 471 total coronavirus which includes 346 active cases, 123 recoveries and 2 fatalities. A week back, last Sunday, the state had reported a total of 357 cases including 306 active cases, 49 recoveries and two fatalities.Earlier this week, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that recovery of more people and fewer new cases in the state are good signs but it should not let the administration “lower the guard” against Covid-19. “Recovery of many patients is a good sign. And the number of people testing positive also came down. These factors show we have a good grip on the disease and things will turn in our favour soon. But time is not ripe to lower the guard. If some lapses do take place things will change. We have examples of some the developed countries before us. So we have to keep our surveillance well,” Vijayan said.Excellent resilience shown by Kerala in dealing with #Covid_19. Best practices of leadership led by @CMOKerala, bureaucracy led by District Collectors & Health Department, ably supported by police, Local self govt, media & community as a whole. Worth emulating! @amitabhk87 pic.twitter.com/YHS8KC0tf9A look at Kerala’s Covid-19 trajectory:April 5 - 306 active cases, 49 recoveries, 2 deaths April 6 - 314 active cases, 55 recoveries, 2 deathsApril 7 - 327 active cases, 58 recoveries, 2 deathsApril 8 - 336 active cases, 70 recoveries, 2 deathsApril 9 - 345 active cases, 83 recoveries, 2 deathsApril 10 - 357 active cases, 96 recoveries, 2 deathsApril 11 - 364 active cases, 123 recoveries, 2 deathsApril 12 - 364 active cases, 123 recoveries, 2 deathsThe state has not reported any fatalities in over a week. While the number of active cases in Kerala has gone up from 306 to 346 in a week (an increase of 40 new active cases), the number of patients who have recovered from Covid-19 in the state has a dramatic rise since last Sunday (from 49 to 123).According to Johns Hopkins University, ‘flattening’ the coronavirus curve involves “reducing the number of new Covid-19 cases from one day to the next”.  If Kerala continues to maintain the trend, it would soon be able to not just flatten its Covid-19 trajectory but also free the state from the menace of coronavirus.  India on Sunday reported as many as 8,356 total cases of coronavirus infection in the country. As per the data released by the Ministry of Health on Sunday morning, India now has 7,367 active cases, 715 people have been cured or discharged and 273 Covid-19 related fatalities. Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-is-kerala-close-to-flattening-its-covid-19-curve/story-01AAD7CkjJVxRiPqY0R7fI.html
12-04-2020||India||Covid-19 update: Yogi Adityanath informs PM Modi about UP govt’s steps to fight coronavirus||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday informed Prime Minister Narendra Modi about the state government’s initiatives to identify hotspots, increase the number of labs and other facilities to check the spread of the coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh.Yogi Adityanath made these points in a presentation of about 12 minutes at the prime minister’s video conference with chief ministers.Although he did not say anything on extending the lockdown, his focused presentation was cited to other states, hinting at appreciation of the state government’s initiatives.“UP model came in for appreciation at the video conference,” said an official spokesman.Quoting union home minister Amit Shah’s remark at the video conference that “other states should do what UP has done”, the spokesman said Yogi Adityanath spoke about how the state government identified 125 hotspots in the first phase, set up Team-11, increased testing facilities and provided relief to people by making a record distribution of food grains.Uttar Pradesh had no testing labs when the first coronavirus positive case was reported in the state on March 3, he said, adding that the state now had 10 such laboratories.It was also pointed out at the meeting that about three million people of the state had downloaded the Aarogya Setu App and this was the highest in the country, the spokesman said.The state government decided to develop an app of the Ayush department to educate people about the measures for protection from coronavirus.CM lays stress on telemedicine in lockdown areasReviewing the lockdown at a meeting of his Team-11, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday asked officers to make telemedicine arrangements for patients needing consultation in the lockdown areas. Team-11 refers to the committees set up to look after various aspects of the fight against Covid-19 in Uttar Pradesh.He said steps should also be initiated to ensure protection of doctors and para medical staff by providing PPE kits to those deployed for treatment of coronavirus positive patients.A protocol should be worked out for hospitals before opening emergency services for patients afflicted with other ailments, he said.When officials informed him that 2350 coronavirus tests were being conducted every day in the test laboratories in UP, the chief minister said the capacity of labs should be increased and more tests should be conducted in the state. He said arrangements for training of medical and health staff should also be made.He told the officers that migrants and others living in shelter homes should be requested to stay back where they have been up to now. The state government should make an appeal to them to stay where they are now, said the chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-yogi-adityanath-informs-pm-modi-about-up-govt-s-steps-to-fight-coronavirus/story-yAgvANjYKe1VVqhRkcV8CL.html
12-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Lift or extend lockdown, difficult situation either way, Jharkhand CM tells Modi||The Jharkhand government is on the horns of a dilemma over the coronavirus lockdown as extending it would lead to financial distress and lifting it could trigger an influx of migrants into the state, Chief Minister Hemant Soren said on Saturday.During an interaction with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Soren said his government is expecting over 5 lakh migrant labourers to return to their villages once the lockdown is lifted, increasing the possibility of the spread of the deadly virus.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here But continuing with the lockdown will further dry up the state’s revenue, he added.“Whether the lockdown is lifted or extended, it is a difficult situation for us from both ways,” Soren told the prime minister during the video conference held with chief ministers to assess the situation in states due to the pandemic.“As per our data, a large number of labourers are stranded in states severely affected by the coronavirus outbreak. When they will return, the situation could deteriorate. They may come as carriers of the virus,” Soren said.He said over 1.5 lakh migrant workers have already returned to Jharkhand and had to be quarantined.Soren urged Modi to increase the daily wage under rural job scheme MGNREGA to Rs300. “I believe the wage under MGNREGA in the state is the lowest in the country. Therefore, a large number of people from Jharkhand migrate to other states and are earning Rs 700or Rs 900 per day. Even after the recent announcement of wage hike under the scheme, it has not crossed Rs 200 in Jharkhand... So I request you to fix the wage under the scheme at Rs 300,” Soren said.Click here for complete coronavirus coverageThe increase in wages under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act came into effect on April 1.The chief minister also requested Modi to consider waiver of interest for existing loans for the current fiscal and urged him to consider releasing the GST compensation arrear.A large number of PSUs like DVC, CCL and SAIL are functioning in Jharkhand and they havedues to the government, he mentioned. PTI PVR BDC ABH ABH||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-lift-or-extend-lockdown-difficult-situation-either-way-jharkhand-cm-tells-modi/story-mMlj7rwNbITOFVZaz3aoWN.html
12-04-2020||India||PM-KISAN, Jan Dhan, Ujjawala: Govt lends Rs 30,000 crore helping hand in Covid-19 crisis||The government has released nearly Rs 30,000 crore financial assistance to different sections of the society in the wake of coronavirus pandemic.Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced Rs 1.70 lakh crore relief package last month, days after a nationwide lockdown was announced to check the spread of coronavirus disease Covid-19. In the package, the government announced free foodgrain and cash doles to women, poor senior citizens and farmers to mitigate hardship faced due to the 21-day lockdown.Here is a look at different schemes under which the government is giving financial assistance:PM-KISAN: 6.93 crore farmers were benefited through the PM-KISAN scheme to help farmers tide over the Covid-19 crisis. Under the scheme, the government transfers Rs 2,000 cash directly to the farmers’ bank accounts through direct benefit transfer or DBT. Rs 13,855 crore have gone towards payment of first installment of PM-KISAN, the finance ministry said.Jan Dhan: As many as 19.86 crore women Jan Dhan account holders received Rs 500 each in their account. The total disbursement under the head was 9,930 crore, the finance ministry said.National Social Assistance Programme: Rs 1,400 crore disbursed to about 2.82 crore old age person, widow and disabled people, the government said on Saturday. Each beneficiary received an ex-gratia cash of Rs 1,000 under the scheme.Building and Construction Workers’ Fund: As many as 2.16 crore construction workers received financial support from the BCWF managed by state governments. Under this, Rs 3,066 crore were given to beneficiaries.Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana: The government will release 12 million MT of food grain during the April-June quarter. “It will provide for 80 crore people at 5 kg per head per month at no cost. Free rations have already reached 2 cr beneficiaries,” the finance ministry said in a tweet.Ujjawala scheme: The government is providing free LPG refills for the next three months to over 8.3 crore poor women under the scheme and Rs 50 lakh insurance cover for healthcare workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-kisan-jan-dhan-ujjawala-how-govt-is-helping-in-covid-19-crisis/story-gtNSv87n72HPKOVYEIkXXL.html
12-04-2020||India||3-week lockdown reasonable starting point to fight coronavirus in India: Ex-White House official||A three-week lockdown is a reasonable starting point to contain the coronavirus pandemic in a country like India, an eminent Indian-American epidemiologist has said, cautioning that a successful fight against the deadly virus might require some more time.Rajeev Venkayya, Special Assistant to the President for Biodefense at the White House during the Bush administration who oversaw US preparedness for bioterrorism and biological threats, told PTI it was difficult to say how much more time India would require to thwart the COVID-19 challenge. On March 24, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a 21-day nationwide lockdown in India to stem the spread of coronavirus in the country. “From an epidemiologic standpoint, I don’t know if three weeks will be enough. It may require more time,” said Venkayya, who was responsible for the development and implementation of the National Strategy for Influenza pandemic during the second term of the Bush administration.He currently serves as president of the Global Vaccine Business Unit of pharmaceutical company Takeda. “We will have to look at what is happening in other countries,” he said.“But if you were to ask me whether that will be enough given the size of the population, the healthcare capacity, the uniformity or lack of uniformity that is inevitable in a federated country like India where there’s a lot of State autonomy on what to do and how to do it, and varying levels of compliance, I think this could easily go much longer,” Venkayya said.A three-week lockdown is a reasonable starting point to contain the coronavirus pandemic in a country like India, he said. Since joining Takeda in 2012, he has established a high-impact vaccine pipeline that includes promising late-stage candidates for dengue and norovirus, gained through the acquisitions of LigoCyte and Inviragen Inc. As head of Special Assistant to the President for Biodefense at the White House, he was responsible for the America’s first development and implementation of the National Strategy for Pandemic Influenza in 2007. The White House published this federal guidance in 2007. “It’s now called the flattening the curve strategy. At that time, we called it a targeted layered containment and then it became called community mitigation. But the first flattening the curve graph was published in our federal guidance in 2007,” he said. “When I was in the White House, we were preparing for an influenza pandemic we realized that vaccines would not be available for many months after a pandemic started. And based on the 1918 experience, we expected there would be multiple waves of the pandemic and that for at least the first wave we would not have vaccines,” he said. As such, the White House team led by him had to find other ways to protect communities from this pandemic virus. Based on some early modelling and additional modelling commissioned in 2006, they found the relevance of non-pharmaceutical interventions, community measures like closing schools and cancelling public gatherings, social distancing as well as isolation and quarantine for people that have been confirmed or suspected to have the virus. “If you put all of these things together, and importantly if you did them early in a coordinated fashion, you couldn’t have a very big impact on the transmission of the virus in a community,” he said, adding that this guidance was published in 2007. Emphasising the importance of doing these things early in the outbreak, he cautioned that else it would be much harder to prevent a large number of people from getting infected and accomplishing the goals of flattening the curve and delaying the peak of the curve. “So here I think it’s very important that India took (lockdown) action now, ….. like many countries, there isn’t widespread availability of diagnostic testing. And so it’s hard to know how much virus is in any given community in India,” he said. “We also know that the threat is greater in India than it may be in other places because of the population density. Also, there are significant portions of the population that don’t have access to the healthcare services that would be necessary to take care of large numbers of sick people. So, it (social mitigation measures) becomes even more important in India than it’s important everywhere,” Venkayya said. Observing that none of the community interventions are perfect, he said if one puts a number of imperfect interventions together, then one can have a very significant positive impact on reducing virus transmission. Prior to Takeda, Venkayya served as director of Vaccine Delivery in the Global Health Program at the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, where he was responsible for the Foundation’s efforts in polio eradication and new vaccine introduction. While at the foundation, he served on the Board of the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization (GAVI). The death toll due to COVID-19 has gone up to 273 and the number of cases has climbed to 8,356 in India, according to the Health Ministry.Globally, the novel coronavirus has killed 108,862 people and infected over 1.7 million people globally. The US has the highest number of infections at 529,887, according to Johns Hopkins University data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-week-lockdown-reasonable-starting-point-to-fight-coronavirus-in-india-ex-white-house-official/story-8XMuKJ4eax5VWUNhHVv9yI.html
12-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: 7 more cases of Covid-19 in Chhattisgarh, 25 so far||Seven people, who came in contact with 16 Tablighi Jamaat members staying at a mosque in Katghora town of Chhattisgarh’s Korba district, have tested positive for the coronavirus disease, taking the number of Covid-19 cases in the state to 25, officials said on Sunday.The rise in numbers come a day after Chhattisgarh’s chief minister Bhupesh Baghel suggested extending the restrictions on the inter-state road, air and railway traffic to curb the spread of Covid-19 and said states should be allowed to carry out economic activities during the lockdown period during a video conference call with Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Bhupesh Baghel also demanded an early economic package from the Centre to boost the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) sector. Baghel was among the chief ministers who attended Prime Minister Modi’s video conference to discuss whether to extend the 21-day country-wide lockdown beyond next week.The Prime Minister held the video conference with chief ministers to take feedback on whether the ongoing lockdown is extended after April 14 to contain the spread of the coronavirus infection.Also read: Jamaat members hiding travel history could incur murder charges in Chhattisgarh“Some of these people met the 16 Tablighi Jamaat members who were staying at a mosque in Purani Basti locality and then spread it (Covid-19) to others. They are from a nearby locality and tested positive late on Saturday night,” Dipanshu Kabra, Bilaspur’s inspector general of police, said while speaking to HT.“These seven people who tested positive on Saturday night are not Jamaatis,” Kabra said.A 16-year-old boy from this Jamaat group had tested positive for Covid-19 on April 4, after which another eight others in the area got infected, he added.Dr Karan Peepre, All India Institute of Medical Sciences’ medical superintendent, said that all of the seven people tested positive for coronavirus late on Saturday night and were brought to AIIMS Raipur.“They are stable and their health is good,” Peepre added.Katghora, around 200km from state capital Raipur, has been sealed and samples of all people in the area are being taken for screening for Covid-19.Twenty-five people have tested positive for the infection in Chhattisgarh so far, out of which 10 have recovered and discharged from hospitals.The Chhattisgarh government has made wearing face masks mandatory in public places in a bid to contain the spread of the coronavirus infection. The health and family welfare department has warned of legal action against those not wearing masks in public places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-7-more-cases-of-covid-19-in-chhattisgarh-25-so-far/story-GySmag8J2EbPj0Gk8PM15I.html
12-04-2020||India||Nearly 7 crore farmers get Rs 2,000 each under PM-KISAN to tide over Covid-19 crisis||Nearly seven crore farmers have received the Rs 2,000 benefit as part of the PM-KISAN scheme, the government announced on Saturday, to protect them from the impact of coronavirus disease Covid-19.The amount disbursed is Rs 13,855 crore, the finance ministry said, adding that 6.93 crore of the eligible eight crore identified beneficiaries received the amount directly in their bank accounts through direct benefit transfer or DBT.As part of Rs 1.70 lakh crore relief package, the government announced free foodgrain and cash doles to women, poor senior citizens and farmers to mitigate hardship faced due to the lockdown.Under PM-KISAN, the government provides an income support of Rs 6,000 a year to farmers with a valid enrolment, paid in three equal cash transfers of Rs 2,000 - one every four months. It was launched by the Prime Minister on February 24, 2019, when the first instalment was paid.In response to the Covid-19 pandemic, the government decided to make an advance payout of its universal cash-for-farmers programme, PM-KISAN, in April rather than in June.The cash transfer under PM-KISAN is an unconditional handout, meaning that it doesn’t require any proof of how recipients use it, but payments are usually timed with sowing seasons to help finance agricultural inputs. Inputs refer to all materials needed for cultivation by farmers, from seeds to fertilisers.Eligible farmer families are identified on the basis of operational land holding data according to the agricultural Census Data 2015-16, which is then extrapolated to 2018-19, an official said. It is the job of state governments to provide accurate beneficiary data and payments are continuously updated.The country has 140 million operational land holdings, which refers to the number of land parcels owned by total households. The eligible farmer count shows that registrations of about 59 million farmers are yet to be authenticated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nearly-7-crore-farmers-get-rs-2-000-each-under-pm-kisan-to-tide-over-covid-19-crisis/story-uyka5G0hsoPteBezBJcqFP.html
12-04-2020||India||With 51 new Covid-19 cases, Rajasthan has 751 coronavirus patients||Rajasthan reported 51 new cases of the coronavirus disease on Sunday morning, a day after reporting its highest single-day addition of Covid-19 numbers, taking the tally to 751.News agency ANI reported that the coronavirus cases were reported from eight places across the state. It said Jaipur and Banswara had 15 patients each, Bikaner and Jodhpur eight each, two were in Hanumangarh and one each in Sikar, Churu and Jaisalmer. It cited the state’s health department. The state has reported eight deaths so far.Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot, while participating in the video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, has emphasised that the decision on the extension of the lockdown beyond April 14 should be taken after taking all the states into confidence.Gehlot also urged PM Modi to introduce new schemes such as ‘food for work’, announce a big package for industries and relaxation in central GST amid the coronavirus crisis.Rajasthan had reported 180 Covid-19 cases on Saturday, with 65 in Jaipur Ramganj area, which has become a hotspot for the infection. Curfew has been imposed in Ramganj and nine other police station areas in Jaipur from where coronavirus cases have been reported.A 45-year-old resident of Ramganj, who returned from Oman on March 12, has been identified as a super spreader. He was asked by health officials to stay in home quarantine but continued to meet people and even offered prayers at a local mosque.He tested positive on March 26 and curfew was imposed in Ramganj, a crowded neighbourhood with a population of nearly 500,000. Since then, another 150 cases have been reported from Ramganj and traced back to the man who came back from Oman.Also read: Rajasthan to give Rs 50 lakh to kin of govt employees who die of coronavirus during anti-Covid-19 opsTill April 1, Rajasthan had reported Covid-19 cases from 11 of 33 districts—Bhilwara with 26 and Jaipur with 21 were the hotspots. By April 1, 24 of 33 districts in the state started reporting Covid-19 cases. Apart from Jaipur and Bhilwara, now Banswara, Bikaner, Churu, Jaisalmer, Jodhpur, Jhunjhunu, Tonk, Kota and Jhalawar have emerged as the new areas of concern for the government.Banswara, Bikaner Jaisalmer, Tonk, Kota and Jhalawar did not report a single case on April 1. Jhunjhunu and Churu reported eight cases of the dreaded disease each and Jodhpur one. On Saturday, Banswara reported there were 37 patients of the coronavirus disease, Bikaner 24, Churu 11, Jaisalmer 28, Jodhpur 43, Jhunjhunu 31, Tonk 45, Kota 33 and Jhalawar 12 cases.From April 1, cases of Tablighi Jamaat members testing positive for the virus also started coming to the fore. Officials of the health department have said there were around 450 Jamaatis from Rajasthan who attended the religious congregations in Delhi’s Nizamuddin in March. They have said that of the 700 Covid-19 cases in the state, more than 60% have been traced back to the Tablighi Jamaat members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-51-new-covid-19-cases-rajasthan-has-751-coronavirus-patients/story-qo2Xk5p60UpANo9n9E24tL.html
12-04-2020||India||Covid-19 state tally: Kerala sees slump in cases while patients rise across India||India on Sunday reported as many as 8,356 total cases of coronavirus infection in the country. As per the data released by the Ministry of Health on Sunday morning, India now has 7,367 active cases, 715 people have been cured or discharged and 273 Covid-19 related fatalities. As many as 34 deaths and 909 new coronavirus cases were reported in the last 24 hours in the country, the health ministry stated. Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Delhi continue to struggle with the rise in coronavirus cases. Kerala, which was the second worst affected state just weeks back, reported no change in its tally when compared to Saturday as per the health ministry data. Here’s a look at the statewise tally of coronavirus active cases, fatalities and recovered patients. MaharashtraWith 1,761 Covid-19 active cases, Maharashtra has registered the highest number of coronavirus cases in the country. The state has recorded 127 deaths so far while 208 patients have recovered.DelhiDelhi closely follows with the second-highest number of coronavirus cases in the country. As many as 1069 people have tested positive of coronavirus in the national capital. 19 people have died from the infection while 25 people have made a recovery, as per the health ministry’s data.Tamil NaduThe southern state has the third-highest number of Covid-19 cases in the country which now stand at a whopping 969. Tamil Nadu has seen 44 recoveries and 10 Covid-19 deaths.RajasthanCoronavirus cases in Rajasthan touched 700 on Sunday. The state has reported 3 fatalities. 21 patients have recovered from the infection.Madhya PradeshThe state has reported 532 positive cases of coronavirus. 36 people have died from Covid-19 here.Telangana504 positive cases of coronavirus have been reported from the state so far. 43 people have made a recovery from the virus while 9 people have died from Covid-19.Uttar Pradesh452 people have been infected from Covid-19 in the state. While 45 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, 5 have died from the infection here.GujaratPrime Minister Narendra Modi’s home state has registered 432 coronavirus cases and 44 recoveries so far. 22 people have died from the infection in the state.Andhra PradeshThe state has witnessed 381 positive Covid-19 patients and 11 cases of recovery. 6 people have died.KeralaAs per the health ministry, Kerala reported no change in its number since Saturday. Its number of coronavirus cases remain 364 as reported on Saturday. Kerala has witnessed two deaths due to Covid-19 while 123 people have successfully recovered.KarnatakaThe state has recorded 214 Covid-19 cases and 6 deaths. 37 people have been cured and discharged.Jammu and KashmirThe union territory of Jammu and Kashmir has seen the number of Covid-19 patients rising to 207. 4 people have died from the infection while 6 were cured.Haryana and PunjabThe neighbouring states have 177 and 151 Covid-19 cases respectively. While 11 people have died in Punjab, Haryana has seen three deaths. 29 people have recovered from Covid-19 in Haryana, 5 in Punjab.134 people have been affected by the Sars-CoV-2 virus in West Bengal. There have been 5 deaths and 19 recoveries in the state. Odisha has 50 Covid-19 positive patients, 2 have recovered while one person has died. In Bihar, 63 people have tested positive for coronavirus, one has died.Assam has reported 29 Covid-19 cases, one person has died. Uttarakhand has 35 coronavirus patients, five patients have recovered from the infection. In Chandigarh, 18 people have contracted the Covid-19 disease and 7 have recovered. Andaman has recorded 11 coronavirus cases, 10 have recovered. Chhattisgarh has recorded 18 cases of coronavirus and 9 people have recovered. Ladakh has 15 patients, 10 people have recovered. Goa has reported seven cases of Covid-19 disease, five patients have recovered. Himachal Pradesh has 32 cases, one patient has died and 6 have recovered. Pondicherry has reported 7 cases, one has recovered. Jharkhand has 17 Covid-19 cases, one patient has died. Two coronavirus cases have been reported in Manipur, one has recovered. Tripura also has two Covid-19 patients. States and Union territories with just one positive Covid-19 case include Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram.Sikkim, Meghalaya and Nagaland have not reported any Covid-19 case yet.India on Sunday entered the 19th day of the 21-day coronavirus lockdown which will come to an end on April 14 if not extended. Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-state-tally-kerala-sees-slump-in-cases-while-patients-rise-across-india/story-Cul4Y3Jhul5RdHIzGVy2iP.html
12-04-2020||India||Covid-19 positive cases rise to 54 in Odisha, at least 35 to be discharged from hospitals soon||The number of Covid-19 positive cases in Odisha rose to 54 after four news cases, including two from the tribal-dominated district of Sundargarh, were reported on Saturday.Odisha Health and family welfare department late on Saturday night said that samples of four more people have tested positive. Of the four new cases, two are from Bisra area of Sundargarh district.So far, 3,551 samples have been tested in Odisha of which 3,497 have tested negative. Twelve of the 54 people have been discharged from hospitals following treatment while a 72-year-old man of Bhubaneswar, tested positive, died.National Health Mission director Shalini Pandit said just 35 cases needed hospital care as they are yet to show any of the classic symptoms of the disease even after they were tested positive. They were hospitalised purely as a preventive measure for their and the community’s safety. They would be discharged after their reports test negative twice, she said.Pandit said 80 per cent patients out of the total Covid-19 cases in Odisha were asymptomatic carriers. Therefore, surveillance is the best weapon against the disease.Meanwhile, the Covid-19 positive cases in India crossed the 8,000-mark on Sunday. According to health ministry figures, 8,356 people have contracted the coronavirus disease and 273 have died across the country, with more than 900 cases and 34 deaths in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-positive-cases-rise-to-54-in-odisha-at-least-35-to-be-discharged-from-hospitals-soon/story-WWkmrF8DtlHd3s3G4GXxHP.html
12-04-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: What are red, orange and green zones and how will they impact life||Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a discussion with chief ministers on extension of 21-day lockdown, which is scheduled to end on April 14. The lockdown was imposed on March 25, a day after PM Modi addressed the nation on coronavirus pandemic.During the four-hour-long discussion, PM Modi said that India will have to strike a balance between “jaan” (lives) and “jahan” (the outside world) - a sign that the restrictions will continue in some form to preserve lives as it enforces social distancing.A top government official said that the PM’s formulation meant that the government may move towards a “smart lockdown” - with severe restrictions in affected districts, and partial lifting of restrictions in unaffected districts, along with the opening up of some sectors to meet the economic challenge. A second official said that the government was also considering demarcating the country into three zones - red, yellow and green - depending on the scale of the Covid-19 outbreak.So what are these zones, and how will they impact the economic activity in the country:Red Zone: According to news agency PTI, no activity will be allowed in the red zone - the districts where sizeable number of cases were detected or areas which were declared hotspots.Orange Zone: Minimum activities like opening of limited public transport, harvesting of farm products will be allowed in orange zones where only few cases have been found in the past, PTI reported.Green Zone: It will see further relaxation. Some MSME industries falling under the green zone will be allowed to function with in-house lodging facilities for employees with proper maintenance of social distance, according to PTI.For the government, both at the central and state level, the situation clearly has posed a difficult choice. The demands of public health - which dictate that an extension of the lockdown is the best way to control the spread of the disease - and the demands of the economy - which is in crisis with supply and demand shocks, closure of factory plants, business becoming unviable, loss of jobs and incomes - have to be reconciled.It is understood that while senior officials are in agreement on the importance of the lockdown to save Indian lives, they also want economic activity to be revived, as ports are jammed with containers and major port cities such as Mumbai and Chennai are hit by the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-what-are-red-orange-and-green-zones-and-how-will-they-impact-life/story-KuFHv7V125PYhZIAzF1xuJ.html
12-04-2020||India||Jharkhand reports second Covid-19 death, cases at 17||A Covid-19 patient has died in a hospital in Jharkhand’s Ranchi taking the death toll in the state to two, news agency ANI reported on Sunday.Dr Vijay Bihari, Ranchi’s civil surgeon, was cited by the news agency as saying that the man was among the eight people brought to Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) from Hindpiri area of the state capital.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe death is yet to be confirmed by the Union ministry of health and family welfare.The district administration has completely sealed Hindpiri and declared it a containment zone after eight cases of the coronavirus disease were found in the area, including the state’s first infected person. On Saturday, three more Covid-19 cases were reported in Jharkhand, taking the total number of people who have contracted the dreaded disease to 17 in the state, health department officials said.Also read: Screening team for Covid-19 face resistance over ‘NPR rumour’ in RanchiBokaro district has reported six positive cases, Ranchi eight, Hazaribagh two and Koderma one.A 72-year-old man from Gomia’s Sadam village in Bokaro district had died of coronavirus on April 9.Jharkhand had registered its first confirmed case on March 31, when a 22-year-old Malaysian woman tested positive for the virus.She was the part of a 22-people group, including 17 foreign nationals, who were recovered from two mosques in Ranchi. The group had come to Ranchi last month after attending Tablighi Jamaat congregation in New Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-reports-second-covid-19-death-cases-at-17/story-6MOIi11zb3AlN9l0UzdYQK.html
12-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Govt may divide country in red, orange and green zones||The Centre is likely to categorise the country into red, orange and green zones depending on the number of Covid-19 cases during the proposed extended period of lockdown, news agency PTI reported.Quoting government officials, PTI further reported that there will be no activity in the red zones - the districts where sizeable number of cases were detected or areas which were declared hotspots; minimum activities like opening of limited public transport, harvesting of farm products will be allowed in orange zones where only few cases have been found in the past; the green zones may see further relaxation.Tracking Covid-19 Outbreak: Full CoverageSome MSME industries falling under the green zone will be allowed to function with in-house lodging facilities for employees with proper maintenance of social distance, PTI further reported.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday held meeting with the chief ministers - his third and most expansive interaction so far - where he hinted that restrictions will continue in some form to preserve lives in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. Some relaxations are, however, expected to resume economic activity.Also read: What are red, orange and green zones and how will they impact lifeThe PM said that while announcing the lockdown, he had spoken of “jaan hai toh jahaan hai” - if one is alive, there is a world - but now, for a successful and prosperous India, it was time to move to “jaan bhi, jahaan bhi” - life also, world also.In the four-hour-long interaction, several chief ministers expressed the need to extend the lockdown, and offered a review of the situation in their respective states. The CMs placed emphasis on balancing lives and livelihoods, with some asking for a major economic package to tide over the crisis. They also flagged the need for more testing kits and personal protective equipment (PPEs) for health workers.Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Saturday suggested to the Centre to lift the lockdown and confine it only to the red zones which have reported a larger number of Covid-19 positive cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-govt-may-divide-country-in-red-orange-and-green-zones/story-KACrCEqD7u0Oz92QKNXxvI.html
12-04-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 cases cross 8000-mark, death toll at 273||India on Sunday morning reported 8,356 people have contracted the coronavirus disease and 273 have died across the country, with more than 900 cases and 34 deaths in the last 24 hours.According to the Union health ministry’s data at 8am, there are 7367 active cases, 716 people have been cured, discharged or migrated.The new numbers come a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi indicated the 21-day lockdown across the country may be extended beyond April 14.The Prime Minister stressed on Saturday that the new challenge was not only to save lives but livelihoods as well as he spoke with several chief ministers to discuss the lockdown ordered last month to stop the spread of the highly contagious coronavirus disease and other issues.PM Modi said that the government earlier motto was ‘jaan hai to jahaan hai’ [when you have life, you have the world]. “Now it is ‘jaan bhi jahaan bhi’ [save life, and livelihood],” he said, signalling a shift in the Centre’s approach. He is yet to take a decision on the extension of the three-week national lockdown but several states have independently announced an extension of the restrictions till the end of April.The government has also emphasised the importance of strict restrictions put in place on March 25.A health ministry official said on Saturday the number of Covid-19 cases in India could have even reached a figure of 820,000 by April 15 without the containment measures and nationwide lockdown. The government has said that the country’s response to the coronavirus pandemic has been pre-emptive and proactive to the extent of being over-prepared, which has helped in preventing ballooning of the number of positive cases.According to Johns Hopkins University Covid-19 tracker, there are 1,776,157 cases and 108,804 fatalities worldwide as of Sunday.The United States surpassed Italy on Saturday as the country with the highest reported coronavirus death toll, recording more than 20,000 fatalities since the outbreak began.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-cases-cross-8000-mark-death-toll-at-273/story-IHuP8d7lIInk9mz4uBQHeM.html
12-04-2020||India||‘May this Easter give us added strength to overcome Covid-19’: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday wished the country on Easter, hoping the occasion “gives us strength to overcome coronavirus disease Covid-19”.“Best wishes to everyone on the special occasion of Easter. We remember the noble thoughts of Lord Christ, especially his unwavering commitment to empowering the poor and needy. May this Easter give us added strength to successfully overcome COVID-19 and create a healthier planet,” PM Modi said on Twitter. Best wishes to everyone on the special occasion of Easter. We remember the noble thoughts of Lord Christ, especially his unwavering commitment to empowering the poor and needy. May this Easter give us added strength to successfully overcome COVID-19 and create a healthier planet.Easter marks the resurrection of Jesus Christ following his crucifixion on Good Friday. It also marks the culmination of Lent, a 40-day period of fasting and penance.This year, the coronavirus pandemic has muted the public cheer on Easter, with no public gathering and all the priests issuing video messages for the faithful.Pope Francis urged people to “not yield to fear” and focused on a “message of hope” as he led an Easter eve Mass in an empty St Peter’s Basilica on Saturday amid the coronavirus pandemic and called for an end to wars.The vigil, which normally takes place in a church packed with about 10,000 people, was attended by only about two dozen, including a few altar servers and a smaller-than-usual choir. Because of the coronavirus outbreak, it was scaled back to eliminate several traditional features, such as the baptism of adult converts and a long procession up the main aisle of Christendom’s largest church.In India too, the Easter midnight prayers were held without an assembled congregation keeping with the restrictions in place due to the nationwide lockdown.“Celebrating the Holy Week without a congregation of the faithful is painful. The Covid-19 outbreak and lockdown has forced us to celebrate it within the church. But we are hopeful that the resurrection of Jesus Christ will give us the hope that we will overcome this situation and we will get the remedy for it soon,” Father Walter de Sa, Parish Priest of a Goa church told news agency ANI.Churches in Maharashtra, the worst-hit state due to Covid-19 pandemic, wore a deserted look. A few of them have even locked their doors.On April 21 last year, devotees had gathered at churches across India at midnight on Easter. Churches were decked up with flowers as people attended the ceremonial midnight mass to offer prayers in devotional fervour.However, this year, live-streaming of services is being done at several churches amid 21-day Covid-19 lockdown, which was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/may-this-easter-give-us-added-strength-to-overcome-covid-19-pm-modi/story-MBe9Qm7HuKl65YoywyLGiL.html
12-04-2020||India||‘Rope in ENT specialists, resident docs to fight Covid-19’: Health Ministry||The Union health ministry has asked all states and Union Territories to seek the services of ENT specialists and resident doctors to fight coronavirus, saying there is an urgent need of qualified personnel to collect samples for Covid-19 testing.In a letter addressed to all chief secretaries and principal secretaries (health), the ministry underlined that the country is in the midst of an unprecedented outbreak of Covid-19 and one of the key components of the government’s strategy to combat it is contact tracing and collection of throat and swab samples of potentially infected persons.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic“There is an urgent need of trained and qualified personnel to collect these samples and the number of such persons needs to be augmented significantly,” the ministry said in its letter.“All states/UTs are therefore requested to organise collection of Covid-19 case samples by using the services of ENT specialists and residents,” it said.It has advised officials concerned to issue necessary instructions to the medical institutions to ensure action on these lines so that such samples are taken professionally.Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreak“All medical colleges may be instructed to get in touch with state governments to offer their services. It is requested that necessary action in this regard may be taken urgently under report to this ministry,” the letter stated.More than 30,000 doctors, including those from Armed Forces Medical Services, have volunteered to help the government in its fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, a senior government official said on Friday.The government on March 25 had appealed to retired government, Armed Forces Medical Services, public sector undertaking or private doctors to come forward and join the efforts to fight the pandemic.The death toll due to the novel coronavirus rose to 242 and the number of cases climbed to 7,529 in the country on Saturday, according to the health ministry.However, a PTI tally of figures reported by various states at 9 PM Saturday showed at least 8,320 cases and 287 deaths. There has been a lag in the Union Health Ministry figures, compared to the number of cases announced by different states, which officials attribute to procedural delays in assigning the cases to individual states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rope-in-ent-specialists-resident-docs-to-fight-covid-19-health-ministry/story-EBC64jtD6e8vwPQsff9FYO.html
12-04-2020||India||PM Modi strikes a balance, US woes mount: Covid-19 news today||India will have to strike a balance between “jaan” (lives) and “jahaan” (the outside world), Prime Minister Narendra Modi told chief ministers on Saturday, in a sign that restrictions to contain Covid-19 may continue in some form but there could also be relaxations to the three-week, nationwide lockdown (which began on March 25) in order to resume economic activity. Meanwhile, the US, with at least 19,833 deaths due to the coronavirus disease, became the most affected country in terms of fatalities by overtaking Italy. America, already the worst-hit nation in terms of cases, is the only country to have reported over 500,000 infections.Jaan, Jahan: PM Modi weighs lockdown callThree days before the national lockdown is due to end, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that India will have to strike a balance between “jaan” (lives) and “jahan” (the outside world) — a sign that the restrictions will continue in some form to preserve lives as it enforces social distancing, but with some relaxations to resume economic activity and preserve livelihoods.Read MoreCovid-19: How it will change individualsWhen it’s over, will things go back to how they were before? And what about us, will we? If the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) had only lasted weeks, and not required a fundamental change in how we live and work, then the answer to those questions would have been in the affirmative. And so, the answer will have to be in the negative. Things will not go back to how they were before. Nor will we.Read MoreAs lockdown extension possibility looms, ministers to go to office from MondayUnion ministers and all senior officials will start attending office again from Monday, government functionaries told HT, marking a step towards the resumption of normalcy in government establishment even as the lockdown is likely to be extended.Read MoreHealth ministry hails timing of lockdownUnion health ministry officials defended the nationwide lockdown on Saturday and said the country would have had close to 120,000 coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases by April 15 if people moved as usual, giving out data not based on any epidemiological premise, but , as the ministry put it, statistical analysis.Read MoreSeveral targets missed, still no sign of rapid testing kitsThe rapid testing kits, which India was expecting to be delivered on April 5, and then April 8 or 9, will not be here at least until early next week, delaying the country’s efforts to use these to test widely in containment zones that have seen a lot of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases .Read MoreDonation to PM-Cares, not states’ relief fund, to count as CSR: GovtCompanies’ contributions to the chief minister’s relief fund or the state relief fund towards the fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) will not count as corporate social responsibility (CSR) spending, but those to the newly established Prime Minister ‘s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM-CARES) fund or to the State Disaster Management Authority will, the Centre said on Saturday.Read MoreUS now has most Covid deaths, overtaking ItalyIt was a day of tragic records for the US on Saturday, as the coronavirus pandemic continued to torment the country, forcing authorities to start digging up trenches for mass graves. With at least 19,833 deaths reported from the Covid-19 outbreak, the US has now become the most affected country in terms of fatalities - overtaking Italy, which has reported 19,468 deaths.Read MoreRespiratory, organ failure and heart attacks killing Covid patients: StudyPeople with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) may die of a heart attack, respiratory failure, multiple organ failure or septic shock, but the cause of death is irrefutably Covid-19, scientists and clinicians have said, debunking attempts by some states to attribute fatalities to other reasons.Read MoreNew infections raise fear of community spread in statesThe Union health ministry has dismissed speculation about community transmission, where the source of the disease is not known, but many experts have pointed to cases where authorities have failed to trace the source of the infection.Read More ‘Unlockdown’ lessons from Ground ZeroWuhan’s reopening, starting April 8, is being watched by other countries for lessons on how resumption of normal life after a lockdown is possible. Read MorePlea in SC against free private testingBurdening private laboratories to offer free Covid-19 tests will disincentivise their continued functioning posing a grave risk to people’s health, a plea filed before the Supreme Court on Friday stated seeking modification of the apex court’s April 8 order directing private laboratories to offer free coronavirus tests.Read MoreCovid-19 halts J&K’s annual ‘Darbar Move’ for the first time in 144 yearsThe annual “Darbar Move” in Jammu and Kashmir – the shifting of the administrative machinery from Jammu to Srinagar in the spring that has a history of 144 years – won’t be fully completed this year due to concerns related to the Covid-19 outbreak.Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-strikes-a-balance-us-woes-mount-covid-19-news-today/story-0l7lkl0F0olLVLiGx33QON.html
12-04-2020||India||Dance moves from ‘Tik Tok Doc’ bring welcome relief from coronavirus blues||A US doctor’s dance videos posted on social media have proven just the right medicine for hundreds of thousands of people, including health care workers, who are cheering him on for lifting their spirits during the coronavirus pandemic.Dubbed “Tik Tok Doc” after the popular short-form video app, Dr. Jason Campbell has taken the Internet by storm with clips featuring him and colleagues doing the “corona foot shake,” “the cha-cha slide” and other dance moves.The 31-year-old anesthesia resident physician at Oregon Health & Science University Hospital told AFP he has been overwhelmed by the positive response, including from health care workers in New York, the country’s epicenter of the Covid-19 pandemic.“When you’re in medicine, you see a lot of serious, sad things all the time,” Campbell said. “And so we too need a way to remain human, stay sane and a chance to just smile or laugh, even if it’s just five minutes out of a 12-hour day.”Click here for full Covid-19 coverageCampbell said he initially began posting the videos to encourage teens, especially African-American youths, to pursue their dreams and know that they too could become physicians.The clips, however, quickly went viral, resonating with a much wider audience clearly in need of cheering up during these dark times. His “corona foot shake” video alone has been watched four million times.“I got a message today (Friday) from someone who said his wife was a cardiologist working with COVID-19 response teams and found the videos so refreshing,” Campbell said.Another message came from a lung cancer patient who thanked him for making his quarantine more bearable.“The overwhelming response has been, ‘Hey, I work in New York City and I love seeing your video after my long day,’“ Campbell said. “Others say, ‘Hey, my family member has the virus and we watch these videos together while they recover.’“Campbell said fellow doctors and nurses at the hospital in Portland were initially reluctant to appear in the videos, but after seeing the positive reactions have joined in the fun.Hospital officials have applauded the initiative.“Dr. Campbell’s energy and charisma is infectious,” said Dr. Renee Edwards, the hospital’s chief medical officer. “A skilled physician, he’s found a unique way to incorporate the power of positivity into his daily work, helping to lift the spirits of patients and co-workers alike.”The videos have been hailed by the state’s governor and even caught the attention of popular recording artist Janet Jackson, who retweeted one of the doctor’s TikToks.Campbell, who has posted about a dozen videos since the beginning of March, said his next dance routine, currently being rehearsed, was in response to a special request from his co-workers’ kids.“It’s going to be a slow-motion challenge with one of my colleague’s daughter,” he said. “It’s multiple moves where you go slow at first then speed it up back to real time.”As for his plans once the pandemic is over, Campbell said he has no intention of stopping his dancing.“The focus will remain on connecting with the black youth,” he said. “And working to enhance diversity in medicine long-term.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dance-moves-from-tik-tok-doc-bring-welcome-relief-from-virus-blues/story-0fkNphDyMY6hD0arFZcdJO.html
12-04-2020||India||Coronavirus lockdown: 444 people repatriated, says Australian High Commission||A total of 444 people took off on a charter flight from New Delhi for Melbourne on Sunday amid the nationwide lockdown imposed last month to check the spread of coronavirus.“Supported the repatriation of 444 people who just took off on charter flight JT2846 from #Delhi for #Melbourne. The flight was organised by a group of Australians led by Simon Quinn. Thanks to @PMOIndia @DrSJaishankar @MEAIndia for facilitating. @MarisePayne @dfat,” Australian High Commission, India, tweeted along with a 44-second video.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic Supported the repatriation of 444 people who just took off on charter flight JT2846 from #Delhi for #Melbourne. The flight was organised by a group of Australians led by Simon Quinn. Thanks to @PMOIndia @DrSJaishankar @MEAIndia for facilitating. @MarisePayne @dfat pic.twitter.com/gDVOUCGRoZClick here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreakOf the 444 people, 430 were Australians citizens, permanent residents and their families, while 14 were New Zealand citizens.India had last month suspended international flights in a bid to check the spread of coronavirus in the country.The total number of COVID-19 positive cases in the country crossed 7,500 including 6634 active cases, said the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Saturday. So far 652 people have been cured/discharged while 242 deaths have been reported across the country and one person has migrated. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-lockdown-444-people-repatriated-says-australian-high-commission/story-c3pRlQIH768QEna0O2x0zK.html
12-04-2020||India||Centre should introduce new schemes like ‘food for work’ amid Covid-19 crisis: Rajasthan CM||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has urged PM Narendra Modi to introduce new schemes such as ‘food for work’, announce a big package for industries and relaxation in central GST amid the coronavirus crisis.On the ongoing lockdown, Gehlot emphasised on taking a collective decision by looking at the situation of the individual states and taking the respective states in confidence.Gehlot urged to immediately plan to launch a scheme on the lines of ‘Food for Work’ to provide relief to the ragpickers, pushcart or rickshaw-pullers, nomad and other helpless people whose livelihoods are under threat due to the Covid-19 lockdown. He said the scheme was initiated during the regime of Atal Bihari Vajpayee in 2001-02 and gained much popularity as a measure of fighting drought.The Chief Minister added that the state government compensated such vulnerable population by providing a cash amount of Rs 2,500 each to more than 31 lakh families who were not covered under any other social security scheme. The centre should also bring some scheme of compensation for such people so that they could get at least some minimum economic support, he said.The Government of India has sufficient quantities of grains for such a scheme, said Gehlot, attending the PM’s video conference which was participated by the CMs of other states on Saturday. “For deciding the financial package to the states, a delegation of top officers could be sent for a discussion with the Union Finance Ministry and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI),” Gehlot said.Suggesting an incentive package for the Industries, he said former Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee had announced a big stimulus package during the 2008 economic slump. Such a package should be announced for the industries during the current crisis so that their financial situation could be strengthened.“The state government has provided relief to the hotel and tourism industry affected by the lockdown. We have decided to reimburse the state GST to the hospitality businesses for the next three months. To arrest the deteriorating situation of this industry during this challenging time, the GoI should consider giving concessions in the central GST,” Gehlot stated.He suggested that there will be a recovery at the global economic scenario after the lockdown ends and in such a situation, looking at the possibilities of new export opportunities for India, from now onwards giving interest subsidy through EXIM Bank and other incentives should be considered to encourage exports.The CM reiterated his demand to provide a grant of Rs one lakh crore to the state governments to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic. The payment of the first instalment of the grant should be made, based on the population and later as per the prescribed formula of the GST Council or the Inter-state Council, he added.He further asked for an increase in the borrowing limit for a state and the treasury deficit limit mentioned in the FRBM Act to 5% of the GDP. Gehlot demanded that recently the RBI increased the Wage and Means Advance limit by 30%, but looking at the current crisis, the facility of this advance payment to the state governments should be provided free of interest so that the Covid-19 pandemic could be effectively dealt with.Gehlot demanded for grant of a moratorium of 6 months to the states by reassessing the payment of forthcoming instalments of outstanding loans due to the RBI and other financial institutions under the Government of India.Gehlot said that the crops of Rabi season were ready to be sold in the market. Under the Prime Minister Asha Scheme, 25% of the total yields of crops are procured at the MSP, which is inadequate. Farmers should be provided relief in such a tough time by increasing the purchase limit on MSP to 50%. The FCI and NAFED etc should urgently start the MSP procurement of crops in a phased manner, the chief minister suggested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-should-introduce-new-schemes-like-food-for-work-amid-covid-19-crisis-rajasthan-cm/story-WwdaEsFAJ2udhrlVHL2tXK.html
12-04-2020||India||65 prisoners in Jammu and Kashmir released due to coronavirus outbreak||Sixty-five prisoners, including 22 who were arrested under Public Safety Act (PSA), were released to decongest jails across Jammu and Kashmir in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic. The information was given by the director general of prisons in a written report submitted to the division bench of Jammu and Kashmir High Court here. The bench, comprising Chief Justice Gita Mittal and Justice Rajnesh Oswal, was hearing a PIL pertaining to spread of novel coronavirus through video-conferencing.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe report pertaining to release of prisoners in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak was also pursued by the court. The director general prisons, through his report, apprised the bench that as on April 7, pursuant to deliberations held by high powered committee, 22 Public Safety Act detenues, 32 undertrials, nine under trial prisoners falling under section 107,109,151 of the CrPC have been released and sanction for parole has been granted to 19 other prisoners.Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreakThe court was informed that two prisoners have already been released on parole and all the steps for ensuring the health of the detenues whether lodged in Jammu and Kashmir or outside the UT and their protection from COVID-19 infection are being taken. On March 30, the Jammu and Kashmir government had constituted a high-powered committee to decide about the temporary release of convicts and under-trails to decongest jails across the Union Territory in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. The division bench directed the Department of Health and Medical Education to make available adequate equipment of every kind for the use of health care personnel and all other personnel involved in any aspect of COVID-19 issue. The court directed the department to file a report regarding procurement of more equipment as also creation of isolation wards, sample collection, processing and screening areas as per established protocols. The division bench directed the chief secretary of Jammu and Kashmir to constitute a committee within four days to examine all aspects relating to the matter, including the impact of the pollen and fluff from the poplar trees. The court directed that the committee thus constituted shall forward its report to the Department of Health & Medical Education as well as to the Forest Department, which shall consider the report and place their view before the chief secretary and thereafter, the chief secretary shall file his final recommendations in the court. PTI TAS SNE SNE||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/65-prisoners-in-jammu-and-kashmir-released-due-to-coronavirus-outbreak/story-Ck6Jq92P2AEEFKp3fWI5xM.html
12-04-2020||India||India sends consignment of hydroxychloroquine to US||India’s ambassador to the US Taranjit Singh Sandhu has said a consignment of hydroxychloroquine, the anti-malarial drug being cited as many as game-changer in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, from India arrived at Newark, New Jersey on Saturday. “Supporting our partners in the fight against #Covid19. Consignment of hydroxychloroquine from India arrived at Newark airport today,” Sandhu tweeted.India, the largest producer of hydroxychloroquine, had agreed to lift the ban on the export of the medicine to the US after President Donald Trump spoke to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on phone.Trump had thanked India for its decision to export the anti-malarial drug to the US, which is the worst-hit country in the world in terms of the number of Covid-19 related deaths.Also read: India steps up medical diplomacy, flies plane loads of medicines to friends“Extraordinary times require even closer cooperation between friends. Thank you India and the Indian people for the decision on HCQ. Will not be forgotten! Thank you PM Modi for your strong leadership in helping not just India, but humanity, in this fight!” the US president had tweeted.Also read: India has enough Hydroxychloroquine says govt and specifies who can use itIndia is also sending the drug to Bhutan, Bangladesh, Afghanistan, Nepal, Myanmar, Seychelles, Mauritius and some African countries. One of the early consignments, an Air India plane with 10 tonnes of medicine, was sent to Sri Lanka on Tuesday.The government has also cleared export of Covid-19 drugs to countries such as Spain, Brazil, Bahrain, Germany and the UK in line with the commercial contracts signed with Indian pharmaceutical companies.The United States now leads the global tally and global death toll due to coronavirus as 20,000 people have died so far. The Covid-19 infections in the US have now grown to 529,740 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-sends-consignment-of-hydroxychloroquine-to-us/story-YRghG0k5EYMzPZBPp53dNI.html
12-04-2020||India||‘Must not relent a bit’: Chhattisgarh health minister on Covid-19 fight||After a sudden spike in Covid-19 cases, the Chhattisgarh government turned its focus to check possible community spread in future. The state has detected 25 positive patients till now, out of which, 10 recovered and have been discharged from hospital. Fourteen people - seven on Thursday and seven on Saturday night - tested positive on Thursday in Katghora, a small town of Korba district.Chhattisgarh health minister TS Singhdeo, in an interview with Hindustan Times, said that the government has made an alternative arrangement in case the number of patients rise. Singhdeo said that government intends to conduct rapid testing in order to eliminate the chances of spread of the deadly virus through asymptomatic carriers.Q: With the recent increase in Covid-19 positive patients, how is the Chhattisgarh government planning to deal with the pandemic?TS Singhdeo: Advanced preparation has been the guiding principle of the government since this pandemic knocked on our door. Health and sanitation is the state subject, but we are also bound by the protocol laid down by the Centre. For example, the testing was severely restricted in the initial days and serious efforts started only after the tourists from Italy visited our country. Ensuing death and sudden surge in cases galvanised us.Despite these anomalies, the state government was always on its toes since January itself. We have been arranging for the necessary logistics to battle this pandemic since January. The whole machinery has been in action. Whatever delay has been caused, it has been on account of seeking approvals from the central government.We got rapid testing kit approval only on April 4. Immediately, a tender was floated and very soon we will have the requisite number of kits. Testing would obviate the possibility of contagion to spread at alarming rates. The factor that asymptomatic carriers can transmit the disease to others - this is the biggest challenge which can be braved by effective testing only.Q: The government statements to the media suggested that they are successful in containing the pandemic within the state. Don’t you think that it is quite an exaggeration to make such a claim at this stage?TS Singhdeo: I would not call it an exaggeration. In fact, it is reflective of our resolute preparation to fight this disease. We have made adequate arrangements in advance to meet the conditions that arise from this menace. We have around 4,700 beds ready for the patients. We have already ordered for the necessary number of PPEs for health professionals and government personnel. Moreover, we have made alternative arrangements in case the number of patients rises. If it breaches the mark of 20,000 we will start taking the help of the private hospitals also. We intend to conduct rapid testing in order to eliminate the chances of spread of the deadly virus through asymptomatic carriers.Q: Why testing has not been done? Only 3,000 people have been tested until now. Why tenders have been floated now when you claimed that government was prepared since January?TS Singhdeo: Testing has not been done solely because the Centre’s protocol did not allow us. First positive case in Chhattisgarh was reported on March 18. Since then, we have developed two testing facilities. However, the Union government has approved rapid testing as late as on April 4. We have ordered 75,000 rapid testing kits now. Tenders could not have been floated for the reasons already stated. Even at the national level, only one testing lab was there at Pune. Now, with an increase in the number of reported cases, we have around 170 testing facilities throughout the country.We could not have bought all equipment based on mere speculation. Today, we have 18 cases in the state and for that, we have enough resources. Our major challenge is to prepare for a situation where the number of infected people increases exponentially. ICMR protocols are acting as bottlenecks.Q: There is a public and bureaucratic perception that there is no unity of command during this pandemic fight and there are two power centres in the government - CM and you. What do you have to say about this perception?TS Singhdeo: This a mirage that has been created to bring a bad name to the government. I am the health minister and taking decisions related to my department. There is no dichotomy between CMO and the department I have been given charge of. For instance, the chief minister sought my opinion regarding the extension of lockdown. I gave my opinion on behalf of the department after due consultation. It is just an opinion and ultimately the chief minister will take the final call.CM is the ultimate authority and there is absolute unity of command. The whole state machinery is working in unison to combat this pandemic. I do not work beyond the mandate of my department.Q: Lastly, can you please shed light on one phenomenal step taken by the Chhattisgarh government that has helped contain the Covid-19 threat?TS Singhdeo: Our advanced preparation has been the most significant factor. People have been very supportive and the government machinery has toiled endlessly to secure our lives. The battle lies ahead and we must not relent a bit in order to ensure our final victory against this pandemic that threatens humanity at large.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/must-not-relent-a-bit-chhattisgarh-health-minister-on-covid-19-fight/story-qQytZ3xkmVQJPIPCe53d0N.html
12-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Chhattisgarh makes face masks mandatory in public places||The Chhattisgarh government on Saturday made wearing face masks mandatory in public places in a bid to contain the spread of coronavirus infection. "Health experts suggested that wearing face masks is essential in the prevention and control of COVID-19. Hence, under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, Chhattisgarh Epidemic Diseases COVID-19 Regulations and Chhattisgarh Public Health Act 1949, it has been made mandatory for every person to wear a face mask in public places,” an order issued by Chhattisgarh’s health and family welfare department said.Legal action will be taken against those not wearing masks in public places in Chhattisgarh, the order stated.It said people can use triple layer masks available in the market or home-made face covers and that those made at home could be reused after washing properly.Also read: Several targets missed, still no sign of rapid testing kits"A scarf or handkerchief could also be used in place of a mask but it should cover the nose and mouth fully,” an official said.In Chhattisgarh, 18 people have tested positive for Covid-19 till now out of which ten have been discharged from hospital.On Thursday, after seven people who had come in contact with Tablighi Jamaat members tested positive for the coronavirus infection in Korba district, the Chhattisgarh government decided to test every resident of the affected area of the Kotghora town, which is about 70km from Bilaspur district of the state. Also read: One in every 25 Covid-19 patients in city is a health care workerOn Saturday, Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi that essential economic activities should be allowed to function within the states in case the lockdown continues after April 14.Baghel also suggested not relaxing the existing ban on inter-state road, air and rail services in view of the increasing cases of Covid-19 in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-chhattisgarh-makes-face-masks-mandatory-in-public-places/story-O0nLz4PbGDTPO2XIFCoFSI.html
12-04-2020||India||Coronavirus in India: Historic sights, monumental silence||Tourists, both domestic and foreign, were in for a rude shock on March 17 when they were turned away from the Taj Mahal — one the country’s top ten most popular tourist destinations in 2019, according to the ministry of tourism — as the Archeological Survey of India decided to close down all monuments and protected sites in view of the global coronavirus pandemic.The last time in post Independent India that the Taj Mahal was shut down for visitors was during the 1971 Indo-Pak war. Built in the 17th century by Mughal emperor Shah Jahan, the Taj is a popular pitstop for visiting international heads of states including most recently, United States President Donald Trump.An official from the ASI’s Agra circle said that even the routine repair work on the marble mausoleum was stalled. Such work is essential for the upkeep of several of these monuments. For instance, the dome of the Taj is sometimes caked with fuller’s earth to offset the damage by pollution.Tourism has come to a grinding halt in the face of the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. In states like Uttar Pradesh, which accounted for 15.4% of all domestic tourists and Maharashtra, which accounted for nearly a quarter of international tourist arrivals in 2018, the spread of disease is high.“Of all the sectors, tourism was first hit and will take the longest to recover. But we remain hopeful that once the curbs are lifted, domestic tourists will start moving; international tourism might take much longer as air travel will continue to have restrictions,” said director general (tourism) Meenakshi Sharma. Domestic tourists account for a larger share in yearly earnings.In the last few years, the tourism sector has seen marginal growth in footfall and revenue. In foreign exchange earnings, the tourism sector fetched Rs 14,667 crore in March 2017, Rs 17,222 crores in 2018 and Rs 16,125 crores in 2019. Now, industry experts estimate that at least 50 million jobs related to tourism directly and indirectly are at stake, and recovery could take months. Pranob Sarkar of the Indian Association of Tour Operators (IATO), an apex body of inbound tour-operators, said that there have been no new bookings since March. “It might take us anywhere from 12 to 24 months to come to normal levels of operation,” said Sarkar. “Even after curbs are lifted for both domestic and international travellers, we do not know how many people will resume travelling,” he added. South Mumbai’s bustling tourist hotspots of Colaba causeway and Apollo Bunder — home to the colonial era monument, the Gateway of India — wear a completely deserted look. Even the ferries that leave from the port to destinations like Aurangabad and Alibaug in the mainland, have stopped their rounds.Dhananjay Sawalkar, joint director, directorate of tourism, Maharashtra said, “The footfall has been low at Ajanta Ellora caves in Aurgangabad since mid-February itself. We had closed the site even before the state government had announced the lockdown.” The Gateway, a favorite spot for photographers and vistors, has been closed down since March 23, when the state announced a complete lockdown. Suhas Chatkara, co-founder of Mumbai-based tour organiser Routed India said that he had lost around Rs 40 to 50 lakh in cancellations of bookings made in April and May, usually busy months owing to summer holidays in schools and colleges.Director General of the Archaeological Survey of India said that while no major renovation work was scheduled on centrally-protected sites, routine maintenance work had to be stalled. “Special projects such as the excavation of a recently-discovered Mughal-era tunnel in Red Fort which was carried out early this year, have not been taken up,” Gunjan Kr Srivastava, Delhi ASI Circle Superintending Officer said. Even the lawns of India Gate popular among tourists and visitors, is being maintained by a skeletal staff of the Central Public Works Department. “The Amar Jawan Jyoti continues to burn every day,” the spokesperson said.(With inputs from Hemendra Chaturvedi, Mehul Thakkar and Tanushree Venkataraman)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-in-india-historic-sights-monumental-silence/story-SIIVYBm4WsXKqLoL9AxAOK.html
12-04-2020||India||Allow economic activities within states: Chhattisgarh’s Baghel to PM Modi||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Saturday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to allow states to carry out essential economic activities in case the lockdown continues.The Prime Minister held a video conference with chief ministers to take feedback on whether the ongoing lockdown is extended after April 14 to contain the spread of the coronavirus infection.Baghel suggested not relaxing the existing ban on the inter-state road, air and rail services in view of the increasing cases of Covid-19 in the country, a release from his office said.The chief minister also sought an economic package for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) sector from the Centre, citing that the MSME sector which provides maximum employment to the people, has been bearing the brunt of lockdown and seeking early financial assistance in the state.During the video conference, the chief minister said that due to lack of clear instructions by the Centre for the purchase of test kits, there is a situation of apprehension and asserted on the need to issue clear guidelines in this regard, the statement said.“As many as 3,473 samples have been tested till Friday in the state. On average,135 samples are being taken per day which is very less. Due to less testing, it cannot be said with certainty whether the condition of Covid-19 virus is actually under control or not,” Baghel stated.“There is a need to take 3 to 5 thousand samples daily. Therefore a request has already been made to ensure more availability of PPE kits and testing facilities in the state,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allow-economic-activities-within-states-chhattisgarh-s-baghel-to-pm-modi/story-uii3cvrRzvDoJV4lZvT6xM.html
12-04-2020||India||One in every 25 Covid-19 patients in Delhi is a health care worker||One in every 25 people with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Delhi is a health care worker, with at least 42 doctors, nurses or hospital staff infected, according to data from the state health department — a statistic that once again highlights the risks faced by front-line responders and concerns over adequate personal protection equipment (PPE) kits.Delhi reported a total of 1,069 cases till Saturday.In addition, more than 400 health care workers across the city have been quarantined after coming in contact with people who later tested positive.Two nurses tested positive for the infection Friday night — one of them was posted in Lok Nayak hospital, making her the first health care worker testing positive in what is the biggest Covid-19 treatment centre in the city, where at least 651 Covid-19 confirmed or suspected cases are admitted. Around 25 others who came in contact with the nurse have been asked to go into quarantine. “She did not come in direct contact with any of the suspected patients. She has more of a managerial role and supervises the wards. And, we make sure anyone entering the wards dons personal protective equipment,” said a hospital official who asked not to be named.The other nurse to test positive worked at Dr Ram Manohar Lohia hospital — also the first from the centre to test positive.Doctors from across the country have been complaining about the shortage and poor quality of PPE gear, such as masks, face shields, coveralls and gloves.“When health care workers are affected, it takes away active people from the service and also results in clusters around hospitals. It can paralyse the health system in pockets, with hospital after hospital being closed down because of infections,” said Dr T Jacob John, professor emeritus and former head of the department of virology at Christian Medical College, Vellore.With 22 of its staff testing positive, the highest number of health care workers have tested positive at the Delhi State Cancer Institute, which has now been closed. Two of the first doctors to have tested positive were from mohalla clinics in north-east Delhi.“This trend is more than worrying. And, not only in Delhi, this is happening across India. And the problem lies in government denying community transmission. There are some universal precautions to protect the eyes, nose, and mouth that must be taken by all health care workers in primary, secondary or tertiary settings. But because the government kept denying community transmission, we kept screening people depending on their history of travel or contact,” said Dr Jacob John.Community transmission is the third of the four stages of the spread of an infectious disease. The first is travel history, the second is local transmission, the third is community transmission, and the fourth is epidemic. India has so far maintained that the disease is in the second stage, or between stage two and stage three with “limited community transmission” in some clusters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-one-in-every-25-covid-19-patients-in-city-is-a-health-care-worker/story-stEtKgOvMoxmKr0z9wp9tI.html
12-04-2020||India||Coronavirus in India: New infections raise fear of community spread in states||On April 3, a sub-inspector of Bow Bazar police station saw a beggar, aged about 40, on a pavement on Jogendra Kabiraj Row in central Kolkata, suffering from fever and shortness of breath.He was immediately taken to the NRS Medical College and Hospital, where his swab samples test report came positive. He was shifted to the infectious diseases (ID) hospital, the state’s nodal hospital for Covid-19.The second incident was reported from the Tukra Patti area, where local residents noticed a 60-year-old homeless man on April 1 with symptoms of coronavirus infection. He was first taken to a local hospital and then to the ID hospital on April 6. A senior doctor of the ID hospital confirmed that the two street dwellers were referred to the hospital and that they tested positive. “I don’t want to comment anything on this,” said Siddhartha Chakraborty, officer-in-charge of Bowbazar police station. The two cases, with no history of travel or known contact with previous patients, had worried both experts and policy makers. “It is difficult to trace contact history, as beggars living on those footpaths had been provided with food by several persons over the past few days, including private volunteers and policemen,” said an expert who is part of the state’s Covid-19 team.“Going through media reports it seems that probably we are entering stage three (community transmission). However officially we are still in stage two,” said Dr Sumon Poddar, associate professor at Kolkata based Institute of Child Health.The Union health ministry has dismissed speculation about community transmission, where the source of the disease is not known, but many experts have pointed to cases where authorities have failed to trace the source of the infection.Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh confirmed community transmission in his state on Friday, claiming that about 15% of Covid-19 cases in the state were of community transmission.A day later, two of the seven new cases in Punjab have no history of travel or contact. While one gardener found positive in Patiala was working in the house of a Punjab Civil Service (PCS) officer, the second is a truck-driver from Pathankot district, who had returned to his office after the lockdown.In Haryana, officials said two percent of he 162 cases were of possible community spread, which includes a 38-year-old Rohtak resident, who has tested positive along with her two children, said Dhruva Chaudhary, the nodal officer for Covid-19 at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences in Rohtak.In Ambala, a 67-year-old who died at the Chandigarh Post Graduate Institute (PGI) on April 1 and later tested positive for Covid-19, had no travel history, officials said. “In all these cases, we at least know the possible route of the contact,” said Haryana’s director general, health services, Dr S B Kamboj.In Bihar, officials have not completed the contact tracing of 10% of the 60 coronavirus cases. Of these, four are from Begusarai and one each from Nawada and Patna. “We are ascertaining their travel history,” said Sanjay Kumar, Bihar’s principal secretary, health, while denying the possibility of community transmission of the virus. In Jharkhand, no contact tracking of one of the 14 Covid-19 patients could be established.In Uttarakhand, Abhishek Tripathi, chief operational officer for COVID-19, said they didn’t have exact contact history of seven of the 35 positive cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-in-india-new-infections-raise-fear-of-community-spread-in-states/story-emS6XdPUuQqjPi5zPLnQ9K.html
12-04-2020||India||Covid-19: How it will change individuals||When it’s over, will things go back to how they were before? And what about us, will we?If the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) had only lasted weeks, and not required a fundamental change in how we live and work, then the answer to those questions would have been in the affirmative.But that is not the case. The Sars-CoV-2 virus still continues to ravage countries; it has reached 185 of the world’s 195 countries and infected 1.7 million people, killing over 100,000. In India, as of Saturday night, it has infected 8,380 and killed 288. It has wreaked havoc on businesses. Some may never recover. Others could take years to.And so, the answer will have to be in the negative. Things will not go back to how they were before. Nor will we. On two of the three previous Sundays since this column began, this writer looked at how the Covid-19 pandemic will change countries and companies. It is only to be expected that it will change people, too.By change, I don’t mean people losing jobs and having to look for new ones. That will happen, and it’s always tragic when it does. I know a lot of people who are worried about their jobs — they aren’t sure they will have them after the Covid-19 crisis has passed. “If this lasts, and we continue to work from home, I won’t be surprised if even the parting is virtual,” a senior executive in a large finance company said when he called last week to find out how I was coping. It is going to be a rare company that doesn’t cut costs after the crisis (many are doing this even during it). It will also be a rare company that doesn’t cut jobs. Many of these people will look for other, similar jobs, and at least some of the good ones will find them — if not immediately, then after a few months. Others will change careers, some even successfully. None of this can be termed real change.The crisis has made some people ask fundamental questions of themselves — of what’s really important to them; how much money they really need to live well; whether their lives need to be as complex and consumption-intensive as they are; if they should drop everything and follow their passion because, you know, Covid-19...A few years ago, I wrote about how many CEOs I knew who had turned 50 were asking themselves the same question: “What is the purpose of my life?” Now, far younger people, including those in their 30s are asking themselves these other questions.It isn’t surprising that they are doing so. Crises, such as the one caused by the still-raging pandemic, make people, especially the ones who do not worry about their lives and livelihoods (but some of them too), look at things differently. They render irrelevant externalities such as societal norms and peer pressure and tradition. They present questions (and problems) in their purest form, shorn of all else.Is this only for the privileged? Perhaps, but I remember that when the job-guarantee scheme was rolled out in the 2000s, it caused a significant asymmetry in labour markets simply because some workers in rural areas were willing to settle for less (much less) if it meant they could stay closer home. Will at least some migrant workers who spent the lockdown in camps look for work closer home when this is over?And so, when this is over, some people will change. Some will change geographies, others will change jobs, and still others will change careers. Some will change diets, others will change other habits, and still others may decide to play Thoreau in their own Waldens (minus the mothers providing food and doing the laundry, hopefully).Different people will answer the questions raised somewhere in the middle of this column, differently — for there are no correct answers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-how-it-will-change-individuals/story-uofoiJjnDF4S1oTInJtMnK.html
12-04-2020||India||HT Salutes: Veteran of 2009 viral pandemic back at it||Dr Ravinder Kumar of Lok Nayak hospital is one of the lucky few from the hospital who gets to go home, but it is hardly without worry. He lives 15 km away in Shalimar Bagh and, as he leaves, calls his wife.“She keeps the door open and the geyser on. In the ante room I have a box. I put my wallet, mobile phone, watch, and anything else in it. From there, I directly go to take a shower,” he said. After that, he cleans his phone. He is not off duty yet. “I am on my phone all the time. This is a big hospital and something or the other keeps happening,” he said. It is his job to ensure that the hospital gets adequate beds, ventilators and the gas pipeline to run them.When the hospital was starting to convert its facilities block by block into Covid-19 isolation wards, his team and he were working at least two shifts a day.They are working on adding 800 beds to the existing 1,200. “I eat when I can, I sleep when I can,” he said“We tell people to follow all precautions – wash their hands, wear masks at all times, properly use a personal protection equipment kit when taking care of the patients. We did this at the time of H1N1 in 2009 too, but as far as I remember the symptoms were milder. More patients are experiencing breathing difficulties with this infection,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-salutes-veteran-of-2009-viral-pandemic-back-at-it/story-GMvQNdQIud3Pk1U4RE47BM.html
12-04-2020||India||HT Salutes: ‘Refused to take leave, works 14-hour days’||Ravi Chandran, 56, works as an assistant scrutiny officer in the recruitment cell of the Delhi government’s directorate of education (DoE). His job is to screen applications for school staff. He used to do the job from an office at a plush government building just behind the Vidhan Sabha in north Delhi.Now, from 8am until 10pm, you will find Chandran at the Government Boys Senior Secondary School in east Delhi’s Ghazipur, which has now a shelter for migrant workers since the nationwide lockdown took effect on March 25.Chandran has been deputed as warden of the shelter which houses over 400 people.Inside a tin shed equipped with a table and chair as his office, Chandran is trying to ensure meals are served on time, rooms, toilets and bathrooms disinfected frequently, and social distancing is practised at all times.He is not complaining. When the sub-divisional magistrate recently asked him to take a day off, he actually refused. “It is a scenario that has never occurred in any of our lives. I can’t think of sitting at home now. There is always so much to do,” Chandran said.Some of the inmates have no money, would have nothing to eat and nowhere to go if they were to leave the shelter, Chandran said.He is making plans to take care of that.“I have kept aside some money from my March salary. Now, I am collecting money from my friends and colleagues at a personal level. I will give them Rs 500-1,000 when they leave the facility. The end of the lockdown is haunting them and having been with them for two weeks, I know their concern is genuine,” Chandran said.Last week, he pooled money with his colleagues to buy around 450 masks for everyone in the shelter.“My wife tells me that working 14 hours every day without any offs and living in the danger of contracting the virus is a lot of public service already. I reasoned with her that the government cannot help at such a micro level. You cannot turn a blind eye to an adversity, can you,” Chandran said, stepping out to buy shampoo sachets for some inmates who refused to bathe if they didn’t get shampoo along with the usual soaps.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-salutes-refused-to-take-leave-works-14-hour-days/story-UbJrTCGROseO0y4UofomSM.html
12-04-2020||India||HT Salutes: ‘My boys are scared, but I cannot say no to work; it needs me’||Her teenaged sons entreat her not to go to work, but 40-year-old Ranjita Vimal, an Accredited Social Health Activist (Asha) worker, turns down their emotional pleas every day.Vimal is part of the Delhi government’s surveillance team for Covid-19 in the Central Delhi district. “My boys are scared because they love me. But I can’t say no to my work; it needs me right now,” Vimal said. “I wear my pink coat and step out every day to do my duty.”For the last few days, she has been conducting door-to-door surveys in the densely populated Sadar Bazaar and Nabi Karim areas — two of the 30 containment zones declared so far. The survey teams have been asked to collect information on people in the area, their contact details, and check if anyone is showing flu-like symptoms. “It’s not easy to extract these basic details. In some places, we face resistance. We have to spend a lot of time to convince them to share these details,” she said. For instance, in Chamelian road in Sadar Bazaar, a family refused to share information. “They wanted us to provide ration, as they had nothing to cook at home. To win their trust, I told them about the Delhi government’s policy to give ration to needy people. I also told them about the nearby school where they can go for meals. It is only then that they shared the details,” she said.At another area, Vimal said she and her co-workers were threatened. “It was scary as 40-50 people told us not to come in a colony. Thankfully, a few people came to our rescue. Many think we are surveying for the National Population Register (NPR). We have to show our ID cards to show we are the Covid-19 survey team,” she said.Every evening, she gets a message from the area’s District Surveillance Office about the area she and her co-workers have to cover the next day. They screen around 150-200 houses daily. “The workload has increased, and so has the risk. All we can do is take precautions,” she said.The risk increases in containment zones, as chances of large number of people being infected by the contagious disease are higher. Every evening, her family keeps a bucket of hot water, and sometimes food, ready before she reaches home. “I go straight to the bathroom. I wash my clothes,” she said. “The work is tiring, but it is very important.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-salutes-my-boys-are-scared-but-i-cannot-say-no-to-work-it-needs-me/story-I5L7rqbgjm0rmYXVOOchGJ.html
12-04-2020||India||Jaan, Jahan: PM Modi weighs lockdown call||Three days before the national lockdown is due to end, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that India will have to strike a balance between “jaan” (lives) and “jahan” (the outside world) — a sign that the restrictions will continue in some form to preserve lives as it enforces social distancing, but with some relaxations to resume economic activity and preserve livelihoods. In his third and most expansive interaction with chief ministers since the 21-day lockdown began on March 25 to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Modi acknowledged on Saturday that many CMs suggested that the lockdown be extended for a fortnight, but did not make a categorical announcement on the issue. However, Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal and West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee claimed that the PM had agreed to extend the lockdown. Several states such as Odisha, Punjab and Maharashtra have already taken state-specific decisions to extend the curbs. A top government official said that the PM’s formulation meant that the government may move towards a “smart lockdown” — with severe restrictions in affected districts, and partial lifting of restrictions in unaffected districts, along with the opening up of some sectors to meet the economic challenge. A second official said that the government was also considering demarcating the country into three zones — red, yellow and green — depending on the scale of the Covid-19 outbreak.In the interaction, which spanned over four hours, Modi emphasised that he was available 24x7 to assist the states and that the next two to three weeks were critical in determining the impact of India’s efforts to tackle Covid-19 so far. He underlined the gravity of the global situation; said India has enough medicine supplies and was working to ensure adequate protective gear; condemned attacks on health care workers ; acknowledged the need to address economic concerns; and pointed to the possibility of converting the crisis into an opportunity to make India a “self-reliant” economic powerhouse. The PM said that while announcing the lockdown, he had spoken of “jaan hai toh jahaan hai” — if one is alive, there is a world — but now, for a successful and prosperous India, it was time to move to “jaan bhi, jahaan bhi” — life also, world also. Several chief ministers, for their part, expressed the need to extend the lockdown, and offered a review of the situation in their respective states. The CMs placed emphasis on balancing lives and livelihoods, with some asking for a major economic package to tide over the crisis. They also flagged the need for more testing kits and personal protective equipment (PPEs) for health workers. For the government, both at the central and state level, the situation clearly has posed a difficult choice. The demands of public health -- which dictate that an extension of the lockdown is the best way to control the spread of the disease — and the demands of the economy — which is in crisis with supply and demand shocks, closure of factory plants, business becoming unviable, loss of jobs and incomes — have to be reconciled.It is understood that while senior officials are in agreement on the importance of the lockdown to save Indian lives, they also want economic activity to be revived, as ports are jammed with containers and major port cities such as Mumbai and Chennai are hit by the pandemic.Before the interaction with the CMs, on Thursday and Friday, the PM held meetings with his key advisors and empowered committees set up to deal with the crisis. The participants included principal secretary PK Mishra, national security adviser Ajit Doval, principal advisor PK Sinha, cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba, NITI Aayog chief executive officer Amitabh Kant, and additional secretary in the Prime Minister’s Office AK Sharma. An official familiar with the proceedings of the meeting said that while everyone was in complete agreement that lives had to be saved, they also wanted economic activity to be revived “The easiest call to make is to extend the lockdown, the toughest one is how to lift it so that India does not go into negative growth,” said a senior member of one of the empowered committees. It was in these meetings that a proposal came up to demarcate the country into three zones — red zones to define districts and areas which have a high number of cases and will remain under a lockdown; yellow zones to define districts with a limited number of cases but which will be monitored and where limited movement will be allowed; green zones to define areas with no cases which may see greater normalcy, said the second official cited above who is familiar with the discussions. “Remember over 400 districts are not hit by the infection yet. One must also not forget that the harvesting season begins from April 14 and India is a largely agrarian economy ,” the official added.To be sure, such a decision has not been taken -- but it is an indication of the various options being considered by the government. Explaining the possible meaning of the PM’s “jaan” and “jahan” statement, a key economic ministry official familiar with discussions in the government said: “The government’s thinking is to continue the value chain under an insulated system for essential goods and services that are the lifeline of the nation. They are medicines, medical equipment, medical care, sanitation items, farm produce, processed food and groceries.”The government is particularly focused on agriculture, with the PM telling the CMs that modifications in the Agricultural Market Produce Committee Act will enable the smoother sale of farm produce. Another official with an economic ministry said, “It is a challenge to implement social distancing and hygiene for agricultural workers. An ideal work model could be prepared soon by the agricultural ministry and the labour ministry in consultation with other stakeholders and states. Besides, a smooth logistical system — farm to fork — will also be required. The government agencies are working towards that.” Another option discussed at the meeting of the PM with CMs was the idea of “lock-in” — where select factories would resume functioning, but workers would be under strict supervision and live within the factory complex in a sanitised environment. Public health experts believe, however, that notwithstanding the economic argument, the lockdown is a necessity. NK Mehra, former dean of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, said, “The positivity rate of the Sars-CoV-2 virus infection as well as the number of deaths in India has seen a consistent rise in the last one week. Under the circumstance, an extension of the lockdown for at least another two weeks is critical to drive down the virus’s reproductive numbers. The country could otherwise pay a very heavy price if the disease enters stage three.” Stage three refers to community transmission — which some experts believe India has already entered, an assertion the government rejects. The CMs outlined their views in the meeting, with the expectation of support and concessions from the Centre. Punjab CM Amarinder Singh asked for special concessions for industry and agriculture sectors, reiterated the need for ramping up testing facilities, and expediting the supply of rapid test kits. West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee asked the PM to spend at least 6% of the GDP to fight the crisis, and announce a National Economic and Health Package worth ₹10 lakh crore for the state governments. Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel suggested that state goverments be allowed to decide whether to carry out economic activities in their respective states. Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray spoke of the problems faced by the migrant workers. Telangana CM K Chandrashekhar Rao underlined how revenues in his state had dipped to 10% of what it was before the lockdown, making public finance situation precarious. Many CMs asked that contributions to CM Relief Fund — like contributions to the PM-Cares fund — should be considered a part of Corporate Social Responsibility expenditure of companies, while others asked for a relaxation on deficit limits provided under the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaan-jahan-pm-weighs-lockdown-call/story-64wIN6WeD4L0eenNrjmSvN.html
12-04-2020||India||Coronavirus crisis: Delhi case count over 1,000; 33 zones now under watch||Five people died due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the Capital on Saturday and the total number of infections crossed 1,000, making Delhi the second state after Maharashtra and the second city after Mumbai to cross the four-digit mark for positive patients.The number of new cases on Saturday was lower than Friday, when the city recorded its highest single-day jump in infections, driven largely by new patients who had been to the Nizamuddin area building of the Tablighi Jamaat, a religious group. The total number of infections now stands at 1,069.The government’s daily health bulletin did not give details of how many new cases were from the Nizamuddin cluster on Saturday, but added a new classification – “under special operations” – that accounted for 128 of the 166 new cases.Officials said the total “special operations” cases (712) included people who were either present in the Nizamuddin gatherings or their contacts.Among the five deaths, four were patients above the age of 60 -- a 79-year-old woman from Karol Bagh, a 60-year-old woman from Sadar Bazar, a 65-year-old man from Azad Market, and a 68-year-old man from Tamil Nadu -- with comorbid conditions such as kidney disease, heart disease, and hypertension. The fifth was a 44-year-old woman from Malkaganj with no known underlying health condition.Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the Capital leaves no room for lifting the lockdown – the nationwide curbs are scheduled to last till April 14 – and letting people move freely would lead to an “explosion of cases”.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal conveyed this position to Prime Minister Narendra Modi during a video conference along with CMs from other states. The PM is likely to make an announcement on the matter soon.The Capital also added three more containment zones, taking the total number of areas with a hard lockdown to 33. Varying from as small as buildings to entire neighbourhood blocks, these are areas where people are not allowed to go outdoors and all essential needs are home-delivered by administration officials.The new containment zone were in south district’s Deoli area, west Delhi’s Mansarovar Garden in Rajouri, and north Delhi’s Jahangirpuri. In Deoli, eight cases were detected. Officials did not give details about the other two zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-case-count-over-1k-33-zones-now-under-watch/story-8K6nCfYTHN9HmNjsMad2NK.html
12-04-2020||India||Andhra deputy CM’s shocker on Jamaat members, days after Jagan’s peace appeal||Andhra Pradesh deputy chief minister K Narayana Swamy on Saturday accused the members of Tablighi Jamaat of spreading the Covid-19 among others by moving freely everywhere and not cooperating with the doctors in getting treatment.Speaking to reporters in the temple town of Tirupati, Narayana Swamy allegedly pointed out some food habits and unhygienic lifestyles of the Jamaat members, based on some videos doing the rounds on social media.The deputy chief minister said there would not have been more than 25-26 Covid-19 positive cases in Andhra Pradesh, but for the Tablighi members who had come from Markaz and spread the disease in the state.“I have nothing against Muslim minorities. They can pray to their god. Allah is benevolent. But they do all sorts of dirty things, do not follow hygiene in eating and do not even maintain cleanliness. Because of their habits, they brought the Corona disease to this level,” he said.The deputy chief minister’s comments come within a week of YSR Congress party president and chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy’s statement defending the Tablighi Jamaat conference in Nizamuddin.“It is not correct to pin the blame on a particular religious congregation for the spread of Covid-19 in the country, as same could happen even in any such meeting in any other religious congregation like that of Ravi Shankar or Jaggi Vasudev or Mata Amritanandamayi,” Jagan said in message through electronic media.Narayana Swamy, however, alleged that Jamaat members were not cooperating for treatment. “They moved around shops and streets and spread the disease. I request them to cooperate with the doctors and get cured, so that it doesn’t spread to others,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-deputy-cm-s-shocker-on-jamaat-attendees-days-after-jagan-s-appeal/story-sRPp3NGFtOZx1o1YJdz1FK.html
12-04-2020||India||MSME ministry for resuming production in unaffected zones||Manufacturers should be allowed to resume operations in areas that aren’t classified as coronavirus disease (Covid-19) hotspots and where the virus hasn’t spread widely, subject to the condition that they strictly follow sanitation and social distancing norms to curb the spread of the outbreak, says the ministry micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) .The suggestion was put forward by the ministry to the Prime Minister’s Office for consideration. Nitin Gadkari, who is in charge of the MSME portfolio, said on Saturday that the ministry was also working out guidelines in collaboration with state governments on how to bring back migrant workers to restart production in the MSME sector. Tens of thousands of migrant workers have returned home to the countryside because of the coronavirus lockdown.The minister, who also oversees road transport, highways and shipping, said in a video chat that his departments had responded positively to the suggestion that production as well as construction of roads and highways be resumed in areas that are not affected by the pandemic so that the impact of the lockdown is blunted. Gadkari, however, stressed that the onus will be on the owners of MSME and construction units and contractors to ensure that their facilities are safe for workers and that there are provisions for food, shelter and healthcare. “There are nearly 20 lakh migrant workers in government-run camps, many are stuck midway. We have to bring them back and district collectors will have to give permission for that. We are working to removed bottlenecks with the help of state governments; but the factory owners will have to ensure that workers are looked after,” the minister said.He said over 600,000 MSMES had been restructured before March and he is hopeful that another 800,000-1 million more will be restructured in the coming months.Since the nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 25 to check the spread of the coronavirus; only industries that are involved in the production of essential goods services are allowed to function.The sector with 6.33 crore MSMEs that together employ an estimated 11 crore people is staring at an acute financial crisis after production came to a grinding halt and has urged the union government to announce a financial package similar to the PM-Kisan scheme, reopening industries where work from home is impossible and complete waiver of bank charges to help them recover.The ministry of MSME is working on steps to get industries Covid-ready; which means making changes that will allow workers to resume work even as they stick to the norms of social distancing and do not violate the conditions laid down for maintaining hygiene.On the financial front, the ministry has drawn up a proposal to expand the reach of its Credit Guarantee Fund Trust for Micro and Small Enterprises (CGTMSE) scheme that offers guarantee cover for the portion of credit facility not covered by collateral.In the partial collateral security model, micro and small industries are allowed to obtain collateral security for a part of the credit facility. The remaining part of the credit facility, up to a maximum of Rs2 crore, can be covered by the credit guarantee scheme.“So far Rs90,000 crore has been insured under the scheme by the trust that has a base capital of Rs10,000 crore,” said a government functionary. “The revival plan will also look at how MSMEs can reinvent to improve productivity. The ministry is working out the details of how to help the productions units adapt to change and the challenges imposed by the pandemic. There could be consultations using IT-enabled platforms to help the MSMEs evaluate their productivity and make changes that can lead to growth and enhanced capacity. We can share best practices with them to help them meet global standards, produce cheap and world class products,” the person said.Gadkari expressed the hope that manufacturing will pick up pace and India will be in a position to not just export more but also cut its dependence on China.Also on the agenda is pacing the sanctions under the Scheme of Fund for Regeneration of Traditional Industries or SFURTI, that supports traditional village industries by offering financial assistance of up to Rs2 crore.The ministry wants to alter the slow pace of getting projects off the ground under SFURTI; apart from relaxing norms such as doing away with the need for permission from the states to kick-start projects; it will put the onus on implementing agencies to cut delays.“We will have more technological intervention and webcams on the site to see where delays are taking place. We are also making use of technological centres or tool rooms across the country where high-end machinery is installed that can be used by smaller producers or for skilling purposes. For instance the leather tool room in Chennai is being used to stitch PPEs {personal protective equipment} for healthcare workers,” the functionary cited above said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/msme-ministry-for-resuming-production-in-unaffected-zones/story-605h2W7Omi2RkDpblmuTvL.html
12-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Fisheries, marine sectors exempted from curbs; social distancing a must||The Union government has exempted fisheries and the marine food industry from the coronavirus disease (Covid-10) lockdown, recognising them as part of the farm-to-fork supply chain. according to instructions issued in a fresh list of exemptions on Saturday, Fisheries is a component of the agriculture sector and a key source of income. Fisheries and aquaculture production contribute around 1% of India’s gross domestic product (GDP) and over 5% of the agricultural GDP. Exemptions include maintenance of fisheries, harvesting, processing, and packaging. They also covers cold chain storage, sales and marketing; hatcheries and movement of fish and marine food products.“As specified in the lockdown measures, social distancing and proper hygiene practices must be maintained in each of the above activities,” an order by the Union home ministry, exempting the fisheries sector, stated. Keeping in view the potential of the aquaculture, inland fisheries, coastal and marine fisheries sectors, the Centre will continue administering schemes under the umbrella “Blue Revolution Scheme” for overall development of fisheries, an official in the animal husbandry department said.The Centre has over the past week taken a series of steps to shore up the agriculture sector in the backdrop of the continuing lockdown.On Friday, the government recommended that states suspend certain provisions of their respective Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) Acts for three months to allow farmers to sell their harvest from multiple locations and to any buyer. The APMC Act regulates buying and selling of farm produce in about 5,000 mandis, or farm markets, across the country, which fall in the domain of the state governments. The Act empowers states to notify markets to cater to a specific area and farmers can only sell in their designated markets. “Farmers should be able to sell to any buyer. Otherwise, all farmers of an area will converge on a single market, which will obstruct the principle of social distancing,” agriculture minister NS Tomar had said in a video press conference. “Therefore, states have been requested to sidestep this mandi Act for three months,” the minister said. Procurement of wheat is due to start on April 15. The Centre has also asked states to start procuring 25% of pulses and oilseeds under the Centre’s price support scheme. On April 9, the agriculture ministry issued orders, invoking the market intervention scheme, which will allow the Centre to compensate horticulture farmers for a dip in wholesale prices and damage to harvested fruit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fisheries-marine-sectors-exempted-from-curbs-social-distancing-a-must/story-SKE6Ni99X5NbAMwSB0W1DL.html
12-04-2020||India||Covid-19: IIM students to help govt panels||The government has reached out to the Indian Institutes of Management (IIMs) to get MBA students to help the recently-formed empowered groups of secretaries. Eleven such empowered groups have been formed to combat different aspects of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. An internal note for the secretaries of the empowered groups, prepared by the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) said that the government has started discussions with the IIMs and other premier institutions of India such as IITs and IISC about “how these partnerships can be leveraged to support the efforts of the Government in fighting the Covid-19 crisis”.“One of the outcomes of these discussions is that the IIMs can provide MBA interns to support the empowered groups in data analysis and evidence-based policy inputs,” the note said.Each empowered group might be assigned two or three such interns in key supporting roles as data and evidence play a crucial role in determining India’s strategy to contain the virus.The government has also said that the empowered group will need to appoint a nodal officer on its behalf to assign tasks and get outputs as required by the group from the interns who will be working remotely on the work assigned to them.The entire collaboration will be managed through different channels created for each interested empowered group using the Slack app, which allows for group chats.The secretaries of the empowered groups have been asked to inform if they would require the support of the MBA interns. Once the DoPT gets the requirements, it will assign the shortlisted interns to the groups.The Narendra Modi government on March 29 established ten empowered groups and a key strategic task force to look into all aspects of the pandemic. The measure turns at least 68 senior bureaucrats into a consorted planning and implementing machinery as India fights against the disease that continues to kill thousands across the world.The groups have been assigned tasks such as “the medical emergency management plan” or ensuring “availability of hospitals, isolation and quarantine facilities, disease surveillance and testing and critical care training” and “facilitating supply chain and logistics management for availability of necessary items such as food and medicine”.A six-member Strategic Task Force has also been formed, which will exclusively deal with issues related to the three-week national lockdown announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 25.Afzal Amanullah, former parliamentary affairs secretary said, “It’s always good to engage management students from India’s premier institutes. They are trained for this purpose and it will help them to be a part of the government’s strategy to contain this unprecedented pandemic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iim-students-to-help-govt-panels/story-019eUcJ4b2BL0SSZrxPwiP.html
12-04-2020||India||Coronavirus lockdown in India: CMs request extension of curbs, economic push||Prime Minister Narendra Modi told chief ministers who took part in a meeting with him by video conference on Saturday that the lockdown for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) will be in force until April 30, a 16-day extension, with selective easing of curbs to revive economic activity in part, CMs who took part in the meeting said. West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee and her Maharashtra counterpart Uddhav Thackeray said the lockdown will continue beyond April 14, when it is due to end, until the end of the month. Goa CM Pramod Sawant said the PM would address the nation and announce some guidelines aimed at reviving economic activity in part.A majority of the chief ministers on Saturday advocated an extension of the lockdown until the end of April except Andhra Pradesh’s Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy, who said the emergency measure should be restricted only to so-called red zones. Some CMs said lockdown should be enforced in the red zones even beyond April 30.While I support the steps being taken by the Centre to contain the Covid-19 situation, I also feel that the wheel of the economy should continue to run, if not with full speed, but to the extent of providing basic necessities to the people and in non-red zones,” Reddy said. “Millions of workers would not get salaries due to lack of industrial operations and the revenues of the state would see a steep fall, as a result of which it cannot implement any development and welfare schemes,” the Andhra chief minister said.Red zones are areas that contain Covid-19 hotspots or containment areas, whose residents are confined indoors to ensure that the virus doesn’t spread. An area free of the virus is a yellow zone. A neighbourhood that hasn’t reported even a single Covid-19 case is designated a green zone. About half the 718 districts in India have not reported any Covid -19 case, according to data released by health ministry. “The lockdown for the next two weeks will be different from what is being implemented currently. Agricultural and industrial sectors will be given relaxation. Government offices will function with partial strength and the additional guidelines stated by the PM would be issued in the next couple of days,” said Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa At the meeting with the PM, the CMs of some opposition-ruled states raised the issue of shortage of personal protective equipment (PPE) for health workers, the adverse impact of Covid-19 on medium and small industries and also sought additional funds to fight the pandemic.Banerjee urged the PM to spend at least 6% of GDP on fighting the crisis and announce a National Economic and Health Package worth Rs 10 lakh crore for state governments; a Rs. 1.7 lakh crore package announced by the Centre was less than 1% of GDP, she said. The Rajasthan and Telangana CMs also sought similar financial assistance to the states, noting that state revenues had shrunk because of the Covid-19 lockdown. Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot and his Jharkhand counterpart Hemant Soren sought the immediate release of compensation for a shortfall in Goods and Service Tax (GST) revenues and increase the fiscal deficit limit from the present 3% to 4% under the Fiscal and Budget Responsibility Act (FBRM). These CMS also asked the Centre to allow agriculture and allies activities during lockdown, distribution of subsdised rationx for three months and free storage for procurement of foodgrains. They also sought the expansion of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) to include agricultural activities during the extension of lockdown till April end. Soren sought an increase in MGNREGS wages. While supporting the call for extension of lockdown, Madhya Pradesh chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, suggested a “lock-in” concept whereby factory workers could perform their jobs work and stay on in the premises until the lockdown is lifted, officials in the chief minister’s office said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cms-request-extension-of-curbs-economic-push/story-cqiH2bQLdZAHeMb6OBkroI.html
12-04-2020||India||Coronavirus: Health ministry hails timing of lockdown||Union health ministry officials defended the nationwide lockdown on Saturday and said the country would have had close to 120,000 coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases by April 15 if people moved as usual, giving out data not based on any epidemiological premise, but , as the ministry put it, statistical analysis. The health ministry’s calculations were, according to joint secretary Lav Agarwal, based on the cumulative growth rate (CGR) observed prior to the lockdown – a figure the official said was 28% when the nation was forced to shut down on March 25.“This is merely health ministry’s internally done statistical rate of growth-based analysis. It is not a study done by the ICMR or any other technical body,” said Agarwal.The ministry’s projections involved other scenarios, such as taking into account the peak CGR of 41% observed till now. “If 41% CGR (which has been the highest spike in cases noticed so far) is taken into account in a no-restrictions scenario, “the number of cases would have been 8.2 lakh till April 15,” Agrawal said.The official, who made the statement during the daily briefing, did not give details about the methodology. “This goes on to prove that lockdown and other preventive measures are a must to keep the numbers low. The Indian government is working to the extent of being over prepared. All critical supplies are being assured to states, and there are already 586 dedicated Covid-19 hospitals that will give us additional 104,613 isolation beds, and 11,836 intensive care unit (ICU) beds,” said Agarwal.Disease growth rates, however, are influenced by several other factors that need to be taken into account, such as the disease’s basic reproduction number (how infectious a particular illness is), social contact patterns etc.One of the preferred methods is SIR modeling, which looks at how much of the population will fall in three categories: suspected, infected and recovered, and takes into account factors that can have an impact on the growth rates. CGR calculations take into account none of that – they are a basic calculation of a rate of growth over a period of time. “It is important to understand the assumptions behind the modeling. We do not know what is the doubling rate, what are the factors related to host, environment or agents. In the absence of these, assuming counterfactual scenarios such as depicted in this are very difficult to imagine,” said Giridhar R Babu, professor and head, Lifecourse Epidemiology, Public Health Foundation of India.To be sure, the lockdown will have disrupted social contact patterns. A statistical projection – involving established epidemiological tools – using case data till March 22 by a group of academicians in three American university and the Delhi School of Economics showed that India would have had between 97,000 to 1.3 million cases by May 15 if no restrictions were put in place.The health ministry officials at Saturday’s briefing asserted the government’s containment plans were being implemented to the last detail on ground, and provided 100% result.The state, district administration and frontline workers coordinated their efforts by utilizing their existing Smart City Integrated with Command and Control Centre (ICCC) as “war rooms”, Agarwal said. “In these containment zones, Urban Primary Health centers were roped in and 1,248 teams were deployed; each team had 2 workers including ANMs/ASHA/AWW reaching out to 9.3 lakh of people through household screening… about 2,500 people were found to be symptomatic and made to under testing. The strategy adopted by Agra is being shared with other states as a best practice,” said Agarwal.The joint secretary added that the government was “ensuring there is no shortage of supplies of critical items which includes PPEs, N95 masks, testing kits, medicines and ventilators in any state”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-ministry-hails-timing-of-lockdown/story-G6fCJUQPb1Qw3cHW9LAVdL.html
12-04-2020||India||Coronavirus in India: As lockdown extension possibility looms, ministers to go to office from Monday||Union ministers and all senior officials will start attending office again from Monday, government functionaries told HT, marking a step towards the resumption of normalcy in government establishment even as the lockdown is likely to be extended.According to two officials who refused to be named, Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked all ministers to start working from office from Monday, a move that is also aimed at instilling confidence among citizens about how government establishments are on their way back to normalcy even as social distancing and other health norms will remain firmly in place.Senior functionaries said that officers of joint secretary rank and above will be mandatorily working from office.“In addition, one-third of essential staff will come,” said a secretary-level officer.While the non-essential staff has not been asked to come, the essential staff who stay near the office will be asked to be present in person, according to the official. There will also be a rotation system for the essential staff to ensure everyone gets a chance to stay at home and also meet the obligation of coming to office.Since the lockdown was announced by Modi on March 24, many ministries have been working at merely 3-5% of their actual strength as employees were confined to home.While most of the staff stayed home, top officials often came to office especially since the financial year was coming to an end, the official said.Ministries had to file their expenses and submit vouchers to the virtual expenditure logbook of the finance ministry to show how much money they have actually spent in the FY19-20. “Closure of accounts is of vital importance in the government system. Otherwise, the release of money would get stuck. So, only a handful of officials would come to office—which is hardly 3-5% of our usual strength to primarily work on the annual closure of accounts,” said the official. Another officer added that while the top brass of the ministries was physically not present, all of them have been working from home and had a pressing schedule, especially with regards to handling the crisis arising out of the coronavirus (Covid-19) outbreak and ensuring the government’s aid reached to the right beneficiaries.Officers held their meetings through the NIA-promoted video conference platform and files were moved and cleared through the e-office tool. The e-office, which came into existence in 2015, is an online platform for clearing files and fixing accountability of bureaucrats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ministers-to-go-to-office-from-monday/story-g9OULPZTrpJQFMfm8rWEmK.html
12-04-2020||India||Migrant workers’ stir turns violent||Stranded migrant workers turned violent in Surat on Friday night, allegedly torching vegetable carts and damaging vehicles while demanding the payment of wages and permission to return home, according to government officials and the city police on Saturday.At least 81 people, mostly migrant workers from Orissa, were arrested by the Surat city police on charges of rioting and violating the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. This is second such incident in Surat since the nationwide lockdown was announced on March 25 to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).On March 30, over 90 migrant labourers were arrested in Surat for allegedly attacking police personnel while protesting against being barred from returning to their villages.According to police officers, at least 100 people, all migrant workers, came out on Friday night on the streets of Surat’s Laskana area, where they torched at least five vegetable carts and damaged three vehicles. “At least five hand carts were torched and stones were pelted on locals by the workers who came out on streets fearing that the lockdown would be extended. As soon as police came to know about the incident, additional police force was sent to spot and situation was brought under control by 8.15pm. Also, 35 labourers were detained,” said RB Brahmabhatt, Surat’s commissioner of police (CP).He said no one sustained injuries and, after the incident, more than 400 policemen were deployed in Laskana and adjacent localities, Diamond Nagar and Vipul Nagar, where a large number of migrant labourers live.“After the situation was brought under control, around 45 more people were detained, and a total of 81 people were arrested. They were booked under section 148 (rioting), and 270 (whoever is likely to spread infection) of Indian Penal Code and for violation of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897,” Brahmabhatt added.Bansidhar Lenaka, general secretary of Jagganathpuri Charitable Trust, which looks into the issues of migrant workers in the industrial city, said that the incident was unfortunate and showed the growing anxiety among stranded labourers due to the lockdown. “There are around 25,000 people, just form Orissa, who are working in embroidery units and textile factories. Each person earns around between Rs 8,000 to Rs 12,000 and since the lockdown, half of the workers have not got their salaries and others have got only 50% or lesser amount,” Lenaka said.He said that after 15 days of the lockdown, there is almost no money left with workers, who are struggling to meet their basic expenses. Many workers are on the verge of being thrown out of the homes as they have not paid rent for the past one month and also need money to send to their families back home, he added.The Surat factories association held a meeting with district authorities apprising them about the ground situation. “We got nothing other than assurances,” Lenaka said, adding that the administration should understand the plight of the workers, who are desperate for money.Surat district collector Dhaval Patel said food was being provided to workers free of cost in six to seven shelters and five NGOs were distributing food to more than 5,000 people, twice a day.“The issue is more psychological one.Ninety percent of the migrant workers who took to the streets are from Ganjam district of Orissa. They had booked buses in the last few days to go back home. They are afraid that if the lockdown is extended they won’t be able to reach home,” said Patel.(With inputs from HTCs and agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrant-workers-stir-turns-violent/story-WIwF3Ye1YxVtlaT8U8jKiN.html
12-04-2020||India||Donation to PM-Cares, not states’ relief fund, to count as CSR: Govt||New Delhi Companies’ contributions to the chief minister’s relief fund or the state relief fund towards the fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) will not count as corporate social responsibility (CSR) spending, but those to the newly established Prime Minister ‘s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM-CARES) fund or to the State Disaster Management Authority will, the Centre said on Saturday.A clarification to the effect by the ministry of corporate affairs triggered opposition allegations that the Centre intended to corner all the money that companies had earmarked for CAR activities -- a charge the government brushed aside.“If CM Relief Fund is included, CSR money will not flow outside of the industrial states such as Maharashtra, Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh.Industrial states will consume about 57% of the about Rs 15,000 annual CSR funds and non-industrial states like Bihar, Bengal, Orissa and the Northeast would remain high and dry,” a government official said, requesting anonymity. Criticising the Union government, Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader Sitaram Yechury had said: “Corner all CSR monies for his personally named fund & deny States - who are in the frontline of combatting #COVID19 -- these funds. This is “Cooperative Federalism”? Amend Schedule 7 of Companies Act to permit State govts to access these funds which could save millions of lives.” The schedule specifies government-approved CSR activities, which include eradicating hunger, poverty and malnutrition, and promoting healthcare, education and gender equality. It also covers activities related to environmental sustainability, protection of national heritage, art and culture, training to promote sports, contributing to the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund and disaster management.Companies with a net worth of Rs 500 crore or more, or a turnover of Rs 1,000 crore or more, or a net profit of Rs 5 crore or more in the immediately preceding financial year are mandatorily required to spend 2% of their average net profit of the preceding three years on CSR. These activities are governed by the Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the government specifies activities to be undertaken by a company under CSR.In a set of frequently asked questions (FAQs) and answers, the ministry of corporate affairs said corporate donations to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund or State Relief Fund for combating Covid-19 had not been included in Schedule VII of the Companies Act, 2013 and contributions to the funds shall not qualify as admissible CSR expenditure.MCA said the FAQs were issued after various stakeholders sent representations seeking a clarification on what expenditure to advance the fight against the pandemic would qualify as CSR spending.There had been confusion over the eligibility of donations made towards combating Covid-19 to be counted as CSR expenditure after the Centre issued two separate circulars on the matter.“Keeping in view of the spread of novel Corona Virus (COVID-19) in India, its declaration as pandemic by the World Health Organisation (WHO), and decision of Government of India to treat this as a notified disaster, it is hereby clarified that spending of CSR funds for COVID-19 is eligible CSR activity,” the first circular on March 23 said.On March 28, MCA issued a clarification that “any contribution made to the PM CARES Fund shall qualify as CSR expenditure” under the Companies Act 2013. The same day the government had announced the setting up of the public charitable trust under the oversight of the Prime Minister.While CSR is a board-driven process and the board of a company is empowered to plan, decide, execute and monitor CSR activities based on the recommendation of its CSR committee, the government specifies broad areas eligible to be counted as CSR activities.According to an industry estimate, about Rs 50,000 crore has been spent on CSR since 2014-15 and around Rs 30,000 crore still remains unspent. On average, companies’ annual CSR funds are to the tune of Rs 15,000 crore.CSR funds of several companies remain unspent for lack of eligible projects. Minister of state for finance and corporate affairs Anurag Singh Thakur told Lok Sabha on March 16 that a high-level committee on CSR had recommended that unspent CSR money be transferred to a separate designated account created for the purpose. “Such unspent amount, and the interest earned thereon, be spent within a period of three to five years, failing which the same be transferred to a fund to be specified by the central government which may be used for innovative, high-impact projects related to activities listed in schedule VII,” Thakur said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/donation-to-pm-cares-not-states-relief-fund-to-count-as-csr-govt/story-6EnOFfBEQPZYkqMkbs4V5J.html
12-04-2020||India||With 180 Covid-19 new cases, Rajasthan records big one-day jump||Rajasthan reported its highest single-day addition of Covid-19 cases, 180, on Saturday, with 65 of these being identified in Ramganj, Jaipur, which has become a hot spot for the infection. Curfew has been imposed in Ramganj and nine other police station areas in Jaipur from where coronavirus cases have been reported. A total of 1500 policemen including three companies of Rajasthan Armed Constabulary (RAC) and 900 home guards have been deployed and the entire walled city has been sealed.At the core of the cluster of infections is a 45-year-old resident of Ramganj who returned from Oman on March 12. He was asked by health officials to stay in home quarantine but continued to meet people and even offered prayers at a local mosque.He tested positive on March 26 and curfew was imposed in Ramganj, a crowded neighbourhood of nearly 500,000. On March 29, the number of cases in Jaipur was 10 . By March 30, the count doubled to 20, with relatives and contacts of the man testing positive. By April 6, Jaipur recorded 100 cases. As of Saturday night, the case count in Jaipur was 301. Across Rajasthan, the count is 700. The administration is racing to contain the virus. Door-to-door screening is being done in Ramganj even though health workers have complained that residents are not cooperating. To make it easy for the residents to be tested, the health department has set-up six centres. Jaipur collector Jogaram has also issued orders warning of action against those who resist testing. Since the first case, another 150 cases have been reported from Ramganj -- all have been traced back to the super-spreader who came back from Oman. Health minister Raghu Sharma has said that a spike in cases is expected as the health workers are carrying out intensive screening and testing in Ramganj. The entire area has been divided into 30 clusters. “21 samples will be taken from each cluster and PCR (polymerase chain reaction) test will be done. Initially 630 samples will be taken and if situation is found to be grave, then more samples will be taken,” explained Sharma.Jogaram said this is being complemented by screening, which is being done across the district. He said that at east 1,000 teams of health workers have fanned out across the district. Till April 1, cases were reported from 11 of 33 districts in the state. Bhilwara with 26 cases and Jaipur with 21 cases were the main hot spots. The state has reported eight deaths so far.From April 1, cases of Tablighi Jamaat members testing positive for the virus started coming to the fore. The health department officials said there were around 450 Jamaatis from Rajasthan who attended the Markaz event in Delhi in March. Of the total 700, over 60% have been traced back to the Jamaatis, said a state health department official. Chief secretary DB Gupta said the Bhilwara model could not be replicated in Ramganj due to the congested area. In Bhilwara, where the group affected was urban, social distancing was meticulously followed, he said. But Ramganj with a population of 2.6 lakh presented a challenge. The walled city has a population of 15 lakh. He said the virus had spread to several other districts after the Tablighi Jamaati members returned. He said the government has appealed to Tablighi Jamaatis to not hide and come for testing and slowly they are responding.By April 1, 24 of 33 districts were showing cases. Apart from Jaipur and Bhilwara, Banswara, Bikaner, Churu, Jaisalmer, Jodhpur, Jhunjhunu, Tonk, Kota and Jhalawar have emerged as the new areas of concern for the government.On April 1, Banswara, Bikaner Jaisalmer, Tonk, Kota and Jhalawar reported no cases. Jhunjhunu and Churu reported 8 cases each and Jodhpur, 1 case. On Saturday, Banswara reported a total of 37 cases, Bikaner , 24 cases, Churu, 11, Jaisalmer, 28, Jodhpur, 43, Jhunjhunu , 31, Tonk, 45, Kota, 33 and Jhalawar, 12 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-180-new-cases-raj-records-big-one-day-jump/story-QbRAX6skeZZESmrV7IkPEO.html
12-04-2020||India||Coronavirus in India: Several targets missed, still no sign of rapid testing kits||The rapid testing kits, which India was expecting to be delivered on April 5, and then April 8 or 9, will not be here at least until early next week, delaying the country’s efforts to use these to test widely in containment zones that have seen a lot of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases . India ordered 500,000 kits from Chinese suppliers on March 30. Several states are waiting for these kits to arrive, and be distributed to them, so that they can start testing. The states have also been allowed to procure kits on their own -- it wasn’t immediately clear which have, and how many at that. Separately, the state-owned HLL Lifecare is set to start production of 20,000 rapid testing kits a day at its Manesar factory on Monday, Hindustan Times reported on Saturday. In anticipation of the arrival of the kits, India issued an advisory on starting rapid antibody testing on April 4, and revised the testing guidelines on April 9 to include rapid testing of all symptomatic individuals in hotspot areas with symptoms at least a week old. After the April 5 date passed without delivery, the Indian Council Of Medical Research (ICMR) announced in a press briefing that the manufacturers had assured it that the kits would be delivered either by April 8 or 9. That deadline too passed. “The kits haven’t reached yet but could reach anytime now,” said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, health ministry, in a briefing on Friday, April 10.Unlike the RT-PCR test that detects the virus’s genetic material (RNA) in throat swabs to diagnose a current Covid-19 infection, rapid antibody tests indicate both current and older infections by highlighting the presence of antibodies in blood. The result takes 15-20 minutes.ICMR first issued a notice seeking applications for delivery of one million rapid testing kits on March 27, but a day later revised it down by half because of the lack of availability. On Saturday, Dr Raman R Gangakhedkar, head, epidemiology, and communicable diseases, ICMR, said, “The manufacturers assured us that we will get them in a day or two. As and when we get these kits, we will deploy these on field and start rapid testing.”While the health ministry did not attribute any reason for the delay, people familiar with the matter said there is an acute shortage of rapid testing kits globally. The market is dominated by Chinese manufacturers that are producing these kits and they have been getting orders from all over the world.“There are several problems -- only 5-6 manufacturers have the requisite export license, and the local government has put a cap on the quantity that can be exported. And these handful of manufacturers are trying to fulfil the entire world’s demand,”added one of these people, who works in the testing business and spoke on condition of anonymity. “What affects supplies is also too many agencies from within the country trying to place orders. It’s not just the Indian government, but also I guess state governments and other labs trying to place orders from a limited pool of suppliers which is delaying the delivery.”Experts say rapid testing has to be done as soon as possible to find out the prevalence of the disease in India.  Dr Lalit Kant, a senior infectious disease expert, said: “The currently used test – PCR-- tells us who are currently sick. We are seeing only the tip of the iceberg. The antibody detection blood test will identify people who already have been infected, even those with mild or no symptoms. It will also help us to know how many have been able to fight off the infection and have become what is called ‘corona-blocker’.”“These tests are expected to be very economical, simple and give results within 15-20 minutes. It is being used for contact tracing in some countries. Indian health system has lot of experience in doing such tests, like the ones for dengue, chikungunya, so it will be easy to ramp up the screening. Great tool for surveillance, and building up epidemiological data,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/several-targets-missed-still-no-sign-of-rapid-testing-kits/story-Mu8HX2wB2Z9ZsFV3lGqzyJ.html
12-04-2020||India||Pandemic unites warring factions in Kerala||It is often said a tragedy brings out the best and the worst in people. The southern state of Kerala has two classic examples to offer in this regard-- sworn enemies are rubbing shoulders in community kitchens in north Kerala.The pandemic outbreak has brought friends and foes together in north Kerala’s Thalassery in Kannur district, the hotspot of CPI(M)-RSS clashes, which have claimed more than 200 lives in last three decades. Leaving behind their bitter rivalry, workers of both parties have joined hands to run community kitchens in the coastal town, also home to CM Pinarayi Vijayan, CPI(M) state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan and many other leaders.The new-found bonhomie has evinced much interest in political circles. While cutting vegetables for sambhar or cooking rice, workers of Sewa Bharati, the social wing of the RSS, and Democratic Youth Federation of India, CPI(M), the youth wing of the CPI(M) as well as workers of the Youth League and the Youth Congress rub shoulders. Before this, in certain pockets of Thalassery, both RSS and CPI(M) have fiercely guarded their party villages and their political opponents have been unwelcome here.“It is no time for politics. Our CM has given an open call to engage everyone in the community kitchens. Our only concern is to feed empty stomachs. We don’t go by the colour of flags here,” said Thalassery MLA AN Shamseer. And the young sub-collector Asif K Yousef is co-ordinating everything by roping in all hues and colours of politics. “Feeding the poor is a national movement. Prime Minister Narendra Modi said helping others is the best thing to do in trying times,” said BJP leader MP Sumesh.Meanwhile, the Kerala police on Saturday arrested three more workers of the ruling CPI(M) party for allegedly vandalising the house of a girl student who was in quarantine in Thannithod in Pathanamthitta district. Earlier police had arrested three persons and three others were on the run.They attacked the house, alleging that her father violated quarantine norms and came out frequently. The incident that took place on Tuesday had embarrassed the government and Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had promised strict action against offenders.The police said the girl who studies in Coimbatore in Tamil Nadu had returned home recently and quarantined herself as instructed by health officials. Her father, a cable TV operator, had isolated her in a room and would go out to collect food items, which angered many people of the area. Initially, they sent a message on Whatsapp threatening them, but when the family filed a complaint their house was attacked, the police said.After the attack, the girl had filed a complaint with the Chief Minister and sought police protection for her family. “It should not have happened in a state like Kerala. Offenders never deserve any sympathy,” the CM had said. Later the CPI(M) Pathanamthitta district committee had suspended the accused men from the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pandemic-unites-warring-factions-in-kerala/story-GyNpqZktKmhZrmmga8W6mK.html
12-04-2020||India||Six new coronaviruses in bats discovered in Myanmar||Scientists have discovered six new coronaviruses among bats in Myanmar. These coronaviruses are very different from the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS-Cov-1), Middle East Respiratory (MERS) or SARS-CoV-2 which are known to have jumped over from bats and infected humans.A team of scientists from Smithsonian’s Global Health Program and Conservation Biology Institute said that most of these viruses were found in guano (accumulated faeces) samples harvested by local people in Myanmar for nutrient-rich manure. Whether these new coronaviruses are dangerous for humans is yet to be assessed.The team focused on sites in Myanmar where humans live in close contact with wildlife like Hlawga National Park in Yangon. From May 2016 to August 2018, the team collected 750 saliva, guano and faecal samples from 11 bat species in these areas. Coronaviruses were detected in 48 samples.“Guano samples accounted for the majority of positives, suggestive of an important transmission route for CoV shedding from bats and a possible risk to people during the act of guano harvesting,” the study published in PLOS ONE journal on Thursday said, adding that in future viral detection in guano samples can be made through non-invasive methods and doesn’t require people handling bats directly.“Viral pandemics remind us how closely human health is connected to the health of wildlife and the environment. Worldwide, humans are interacting with wildlife with increasing frequency, so the more we understand about these viruses in animals -- what allows them to mutate and how they spread to other species -- the better we can reduce their pandemic potential,” said Marc Valitutto, a former wildlife veterinarian with the Smithsonian’s Global Health Program and lead author of the study in a statement. Authors also said the ongoing land-use change in Myanmar could be a prominent driver of zoonotic diseases in future.Despite small sample sizes, the study managed to detect six coronaviruses in insectivorous bats. “Given the potential consequences for public health in light of expanding human activity, continued surveillance for coronaviruses is warranted, especially in other species and human-wildlife interfaces,” the study concluded, adding that over 3,200 CoVs occur in bats, most of which are still undiscovered.The study said that bats are increasingly being recognised as natural reservoirs of viruses and they have a unique capacity to carry and transmit viruses due to some of their biological traits like the ability of sustained flight, the potential for long-distance dispersal and adaptation to semi-urban habitation. Bats are known to be carriers of the hemorrhagic Ebola, Marburg filovirus and the Nipah virus, apart from viruses that caused SARS, MERS and Covid-19 diseases. But bats are also extremely essential to ecosystems for seed dispersal, pollination, control of insect populations, among others.Scientists suggest a “One Health” approach to keep zoonotic spillover at bay. One Health, according to the World Health Organization, involves the control of zoonoses, antibiotic resistance, etc., by focusing on the interactions between humans, animals and plants.“In a country like India, people live cheek by jowl, not just with each other, but also with livestock (including both four-legged and two-legged), as well as in areas of high biodiversity. Such close proximity means that the diversity of pathogens that humans are potentially exposed to is very high. To understand the risks from these pathogens, it is thus necessary for us to adopt a One Health approach, where we have to work in large interdisciplinary teams that can investigate not only human and animal health, but also the links with changes in the natural environment,” said Abi Tamim Vanak, fellow, Wellcome Trust and senior fellow at Ashoka Trust for Research in Ecology and the Environment.Around 60–75% of emerging infectious diseases consist of zoonotic diseases; more than 70% of those originate in wildlife species.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/myanmar-six-new-coronaviruses-in-bats-discovered/story-cbcVqQgkBgQZx3n8YDrjdN.html
12-04-2020||India||Respiratory, organ failure and heart attacks killing Covid patients: Study||People with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) may die of a heart attack, respiratory failure, multiple organ failure or septic shock, but the cause of death is irrefutably Covid-19, scientists and clinicians have said, debunking attempts by some states to attribute fatalities to other reasons.“Covid-19 kills by respiratory failure and cardiac arrest, just like any other severe pneumonia. The difference is lack of immunity (against the new virus) and greater severity (of infection),” said Dr Anurag Agrawal, director of the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, New Delhi.Follow latest updated on coronavirus here Earlier this week, a 78-year-old Italian woman in Gurugram’s Medanta hospital was classified as a Covid-19 fatality after she died due to a heart attack, days after test results showed that she had managed to clear the Sars-Cov-2 infection for which she had been hospitalised. “She died of multi-organ failure following a cardiac arrest, her kidney function was deranged when she was admitted to the hospital, and she was close to 80 years old; the mortality rate in such people with Sars-Cov-2 infection is close to 15%. The cause of death was Covid-19 because persistent infection is what led to the multi-organ failure,” said Dr Yatin Mehta, chairman, anaestheology and critical care, Medata-The Medicity. The woman died on Thursday while 13 other Italians who were in her group recovered and were discharged form hospital two weeks ago.Data from several countries that have been hit hard by the pandemic shows one in five people who contract Covid-19 become very ill. Chronic lung disease, cardiovascular disease and diabetes are the top three risk factors associated with potentially life-threatening complications.Also read: India’s Covid-19 cases cross 8000-mark, death toll at 273In China, nearly all of the fatalities among 44,672 who were specifically studied ,were people who had such underlying conditions, according to what is the largest study yet of Covid-19 patients, published in the Journal of the American Medical Association (JAMA).In the US, 78% of Covid-19 patients in intensive care units (ICUs) and 71% of those hospitalised had one or more reported underlying health conditions, compared to 27% among those who did not need hospitalisation, according to an analysis of records of hospitalised patients between February 12 and March 28 by the US Centers for Disease Control, which called the findings consistent with what has been seen in China and Italy, one of the other major hot spots of the disease. Vulnerable heartAccording to one of the studies from Wuhan, the ground zero of the pandemic, one in five patients showed signs of heart damage. Cardiovascular conditions are often what kill patients, with “thromboembolic disease, hypercytokinaemia, secondary sepsis, hypovolaemia, and renal complications” being a toxic combination that doctors treating Covid-19 patients have to manage, according to a comment by Richard Horton, editor-in-chief of The Lancet, on April 11. Horton mentions cardiac troponin I as a reliable indicator of heart damage in some of the fatalities. A thromboembolic disease refers to clots in blood vessels, hypercytokinaemia is a strong, potentially fatal immune reaction; while hypovolaemia refers to low levels of plasma, which is a critical component in the blood that contains antibodies and clotting factors.Also read| Covid-19: Govt may divide country in red, orange and green zonesIndian experts said heart damage could be explained by several reasons. “This could be because of causes ranging from acute cor pulmonale (heart working harder to pump blood as oxygen levels fall because of lung tissue freezing); heart muscles suffering hypoxic damage, leading to depressed function, and arrthythmias (irregular heartbeat), viral myocarditis (inflammation after virus directly invades heart cells); and possible rise in thrombosis (blood clots),” said Dr K Srinath Reddy, president, Public Health Foundation of India, and former head of cardiology at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi.Several other viral infections are known to disrupt blood flow to the heart, leading to irregular heartbeat and heart failure. During influenza outbreaks, more people die from heart complications than from pneumonia, according to a study in the journal JAMA Cardiology. A 2018 study in the New England Journal of Medicine found the risk of heart attacks rising almost six-fold when a person has flu infection.Lung onslaughtSmokers and people with COPD have also been identified as being at higher risk of infection and severe disease because their lungs and lower respiratory tract have cells showing a higher “expression” of ACE2, the portion of a cell through which the Sars-Cov-2 invades it, according to a study by the European Respiratory Journal. In mice, ACE2 has been shown to protect animals from severe lung injury related to breathing and sepsis.Also read: One in every 25 Covid-19 patients in Delhi is a health care worker“There is an increased ACE2 expression in airways of current (but not former) smokers and those with COPD... while the upregulation of ACE2 may be useful in protecting the host against acute lung injury, it predisposes them to increased risk of coronavirus infections, which uses this receptor to gain entrance into epithelial cells. This may in part explain the increased risk of viral respiratory tract infection in active smokers and virus-related exacerbations in those with COPD,” said the study. Upregulation refers to a cell increasing the quantity of a cellular component, such as RNA or protein, in response to an external stimulus, such as a virus.Protein connectionACE2, or angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2), is increasingly posing a challenge. ACE2 is a surface protein that is present at several key locations in the body: it covers cells in upper and lower respiratory tract, heart and the gastrointestinal tract, and plays a role in blood pressure, cardiac function and immune regulation. Targeting this protein is what makes the Sars-Cov-2 insidious in how it infects a body. In response to this, the body mounts an immune attack by releasing small proteins called cytokines into the blood. But with the virus knocking ACE2 out, the immune response can go haywire, causing a cytokine storm that can lead to tissue and organ damage.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage People with high blood pressure or heart disease are also prescribed ACE inhibitors or angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), which can inhibit ACE-2 action. “The current consensus is that if people are already taking these medications, they should stay on them but they must consult their physicians. Depending on the severity of the infection and the clinical status of the patient, the medication may need to be modified,” said Dr Reddy||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/respiratory-organ-failure-and-heart-attacks-killing-covid-patients-study/story-qSg5rbMzY7BfQCTn91h1RI.html
12-04-2020||India||‘Didn’t follow lockdown, I am sorry’: Uttarakhand Police ask 10 foreigners to write 500 times||The Uttarakhand Police on Saturday caught ten foreigners flouting lockdown norms and loitering near the Ganga River in Rishikesh, and handed out a novel punishment to make them toe the line. They told the ten foreigners to write “I didn’t follow lockdown. I am sorry” at least 500 times on a piece of paper and hand it over to themThese foreigners hail from Israel, Australia, Mexico and some other European countries, the police said.The incident happened in Tapovan area, one of the most popular tourist spots in Rishikesh, which falls under Muni ki Reti police station in Tehri Garhwal district, on Saturday afternoon.Follow latest updates on coronavirus hereVinod Kumar, in-charge of the Tapovan police check post said, “The police had been getting reports that some foreigners were defying the lockdown and coming to the Ganga stretch from Neem Beach till Sai Ghat in Tapovan to chill.”“Based on the inputs, on Saturday, I along with some other personnel of my check post decided to patrol that stretch during which we found 10 foreigners strolling there,” Kumar said. The police officer said when they were asked to explain why they were strolling without any reason during the lockdown; the foreigners said they thought “they can do so from 7 am till 1 pm when the lockdown is relaxed”.Also read: Govt may divide country in red, orange and green zones“I told them that the relaxation is meant for people to buy essential items and not for venturing out without any reason to which they said they weren’t aware of that. I then asked one of my men to bring 50-60 blank pages from our check-post and gave five pages each to the 10 foreigners asking them to write ‘I did not follow the lockdown. I am sorry’ 500 times as punishment,” Kumar said.“After punishing them, I told them that it is a light one and if they refuse to do so then they will be blacklisted which will bar them from entering India again. They then agreed to the punishment and wrote the apology out 500 times at the spot. They were then let off with a stern warning and told not to venture out without any reason,” the police official said.Also read: India’s Covid-19 cases cross 8000-mark, death toll at 273Tapovan is a very popular spot among foreigners visiting Rishikesh because of the Ganga River and greenery all around. Foreigners usually gather there to spend some leisure. On the number of foreigners still present in the area Kumar said, “At present, despite the lockdown, there are at least 650 foreigners in the area but during the normal tourist season the number goes up to 2,000-3,000.”According to officials from Uttarakhand Tourism and the Covid-19 control room, around 1500 foreign tourists were stranded across the state due to the lockdown. They said over 700 tourists have been sent back to their countries with help from respective embassies in the last 15 days or so. A few days ago, 96 Americans were also flown out from Dehradun to Delhi in a special Air India flight. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/didn-t-follow-lockdown-i-am-sorry-uttarakhand-police-ask-10-foreigners-to-write-500-times/story-QmB8HIFOpzdhKxyVjiP0FI.html
12-04-2020||India||Migrant workers go on rampage in Surat demanding nod to return home, 81 arrested||The police arrested 81 people, mostly migrant workers from Odisha, in Surat late on Friday night on charges of rioting and violating the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. The workers resorted to violence after many of them were not paid their salaries for March and also denied permission by the authorities to go back to their native places because of the ongoing 21-day nationwide lockdown that started on March 25 to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), officials said.This is the second such incident in Surat since the lockdown started. On March 30, over 90 migrant workers were arrested in Surat for attacking the police after they were denied permission to return to their native places.Around 100 people migrant workers took to the streets at Surat’s Laskana area on Friday night violating the lockdown order, the police said. The angry workers went on a rampage, torching vegetable carts and damaging four vehicles. “At least five hand carts were torched and stones were pelted at locals by the migrant workers, who took to the streets fearing that the ongoing nationwide lockdown would be extended beyond April 14. An additional police force was deployed and the situation was brought under control around 8.15pm on Friday. Initially, 35 workers were detained,” said RB Brahmabhatt, commissioner of police, Surat.The police chief said no one sustained any injury and 400 police personnel were deployed at Laskana and its adjacent localities such as Diamond Nagar and Vipul Nagar, where a large number of migrant workers live.“Late Friday night, 81 people were arrested and booked under Section 148 (rioting) and 270 (likely to spread infection of any disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code and for the violation of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897,” Brahmabhatt said.Bansidhar Lenka, general secretary of an organisation that takes care of the migrant workers from Odisha in Surat, said that Friday evening’s incident was unfortunate and the violent behaviour showed their growing anxiety because of the lockdown.“Around 25,000 people from Odisha are working in embroidery units and textile factories in Surat. Each migrant worker earns between Rs8,000 and Rs12,000 a month. Half of the workers haven’t been paid their monthly salaries since the lockdown started, and the others have got paid 50% or less,” Lenka said. Most of these workers have run out of cash and are struggling to meet their basic expenses. Many of them are on the verge of being thrown out of their accommodation, as they have not paid their last month’s rent. Besides, they need to send money back home to their families, he added.The members of the factory association in Surat held a meeting with the district administration on Saturday and apprised the authorities about the situation on the ground.Surat district collector Dhaval Patel said food is being provided at seven shelter homes for free and five non-governmental organisations (NGOs) are also distributing meals to over 5,000 people twice a day. “Fear psychosis led to the migrant workers’ unprovoked violence. Most of the workers, who took part in the violence, belong to Odisha’s Ganjam district. They had booked buses to go back to their native places. They’re afraid that if the lockdown is extended beyond April 14, they won’t be able to go back home,” said Patel.In a separate incident, the police have lodged a case against Surat’s deputy mayor Nirav Shah for attending a religious function last week in violation of social distancing norms. Shah was booked after the video of him attending the religious function went viral on social media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrant-workers-go-on-rampage-in-surat-demanding-nod-to-return-home-81-detained/story-W06XbIEV2s56sDTm9nd6OL.html
12-04-2020||India||During Covid-19 lockdown, Delhi hospitals see double the usual alcohol withdrawal cases||The number of people with severe alcohol withdrawal symptoms in emergency department of Delhi hospitals has doubled during the lockdown, according to doctors -- and, they are coming in with severe symptoms.“There has been at least a 50% increase in the number of patients coming in with severe alcohol withdrawal symptoms to the hospital emergency. Earlier we would see only about one or maybe two patients a day; now we are getting at least three or four patients every day in the emergency,” said Dr Nimesh Desai, director, Institute of Human Behaviour and Allied Sciences, the only stand-alone mental health hospital in Delhi.The hospital would usually see patients with substance-use disorders in its out-patient clinics, however, to maintain social distance the OPDs were closed. Around 1,000 to 1,500 patients visited these clinics every day. The hospital has started teleconsultation on the number – 9868396824 – where patients can get their prescriptions.A similar increase was also noted at the main emergency department of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS).“We are getting double the cases in the emergency department of our main AIIMS campus and these are patients with severe alcohol withdrawal symptoms like delirium tremens or shaking, hallucinations, and confusion caused due to such withdrawal. Severe withdrawal can be fatal too as it can cause seizures,” said Dr Ravindra Rao, additional professor of psychiatry at the National Drug Dependence and Treatment Centre (NDDTC) of AIIMS.The main centre of NDDTC in Ghaziabad was also shut down.“No new cases are being taken in. And that is a problem. People are landing up in the hospital emergency with acute alcohol withdrawal symptoms because of two reasons: One, the lockdown has impacted the availability of alcohol and two, it has also restricted the movement of people and health care services. So, people wait longer and then end up in the emergency department with severe symptoms,” said Dr Rao. The psychiatrists on duty respond to such cases, who are then admitted for follow-ups.Safdarjung hospital has a limited psychiatry OPD running and has also seen an increase in the number of cases of alcohol withdrawal. “Yes, there has been a surge in cases of people with alcohol and drug withdrawal coming to the emergency department. However, I will not be able to quantify it without going through the admission data,” said Dr Rajesh Rastogi, senior consultant at the hospital’s psychiatry department.To tide over the problem during the lockdown, AIIMS has designed a nearly three-hour-long training session for all doctors, available free of cost on the website of NDDTC.“Unfortunately, the thing is that most of the doctors are not trained in management of withdrawal symptoms. Not just for the lockdown, but otherwise too. Many patients might have gone to their neighbourhood doctors before landing up at the hospital emergency. As a stop-gap measure once we started receiving these reports, we developed an online training module which is freely accessible to all,” said Dr Rao.The doctors say not all who drink daily are likely to experience withdrawal.“Not everyone who drinks daily will experience withdrawal, only those who are dependent on the substance will. We decide whether a person is dependent based on whether they have developed a tolerance, they experience cravings, they take a lot of time out to satisfy these cravings, and they continue to consume the substance even after they have developed physical problems such as liver disease,” said Dr Rastogi.These people have to keep a watch on their symptoms. Sleeping difficulties, anxiety, palpitations, and shaking of the hands are all symptoms that you need to go to a doctor.“If the patients come in within 24 to 48 hours of stopping alcohol, then the symptoms are mild to moderate. The severe symptoms start after two to three days of stopping the alcohol. If the patient has severe withdrawal, they require medication -- diazepam – taken every day. But in severe cases we have to inject the medicine in high doses,” said Dr Rao.Mild cravings can be managed at home, the doctor says.“If people have mild symptoms– it comes in waves – and people can control it by focussing on other activities such as listening to music, watching movies. It is extremely important to remain engaged; people might be irritable because of the lockdown and the cravings will add to it,” said Dr Rao.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-number-of-alcoholics-with-withdrawal-symptoms-doubled-in-hospitals-emergencies/story-OD8QuiDVZwQm8uesxbf8NK.html
