13-04-2020||India||Total positive Covid-19 cases reach 1,510 in Delhi||The total number of Covid-19 positive cases in the national capital reached 1,510 on Monday, while the deaths stand at 28. As many as 356 new coronavirus positive cases were reported in Delhi today, including 325 positive cases-Under Special Operations, and four deaths.So far, 30 Covid-19 infected patients have been recorded fully in the national capital.India’s count of positive Covid-19 cases has risen to 9,352, the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/total-positive-covid-19-cases-reach-1-510-in-delhi/story-QAe8pEL7N3IpynnNoofX1O.html
13-04-2020||India||Doctor in Shillong becomes Meghalaya’s first to test positive for Covid-19||A doctor in Shillong tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday making him the first patient in Meghalaya, officials said.With this all seven states in north east now have one or more positive cases. Nagaland recorded its first positive case on Sunday.According to officials in Shillong, the patient is a 69-year old doctor who works at a private hospital.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.Health authorities in Shillong have decided to turn the hospital into a quarantine camp and taken measures to test all patients, doctors and staff working there.More details are awaited.The Northeast region now has a total of 38 positive cases with Assam recording the highest number at 30 positive patients, Manipur and Tripura have 2 cases each and Mizoram, Nagaland, Meghalaya and Arunachal Pradesh one case each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doctor-in-shillong-becomes-meghalaya-s-first-to-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-WsoZot6iksuQct594AgoJM.html
13-04-2020||India||Ambedkar Jayanti 2020: Remembering BR Ambedkar on his 129th birth anniversary||It was on April 14 in the year 1891 when the champion of Dalit rights, the principal architect of the Indian Constitution Bhimrao Ramji Ambedkar was born.Also known as Babasaheb Ambedkar, BR Ambedkar was born on 14 April 1891 in present-day Madhya Pradesh’s Mhow. Every year, Ambedkar’s birth anniversary is celebrated to honour his countless contributions in the making of the present-day independent India.Ambedkar Jayanti is also known as Bhim Jayanti and is celebrated as a public holiday across India since 2015.Ambedkar led a crusade for the upliftment and empowerment of Dalits in the country.He earned doctorates in economics from premier institutes like the Columbia University and the London School of Economics. He was a scholar in disciplines like law, economics and political science.Babasaheb became a key advocate and campaigner for India’s independence from the British rule. He published scores of journals and advocated for Dalits rights.He also made significant contributions toward the establishment of the state of India, drafting of the Constitution and giving ideas that served as the foundation of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI).In 1956, Ambedkar converted to Buddhism.Ambedkar suffered from diabetes and was bed-ridden for a brief time in 1954. The following year, his health worsened. Ambedkar completed the final manuscript of his book on Buddhism ‘The Buddha and His Dhamma’ in December 1956. Three days later, on 6 December, he passed away in his sleep at his home in Delhi.BR Ambedkar was conferred the country’s highest civilian honor, Bharat Ratna, posthumously in 1990.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ambedkar-jayanti-2020-remembering-br-ambedkar-on-his-129th-birth-anniversary/story-6SgcGVejKfpQjs1QaytFJP.html
13-04-2020||India||Nomads face the heat amid lockdown in J&K, Himachal Pradesh||The Covid-19 lockdown has delayed the seasonal migration of the nomadic tribes of Gujjars and Bakerwals in Jammu and Kashmir and neighbouring Himachal Pradesh by a fortnight, putting their lives and livestock at risk.By March-end, the tribes are headed for greener pastures and cooler climes of Kishtwar, Kashmir and Ladakh as summer approaches the plains. It takes them about 45 days to make it to their destination with their livestock, comprising sheep, goats, buffaloes, cows, donkeys, horses, mules and camels.Choudhary Mohammed Iqbal Phambra, 64, a Gujjar from Mansar in Udhampur district, says, “In this lockdown, we neither have access to veterinarians nor medicines. Fodder is in short supply. Further delay can be fatal for the cattle.”FACING A BACKLASHThe Gujjars say the increase in Covid-19 cases in Kashmir could make them unwelcome visitors. “People there doubt that we are carrying the infection from the plains. We fear a confrontation,” he says.The Gujjars of neighbouring Himachal Pradesh say there is already a backlash against the community after the Tablighi Jamaat gathering in Delhi that led to a spike in coronavirus cases across the country.Mohammad Aslam, an assistant professor at Akal University, Bathinda, says, “Gujjars are not associated with the Tablighi Jamaat but have become a target due to the hate being spread on social media. The entire community is being blamed.” SEEKING SUPPORTA Bakerwal leader, Haji Mohammed Khalid, 78, from Pouni in Reasi says, “Our sheep and goats can’t bear the heat. They suffer from high fever that can be fatal. Though we have heard that the J&K administration has cleared the migration but it hasn’t started. Still, it’s not too late if the government facilitates our migration by providing tarpaulins and ration besides ensuring access to vets and medicines.”Tribal Research and Cultural Foundation, J&K, founder Javaid Rahi says the administration should formulate a comprehensive plan after consulting local tribal leaders in view of the lockdown.Principal secretary, animal husbandry, Navin Kumar Choudhary says, “All deputy commissioners have been asked to allow the migration in batches. The process has started.”Another Gujjar leader, Mohammed Asif, 54, from Kathua, says: “We urge the officials to distribute copies of the permission for our movement to avoid harassment from the police.”UP AGAINST A DIVIDEIn Himachal, the Muslim Gujjar population is concentrated in Chamba district. The community migrates to the plains of Kangra district and Gurdaspur and Mukerian in the Shivalik foothills in Punjab to return to Chamba in summer.But this time the lockdown has hit them hard. Fakardeen, a Gujjar from Belj village of Chamba, and his family are based in Indora in Kangra. “People have stopped buying milk from us. There is a shortage of fodder,” he says.“The situation is worse in adjoining Punjab. People are threatening and forcing us to leave the plains after the recent incident in Delhi. There are no buyers for milk and khoya with most shops closed due to the lockdown,” says Ghulam Mohammad.Another Gujjar from Chamba, Hussain Ali, says, “The barter system in the villages of Chamba has collapsed. There is a silent boycott.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nomads-face-the-heat-amid-lockdown-in-j-k-himachal-pradesh/story-4YsaLXPBKUPQmR5cowHsRJ.html
13-04-2020||India||For Dharavi’s sanitation problems, K VijayRaghavan pitches for some frugal solutions||The country’s top scientist’s team has come up with a ‘do it yourself’ hand wash station that could be used in densely-populated neighborhoods such as Dharavi to raise the sanitation bar. This one is operated by foot and can be assembled by community volunteers and authorities using affordable and locally available material even during the lockdown’s supply-chain challenges.These foot-operated hand wash stations not only reduce the chance of transmission of disease by eliminating direct contact with potentially high-infection areas but also reduce the amount of water used to wash hands, the office of Principal Scientific Adviser K VijayRaghavan said in a statement on Monday.“Our densely populated places, Dharavi is but one example that needs special attention. The manual, put together by the team at the PSA’s office, brings out how frugal but effective tools can have disproportionate positive impact,” K VijayRaghavan said. He urged community leaders, NGOs and corporate houses to take up to implement such solutions.Mumbai’s Dharavi, Asia’s biggest slum cluster, has already reported 49 Covid-19 cases. Five of them have died. Given how the residents of Dharavi are short on space and basic amenities, there has been a lurking concern that the highly contagious disease could spread rapidly prompting the state to bring in hundreds of reserve police personnel to enforce the lockdown and social distancing norms.The sprawl of shanties spread across 240-hectare is home to 8,50,000 people. At a population density of 66,000 people per square kilometre, it is one of Mumbai’s most congested spaces.A set of guidelines issued by VijayRaghavan’s office on Monday said some basic steps would, with precautions and measures, help control the spread of Covid-19 in such densely populated areas where toilets, washing or bathing facilities are shared.The statement by VijayRaghavan’s office said installing permanent foot-operated stations in public and community toilets encourage people to wash their hands and, yet reduce water use. Chlorinating the water dispensed at such stations would add additional effectiveness and should be considered, it said.The guidelines also outline good toilet practices to maintain sanitation and hygiene in communities. It also underscores simple measures such as the need to always wear face-covers and footwear in the toilet, washing hands immediately after use and maintaining social-distancing. Disinfectants to keep public areas and homes clean and sanitised have also been detailed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-top-scientist-comes-up-with-a-simple-hand-wash-station-for-dharavi/story-cQRLJGzPM73YhDkWpNchuK.html
13-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Covid-19 infections cross 9,000 but no new cases in 25 districts for 14 days and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion curated for you. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19 infections cross 9,000 but no new cases in 25 districts for 14 daysEven as the number of Covid-19 cases continues to rise in India, the government on Monday pointed out that no news cases have been reported from 25 districts in 15 states where people have been affected by coronavirus.The total number of infections in the country rose 9152 by Monday afternoon.Read more. Private Covid-19 tests free only for poor: Supreme Court amends its orderThe Supreme Court has amended its verdict delivered last week that forced private laboratories to offer free Covid-19 testing to everyone. On Monday, the two-judge bench comprising justices Ashok Bhushan and S Ravindra Bhat ordered that only people who could not afford Rs 4,500 for the test should be tested free by private laboratories. Read more. India’s ‘strong demarche’ to Pakistan over death of 3 civilians in shellingIndia on Monday lodged a strong protest with Pakistan over the killing of three civilians, including a minor, in unprovoked cross-border shelling by Pakistani forces, people familiar with developments said. An eight-year-old boy and a woman were among the three people killed when Pakistani troops shelled several civilian areas in Kupwara district of Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday. Read more. Quarantining Tablighi Jamaat members helped contain Covid-19: Delhi top copDelhi Police Commissioner S N Shrivastava on Monday said the decision to take Tablighi Jamaat members from its headquarters (Markaz) in the capital’s Nizamuddin area directly to quarantine facilities helped in containing the spread Covid-19. Read more. Covid-19: UP board to promote students of classes 6 to 9 and class 11 to next levelThe Uttar Pradesh secondary education department on Monday announced to promote all students of class 6, 7, 8, 9 and 11 for academic session 2019-20 to the next level to keep the session regular, an official said. The official directed officials to ensure all schools must adhere to this to fight back the current situation emerged due to Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown. Read more. ‘Training, reading and streaming to deal with free time’It was on March 7 or 8, during the Six Red National Snooker Tournament in Ahmedabad, that our inboxes got the message: the world body had deferred all events till June 30. There we were talking about travel plans for the high-profile World Matchplay Billiards in Leeds—at the venue where I won the world title in 2018—in April when things ground to a halt. Read more. Ramayan actor who played Raavan gets emotional seeing this scene. WatchThe iconic show Ramayan by Ramanand Sagar, which was released back in 1987, is on its rerun during the ongoing lockdown. The revival of the age-old show has sparked all sorts of emotions among people. Amid these, there’s a particular video of actor Arvind Trivedi, who played the role of Raavan in the mythological show, which is now being shared by many. Read more. Saif Ali Khan on holding Sara Ali Khan’s hand through Love Aaj Kal failure: ‘I don’t think it’s needed’Actor Saif Ali Khan was asked how he reacted when daughter Sara Ali Khan’s recent film, Love Aaj Kal, was criticised by fans. Saif told journalist Anupama Chopra that it was a mix of holding her hand through it, and letting her come to terms with it herself. Read more. Slapping lockdown blues away: Slap Kings is the top downloaded game in MarchClearly, the lockdown is getting to everyone. While we juggle daily chores and work, frustrations are peaking and there are very limited ways to deal with them. Of course, you can work out and use up that energy. You can also slap it away. Read more. Covid-19 curfew: We’re at god’s mercy, cry homeless in ChandigarhPeople in Chandigarh shelter homes are packed like sardines ignoring norms of social distancing. Most of them are below poverty line patients suffering from Cancer, kidney failure, etc. All of them came to PGIMER, Chandigarh to get their treatment done. Owing to lockdown, they are unable to go back to their home states. While some are from Himachal, Punjab & Haryana, others are from Bihar & UP. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-covid-19-infections-cross-9-000-but-no-new-cases-in-25-districts-for-14-days-and-all-the-latest-news/story-wBuARcdaFS1XVJKdZnGCOP.html
13-04-2020||India||4-month-old tests positive for Covid-19 in UP’s Basti||GORAKHPUR: A four-month-old baby from eastern Uttar Pradesh (UP)’s Basti district tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Sunday, an official said. The case is believed to have a connection with a 25-year-old grocer from Basti, who was the first Covid-19 related fatality from UP on March 31. Basti district has reported 14 Covid-19 positive cases to date. “According to test reports, obtained from Baba Raghav Das (BRD) Medical College in Gorakhpur, a four-month-old baby has tested Covid-19 positive. His parents are under quarantine, as their test reports are still awaited,” said Ashutosh Niranjan, district magistrate, Basti. The baby is a resident of Milat Nagar, one of the two hotspots in Basti district.On Sunday, four new Covid-19 positive cases -- linked to the grocer -- came to light. “Four swab samples tested Covid-19 positive at BRD Medical College. The tests are being conducted under the supervision of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR),” said Dr Fakhriar Hussain, additional chief medical officer (ACMO), Gorakhpur, and the nodal officer for Covid-19 cases in the district.The grocer had no known travel history. He was suffering for renal and lung disorders and was undergoing treatment at a local hospital in Basti district for the past three months. He was admitted to BRD Medical College on March 30 in a serious condition and he died at the hospital the following morning. His swab samples tested Covid-19 positive after his death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-month-old-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-up-s-basti/story-Hcn7FJg01cwflIx8y0KPiJ.html
13-04-2020||India||Maintain social distancing during Ramzan, says Naqvi||NEW DELHI: Union Minister for Minority Affairs Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Monday urged the Muslim community to follow social distancing norms and strictly adhere to lockdown guidelines, enforced since March 25 to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, during the holy month of Ramzan, starting later in April.In a statement, Naqvi said prayers and rituals during Ramzan such as breaking the fast should be done indoors instead of congregating in mosques and other public places.Naqvi told HT that he would reach out to the state Waqf board members, custodians of various mosques and ulemas to drive home the message of adhering to the lockdown guidelines and would urge them to impress upon their community members the necessity of breaking the chain of the Covid-19 pandemic.Naqvi said that on behalf of the Central Waqf Council, of which he is the chairperson, messages, urging the community members to desist from congregating, have been issued.There are 700,000 registered mosques, imambaras, and dargahs that come under the jurisdiction of the Central Waqf Council.Religious activities and festivities in temples, mosques, churches, gurdwaras and other places of worship have been cancelled, as restrictions have been imposed on public gatherings due to the ongoing lockdown that was set to end on April 14.Even though the government has not yet made public its decision on extending lockdown, there are suggestions that the government should continue with the curbs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maintain-social-distancing-during-ramzan-says-naqvi/story-LoKCNH4GRIExvIZvZUk42K.html
13-04-2020||India||Lockdown needs smart upgrade to avoid misery to people, tweets Rahul Gandhi||Ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address to the nation Tuesday morning, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi said the lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus needs a smart upgrade that would allow businesses to gradually reopen. In a tweet, he said a blanket lockdown has brought misery to millions.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.“The one-size-fit-all lockdown has brought untold misery & suffering to millions of farmers, migrant labourers, daily wagers & business owners. It needs a “smart” upgrade, using mass testing to isolate virus hotspots & allowing businesses in other areas to gradually reopen,” Gandhi tweeted. The one-size-fit-all lockdown has brought untold misery & suffering to millions of farmers, migrant labourers, daily wagers & business owners. It needs a "smart" upgrade, using mass testing to isolate virus hotspots & allowing businesses in other areas to gradually reopen.The 21-day national lockdown announced by PM Modi on March 24 evening ends on Tuesday midnight.In his address to the nation on Tuesday morning, he is expected to announce an extension of the lockdown with some modifications.At a video conference on Saturday, most chief ministers had urged the PM to extend the lockdown. Since Friday, more than half dozen states and union territories have already extended the lockdown till April 30.Till Monday evening, India reported 9,352 positive cases of coronavirus and more than 300 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-needs-smart-upgrade-to-avoid-misery-to-people-tweets-rahul-gandhi/story-Anv17i2bIcSyi6qEQ0lHUL.html
13-04-2020||India||Govt submits fresh application seeking green nod for new Parliament building, revises cost||The Centre has sent a revised application for environment clearance for the new Parliament building to the environment ministry after the issue was deferred last month by the expert appraisal committee (EAC) on infrastructure. In the application, reviewed by the Hindustan Times, the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs’ construction arm, the Central Public Works Department (CPWD), said the project cost for the new Parliament building has increased from Rs 776 crore to Rs 922 crore “due to changes in specifications which have been approved after the application submission”.The EAC is scheduled to take up the issue on April 22. The renovation of the existing Parliament building will now include a “condition survey” to assess the structure of the building, structural strengthening and renovation of interiors and utilities, according to the new application. “There will be no adverse impact due to construction activities on existing structures and suitable precautions will be accordingly made…There are several ASI regulated archaeological sites present within the study area. However, none of them will be impacted due to the project activities since their regulated boundaries are outside the project site,” it said, addressing concerns raised over the project. “Transportation of raw material will cause impacts for the short-term only. Barricading will be provided all around the construction site. Air pollution will be minimised by water sprinklers and by covering the vehicles during transport,” the application further said.Trucks used for transport will be “thoroughly checked for emission parameters” and properly maintained, and transportation of raw materials will be avoided during peak hours to reduce traffic load, it added.Hindustan Times had reported on March 9 the Centre’s original application for environmental clearance for the new Parliament complex had been deferred by the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC). The expert appraisal committee (EAC) on infrastructure under the ministry met on February 25 to review the CPWD’s proposal seeking green clearance for the new Parliament building.The EAC cited pending court cases related to the project as one of the reasons for deferring the application. It also noted the project would provide a “larger Parliament building for the nation for better functioning of the legislature” but added CPWD needs to meet a slew of conditions before the proposal could be reconsidered.This also comes at a time when almost all opposition parties have urged Prime Mnister Narendra Modi to shelve the project and instead spend the money on advancing the fight against Covid-19.The Centre had on March 20 notified the change in land use for more than 86 acres in Lutyens’ Delhi that currently house some of India’s landmark buildings such as the Parliament, Rashtrapati Bhavan, and North Block and South Block to expedite completion of the ₹20,000-crore Central Vista redevelopment project. The land use change was notified even as a petition challenging the project was pending in the Supreme Court. In March, the apex court transferred all writ petitions filed in the Delhi high court challenging the Central Vista project to itself.A fresh writ petition was filed in April in the Supreme Court to quash the Centre’s notification seeking the land use change. The petition, reviewed by Hindustan Times, alleges “it can be deduced that under the guise of redeveloping Central Vista the real intention is to monetise the invaluable commercial component that will emerge as a result of ‘redevelopment’”.“Most ironically, the very tenets required in the tender New Master Plan was flouted in the tendering processes which was opaque, non- transparent, and completed within a period of 45 days, leaving the citizens of India and Delhi bewildered at the blitz of awarding a tender for Rs 20,000 crores,” the petition states.The Centre had set November 2021 as the deadline for completing the Central Visa project. Work on the new Parliament complex was to be completed by March 2022 and the common Central Secretariat by March 2024. The plan could face delays due to the Covid-19 lockdown as the project was scheduled to be tendered in April. Officials involved in the project, however, say the lockdown won’t disrupt plans as most of the work for the detailed project report has been completed. “CPWD and the ministry, as well as all the on-board consultants, are able to effectively work digitally through this lockdown period. The design of the Parliament building sufficient for issuing tenders was already complete. The detailed design was to run concurrent with the selection of the contractor. This will go through as planned since work on the tenders is ongoing, so that it can be issued post-lockdown,” the official said requesting not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-submits-new-application-seeking-green-nod-for-new-parliament-building-revises-cost/story-xbG0lorJHuLEeEkZuvlccN.html
13-04-2020||India||How a govt-industry joint venture is helping firms during Covid-19 lockdown||New DelhiOn day five of the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown, a supplier of frozen fruits and vegetables in Karnataka was worried about the logistics of procuring produce from 100-odd farmers who were losing Rs 5 lakh a day because of supply disruption.Invest India, a government and industry joint venture, approached the state government and obtained approvals for the supplier’s company to transport the perishables and protect the livelihood of the farmers.Invest India has similarly facilitated several firms during the lockdown. Recently, it helped an online meat delivery outlet obtain approvals to operate a processing centre and 15 distribution centres to supply essential food items within Maharashtra, a newsletter of Invest India said. It also helped several units start manufacturing medical testing kits and masks, it said.With the help of consultancy firms such as EY, Invest India is helping the industry to resolve problems pertaining to logistics during the lockdown, people associated with the national investment promotion and facilitation agency said.Since its launch on March 21, its “Business Immunity Platform” (BIP) has received more than 2,828 queries and 2,375 of them have been resolved, according to the latest BIP newsletter. Most queries (30%) were related to logistics support, it said.“EY is associated with Invest India since 2016 as consultants on various aspects related to investors’ query handling, knowledge support, vetting of investible projects for the India Investment Grid etc,” said Adil Zaidi, partner for government and transaction advisory services at EY India.. “With the Covid-19 outbreak and the consequent lockdown, we are now also helping the organisation on several immediate initiatives such as Invest India’s business immunity platform and its rapid query response team of 150 people, which has been instituted to help industries and investors in procurement of raw materials, logistical support and regulatory approvals during this challenging period.”Deepak Bagla, managing director and CEO of Invest India, said it had launched the BIP to bring facilitation to the doorstep. “It is bringing together key government stakeholders, industry champions and logistics providers to identify and fill demand-supply shortages in the supplies required to combat Covid-19,” he said.The agency has roped in global consultants – EY, PwC, KPMG, Bain & Company, Boston Consulting Group (BCG), Primus Partners and Mirae Asset Management – to create a strategic and “ready to implement” action plan for India’s economic revival by analysing quantitative and qualitative metrics across states, districts and sectors.“Our services are available to all stakeholders – the Union government, state governments, industries and investors,” Bagla said.One of the consultants engaged by the platform said on condition of anonymity that most global firms are working on a pro bono basis and preparing a strategy to lift the lockdown in phases. The newsletter mentioned above said the seven consultants are part of a business reconstruction team that is drafting phase one of the economic revival plan.“The plan will be submitted to the government as an input. We are continuously providing our inputs to the government through the ministry of commerce and industry,” the consultant said.Queries sent to the commerce and industry ministry, KPMG, PwC, Bain & Company, BCG, Primus Partners and Mirae Asset Management did not elicit any response.Formed in 2009 for promotion of foreign investment, Invest India is a public-private venture with a 49% government stake, while 51% shareholding is equally held by industry associations – the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (Ficci), Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) and National Association of Software and Service Companies (Nasscom). The 49% government stake is held by the commerce ministry and 19 states. The industry secretary is Invest India’s non-executive chairman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-a-govt-industry-joint-venture-is-helping-firms-during-covid-19-lockdown/story-ZhxRdRdFnwBXfq5HccWDMP.html
13-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Road map to ensure smooth functioning of govt officials in works||Amid suggestions that the nationwide lockdown be extended, authorities are framing a road map to ensure both work and preparedness to tackle the coronavirus disease aren’t hampered for the next two weeks, according to government officials. The central government is yet to announce its decision on whether the Covid-19 curbs will be extended, but there are suggestions that the ongoing, three-week lockdown be continued. Senior officials of the personnel, pensions and grievances ministry met minister Jitendra Singh on Monday to review the projects undertaken by the ministry during the lockdown and formulate a comprehensive strategy to ensure efficiency and precautions against the pandemic.This may include extending the virtual private network (VPN) providing a secure line of communication to all officials and issuing curfew passes to those living in containment zones, government functionaries who did not want to be named said on Monday. The DoPT guidelines apply to all departments and ministries of the central government. The move came two days after the central government informally conveyed to senior officials that ministers and officers of the rank of joint secretary and above should return to work from Monday.“The objective is not to bring people to offices, it is to avoid overcrowding,” said a senior official who was present at the meeting.“Take today for instance, the Central Secretariat is overcrowded, there are nearly 150 cars at Shastri Bhawan and 100 in North Block. We have to maintain social distancing to fight this pandemic.” In its bid to overcome overcrowding, officials are considering extending the secure VPN, until now being accessed by deputy secretaries and above, to under secretaries and section officers. One–third of officials, based on a roster decided by heads of departments, will come to work while others will continue to work from home unless called in. “This will help officials to work from home,” said the senior official cited above. “E-office facilities will become paramount in the coming days.”The official added, “Extra caution and care will be exercised while dealing with high-risk officials, such as those with heart problems and diabetes, while they are at work.” The ministry will decide the protocol for using e-office from home, said a second official. “We want to foster an electronic platform-based functioning dispensation,” this official said. “A citizen-central public delivery system will have to be implemented.” The ministry is also considering options such as providing scanners to those working from home. “This is the initial stage,” said the second official. “Most of our departments internally are working online and from home, you need a laptop and wi-fi, but we will evaluate if more equipment is needed.”A proposal to provide curfew passes to “essential staff” living in containment zones has been mooted. “We need to see how people living in screened areas will be able to travel, arranging curfew passes for them is another consideration,” said the first official. A third official said government transport will be provided for those without cars. “Those who don’t have their own vehicles travelled using the department’s cars today, for example,” he said. “A similar model will be worked out.”Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation on Tuesday morning and is expected to announce a decision on the three-week, sweeping lockdown that was imposed on March 25 to stop the spread of Covid-19. States such as Telangana, Maharahstra, Odisha and West Bengal have already extended the lockdown till April 30The ministry is also considering long-term solutions in case the Covid-19 crisis spills over into May. These will include strengthening electronic hardware capacities and software to enhance agility and flexibility in the ministry’s functioning. “The thinking that emerged is that instead of treating this as a crisis situation, we should use it as an opportunity to ensure robustness of the ministry,” said DARPG secretary K Shivaji. “We have to see how this opportunity can help us improve productivity.” Jitendra Singh reviewed the status of grievance complaints with the DARPG at the meeting, according to a statement issued by the ministry. As of April 12, the government has addressed 7,000 Covid-19-related public grievances, with an average disposal time of 1.57 days. Total grievances registered with the ministry are more than 21,000. The ministries and departments with maximum disposal of grievances are external affairs ministry (1,625 grievances), finance ministry (1,043 grievances) and labour ministry (751 grievances). Peak disposals of 1,315 grievances a day were achieved on April 8 and 9. More than 71,000 people have enrolled on the e-learning platform iGOT to combat Covid-19 after it was launched last week for doctors, nurses, paramedics, hygiene workers, technicians, auxiliary nursing midwives, central and state government officers, civil defence officials, various police organisations, National Cadet Corps (NCC), Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan (NYKS), National Service Scheme (NSS), Indian Red Cross Society, Bharat Scouts and Guides (BSG) and other volunteers. Nearly 27,000 candidates have completed the course.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-road-map-to-ensure-smooth-functioning-of-govt-officials-in-works/story-xB5Mzdvv4banYNPfckMszM.html
13-04-2020||India||Woman separated from newborn son after testing positive for Covid-19||A 22-year-old woman who delivered a boy in a state-run hospital in Kolkata on March 11, tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday evening following which she was separated from her baby, officials said.The mother and the child have now been kept in separate isolation wards. The child’s samples would be sent for tests on Tuesday, hospital authorities said. Both the mother and the child were doing fine. “The women delivered a male child on March 11. Later she complained of fever. We sent her samples for Covid-19 tests. She has tested positive. We have kept them in separate isolation wards. We will be sending the child’s samples for tests,” said Indranil Biswas, medical superintendent and vice-principal of Calcutta Medical College and Hospital.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.Following this, the state health department issued a detailed advisory on Monday on how to take care of pregnant women.ASHA and ANM workers have been asked to trace all pregnant women, especially high risk pregnancies, to avoid any complications. All medical colleges have been directed to set up separate OTs for pregnant women infected with the virus or suspected of having Covid-19. Kangaroo mothers have been asked to maintain proper respiratory hygiene.Hospital authorities said that the labour and surgery room where the woman was kept and had to undergo a cesarean section, have been closed down for two days for fumigation and proper sanitization. The other patients (pregnant women) in the ward have also been shifted to isolation wards. Around 12 samples would also be sent for tests.“Both the mother and the child are doing absolutely fine. Some of the doctors and nurses have already been tested. They have been found to be negative. All our medical staff are properly equipped with masks, PPEs and gloves and maintain strict protocols. Samples of a few other medical staff have also been sent for tests,” said a top official of the hospital.Meanwhile a private hospital in Kolkata had to be closed down for fumigation after a patient was detected with Covid-19. Earlier two state run hospitals had to close down some their wards after patients treated in those wards tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-separated-from-newborn-son-after-testing-positive-for-covid-19/story-s32aZrrnNxeCbRDMFfKmtI.html
13-04-2020||India||Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi urges Muslims to avoid congregating during Ramzan||Union minister for minority affairs Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Monday urged the Muslim community to follow the social distancing protocol and adhere to the lockdown guidelines during the holy month of Ramzan starting later in April.In a statement, Naqvi asked the people to pray and practice rituals such as breaking the fast inside the safety of their homes instead of congregating in mosques and other public places.Naqvi told Hindustan Times on Monday that he would reach out to the State Waqf Board members, custodians of various mosques and Ulemas to drive home the message of adhering to the lockdown guidelines and also stress the importance of breaking the chain of coronavirus pandemic.Naqvi said on behalf of the Central Waqf Council, of which he is the chairperson, messages urging the community members to desist from congregating have been issued.There are seven lakh registered mosques and Imambaras and dargahs under the Central Waqf Council. In the wake of restrictions imposed on public meetings during the lockdown, religious activities and festivities in temples, mosques, churches and gurdwaras have been cancelled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mukhtar-abbas-naqvi-urges-muslims-to-avoid-congregating-during-ramzan/story-MAl1EYXioq3YSVRP0UZXZI.html
13-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh extend lockdown till April 30||Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh decided on Monday to extend the ongoing 21-day lockdown, which was set to end on Tuesday, till April 30 to check the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The Mizoram government took the decision to extend the lockdown after a cabinet meeting and another meeting with political parties, NGOs and officials.“Lockdown will be extended in the state of Mizoram till 30th of this month i.e. April, 2020. However, area wise moderation will be enforced as per task forces committee regulations,” Mizoram chief minister Zoramthanga tweeted.The Arunachal Pradesh cabinet, too, decided to extend the lockdown till the end of this month with certain exemptions.“The cabinet has taken a decision to extend the lockdown till April 30. We will take a further decision later on how to handle the situation post April 30,” chief secretary Naresh Kumar told journalists in Itanagar.He added that activities permitted during the first phase of lockdown will be allowed to operate as usual and all offices in district level will start functioning from April 15.“Agriculture, horticulture activities and tea gardens will be allowed to operate provided they maintain social distancing and other safety precautions. Some industries will also be allowed to operate on a case to case basis,” Kumar said.Though the central government has not made public its decision yet, there have been suggestions that the lockdown be extended across. Now, all eyes are on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address to the nation on Tuesday morning. At a video-conference on Saturday, chief ministers urged PM Modi to extend the lockdown to contain coronavirus. Several states, including Maharashtra and Odisha, have already extended the lockdown till at least the end of the month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-mizoram-arunachal-pradesh-extend-lockdown-till-april-30/story-PMbSfc4ZQwMz9pdrscwrJM.html
13-04-2020||India||Curfew in pockets of Nainital after tension over cleric’s samples for Covid-19 test||A day after a large number of residents of Bhanbulpura, a Muslim-dominated area in Haldwani town of Nainital district engaged in conflict with the police over collection of samples of a mosque cleric for Covid-19 testing, Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat ordered imposition of curfew in the area on Monday. Taking ‘serious note’ of the incident, Rawat while ordering curfew in the area said, “The government has been appealing innumerable times to the people to co-operate with the administration in containing the pandemic. However, on Sunday when thousands of residents gathered ignoring the appeal, we had to take this decision as we will take every possible action to keep the situation under control.” On Sunday, health department staff who has been going door-to-door in the area to collect samples for Covid-19 infection had gone to a local mosque to collect a sample from a mosque cleric staying there. The cleric, however, had refused to give his samples after which locals in large numbers gathered there in his support. Soon, the police reached the area to help the health workers during which the locals came to a face-off with the police only to be sent back to their homes with a stern warning.The police conducted a flag march in the area. Bhanbulpura had been earlier sealed for non-essential movement of residents by the administration after five people mainly Jamaatis tested positive there. Addressing the media, CM Rawat also informed about the status of the Covid-19 positive patients and said, “In the last 100 hours no new case has come up in the state but the state is fully prepared for future threats.”He said, “So far seven of the total 35 patients have recovered. Another two or three are also expected to be negative in their next test. But we cannot deny threats in the future on this pandemic because the symptoms of the virus are uncertain. People should be very careful and take precautions by covering their face.” There are 35 patients in the state so far out of whom 26 are Jamaatis and two who had come in contact with them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/curfew-in-pockets-of-nainital-after-tension-over-cleric-s-samples-for-covid-19-test/story-tFwkWBcpvNFQowJVkeT5gL.html
13-04-2020||India||Quarantining Tablighi Jamaat members helped contain Covid-19: Delhi top cop||Delhi Police Commissioner S N Shrivastava on Monday said the decision to take Tablighi Jamaat members from its headquarters (Markaz) in the capital’s Nizamuddin area directly to quarantine facilities helped in containing the spread Covid-19.“We have quarantined the corona carriers of Tablighi Jamaat. Majority of people were directly taken to quarantine center from Markaz. This helped in containing Covid-19. We have also registered a case in this matter,” ANI quoted Shrivastava as saying.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.Earlier this month, Covid-19 cases in Delhi spiked after hundreds of many Tablighi Jamaat members who attended a large congregation in Nizamuddin tested positive.On Monday, Delhi’s count of Covid-19 positive cases stood at 1,176. Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said 746 coronavirus cases in the national capital are from Markaz area in Nizamuddin which had emerged as a hotspot at the beginning of the month.“There are 1,102 Covid-19 positive patients in the hospitals including 50 who are in ICU and six on ventilator support,” Jain told ANI.The Delhi government has now designated 43 localities in the city as containment zones to check the spread of coronavirus. The containment zones have been sealed under the government’s Operation SHIELD that seeks to stop Covid-19 transmission.The Delhi government launched a massive sanitisation drive in several of these containment zones on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/quarantining-tablighi-jamaat-members-helped-contain-covid-19-delhi-top-cop/story-IbtgZLAZ11XF13dsvmGhTM.html
13-04-2020||India||Jamaat brought collective shame and Islamophobia, Muslims say||Jehirul Islam, a coronavirus disease patient, made a final call on April 10 from his hospital bed in Maharashtra’s Akola to his family in Assam. He sounded grim, fearing something he imagined to be far worse than dying of Covid-19. The next day, hospital staff found him dead, his throat slit, in an apparent suicide.“He was worried he won’t be able to make it back home and that, if he were to die, his body would be cremated, rather than buried in a Muslim cemetery,” his brother Moinul Islam said from Singimari, a village in central Assam’s Nagaon district.Two suicides have been driven by stigma, rumours and slurs directed toward India’s 200-million Muslims.To some Muslims, the war on coronavirus has begun to look like a war on the community itself. The community finds itself blamed for the spread of the coronavirus. This followed a global religious congregation in New Delhi in mid-March, held by Tablighi Jamaat, an Islamic movement of preachers, which met in defiance of official restrictions.The gathering of nearly 2,500 delegates, some from Malaysia, Sri Lanka and Kyrgyzstan, led to a dramatic spike in Covid-19 cases in the country, with Indian attendees presumably infected by the foreigners then going on to infect people across the country. At one point the congregants or their contacts accounted for a third of the total cases.Fears of cremation of Muslims, based on rumours, were unfounded. “The government’s guidelines state that Muslim Covid-19 victims should be buried at a cemetery closest to the place where the patient died,” Maharashtra minister Aslam Shaikh said .The religious event led to outrage among both Muslims and non-Muslims. However, Muslims then began to be accused on social media sites of deliberately spreading the virus as part of a “jihad”.The hashtag “coronajihad” was circulated 300,000 times, according to Equality Labs, a digital advocacy group, quoted by Time magazine. Ordinary Muslims say the Jamaatis were “irresponsible and condemnable”, but the incident has given rise to reprisals.There have also been several reports of them misbehaving in quarantine, including at Delhi’s LNJP hospital where the police had to be called in.In Delhi’s Bawana, a mob attacked Mehboob Ali, who had attended a similar Islamic gathering in Madhya Pradesh, leading to three arrests, according to the Delhi Police.On April 4, Mohammed Dilshad, who had a connection to Tablighi Jamaat, hanged himself in Himachal Pradesh’s Una Bangarh village, allegedly because of social boycott.In Assam’s Nalbari district, Hindu shopkeepers refuse to serve people from a Muslim village, according to Rehmat Ali, a farmer of the area.In another instance of Islamophobia, an official of the State Foreigners’ Tribunal in Assam on April 7 wrote a letter to the state’s health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma that shocked Muslims.In it, Kamalesh Gupta, the official, said he and his colleagues had made donations to the state’s coronavirus fund. However, he urged that “help may not be extended” to Muslims linked to Tablighi Jamaat, who he labelled “jihadi”, a synonym for terrorists. Crucially, officials like Gupta are tasked with deciding the fate of people stripped of citizenship in the state on suspicion of being illegal foreign migrants.It is true that the Tablighi Jamaat congregation led to a steep spike in the number of Covid-19 cases. A senior health ministry official, Lav Agarwal, addressing reporters, said on April 5 that the number of days it would have taken for India’s coronavirus cases to double had quickened to 4.1 days from 7.1 due to the congregation.“The Jamaat people should have deferred their meet. They have brought miseries on the community,” said Maulana Asghar Ali, the imam of a mosque in Delhi’s Kotla Mubarakpur.The government seems to have been slack too, said Naved Hamid Moemin, the chief of All India Majlis-e-Mushwarat, a Muslim advocacy organisation. “The police made no effort to separate foreigners from Indian preachers at the gathering despite serving a notice on them,” Moemin said.Last week, the Union home ministry issued an advisory on preventing “social stigma” attached to Covid-19 patients or their communities. It said “certain communities and areas are being labelled purely based on false reports”, adding that such prejudices need to be “countered urgently”. The federal health advisory urged officials to “never spread the names or identity of those affected”.However, in Assam, health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma publicly released names of all of the state’s 29 patients -- one Hindu and the rest Muslims. The minister, addressing reporters, said: “Generally, we do not reveal the names of patients suffering from diseases like HIV. Yet, the Covid patients’ names are being released with an honest intention of making people aware and stopping the spread of Covid-19.”There’s also an argument for releasing the names -- it helps those who may have come in contact with them knwo that they could be infected.Maulana Mahmood Madni, a former Rajya Sabha MP and leader of the Jamiat Ulama-e-Hind, India’s oldest Muslim faith-based outfit founded in 1919, said he had urged all mosques and Muslims to follow official lockdown guidelines.“The shame over what Tablighi Jamaat did is collective and so is the religious hatred that followed,” said S Irfan Habib, a Delhi-based historian.The police have registered a criminal case against Maulana Saad, the leader of Tablighi Jamaat, who made an egregious sermon posted on YouTube. In it, he urged Muslims to flock to mosques and said social distancing was “nonsense”. Saad has since gone into hiding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jamaat-brought-collective-shame-and-islamophobia-muslims-say/story-ermZoPYGGZ8HBMNeErSnvM.html
13-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Uttarakhand gets first swab collection booth||Haridwar: Uttarakhand got its first model coronavirus disease (Covid-19) booth on Monday to collect swab samples of suspected patients. The booth is on the lines of similar facilities that have been made available to other states such as Kerala, Tamil Nadu, and Jharkhand. The cost-effective booth has been installed at Rishikul Government Ayurvedic Hospital in Haridwar. It hardly takes a minute to collect swab samples to conduct Covid-19 test, said Haridwar municipal corporation commissioner Narendra Singh Bhandari. “The outer body of the kiosk is made of aluminium. The kiosk will be sanitised each time a pathologist or a laboratory technician collects the swab samples of a patient. This is the most foolproof way to collect swab samples of a patient suspected to have been infected by SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19,” said Bhandari. “The kiosk comes equipped with personal protective equipment (PPE) units such as gloves and hand sanitisers for medical personnel collecting the swab samples and also fitted with exhaust fans. Gloves are regularly changed and disinfected,” a civic body official said.Dr Saroj Naithani, chief medical officer (CMO), Haridwar, said such kiosks would come in handy in conducting tests in Covid-19 hotspots. “They don’t need separate PPE kits, which save both time and money,” Dr Naithani added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-uttarakhand-gets-first-swab-collection-booth/story-A8OZ8gzTf399R1janXZ5zH.html
13-04-2020||India||Private Covid-19 tests free only for poor: Supreme Court amends its order||The Supreme Court has amended its verdict delivered last week that forced private laboratories to offer free Covid-19 testing to everyone. On Monday, the two-judge bench comprising justices Ashok Bhushan and S Ravindra Bhat ordered that only people who could not afford Rs 4,500 for the test should be tested free by private laboratories.In the first instance, the court said people eligible under the Ayushman Bharat scheme wouldn’t have to pay for it. The judges also asked the Centre to notify other categories of economically weaker sections who could be tested without a charge.“The government.... may consider as to whether any other categories of weaker sections of the society e.g. workers belonging to low income groups in the informal sectors, beneficiaries of Direct Benefit Transfer, etc, apart from those covered under Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Aroogya Yojana are also eligible for the benefit of free testing and issue appropriate guidelines in the above regard also within a period of one week,” the court said.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicIn either cases, the private laboratories may not have to bear the financial burden of the free testing. It allowed the government to come out with guidelines to reimburse the expenditure incurred by private labs on free tests.On April 8, the judges had ordered free tests on a petition filed by a lawyer Shashank Deo Sudhi, who had underlined that people were forced to turn to private laboratories because government hospitals were packed to capacity.Also Read: Covid-19 infections cross 9,000 but no new cases in 25 districts for 14 daysThe judges had then agreed with this argument and delivered its verdict.The two-judge bench, however, decided to hear the case after a Delhi-based doctor argued that the burden would discourage private laboratories and reduce the country’s capacity to conduct tests.Also Read: Jamaat brought collective shame and Islamophobia, Muslims say“Even the present capacity of the labs, both government and private, appears to be woefully insufficient to obtain accurate data and control the pandemic”, he stated.The Centre’s Indian Council of Medical Research, which had once appealed to laboratories to test people without a charge, had also asked the top court to modify its order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/private-covid-19-tests-free-only-for-poor-supreme-court-amends-its-order/story-coTM8c4qrCUmKyf4ztKlYI.html
13-04-2020||India||Telangana lockdown: Blood banks run dry as donations dip||Blood banks across Telangana are running dry because of the ongoing nationwide lockdown, which started on March 25 for three weeks initially and then extended for another two weeks, to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. Regular blood donors are missing in action, as their movements have been severely restricted due to the lockdown. The authorities at the Institute of Preventive Medicine (IPM), the state government’s nodal agency for blood donations, said no voluntary blood donation camps are being conducted by the government-run blood banks since the lockdown was enforced.The state government has also issued an advisory to the private blood banks and hospitals not to collect blood from any donors for now over fears of infection due to the viral outbreak.“The IPM has been designated as a centralised stand-alone blood donation centre. Additional staff has been deployed to supervise the collection of blood,” Dr Shankar, director, IPM director, said.Chiranjeevi Blood Bank at Jubilee Hills, which was started by popular Telugu film actor and former Union minister K Chiranjeevi, wears an empty look, as donors are staying away because of the lockdown. “One or two enthusiastic donors are turning up daily, as a replacement for the blood required for their relatives,” said an executive working with Chiranjeevi Blood Bank, requesting anonymity.The IPM collects about 100 to 115 units per day, Dr Shankar said, adding they are being processed into component because of Covid-19 pandemic. The medical and health department authorities have requested the police to allow voluntary donors to visit the IPM for blood donation.“A voluntary donor would get a text message on h/his mobile about the date and time slot allotted to h/him for blood donation. The donor can show the message to the police to get a clearance for unrestricted movement on roads,” the IPM official said.The IPM authorities are taking all precautions while accepting blood from donors. They are processing the request after verifying the donor’s recent travel history and whether s/he has had suffered from cold, fever or cough and s/he met any Covid-19 patient or any other person with similar symptoms.Besides the IPM, the Indian Red Cross Society has also been authorised to collect blood from donors. “There’s a severe scarcity of blood in the state because of the lockdown. The crisis is acute in districts such as Warangal, Mahabubnagar, Nalgonda and Khammam,” S Narasimha Reddy, convenor, Indian Red Cross Society, said.Fortunately, accident cases have drastically come down because of the ongoing lockdown, which, in turn, has led to a sharp drop in the demand for blood, he said. “The IPM and we’re supplying blood to hospitals in Hyderabad. We’re collecting blood from military personnel, enthusiastic youth and also the police,” Reddy said.Patients suffering from Thalassemia, which requires blood transmission twice a month, have been hit the hardest because of the acute crisis “There are around 1,723 registered Thalassemia patients. We’re trying to arrange blood for these patients,” Indian Red Cross Society authorities said.On Sunday and Monday, scores of software engineers working as volunteers for Security for Cyberabad Security Council (SCSC) donated blood at IPM and Indian Red Cross Society’s blood banks. “Around 200 volunteers and several policemen, including Cyberabad police commissioner V C Sajjannar, donated blood on Sunday. Another 300 software employees and their friends donated blood on Monday,” Krishna Yedula, general secretary, SCSC, said.“If anybody wants to donate blood, the police will provide a pick-and-drop facility from h/his home to Indian Red Cross Society,” Sajjannar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-lockdown-blood-banks-run-dry-as-donations-dip/story-wWtaHT26ol5MHxzcgl7deI.html
13-04-2020||India||Visas of foreigners residing in India due to Covid-19 restrictions extended till April 30: MHA||The Home Ministry said on Monday that it had granted consular services on gratis basis to foreigners residing in India due to travel restrictions in the context of COVID-19 outbreak and visas of those which were to expire between February 1 and April 30 have have been extended till April 30.“In order to remove confusion in the public, it is to inform that Union Ministry for Home Affairs (MHA) on March 28 had granted consular services on gratis basis to foreign nationals, presently residing in India due to travel restrictions in context of COVID-19 outbreak till April 30,” MHA said in a release.“Regular visa, e-visa or stay stipulation of such foreigners stranded in India due to travel restrictions by Indian Authorities and whose visas have expired/would be expiring between 01.02.2020 (midnight) and 30.04.2020 (midnight) would be extended till April 30 (midnight) on gratis basis, after online application by foreigners,” the ministry added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/visas-of-foreigners-residing-in-india-due-to-covid-19-restrictions-extended-till-april-30-mha/story-n4H2G6IJcMhgvlc3FOnNbL.html
13-04-2020||India||25 districts in 15 states stave off Covid-19 for 14 days||Twenty five districts in 15 states have not have reported any new Covid1-9 cases in the last 14 days even as the total number of infections in the country crossed 9,000, the government said Monday.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.All these places had reported positive cases of coronavirus earlier. In the list, Karnataka has the most number of districts at four. Following is the list of the 25 districts:1. Gondia in Maharashtra, 2. Rajnandgaon, Durg, Bilaspur in Chattisgarh3 .Davangiri,Kodagu,Tumkuru,Udupi in Karnataka , 4. South Goa in Goa, 5. Wayanad and Kottayam in Kerala, 6. West Imphal in Manipur,7. Rajouri in J&K,8. Aizwal West in Mizoram,9. Mahe in Puducherry,10. SBS Nagar in Punjab,11. Patna, Nalanda and Munger in Bihar,12. Pratapgarh in Rajasthan,13. Panipat,Rohtak,Sirsa in Haryana ,14. Pauri Garhwal in Uttrakhand ,15. Bhadradari Kothagudem in Telangana’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/25-districts-in-15-states-stave-off-covid-19-for-14-days/story-opKBMmV56h6kXekQ4gcEjK.html
13-04-2020||India||Covid-19: 42 evacuees from Iran test positive at army quarantine facilities in Rajasthan||As the country records a daily rise in Covid-19 cases, 42 people, all evacuees from Iran, have tested positive for the novel coronavirus at the Indian Army’s two quarantine facilities in Rajasthan, two government officials said on Monday on condition of anonymity.Figures released by Rajasthan government on Sunday show that a total of 52 evacuees --- 25 lodged in a facility at Jodhpur and the remaining 27 housed in the one at Jaisalmer --- are among the 796 people who have tested positive for the disease.However, the two officials cited above said that 51 people housed in the two quarantine centres had tested positive and nine of them had been cured, bringing down number of cases to 42.Evacuees from Iran arrived in Rajasthan in batches between March 15 and March 29. Those who have tested positive are being treated at tertiary care hospitals in Jodhpur and Jaisalmer.While the army is an important institutional pillar in the country’s fight against the pandemic, the force is also taking aggressive steps to tackle the spread of the disease within its ranks. Two soldiers, including an army doctor, tested positive for Covid-19 last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/42-evacuees-from-iran-test-positive-at-army-quarantine-facilities-in-rajasthan/story-2DgvKbjkUFPrZ7t7MUNlwJ.html
13-04-2020||India||Former Karnataka CM Kumaraswamy to go ahead with son’s wedding amid lockdown||The family of former Karnataka Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy has decided to go ahead with the marriage of his son Nikhil on April 17 amid the ongoing lockdown. Nikhil Kumaraswamy has acted in a couple of movies in the lead role and is also the president of Yuva Janata Dal (Secular) whose national president is former prime minister H D Deve Gowda.Deve Gowda is Nikhil’s grandfather. Nikhil had contested and lost the May 2019 Lok Sabha polls from Mandya seat.Kumaraswamy himself indicated the decision of the family to go ahead with a simple marriage ceremony on Friday. The event will take place at the bride Revathi’s residence in the presence of just about 50 close family members. The bride is the grand niece of former Congress minister Krishnappa, one of the richest politicians in the state.Earlier, before the lockdown the Kumaraswamy family was planning a big event at a customised marriage mandap on the Bangalore – Mysore highway. Nearly five lakh people were expected to attend the event primarily from the Ramanagara and Chennapatna constituency represented in the assembly by Kumaraswamy and his wife Anitha. The former CM indicated that as and when the situation permits they may hold a public event so that constituents and well wishers could bless the couple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-karnataka-cm-kumaraswamy-to-go-ahead-with-son-s-wedding-amid-lockdown/story-retQa6JNp6EcMe0casO14J.html
13-04-2020||India||Sonia Gandhi welcomes Modi’s move to give free rations to food security act beneficiaries||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Monday welcomed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s decision to provide five kilograms of free rations to beneficiaries of the National Food Security Act (NFSA) and suggested more measures to counter the impact of the Covid-19 lockdown.In a fresh letter to Modi, she welcomed the provision of free rations in addition to entitlements under the NFSA during April-June, saying the Covid-19 crisis has pushed many relatively food secure families into insecurity and poverty. She also listed her suggestions to overcome the impact of the lockdown on livelihoods.“Lakhs of vulnerable people across the country face chronic food insecurity due to the lockdown. This is tragic given that India has large buffer stock of food grains precisely for exigencies like the current pandemic,” Gandhi said. This was the Congress chief’s sixth letter to the prime minister since March 23 on different issues related to the pandemic.“I welcome your decision to provide free of cost, 5kg grain/person in addition to the entitlements under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) from April-June, 2020. However, given the adverse impact of the lockdown and its prolonged impact of people’s livelihoods, I write to you to consider a few suggestions,” she wrote.First, the provision of 10 kg of grains per person to NFSA beneficiaries must be extended by another three months till September, Gandhi said, adding food entitlements should be provided for free in view of the chronic economic distress faced by beneficiaries. Second, the 10 kg of grains per person should also be provided for free for six months to those without ration cards but facing food insecurity. “I would like to bring to your notice that all migrant labour who have been facing acute distress may not be holding NFSA cards. In addition, many deserving people have been excluded from the NFSA lists,” she wrote.Gandhi said the crisis has pushed many relatively food secure families into food insecurity and poverty, and insisted that population increases since 2011 were not considered for determining each state’s entitlement under NFSA.“These measures are critical to safeguard people against food inflation, at a juncture where supply chain disruptions are causing price rise.”Gandhi said the release of food grains to states will help create storage space for Food Corporation of India (FCI) to ramp up rabi season procurement of wheat and rice. “In our fight against the pandemic we must ensure that no one faces hunger,” she added.In her previous five letters, Gandhi talked about problems faced by construction and rural workers, apart from migrant labour, and demanded financial packages for them. She also sought the suspension of the Rs 20,000-crore “central vista” project and transferring all money under the PM-CARES fund to the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund (PM-NRF) to fight the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-welcomes-modi-s-move-to-give-free-rations-to-food-security-act-beneficiaries/story-XGukUpi8EoO9pHlmdKi8nO.html
13-04-2020||India||‘Stay where you are’: SC tells Indians stranded abroad||The three-member Supreme Court (SC) bench of Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde, and Justices LN Rao and MM Shantanagouder, while hearing two separate public interest litigations (PILs) on the evacuation of students stuck in the United Kingdom (UK) because of the ongoing lockdown to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), observed on Monday that “there are 50,000 students stuck there. How will you get them back?” “The numbers are many. Stay where you are. People in other countries cannot be brought back,” the bench said.Advocate Madhurima Mridul has filed one of the PILs, while CM Jayarajan filed the other. The SC adjourned the hearing of both these PILs by four weeks after the petitioners refused to withdraw them claiming the government needs to put in place a mechanism to ensure the safety of stranded Indian students in the UK.The British authorities had issued around 20,000 education visas to Indian students last year.A similar plea for the evacuation of stranded Indian workers from the Persian Gulf countries was also adjourned by four weeks.EVACUATION FROM US, IRANThe SC bench decided to hear on April 20 the petitions demanding the evacuation of Indian students from the United States (US) and Indian fishermen stuck in Iran due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Senior advocate Vibha Dutta Makhija has filed the plea regarding stranded Indian students in the US. The petition stated that the visas of most of these students would expire by Tuesday (April 15) and they were liable to be declared aliens by the US authorities.The Centre told the SC that in this scenario, countries across the world are extending visas. The apex court asked the Centre to submit a status report regarding stranded Indian students in the US, and will hear the matter on April 20.On a separate petition filed on behalf of Indian fishermen stuck in Iran, the Solicitor General, Tushar Mehta, sought a copy of the plea, which will also be heard on April 20.The petition claimed that around 860 Indian fishermen, mostly from Tamil Nadu, Kerala, and Gujarat, are stranded on the shores of Bandar-e-Moqam and Lavan Island in Iran’s Hormozgan province.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stay-where-you-are-sc-tells-indians-stranded-abroad/story-cYXoDU9KvPd41kH2aWpyGK.html
13-04-2020||India||Covid-19 infections cross 9,000 but no new cases in 25 districts for 14 days||Even as the number of Covid-19 cases continues to rise in India, the government on Monday pointed out that no news cases have been reported from 25 districts in 15 states where people have been affected by coronavirus. “No new cases have been detected in the last 14 days in 25 districts across 15 states which had earlier reported coronavirus cases,” Lav Agarwal, joint secretary in the health ministry said at the daily briefing.The total number of infections in the country rose 9152 by Monday afternoon.“There have been 796 COVID-19 cases, 35 deaths reported in the last 24 hours,” Agarwal said.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.Maharashtar continues to be the worst affected with 1,985 positive cases, followed by Delhi at 1,154 and Tamil Nadu with 1,043.He said the Core Strategy Group on Coovid-19 is working on molecular surveillance, rapid and economical diagnostics and new drugs.The government also said that there are enough testing kits as the pace of testing is being raised. “Till yesterday we conducted 2,06,212 Covid-19 tests. There is no need to worry. We have enough stock to conduct tests for six weeks,” said Raman Gangakhedkar, ICMR’s top scientist.Gangakhedkar also said the first consignment of Covid-19 testing kits from China will arrive on Tuesday. India has recently stepped up testing with the government authorising dozens of private labs to carry out tests. But even as the number of testing facilities has increased, there are also fears of false testing posing a danger to the fight against Covid-19. The World Health Organisation (WHO) had earlier said that more testing was the only way to know the actual scale of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-infections-cross-9-000-but-no-new-cases-in-25-districts-for-14-days/story-OKJFkUfsKWe4hgFtRiGtUI.html
13-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Maharashtra issues notification extending lockdown till April 30 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion curated for you. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Maharashtra issues notification extending lockdown till April 30The Maharashtra government issued a notification on Monday extending the lockdown in the state till April 30. The restrictions were set to end at midnight of April 14.Officials said the rising numbers of cases has forced the state government to extend lockdown till April 30. Read more. PM Modi meetings on Covid-19 lockdown in last lap, decision at 10 am tomorrowThe Prime Minister’s Office, which has been in the middle of the decision-making process during the Covid-19 lockdown, is holding one of the last rounds of meetings to finalise the modalities for the second phase of the graded lockdown that will be announced by PM Narendra Modi at 10 am tomorrow. Read more. Now, odd-even rule in Delhi’s wholesale markets to fight Covid-19Traders in Delhi’s crowded wholesale vegetable and fruit markets will have to follow the odd-even rule to maintain social distancing to break the chain of coronavirus infections, minister Gopal Rai has said. The minister had called a meeting of officials of all the wholesale markets on Monday to discuss ways to ensure social distancing in these areas as the national capital reported 1205 coronavirus disease cases and 24 deaths. Read more. ‘An invisible assasin’: RBI on Covid-19 effect on economyThe impact of the novel coronavirus outbreak on the Indian economy would depend on the depth, duration and diffusion of the crisis, the Reserve Bank of India said in the minutes of its emergency monetary policy committee (MPC) meeting in March. Read more. Ram Vilas Paswan’s son Chirag Paswan turns stylist for dad. Video can inspire you to do the sameChirag Paswan, Lok Janshakti Party chief and Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan’s son, recently took to Twitter to share a video which showcases some family bonding time. He also added that he is using the lockdown period to learn about new skills and create some beautiful memories too. Read more. Google Assistant helpline number launched for food, night shelters in IndiaGoogle India has been working with the central and state government to help people locate food and night shelters in India. Google also rolled out a Google Assistant helpline number for Vodafone Idea users who are on 2G and feature phones, or don’t have access to the internet. Read more. This is how good samaritans are helping Delhi survive in lockdown“We get calls from people who request for food telling us that they haven’t had even a morsel to eat in two days,” says Manisha Bhatia, president of the Abhinandan Educational and Welfare Society. Scores of daily wagers and migrant labourers have been facing a challenging time due to the lockdown, and are in dire need of food, masks and medicines. Read more. Gautam Gambhir names ‘apt replacement’ of MS Dhoni in India’s T20 sideStating that MS Dhoni’s chances of making it to the Indian team for T20 World Cup later this year will be slim if IPL doesn’t happen, former India opener Gautam Gambhir named an ‘apt’ replacement for the former India skipper. Lauding KL Rahul for his recent laurels both with the bat and with the gloves behind the stumps, Gambhir said the right-hander can be the one to replace Dhoni in the Indian T20 side. Read more. Sonakshi Sinha seeks police help after Vivek Agnihotri shares pic of her at shoot, he says dig not at herWith the nation under lockdown to control the spread of the deadly coronavirus pandemic, all shoots have come to a standstill. Actor Sonakshi Sinha was therefore shocked when filmmaker Vivek Agnihotri slammed her for shooting in these times, sharing a news report carrying a picture of her stepping out of a studio in Mumbai. “Who shoots in such times?” he tweeted. Read more. Behind the shocking video of Punjab cop’s hand being cutA policeman’s hand was chopped off with a sword after he and his colleagues were attacked by a group of Nihangs in Punjab on Sunday. Assistant sub-inspector Harjit Singh was rushed to the hospital and his hand was reattached after plastic surgery. Hindustan Times spoke to SSP Mandeep Singh who said that the hand which helps cannot be cut down. The cop added that Nihangs shouldn’t be vilified as criminal elements were involved in the attack. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-maharashtra-issues-notification-extending-lockdown-till-april-30-and-all-the-latest-news/story-Bpj7wz2oBQhiKkGHmM9B8J.html
13-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Week after its introduction, Railways ditches disinfection tunnels||Less than a week after the Central Railways (CR) set up a disinfection chamber at a loco shed in Bhusaval and also directed its staff not to install such (disinfection) tunnels at other railway junctions it has been decided to abandon the idea.The enclosures have nozzles that spray mist made up of a mixture of appropriate disinfectants (including sodium hypochlorite solution) diluted in water for 3-5 seconds from head to toe supposedly killing viruses. The mist is sprayed in quick intervals that ensures a person does not get wet. The technique is also used to clean large vehicles or products, and these chambers can also be set up at the back of large vans.But health experts were sceptical of the idea.“We were informed that this disinfection process might be harmful for people passing through. The tunnel was immediately shut down in Bhusaval, and an internal advisory has been issued that no such tunnels will be developed again,” said Sunil Udasi, chief public relations officer, CR that set up the tunnel within two days at a cost of Rs. 10,000. On April 11, the director of public health, Chennai, banned the use of such techniques in Tamil Nadu. “Disinfection tunnels will create a false sense of security and people may be diverted from washing their hands. In addition, spraying of alcohol, chlorine, lysol on human beings is not only harmful but also ineffective,” read a circular by Chennai’s public health services. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) insecticide department said they will not be installing disinfection tunnels in any of the containment zones in Mumbai. “These tunnels or chambers are not advisable. Spraying disinfectants needs a minimum contact time of 10 minutes and it is not good for the clothes or skin. This is the reason BMC has not gone for any such tunnels within its jurisdiction,” said Rajan Naringrekar, insecticide officer, BMC.Poddar Hospital in Worli, has set up a disinfection chamber. “Everything is being managed by the BMC. This was the first disinfection chamber located at any hospital in the city using 2% sodium hypochlorite solution. We do not know how effective this is,” said Narsu Patil, manager, Poddar Hospital. Similar chambers have also been set up at the Vashi Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) and Vashi police station.The Mumbai police have five disinfection vans at each of the city’s administrative regions. “Based on the concentration of disinfectants and health impact, we will soon take a call on whether to discontinue this,” said Pranay Ashok, deputy commissioner of police (operations).Meanwhile, the Maharashtra government is planning to install more such tunnels across market places, government buildings and railways stations with the help of the Institute of Chemical Technology (ICT), Mumbai.“Tunnels that have sprung up at various locations have been designed without any scientific basis. Techniques used previously for pesticide spraying purposes are being modified to spray humans during the outbreak. This will not work,” said Professor Aniruddha Pandit, ICT vice chancellor. “There are World Health Organisation guidelines that mandate permissible exposure and intake of such tunnels, and it is perfectly acceptable.”ICT plans to inaugurate its prototype tunnel on its campus at Matunga on Tuesday. “Based on its success, we will consider placing the technology at other locations. We have a capacity to make one tunnel every three to four days,” said Pandit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-week-after-its-introduction-railways-ditches-disinfection-tunnels/story-2EK6rKyDS7NEr5cafRvODJ.html
13-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Assam mulls cash help for residents stranded outside state||The Assam government decided on Monday to provide financial aid to residents of the state stranded across India due to the lockdown imposed to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Assam health and finance minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said the assistance will be provided to those from poor and lower-middle class families who are employed outside the state or had gone to other places for short visits.“We have been getting lot of queries regarding people who are facing hardships because of the lockdown. Since it seems the lockdown will get extended, we decided to reach out to them,” he said.Sarma added that there is no record of how many such people from the state could be stranded outside at present. He surmised that the figure could be anywhere between 50,000 to 400,000.Those in need will have to give a missed call to a helpline number (9615471547) to get assistance. Once that is done, a person seeking help will get a voice mail and an SMS giving a link to update their details and bank information.No decision has been taken yet on what amount would be provided as assistance. Sarma said the figure will be decided in the next few days based on the number of calls received.Till now, 21 persons from Assam stranded abroad have been given $1000 each. The next instalment of the same amount will be released on April 25. The assistance is being given to those who went on short trips, and not to those working or studying abroad.Assam has also helped cancer, kidney, heart and liver transplant patients from the state who went for treatment to places across India and are stuck there. These 213 patients got an interim relief of Rs 25,000 each.Till now, Assam has recorded 30 positive cases. While 29 patients are recovering in hospitals across the state, one patient died last week at the Silchar Medical College Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-assam-mulls-cash-help-for-residents-stranded-outside-state/story-zWDqax6pB4Z6rXYKp70PDJ.html
13-04-2020||India||Door-to-door supply of liquor in garb of vegetables and ration, police on alert||While people are vying for essential goods queuing up during easing of lockdown, liquor supply is being made door-to-door in the garb of selling vegetables or ration-related consumer goods in various colonies here.Initially, the police also took such complaints lightly but after several cases of seizure of vehicles ferrying illegal country-made and foreign-made liquor came into light, the administration started looking into the matter seriously.This illegal trade got exposed on Saturday evening when during a checking drive, a scooty driver and a pillion rider fell on the road while trying to hastily turn back his two-wheeler seeing the police personnel at one of the city’s major intersections in suburban Jwalapur, Durga square. To the surprise of the cops and passersby, a whole casket of liquor bottles fell over the road which was hidden under the garb of vegetables.Before the police personnel arrived, the two-wheeler riders fled from the spot. But the liquor bottles spread all over the road exposed the modus operandi of the smugglers who are still operating in the restrictive lockdown phase.Meanwhile, in an impromptu raid at Pathri, six persons with thirty litres of country-made liquor were arrested. At Toda Kalyanpur village in Roorkee, police seized 70 quarter bottles of country-made liquor from two persons who were spotted selling the liquor to prospective customers.According to Jwalapur police station house officer, Yogesh Singh Dev, the police has started checking suspected vehicles and patrolling is also being carried out in inner lanes to rein in the violators.A checking drive is also being conducted in rural segments of the district where country-made liquor is being made. This has resulted in police seizing and destroying 9,000 litres of illegally brewed liquor known as ‘lahan’ and related distilling equipment at the outskirts of Pathri based Dinarpur and Shahdevpur village.On social media, some locals recently brought to notice a government authorized liquor shop selling liquor behind closed doors. The police and excise department denied any such claims.On this, excise inspector Laxman Singh Bisht said that after the lockdown, the stock and sales data record of all the liquor shops will be analysed. He said that department personnel are also ensuring that such shops remain closed as per the government and district administration orders in the view of the coronavirus outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/door-to-door-supply-of-liquor-in-garb-of-vegetables-and-ration-police-on-alert/story-t92BMuEygR0v82jvbLm0AP.html
13-04-2020||India||Tamil Nadu joins growing list of states to extend lockdown till April 30||Tamil Nadu became the latest entrant on Monday to join the growing list of states extending the lockdown period. The southern state decided to prolong the lockdown till April 30.The announcement was made by chief minister K Palaniswami, underlining that the move was in accordance with the recommendations of medical and public health experts.Palaniswami, pointing out that he favoured prolonging the curbs till the end of this month in a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi held on Saturday, said several other State chief ministers too batted for extending the restrictions.Karnataka, Telangana, Maharashtra, Punjab, Odisha have already decided to extend the lockdown period till the end of this month.Prime Minister Modi is set to address the nation tomorrow as the three-week lockdown announced to stem the spread of the deadly coronavirus disease draws to a close. The country has so far reported 308 deaths related to the coronavirus disease, 35 in the last 24 hours, and 620 new Covid-19 cases taking the numbers to 9152, according to the Union health ministry data.Among the states, Maharashtra is the worst hit with 2064 coronavirus cases even as the government readies to hold meetings to discuss ways to implement its plan for the second phase of lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-joins-growing-list-of-states-to-extend-lockdown-till-april-30/story-0tZJuFEjzp7U1KN8qaBzvO.html
13-04-2020||India||Maharashtra issues notification extending lockdown till April 30||Mumbai: The Maharashtra government issued a notification on Monday extending the lockdown in the state till April 30. The restrictions were set to end at midnight of April 14.“It is expedient to take measures further to contain the spread of coronavirus, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred under section 2 of the Epidemic Disease Act, 1897 the state government directs that the lockdown orders shall now be extended up to and inclusive of April 30, 2020,” said the notification issued by the chief secretary, Ajoy Mehta.The state imposed a lockdown to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) from the midnight of March 23. The lockdown orders were revised twice, and the final order was issued on March 25.Maharashtra has the highest number of Covid-19 infections and fatalities across the country. The count also crossed 2,000 mark on Monday after 82 new cases were recorded since last night. The state’s tally stands at 2064 cases and toll at 149.Officials said the rising numbers of cases has forced the state government to extend lockdown till April 30.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray declared on Saturday to extend the lockdown till April 30. He has also said the state may have to extend some restrictions even further if people did not co-operate.However, the state is also considering announcing certain relaxations for areas where there are no cases. The decision is likely to come after a meeting involving the chief minister on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-issues-notification-extending-lockdown-till-april-30/story-YWLKvcrjWozSKOyc2G9XiM.html
13-04-2020||India||SPO killed, another injured in terrorist attack in J&K’s Kishtwar||A special police officer was killed and another injured on Monday in an attack by terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir’’s Kishtwar district, officials said.The terrorists attacked the patrol party of Jammu and Kashmir police in Dachan area of Kishtwar with an axe and killed Khurshid Iqbal and injured Vishal Singh, they said.Singh has been critically injured and taken to a hospital.According to officials, the terrorists also snatched the weapons of the policemen before fleeing. The area has been cordoned off and a search operation has been launched to trace the terrorists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spo-killed-another-injured-in-terrorist-attack-in-j-k-s-kishtwar/story-gYElI3QnPNMYsbWbKBnTSM.html
13-04-2020||India||Assam to give financial aid to those stranded outside due to lockdown||The Assam government on Monday decided to provide financial aid to those people from the state stranded across India due to the lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus. Assam health and finance minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said that the assistance will be provided to those from poor and lower-middle class families who are employed outside the state or had gone for short visits.“We have been getting lot of queries regarding people who are facing hardships because of the lockdown. Since now it seems the lockdown will get extended, we decided to reach out to them,” he said.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.Sarma added that there is no record of how many such people from the state could be stranded outside at present. He surmised that the figure could be anywhere between 50,000 to 4 lakh.Those in need will have to give a missed call to 9615471547 to get assistance. Once that is done they will a get voice mail and an SMS giving a link to update their details and bank information.No decision has been taken yet on what amount would be provided as assistance. Sarma said that the figure will be decided in the next few days based on the number of calls received.Till now 21 people from Assam stranded abroad have been given $1000 each. Next instalment of same amount will be released on April 25. The assistance is being given to those who went on short trips and not to those working or studying abroad.The Assam government has also provided Rs 25,000 as interim financial help to each of the 213 cancer, kidney, heart and liver transplant patients from the state who went for treatment to different places in the country and got stranded due to the lockdown. Till now Assam has recorded 30 Covid-19 positive cases. While 29 patients are recovering in hospitals across the state, one patient died last week at the Silchar Medical College Hospital.Sarma said that till Monday tests had been conducted on 3209 samples out of which 3070 cases were negative, 30 cases positive and results awaited for 109 samples.As on Monday Assam had 85,582 PPE kits, 91,000 N95 masks and 50.64 lakh, triple layer masks. The government has decided to give 3 triple-layer masks each to tea-garden workers who have joined duty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-to-give-financial-aid-to-those-stranded-outside-due-to-lockdown/story-EhtEADDGbApItHK2UVjREP.html
13-04-2020||India||Now, odd-even rule in Delhi’s wholesale markets to fight Covid-19||Traders in Delhi’s crowded wholesale vegetable and fruit markets will have to follow the odd-even rule to maintain social distancing to break the chain of coronavirus infections, minister Gopal Rai has said.Delhi’s development minister Gopal Rai had called a meeting of officials of all the wholesale markets on Monday to discuss ways to ensure social distancing in these areas as the national capital reported 1205 coronavirus disease cases and 24 deaths.Rai said traders will sell fruits and vegetables on alternate days under the odd-even scheme, which was the Delhi government’s flagship road rationing scheme to check air pollution by controlling the number of vehicles on the road.Also read: PM to address nation at 10 am tomorrow, expected to outline lockdown decisionThe minister also said vegetables will be sold from 6am to 11am and fruits from 2pm to 6pm in all the wholesale markets in the national capital, news agency PTI reported.Gopal Rai said while speaking to the agency that the Delhi government has formed four special task forces to ensure effective social distancing in these markets, some of which have densely places sheds.Several such rearrangements have been worked out at the Azadpur, Keshopur, Najafgarh and Mehrauli markets. While the first two have been subjected to staggered timings, the others have been relocated to more spacious zones.Watch | Woman throws her five children into river after argument with husbandThe Delhi government on Saturday directed the relocation of the Mehrauli vegetable mandi to Mehrauli bus terminal. The wholesale market was shifted to its new location by Sunday morning, where the local police had designated areas for vendors, ensuring a safe distance from one another. Markings were also made for the general public, to ensure six-foot gaps among them.The Azadpur mandi, the largest wholesale fruit and vegetable market in the country, has already implemented the odd-even rule and staggered its sale time from Monday.The decisions came amid reports that social distancing rules were not being followed at the mandi, spread over 80 acres.Adil Ahmad Khan, the chairperson of the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC), Azadpur, said there are 22 big sheds under which hundreds of traders sell vegetables and a huge number of people visit the market every day.“Under the odd-even rules, we will allow all the 22 sheds to operate according to their numbers. For instance, on even date, even-numbered sheds such as 0, 2, 4, 6, 8 will be allowed to function,” Khan had said.Traders, Khan said, can bring only one truck inside the Azadpur mandi. Until now, a trader could take three to four trucks inside the mandi, shrinking the space for others.Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia tweeted a couple of pictures on Monday morning that showed people at the market standing in queues in designated spots—circles drawn on the ground.“Social distancing at Azadpur Mandi,” Sisodia tweeted in Hindi.As the number of Covid-19 cases has been rising in the Capital, the Delhi government has ramped up measures to fight the Covid-19 outbreak, including identifying 43 hotspots where strict containment measures have been put in place. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said his government was focusing on zones designated “red” and “orange” to isolate and control the outbreak.Kejriwal has said the government will keep adding containment zones wherever new patients of the highly contagious disease are detected. He has also said that sanitisation and disinfection drives will be scaled up from Monday in the containment zones created across the city and “high-risk” areas ascertained by the health department.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/now-odd-even-rule-in-delhi-s-wholesale-markets-to-fight-covid-19/story-CwFepbmzZqeiq2aB3MzZ1M.html
13-04-2020||India||Varanasi landlord faces action for renting flat to Chinese tourist||A landlord who rented his flat to a Chinese tourist but did not inform authorities as is mandatory under the Foreigners’ Registration Act now faces possible action for failing to comply with regulations amid the coronavirus pandemic, police said.Zhou Juhua (31), a native of Hunan in China has been living in a flat in an apartment complex in in Varanasi’s Saket Nagar Colony since March 22. Police said that Zhou arrived in Varanasi in the last week of January and stayed in a hotel in the Dashashwamedh Ghat area till March 21. Through her tourist guide, the woman contacted Sambhav Chaturvedi, a flat owner for taking an apartment on rent. Chaturvedi did not submit the details of the foreigner to the foreigners’ registration authorities within 24 hours of her arrival at his premises. He said he gave the flat on rent to her after her guide narrated her problems. The landlord said he could not inform the police because he is stuck in Patna due to the lockdown.Station officer Lanka, Bharat Bhushan Tiwari said the local intelligence unit (LIU) informed them about the Chinese woman on Monday following which the police went for an inspection.“The Chinese woman has been found living in the flat. She is still there. The flat owner didn’t inform authorities that he gave his flat on rent to a Chinese woman. Action would be taken against the flat owner as per instruction by senior officers,” he said.An intelligence officer who did not wish to be named said that a case would be registered against the flat owner. Police said the woman’s visa is still valid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/varanasi-landlord-faces-action-for-renting-flat-to-chinese-tourist/story-a8tSxJBkQAR5HtBvzgDEGK.html
13-04-2020||India||Ambedkar Jayanti 2020: This Bhim Jayanti, ‘feed the needy’, distribute ration and masks||Every year, on April 14, India celebrates the birth anniversary of BR Ambedkar. Champion of Dalit rights and principal architect of the Constitution of India, Bhimrao Ramji Ambedkar was born on April 14, 1891, in present-day Madhya Pradesh’s Mhow. This year, on Babasaheb’s 129th birth anniversary, political leaders have asked the countrymen to help the poor and those hit by the coronavirus pandemic and pay their tributes to the legend while following Covid-19 lockdown measures.  “Feed the needy”Bharatiya Janata Party president JP Nadda urged all BJP karyakartas to pay tribute to BR Ambedkar on his birth anniversary by helping the needy amid the coronavirus crisis. He asked all party workers and state unit heads to distribute ration kits and face covers as the nation struggles to fight the battle against coronavirus. “Distribute ration kits to every home in at least two poor settlements under the ‘Feed the Needy’ programme and face covers under the ‘Wear Face Cover Stay Safe’ programme in each mandal of a state. Do ensure to follow public hygiene and social distancing norms,” the BJP president said in his message.Nadda also asked party leaders and workers to run awareness campaigns in every poor settlement on good health practices to stay free of coronavirus and build a healthy society.Pay floral tributes in officeIn the view of the Covid-19 pandemic, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath ordered all ministers and officials to individually pay floral tributes in their office.“I have directed all ministers to offer floral tributes to Ambedkar in their offices and people should do the same,” he said.Help the poor amid Covid-19 crisisBSP chief Mayawati has appealed to party workers to follow lockdown restrictions and pay their ributes in their homes because of the spread of coronavirus.The BSP supremo described Ambedkar as “a symbol of humanistic thought and sacrifice,” in a tweet. “A symbol of humanistic thought and sacrifice, Babasaheb Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar is a source of motivation for his followers especially BSP workers. But in the current Corona pandemic scenario, it is an appeal to all to follow restrictions imposed by the government, and celebrate the anniversary in their homes and pay tributes.”In another tweet, she asked party workers to deliberate upon the condition of the poor and harassment of Ambedkar’s followers during the pandemic.“Sabhi ki bhojan”The Uttar Pradesh unit of the Communist Party of India (CPI) said it will commemorate Ambedkar Jayanti as ‘sabhi ko bhojan, sabhi tak ilaaj diwas’, demanding food and medical treatment for all.“The birth anniversary of Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar on April 14 will be observed as ‘sabhi ko bhojan, sabhi tak ilaaj diwas’ (food and medical treatment to all) by party workers and supporters along with their family members, neighbours and close friends, while adhering to social distancing,” CPI’s state secretary Girish said in a statement.Ambedkar Jayanti is also known as Bhim Jayanti and is celebrated as a public holiday across India since 2015.BR Ambedkar was conferred the Bharat Ratna posthumously on March 31, 1990.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ambedkar-jayanti-2020-this-bhim-jayanti-feed-the-needy-distribute-ration-and-masks-leaders-urge/story-UTUDZ6nMqXVDx59il3cigJ.html
13-04-2020||India||Radio stations spread positivity during times of Covid-19 with light Twitter banter||At a time when the whole world is battling the deadly coronavirus, radio brands have forgotten their rivalry on market share, revenues and other business metrics to come together and bring stories around Covid-19.All the major radio brands of the country have started conversation on Twitter which is aimed at highlighting the united spirit of the country, and will talk about the healthcare workers, police officials and other essential service providers who are risking their lives to serve others in these troubling times.The conversation was started by HT Media’s Fever FM. “Hey Man! Still Khush?” said Fever FM’s post in which Radio Mirchi was also tagged.Radio Mirchi replied, “Safe and khush? Aur aap? Abhi bhi baap?”Ishq FM, owned by Living Media Group, joined in with a tweet, “What’s up guys? Doing the ishq without us o what?”“Don’t be envious @IshqFM we are all in this together, we are one world!” Radio One replied.“Hey, hey, Ishq Ka Fever, Mirchi bhi aur One bhi? Nasha toh hona hi hain,” came a reply from Radio Nasha. Making sure there is no ‘bukhaar’ only entertainment!The initiative has been planned to bring positivity at a time when the entire country is under the grip of coronavirus, and has seen hundreds of death.A recent research had said that the radio has emerged as trusted source of information during the Covid-19 pandemic.According to AZ Research PPL, 82 per cent people have been tuning in to radio during Covid-19, with FM channels emerging as the second most credible source of information for the masses. As per the research, radio has a credibility score of 6.27, second only to the internet which is at 6.44 and TV at 5.74.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/radio-stations-spread-positivity-during-times-of-covid-19-with-light-twitter-banter/story-YG55ZasEvbK8z0hSKeCO8H.html
13-04-2020||India||Earthquake measuring 2.7 hits Delhi for 2nd day in a row||An earthquake measuring 2.7 on the Richter scale hit Delhi for the second day in a row. No reports of damage have emerged so far. The Delhi residents are observing the three-week nationwide lockdown, which ends tomorrow, to combat the coronavirus pandemic.The Sunday’s earthquake measured 3.5 on Richter scale with epicentre at Sonia Vihar in the national capital, according to the National Centre for Seismology (NCS) under the ministry of earth sciences.According to experts, the reason people felt strong tremors here is also because the depth of the earthquake is moderate (not very deep), the epicentre is in Delhi and there is very little ambient noise or vibrations induced by traffic movement.According to a statement by NCS, Delhi experienced last perceptible earthquake of magnitude 3.5 on April 24 in 2018 and prior to that earthquake of magnitude 3.8 occurred on September 7, 2011 near the Delhi-Haryana border. Delhi had also recorded low magnitude earthquake with epicentre within Delhi in 2007. Another similar earthquake was recorded in Delhi on April 28, 2001 of 3.4 magnitude, according to officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/for-the-2nd-day-in-a-row-earthquake-jolts-delhi/story-slzlFJ8q6gdrgneypuBxuL.html
13-04-2020||India||PM to address nation at 10 am tomorrow, expected to outline lockdown decision||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation on the prevailing coronavirus situation in the country on Tuesday, April 14. The Prime Minister is likely to give a final word on the coronavirus lockdown which will enter its final day tomorrow. The Prime Minister announced the 21-day nationwide coronavirus lockdown on March 25 to break the chain of Covid-19 infections in the country. Prime Minister @narendramodi will address the nation at 10 AM on 14th April 2020.In a meeting with chief ministers last week, the Prime Minister was urged by heads of all states to extend the lockdown by at least a fortnight. Though a final word on the lockdown extension is awaited from the Prime Minister, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had already hinted on the matter in a tweet on Saturday.“PM has taken correct decision to extend lockdown. Today, India’s position is better than many developed countries because we started lockdown early. If it is stopped now, all gains would be lost. To consolidate, it is imp to extend it,” the Kejriwal’s tweet read. PM has taken correct decision to extend lockdown. Today, India’s position is better than many developed countries because we started lockdown early. If it is stopped now, all gains would be lost. To consolidate, it is imp to extend itStates like Telangana, Maharahstra, Odisha and West Bengal have already extended the lockdown till April 30. Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik-led Odisha government was the first state to extend the lockdown beyond April 14.Some ministries have suggested reopening of production units and restarting work in the agriculture sector provided all the mandatory guidelines for sanitation and social distancing are followed.The union home ministry which has been issuing guidelines to be followed by all sectors on Monday reiterated that all offices except those in the defence, central armed police forces, essential services such as power, CNG, postal services etc will remain closed.Offices that have been kept out of the purview of the lockdown include utilities, sanitation, municipal bodies, police, home guards and civil defence. Hospitals, veterinary hospitals and all related medical establishments including manufacture and distribution units are allowed to remain functional.During the 3-week lockdown, the government undertook a slew of measures to ensure that citizens do not bear the brunt of the lockdown. Relief packages and disbursement of cash was announced for various sections of the society under many government schemes.Commercial and private establishments are closed unless these are shops that provide food, groceries fruits and vegetables and dairy products. Banks, ATMs, petrol pumps power generation and transmission services are also allowed to function during the lockdown. On Monday, the total number of coronavirus tally in the country crossed the 9,000-mark with 9,152 cases. According to the Ministry of Health, India now has 7,987 active Covid-19 cases while as many as 856 patients have recovered or discharged. The coronavirus death toll in the country stands at 308. In Maharashtra, the total number of coronavirus cases breached the 2,000-mark while the national capital inched towards the 1,500-mark.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prime-minister-narendra-modi-to-address-the-nation-on-april-14/story-2ImNO2emAR20kTGhOZgNWJ.html
13-04-2020||India||Maharashtra minister in quarantine after coming in contact with Covid-19 patient||Maharashtra housing minister Jitendra Awhad has decided to go under self-quarantine, after coming in contact with a police officer who tested positive for coronavirus disease Covid-19.Awhad is an MLA from Mumbra-Kalwa assembly constituency which is under complete lockdown due to the increasing number of Covid-19 positive cases. Hence, as a precautionary measure Awhad decided to self-quarantine himself for few days.“The final reports are yet to arrive, it is suspected that Awhad’s bodyguards are also at high risk. He has decided to self-quarantine after the police officer was tested positive. He had come in contact with the police officer,” said Sandeep Malvi, PRO, Thane Municipal Corporation.Awhad was unavailable for comment. He is the first minister in Maharashtra to quarantine self.Awhad had recently urged citizens of his constituency to stay indoors or else it could prove fatal.Moreover, a reporter and cameraman from a regional channel in Thane has also been tested positive on Monday. Total coronavirus positive cases in Thane is 51 till now.Eighty-two more cases of Covid-19 have been reported in Maharashtra on Monday, taking the total number of coronavirus cases in the state to 2064.According to Maharashtra Health Department, out of the 82 new cases of Covid-19, three are from Pune, 59 from Mumbai, 12 from Malegaon, five from Thane, one from Vasai Virar, and two from Palghar.India’s tally of positive COVID-19 cases rose to 9,152 following an increase of 796 cases in the last 24 hours, the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-minister-in-quarantine-after-coming-in-contact-with-covid-19-patient/story-sCSFZNBcdlzkQH0gGOxYwJ.html
13-04-2020||India||‘Markaz has impeccable record’: Lawyer explains Tablighi chief’s self-quarantine||Fuzail Ahmad Ayyubi is an Advocate-on-Record practicing at the Supreme Court. He has been practicing law for 15 years and is now representing the Tablighi Jamaat, which is at the centre of a massive controversy for defying prohibitory orders and becoming human carriers as a result of the congregation at the Markaz in Nizamuddin.Ayyubi has previously been the counsel in various high profile cases including that of Assam NRC.Recently, on his petition, the apex court issued notices to all State/UT governments to respond to the plea seeking establishment of community kitchens across the country. In an extensive conversation with IANS he details what exactly happened at the Markaz. Excerpts:The allegation against Tablighi Jamaat is a serious one that they held this congregation despite prohibitory orders and now the Chief Maulana Saad is not coming out to join investigations?The congregation of TJ existed much prior to the issuance of any prohibitory orders. Pursuant to the orders, steps were taken by Markaz to disband and disperse the congregation. The people got stranded in Markaz as they belonged to places outside Delhi. They cant go back to their homes due to the sudden lockdown announced by the Delhi government and subsequently by the central government. Rail services were shut down and eventually domestic flights were also stopped, thus eliminating any possibility for the participants to return.It is wrong to say that Maulana Saad has not joined investigation. Police authorities have sought information from him in terms of Section 91 of the CrPC. He has duly submitted the requisite information to them, very much complying with such notice and with the investigation. The investigation is underway, therefore nothing much can be said at this stage. Is he running away from the law?Markaz Nizamuddin has an impeccable record of abiding by the law, and assisting the authorities whenever needed.Maulana Saad is a responsible citizen and head of this global movement, therefore, such a question does not arise. He is in self quarantine as advised by his Doctor. The Police authorities know this and are following the medical protocol.As I have said, the notice seeking information has been duly replied to as well.Many foreign TJ members have been booked in Uttar Pradesh for flouting visa norms, what legal recourse will you take?Earlier it was said that visas of around 900 foreigners TJ members is revoked and accordingly they will be deported back to their countries. But now it has come to light that FIRs are being registered against foreign TJ members and they are being sent to jail like in Bahraich, UP. We are trying to get in touch with the authorities so that legal aid can be provided to such foreigners.There are many suggestions that markaz chief should come out and speak on the issue to offer clarity?People can give suggestions as they like, but a movement like TJ operates in a certain way. People outside the Muslim community aren’t familiar with Markaz Nizamuddin and they want to know about it but it should also be respected that TJ has never been associated with the media, it has never sought any publicity, and has not used media or TVchannels ever in its history and has remained apolitical.That’s how they have conducted themselves over the last century and perhaps may want to continue that way only.There are reports in public domain that many members of TJ have been involved in terror activities in various parts of the globe? What do you have to say on this?This allegation is completely misplaced and mischievous. Markaz Nizamuddin has been around since 1926 and serves as the global headquarters of Tablighi Jamaat, which is a purely apolitical socio-religious movement. Volunteers and participants from across the world come to the Markaz to learn about Islamic teachings with emphasis on building a good moral character so that as Muslims they refrain from all that’s evil and espouse all that’s good.The effort started as a response to the moral degeneration of Muslims, and over the last century has benefited millions of Muslims, enabling them to lead a life of responsibility and respect across the globe.Therefore any connection with such inhuman activities like terror is contrary to the very purpose for which TJ exits. This is a global movement, and security agencies in India and across the world are fully aware of its existence and how it works. TJ is perhaps the largest social reform movement in the world, and is respected for the extraordinary effort they have undertaken.Do you think media has been biased towards you while reporting on the Markaz issue.At the time when humanity is facing its biggest challenge, it is sad and unfortunate that an immature section of the media portrayed the Markaz issue in a very biased and dishonest manner. Nevertheless police authorities have now started taking action against fake news. Since this is a global movement which is respected worldwide we should not do anything which may bring bad name to our great country.For instance, there are repeated reports of Maulana Saad allegedly being away from law, when in fact, he has replied to the notice given by the police, despite being under quarantine. However, the latter aspect has not been reported equally when compared to the former. Media reportage on any issue must take into account all facts and must in any case not give the slightest reason for sensationalize any issue. Unfortunately, certain sections of media have failed on that front.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/markaz-has-impeccable-record-lawyer-explains-tablighi-chief-s-self-quarantine/story-UCu4f02dbcJtAScYTHvBlL.html
13-04-2020||India||Travel nod to Wadhawans: Shiv Sena trains guns at former chief minister Fadnavis||The Shiv Sena on Monday targeted former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis over the controversy involving permission given to DHFL scam accused Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan to travel during 21-day lockdown to check the spread of Covid-19.In an editorial in party mouthpiece Saamana, the Sena said that IPS officer Amitabh Gupta, who gave permission to Wadhawans to travel to a hill station amid lockdown, was appointed in the state Home department by Fadnavis.“He must have trusted the efficiency of Gupta before appointing him into the Home department. It is now clear and self-explanatory who has been actually behind Gupta’s decision and on whose instructions he would have put the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government into a crisis,” the editorial in Saamana said.“It is the same officer (Gupta), appointed by previous chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, who has created trouble for the state government by favouring the Wadhawan family,” it further said.The Sena editorial also called it part of a “conspiracy”, which could not succeed.After Gupta allegedly gave the Wadhawans a letter which facilitated their travel to Mahabaleshwar hill station in Satara district last week, Fadnavis had said, “It is not possible a senior IPS officer would do such gross mistake knowing the consequences on his own.”Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan, accused in Deewan Housing Finance Limited (DHFL) scam, are under the scanner in the Yes Bank and Punjab and Maharashtra Co-operative Bank scams.The CBI registered an offence against the Wadhawan brothers, Yes Bank’s then Managing Director and CEO Rana Kapoor and others on March 7.Since then Kapil Wadhawan and Dheeraj Wadhawan were absconding, news agency PTI quoted a CBI official as saying.The Wadhawan family travelled to Mahabaleshwar, bypassing sealed district borders aided by a letter given by Gupta on his letterhead as the principal secretary (special), Home department.The letter issued by Gupta stated, “This is to just inform you that following are known to me as they are my family friends and travelling from Khandala to Mahabaleshwar for family emergency. Particulars of the cars are as given below.” The letter signed by Gupta concluded, “Hence you are here by informed through this letter to cooperate with them to reach their destination.” The letter also had the number of five vehicles and 23 names from the family and friends.Gupta has been sent on complusory leave, and the state government has initiated a probe in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/travel-nod-to-wadhawans-shiv-sena-trains-guns-at-former-chief-minister-fadnavis/story-4cg54AxVdefTu4DXr41LfP.html
13-04-2020||India||Covid-19: AIIMS shuts down sanitisation unit citing lack of scientific evidence||The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) authorities in the national capital have shut down a personal sanitisation unit, which was installed outside the hospital’s emergency department four days ago for disinfecting its frontline staff combating the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, because of lack of scientific evidence on its effectiveness.“The unit is in place. But its use has been temporarily stopped. We’ve found out that the sodium hypochlorite solution used in sprays isn’t effective for disinfection and, at times, can cause itching,” said Dr DK Sharma, medical superintendent. AIIMS.He suggested more effective ways to fight the infection for the hospital staff such as coughing into their elbows while taking care of non-Covid-19 patients and using personal protective equipment (PPE) units such as masks, gloves and overalls while screening those suffering from the viral outbreak. If the trial run of the personal sanitisation unit was satisfactory, the hospital authorities would have installed more such units in other areas, especially at the trauma centre that has been converted into a full-fledged facility exclusively treating Covid-19 patients. The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) developed the disinfectant chamber of the personal sanitisation unit and its utility is being evaluated by the hospital authorities.Each unit is in the form of a small chamber that can be used for disinfection of people in areas of controlled entry and exit such as hospitals, shopping malls, commercial complexes, and other critical installations. The decontamination starts by using a foot pedal at the entry. Upon entering the chamber, an electrically operated pump creates a disinfectant mist of hypo sodium chloride released through at least 20 nozzles. The mist spray is calibrated for a 25-second operation and stops automatically. People undergoing disinfection will need to keep their eyes shut inside the chamber.The dimensions of the enclosure are around eight feet in length, four feet in width and about eight feet high, and is equipped with a drainage mechanism and a roof-mounted and bottom tanks that have a cumulative capacity of 700 litres. A unit requires a refill after it has disinfected about 650 people, and up to 100 of them can avail of it in an hour. Each unit costs about Rs 1.48 lakh“The DRDO authorities gave us a single unit, as we wanted to get a sense of how well it works. It is exclusively meant for the hospital staff, who are part of the Covid-19 management,” Dr Sharma added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiims-shuts-down-sanitisation-unit-citing-lack-of-scientific-evidence/story-mnciou1yNHK1TpyHHTD7fM.html
13-04-2020||India||Over 32 crore poor got Rs29,352 crore in cash aid since March 26: Govt||New Delhi: The government has disbursed Rs 29,352 crore in the bank accounts of 32.32 crore beneficiaries since the launch of a welfare scheme by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on March 26 to protect the poor from the impact of Covid-19 lockdown.The Rs 1.7-lakh crore welfare package under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY) has already provided financial support to 19.86 crore women under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY), a finance ministry statement said.About Rs 9,930 crore has reached 97% PMJDY accounts of women, it said.PMJDY is a national mission for financial inclusion that was launched on August 28, 2014 to provide universal access to banking facilities, such as a zero balance account, to the poor.According to PMJDY’s website, there are 38.08 crore accounts under the scheme with total deposits of Rs 119,707 crore as of April 1.Sitharaman had announced financial aid of Rs 500 a month for 20 crore women with Jan Dhan accounts for three months so that they can run their households during the lockdown.“The robust digital payment infrastructure has enabled the prompt transfer of cash payment under the PMGKY. About 93% of the 8 crore farmers have already received Rs 14,846 crore cash assistance under the PM-KISAN,” a finance ministry spokesperson said.While launching the Rs 1.7-lakh crore package on March 26, Sitharaman had announced the Rs 2,000 instalment of PM-KISAN would be “front-loaded” and given immediately.The Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) programme, launched on December 1, 2018, provides Rs 6,000 a year as cash support to all farmer families across the country in three equal instalments.The spokesperson said the government has transferred Rs 1,405 crore into the bank accounts of 2.82 crore widows, senior citizens and physically challenged as of April 13.The welfare package had promised Rs 1,000 as ex-gratia payment to economically poor widows, citizens above the age of 60, and the physically challenged under the National Social Assistance Programme (NSAP). The amount will be given in two instalments.NSAP is a centrally sponsored scheme that provides financial aid to the elderly, widows and persons with disabilities in the form of social pensions.As announced by Sitharaman, the government has so far disbursed financial support to 2.17 crore building and other construction workers involving Rs 3,071 crore, the spokesperson said.Announcing the scheme on March 26, Sitharaman had said there is already a fund for the welfare of construction and other workers. This had, at the moment, Rs 31,000 crore and 35 million workers were registered under it. “We have given directions to state governments to utilise the funds to provide assistance to construction workers to protect them,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/about-32-crore-poor-have-got-rs28-256-crore-in-cash-aid-since-march-26-govt/story-4AMsxRWFUGJDFl2meAxbQK.html
13-04-2020||India||2 dead,1 injured in chemical plant blast in Maharashtra’s Tarapur||Two workers were killed and another was injured after a huge blast at a surfactant unit in a chemical zone in Tarapur of Maharashtra’s Palghar, police said.Pradip Kasbe, an inspector at the Boisar MIDC police station, said the dead workers have been identified as Vijay Sawant, a 44-year-old resident of Pastal in Boisar, and Sameer Khoja, 48, from Palghar.Runal Thakur, 35, was admitted in a hospital in Boisar, Kasbe said.The blast took place at Galaxy Surfactants, located in Plot M 3 of Tarapur chemical zone, at 11:30am in the reactor where the raw material for surfactants was being manufactured.The unit has 250 staff and the management had sought permission from the collector of Palghar to allow 105 workers and management personnel to work at the factory. The sound of the blast could be heard in the 5-km periphery of the unit in Nandgaon and Murbhe villages, Kasbe said. Two fire tenders from MIDC Fire Brigade have controlled the fire due to the blast, he added. This is the first accident during the national lockdown in an industrial unit manufacturing essential products in Palghar district.The collector had given permission to start industries which manufacture medical products like masks, hand wash, sanitisers and other personal care and hygiene items essential for people to use to fight the coronavirus outbreak. Galaxy Surfactants was one such unit allowed to operate and Monday was the first day of its operation, said Kasbe. “We are in the process of filing an accidental death report (ADR) and the post mortem report is awaited. We will file an FIR only after we receive a report from the director of industrial safety and health (DISH), Vasai,” Kasbe said.Police are investigating the accident, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/blast-in-sanitiser-unit-in-tarapur-chemical-zone/story-LStl3b1jks15OaOTOsSyWI.html
13-04-2020||India||Coronavirus Update: Maharashtra breaches 2,000 mark with 82 new Covid-19 cases||Maharashtra on Monday recorded 2064 cases of Covid-19 with 82 new infections, including 59 in Mumbai, the state’s health department said, even as the government will hold meetings to discuss ways to implement its plan for the second phase of lockdown.Other than the 59 Covid-19 patients in Mumbai, there were 12 in Malegaon, five in Thane, three in Pimpri Chinchwad, two in Palghar and one in Vasai virar -1 according to officials.No deaths were reported from anywhere, they said, on the 20th day of the nationwide lockdown to break the chain of infections.The state had crossed 1000 cases last Tuesday but reported more than 100 per day the past nine days, including three days that saw more than 200 cases.Amid the rising number of coronavirus infections, the state government will hold high-level meetings on Monday to discuss the plan to divide the districts into green, orange and red zones and allow industrial activities in areas that have no cases.The state may relax the restrictions in the second phase in eight districts with no patients till date once the Centre clarified its stand on their implementation.Also read: Life after lockdown: What government plans to do post-April 14Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has already announced that the lockdown period will be extended by two week after a video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday.Thackeray had last week hinted at relaxing the restrictions in some parts.The lockdown, which was scheduled to end on Tuesday, has now been extended till April 30 and the CM has warned to extend it further if the people don’t follow the restrictions strictly. Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai, Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad, which are earmarked as red zones are expected to see restrictions tightened and the area with no or fewer numbers of patients may get have more relaxed rules.The movements in these densely-populated areas are going to the restricted further with the help of more security forces.Also read: Ministers back in offices as Centre debates lockdown decisionGadchiroli, Chandrapur, Wardha, Bhandara, Nanded, Solapur, Parbhani and Nandurbar district have no Covid-19 patients and are likely to be earmarked at green zones and may relaxation in restrictions.The industrial units with a minimum number of employees and the capacity to implement social distancing are likely to be allowed to open their shutters. The industrial activities are expected to be allowed only these districts in green zones, the state’s health minister Rajesh Tope has hinted. Under the orange zone which will have districts with less than 15 positive patients, there may be a relaxation on activities for essential services.India on Monday recorded 308 deaths related to the coronavirus disease, 35 in the last 24 hours, and 620 new Covid-19 cases taking the tally across the country to 9152, according to the Union health ministry data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-maharashtra-breaches-2-000-mark-with-82-new-covid-19-cases/story-oI8AfKb5nphejnTzq5C2hI.html
13-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times| Life after lockdown: What government plans to do post-April 14 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion curated for you. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Life after lockdown: What government plans to do post-April 14India is planning to restart some economic activity after April 14 to help offset the economic damage of a nationwide coronavirus lockdown, even as it weighs extending the stringent measure.Read full story here.In Covid-19 testing push, ICMR may collect samples from areas with zero infectionAs the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in India nears 10,000, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) is considering pooled testing of people with symptoms in areas from where no SARS-Cov-2 (the virus that causes Covid-19) infections have been reported, in a move that will widen testing significantly and highlight the actual spread of the disease in India.Read full story here.Covid-19: 14 villages in Uttar Pradesh sealed because of one manThe district administration in Uttar Pradesh’s Badaun has put 14 villages under quarantine after a man tested positive for coronavirus disease Covid-19.Read full story here.Anil Kapoor’s wife Sunita went on a solo honeymoon, said yes to the actor only when he could afford a cookAnil Kapoor and wife Sunita have been together for over 46 years, which includes 10 years of courtship and 35 years of marriage. The two are very different from each other and that seems to only bring them together. Their unshakable bond is what makes their love story unique.Read full story here.TikTok crosses 1 billion installs on Google Play StoreTikTok crossed 1 billion downloads on both Android and iOS last year in February. The short video app has now crossed 1 billion installs on Google Play Store alone. TikTok has been witnessing a surge due to the lockdown, and it’s leading to major milestones for the app.Read full story here.Superheroes are real, this video shows their real identities. WatchIf anyone tells you superheroes aren’t real, here’s a video you can show them to prove they in fact are. The video shows the real identity of some superheroes and once you watch the video, you too will believe they’re walking among us.Read full story here.Watch: Uttarakhand cops’ unique punishment for foreigners violating lockdown10 foreign nationals were found violating lockdown norms in Uttarakhand’s Rishikesh. Uttarakhand police adopted a unique method to punish the violators. Violators were asked to write an apology note repeatedly for 500 times. Police official said that the foreigners thought they were out in the open during the relaxation period. Watch video.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-life-after-lockdown-what-government-plans-to-do-post-april-14-and-all-the-latest-news/story-hd9lVaLWVngJQ7ACvTsIkJ.html
13-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Maharashtra may discuss plans to ease curbs in some areas today||The Maharashtra government has started chalking out its plan about how to implement the extended statewide lockdown till April 30 to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak by dividing the districts in three distinctive zones --- red, orange and green -- and begin industrial activities in those that have not reported a single positive case to date. The state government may relax the lockdown restrictions in the second phase in eight Covid-19-free districts, officials said.The plan will be finalised after a meeting to be held later on Monday. On Monday morning, Maharashtra reported 82 new Covid-19 positive cases, as the total count rose to 2,064. Of them, Mumbai alone has reported 1,357. Of the 82 new cases, Mumbai has reported 59, Malegaon 12, Thane five, Pimpri-Chinchwad three, Palghar two and Vasai Virar one. The state has also reported 149 Covid-19 related deaths so far.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray hinted last week at relaxing the restrictions in some parts of the state. Thackeray also warned that the lockdown could be extended further if people don’t strictly follow the restrictions. The restrictions in densely populated urban centres such as Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai, Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad, which are earmarked as red zones, as they have reported over 15 Covid-19 cases, are expected to be further tightened. The state government has tweaked its strategy for the containment zones in these districts, as the movements in these areas are going to be restricted further after the deployment of additional security forces. The districts that have been earmarked as green zones, where no Covid-19 positive case has been reported, are likely to get more relaxations as far as lockdown is concerned. Gadchiroli, Chandrapur, Wardha, Bhandara, Nanded, Solapur, Parbhani, and Nandurbar are part of the green zones in the state.State health minister Rajesh Tope has hinted that industrial units can resume their operations in these eight districts, which fall under the category of green zones, if they scale down their workforce in a bid to maintain social distancing norms. While the districts earmarked as orange zones, which have reported less than 15 Covid-19 positive cases, are likely to see a relaxation in the supply of essential services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-maharashtra-may-discuss-plans-to-ease-curbs-in-some-areas-today/story-Li30W16C1G9Z40tqtl0bdM.html
13-04-2020||India||Meet Chandmal Jingar, a Covid-19 warrior from Rajasthan’s Bhilwara||For nearly 10 days, Chandmal Jingar had no contact with his family while he worked as a nurse at the Covid-19 ward of the district hospital in Bhilwara, often skipping meals as he cared for people infected by the coronavirus.Jingar,41, sang songs and cracked jokes to keep everyone’s morale high as he looked after the patients in the hospital located in an area hit hard by the coronavirus.When his wife and children told him to get himself shifted to some other ward in the hospital, Jingar assured his family there was no need to worry and it was the duty of every health worker to take responsibility for serving the people. Sharing his experiences at the Covid-19 ward, Jingar said it was on the evening of March 17 that a doctor from Bhilwara district was admitted to Mahatma Gandhi Hospital with symptoms of being infected by the coronavirus. Three days later, he tested positive and a special Covid-19 ward was created in the hospital. The number of patients had increased by this time.“By March 20, fear and panic about the virus had gripped the city as the number of positive case reached about 20 in a few days. Before the Covid-19 ward, my duty was in the OT,” he said.“On March 20, I met the nursing superintendent and requested him to shift me to the Covid-19 ward. The reason behind the request was that to fight any disease, you need to boost confidence and positivity among patients and I was sure I could do that.”From March 22, Jingar started working in the Covid-19 ward, with his shift lasting from 7.30am to 4pm. “At 7am, I would reach the hospital. The first thing I did was wash my hands, wear gloves and then the personal protective equipment (PPE) kit.“By 7.30am, I would enter the ward, take readings of the patients and give them medicines according to the doctor’s recommendation. I would ensure every single thing inside was sanitised and cleaned at regular intervals,” he said.After 4pm, Jingar would remove the PPE kit, put it in a solution of hypochlorite, and later it would be decomposed. After duty, he would go to a nursing hostel where he lived with other colleagues in quarantine.In the evenings, Jingar would talk to his family, including his wife Geeta, a teacher in a government school, his 14-year-old son Vaibhav and his 8-year-old daughter Pratibha.“Initially, my kids were afraid but later they started boosting my confidence as they got to know their dad is a corona warrior and is serving the people,” Jingar said.The morale of the staff of the Covid-19 ward was affected when two elderly patients died on consecutive days because of multiple organ failure, even though the cause of their death wasn’t Covid-19.“After the deaths, a few of my colleagues and I would sing songs, crack jokes and talk about spiritual things to make the ambiance of the ward positive. One of our videos went viral, which lightened the environment of the ward and helped us in changing the mindset of the patients,” said Jingar.Within a few days the positive cases tested negative. “Now, we have only one patient in the Covid-19 ward, which was once the epicentre of positive patients. I am sure this patient will also turn negative,” he said.“Anyone who is detected for Covid-19 shouldn’t panic as it can be overcome through a combination of medicines, precaution and will power,” he said.On April 1, Jingar went to meet his family after getting permission from his seniors, and he returned to his duties at the Covid-19 ward three days later.Rajasthan’s Bhilwara district was one of the first Covid-19 clusters to be identified in the country and was placed under total lockdown by the state government to contain the spread of coronavirus.From being a hot spot, Bhilwara, about 250km south of state capital Jaipur, is now being talked about for its “ruthless containment” model and administrations elsewhere are following the steps taken by the district’s authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meet-chandmal-jingar-one-of-the-covid-19-warriors-of-bhilwara/story-SNQcc3i4zb9WWeo8hF4c8H.html
13-04-2020||India||Covid-19: 14 villages in Uttar Pradesh sealed because of one man||The district administration in Uttar Pradesh’s Badaun has put 14 villages under quarantine after a man tested positive for coronavirus disease Covid-19.The man from Andhra Pradesh was staying in a mosque in Bhavanipur Khali area of the district, reported news agency PTI. He tested positive on Saturday.He had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi’s Nizamuddin last month, PTI further reported.“After the man tested positive for corona, the district administration has sealed 14 villages in the radius of three kilometres from the village where he was staying. Fourteen villages have been quarantined,” news agency PTI quoted District magistrate Kumar Prashant as saying.Watch | Woman throws her five children into river after argument with husbandMeanwhile, 30 more Covid-19 cases were reported in Uttar Pradesh’s Agra on Monday, taking the tally of cases in the district to 134. Of the 134 cases, at least 60 people are from Tablighi Jamaat, District Magistrate Prabhu N Singh said.As per the website of the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, the total number of positive cases of coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh are 483 as of now, while five people have died due to the disease. And 46 are cured, discharged or migrated.The total number of Covid-19 positive cases across India reached 9,152 on Monday, said the health ministry. It further said that the death toll due to the pandemic rose to 308 after 35 new fatalities were reported.Of the total 308 deaths, Maharashtra tops the tally with 149 fatalities, followed by Madhya Pradesh at 36, Gujarat at 25 and Delhi at 24. Punjab and Tamil Nadu have registered 11 deaths each, while Telengana reported nine fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-14-villages-in-uttar-pradesh-sealed-because-of-one-man/story-g6NfDNe5SH3hnFvvCPo5nL.html
13-04-2020||India||Rajasthan government to amend prisoners parole rules to release inmates||The Rajasthan Government is soon going to amend the Rajasthan Prisoners on Parole Rules, 1958, in order to release inmates who have been granted parole in the past.On March 23, the Supreme Court told the states to form a committee under the chairman of State Legal Services Authority and including principal secretary of the home department and director-general of jails, to decide on prisoners who could be released on parole or interim bail to decongest jails. According to the apex court’s order, prisoners facing a sentence of seven years or less, or undertrials facing trial in offences that are punishable with a sentence of seven years or less may be considered for a release.Director-General, prisons, NRK Reddy said that following the orders of the Supreme Court, the high power committee had a meeting on Wednesday. “In order to implement the decision of the top court, the government is going to amend the parole rules and is planning to add provisions of extraordinary parole so that the inmates who have been granted parole in the past could be released on parole again,” the prisons department chief told.Reddy added that according to Rajasthan Prisoners on Parole Rules, 1958, a prisoner who has completed with remission, if any, one-fourth of his sentence and subject to good conduct in the Jail, may be released on first parole for 20 days including days of journey to home and back, and for 30 days on second parole provided his behaviour has been good during first parole and for 40 days on third parole provided his behaviour has been good during the second parole.“Once the rules are amended, those who have been given parole three times in the past and whose behaviour was good, can be given parole for four weeks. We have prepared a list of 1300 such people. However, the decision to give parole will be taken by the government,” the DG, prisons said.Reddy further said that the jails are not overcrowded. “Our occupancy rate is only 91.47%. In March, around 2,000 inmates were shifted to other jails where occupancy is low so that social distancing could be maintained”. Also, Rajasthan High Court, in suo moto versus State DB Civil Writ Petition, had ordered the registrar judicial to not list bails, appeals, applications for suspension of sentence in appeals and revisions in the category of “extreme urgent matters”.In the past also, the prisons department had taken multiple steps to contain the spread of coronavirus as a result of which till April 9, no inmate was found positive.The prisons department had done 100% screening of the inmates and also interviewed them to know their travel history.The department had also created two new wards and one isolation ward. Every inmate coming from outside is initially kept in the new ward where he is kept under observation of doctors for three days and after clearance, they are sent to their normal wards. Also, the isolation ward is kept for suspects.All meetings between prisoners and their relatives in the jails have been stopped to avoid any spread of novel coronavirus. If necessary, a mobile or landline phone would be made available to needy prisoners, the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-government-to-amend-prisoners-parole-rules-to-release-inmates/story-Gip0f6ijCHskzMwaX6IiKI.html
13-04-2020||India||New Covid-19 case, linked to Tablighi Jamaat, in Assam’s Dhubri takes state tally to 30||One more person from Assam’s Dhubri, who is linked to the Tablighi Jamaat’s March events in Delhi, has tested positive for Covid-19, the state’ health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Monday.Assam has recorded 30 coronavirus disease cases till date and one patient, a 65-year-old from Hailakandi, died last Friday at Silchar Medical College Hospital.“Another person from Dhubri, connected with Tablighi Jamaat meet at Nizamuddin Markaz, has been found COVID-19 positive. The total number of COVID-19 patients in Assam now stands at 30,” Sarma tweeted.  Alert ~ Another person from Dhubri, connected with #TablighiJamaat meet at #NizamuddinMarkaz, has been found #COVID19 positive. The total number of #Covid patients in #Assam now stands at 30.Update at 9.15 am / April 13 #AssamCovidCountHe had also said that the nine patients are being treated at the Mahendra Mohan Choudhury Hospital in Guwahati.“Visited hospital to meet doctors and enquire about how patients have been responding to treatment. I reiterate my gratitude to doctors, nursing & support staff at hospitals,” the minister tweeted.The number of coronavirus cases across the country rose to 9152, including 7987 active patients, 856 cured or discharged and 308 fatalities, the Union ministry of health said on Monday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-covid-19-case-linked-to-tablighi-jamaat-in-assam-s-dhubri-takes-state-tally-to-30/story-KTB8L6FHWWZaBc3N90HFrK.html
13-04-2020||India||In Covid-19 testing push, ICMR may collect samples from areas with zero infection||As the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in India nears 10,000, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) is considering pooled testing of people with symptoms in areas from where no SARS-Cov-2 (the virus that causes Covid-19) infections have been reported, in a move that will widen testing significantly and highlight the actual spread of the disease in India.Click here for full Covid-19 coveragePooling of samples involves testing them in batches. When a pooled sample tests positive, then individual samples are assessed. Research shows that this method can be used to do up to three times as many tests with the same number of kits — an important consideration given India’s population.There are around 450 districts (out of a total of around 730) which have not reported any Covid-19 cases. The plan is to test people with symptoms (cough, fever) using both RT-PCR and rapid antibody testing. The regions will be selected on the basis of data available through their integrated disease surveillance programme network, and also the new mobile application, ArogyaSetu, which has started generating relevant data on the disease pattern, according to a health ministry official.“Pooled testing is a good surveillance tool and can be used to test symptomatic people in non-Covid areas to confirm if the areas are actually Covid-19 free. It has not happened yet but is being considered as one of the options to get an idea on the disease spread. The idea is already there, testing will only confirm it,” this person added on condition of anonymity.India is yet to get the rapid test kits it ordered from China, so the plan will be put into effect with RT-PCR tests.Once the rapid test kits arrive -- these antibody test results are available in 30 minutes as opposed to the RT-PCR tests which take about five hours -- they will be used. In addition to the order for 500,000 kits that has already been placed, ICMR has raised a tender on April 11 for 4.5 million more rapid testing kits to be delivered in batches. The plan is to have the first batch in by May 1 and the final batch latest by May 31.The major issue that India is facing with rapid test kits is their quality as most come from China; after many kits failed quality tests, the Chinese government restricted exports, allowing only five to six companies to sell them.“Quality control is important as there is no point in getting a product and then realising it is of no use. The products from China have to be cleared by their local regulator and we will also conduct tests on batches to check their accuracy on a random basis,” said an ICMR official who asked not to be named.In addition, local manufacturer HLL Lifecare has also started manufacturing the rapid test kits. It is making 20,000 a day at its Manesar facility starting Monday.The ICMR tender, which HT has reviewed, says, “If the item is proposed to be imported from China, NMPA (National Medical Product Administration), China, approval for the said item/company is mandatory… ICMR reserves the right to ensure random “Lot-testing” or “Pre-shipment testing” of supplied items for quality. On negative findings, the consignment will be rejected outrightly. Any supply not found acceptable shall be returned...”Experts in the field, however, say that ICMR is already late.“They should have started at least a month ago; even if they didn’t have rapid test kits, they should have gone ahead with the RT-PCR tests. We had to test more to know better,” said a senior epidemiologist, who asked not to be identified.Meanwhile, ICMR is also working on increasing the number of laboratories that can test, and is in the process of upgrading laboratories of both private and government medical colleges so that these can also be utilized for Covid-19 testing. It is currently in the process of identifying college laboratories that can be upgraded with the help of some mentoring by advanced labs already doing Covid-19 testing.“ICMR has taken cognizance of the need to expeditiously expand COVID-19 testing facilities in all parts of the country… efforts are being made for proactive search of potential laboratories which could be enabled for COVID-19 testing…,” says an ICMR document seen by HT .ICMR has identified 14 institutes of national eminence, such as All India Institutes of Medical Sciences; Armed Forces Medical College, Pune; National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences, Bengaluru; JIPMER in Puducherry; King Goerge Medical University, Lucknow; and Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences to mentor colleges.The mentor labs will form teams to conduct a comprehensive review of the college laboratories. The mentors will see what facilities these laboratories have and what they need to be able to do Covid-19 testing. At least 400 such laboratories have been identified by the government for assessment.“It is a good idea as there are some states with good infrastructure, and their labs can be taken up almost immediately. For those states that don’t have good medical colleges, the government can help set up/upgrade lab based on Covid-19 testing requirement. The good thing is labs can be created or upgraded in a short span of time, so we can increase the capabilities of the testing labs,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, community medicine expert, Safdarjung Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-covid-19-testing-push-ismr-may-collect-samples-from-areas-with-zero-infection/story-BJZYr6SeWTDqoBsGQzRbsK.html
13-04-2020||India||Coronavirus Update: Election Commissioners forgo 30% salary for a year||The three election commissioners of India decided on Monday to forego 30% of their salary for a year in the wake of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic, following the example of the president, vice-president, prime minister, the Union council of ministers and members of Parliament. The decision was taken at a meeting held between chief election commissioner Sunil Arora and election commissioners Ashok Lavasa and Sushil Chandra. Chandra said they decided to volunteer to take a salary cut in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. “This is a voluntary and unanimous decision,” he said.The Election Commission of India, a constitutional body, took the decision after the number of active cases in India shot up to 7,987 with 308 deaths as of Monday. “The prime minister, president and vice-president have led by example, we are following in their footsteps,” Chandra added.The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on April 6 cleared an ordinance to slash salaries of parliamentarians and ministers by 30% for one year in the wake of the coronavirus crisis. Union information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar told reporters that day that President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President M. Venkaiah Naidu and governors had also offered to take the 30 percent cut in salaries.The Cabinet also decided to suspend the MP local area development scheme for two years and transfer the money into the government’s consolidated fund. The money under MPLADS is around Rs 7,900 crore for two years: 2020-21 and 2021-22.Various state governments have already decided on salary cuts and other measures in the fight against the coronavirus. The Kerala government has decided to cut a month’s salary of all its staffers to raise funds for the state disaster relief fund.Karnataka chief minister B S Yediyurappa has given up a year’s salary to help the state fight the Covid-19 crisis. Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and Rajasthan too announced a cut in salaries of government employees . Maharashtra, which is bearing the brunt of the coronavirus crisis, has decided to pay the salaries in instalments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-election-commissioners-forego-one-third-of-salary/story-ceILpakNhcAcQDewayPfTP.html
13-04-2020||India||Life after lockdown: What government plans to do post-April 14||India is planning to restart some economic activity after April 14 to help offset the economic damage of a nationwide coronavirus lockdown, even as it weighs extending the stringent measure.Top government officials told Hindustan Times that while the decision on the lockdown is work in progress, the government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi had been very clear that it should not sequester millions of people from 161 districts that do not have a single case of coronavirus disease. Not even a suspected case.The officials pointed to health ministry data that indicated the four worst-affected states are Maharashtra, Delhi, Tamil Nadu and Rajasthan. These four states account for nearly half of India’s Covid-19 cases.It is in this context, one official explained, that the government is looking at a graded response to lifting the lockdown, depending on the Covid-19 cases in the district and the state.According to top government officials, around 100-odd districts are severely hit by the coronavirus disease and hence there was a need to seal these hotspots. In districts that have isolated instances of Covid-19 cases, many of the restrictions could be lifted to allow economic activity.In its decision, the Centre will also account for the stand taken by the states such as Delhi, Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu that have spoken in favour of a two-week extension. For instance, in Delhi, the state administration feels they need two weeks to unearth all the contacts of the Tablighi Jamaat.Given that health is a state subject, the government may consider the demands of the chief ministers for extension.“But it will be a nuanced approach,” a senior government functionary aware of the developments, told HT.Even in these states, he explained, the game plan would be to have containment zones with no movement while allowing economic activity to pick up outside these hotspots with social distancing and masks.The 21-day lockdown of India’s more than 1.3 billion people is due to end on Tuesday, but the government is widely expected to extend it until the end of the month, with the number of coronavirus cases rising to 9,152 and the domestic death toll reaching 308, on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/life-after-lockdown-what-government-plans-to-do-post-april-14/story-aLpUVbpYx6OirTzPA4b2OM.html
13-04-2020||India||Ministers back in offices as Centre debates lockdown decision||A day before the 21-day lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus disease Covid-19 ends, some government staff resumed office after an order by the Centre.The Sports Authority of India (SAI) is one such government department where senior officials and other essential staff resumed operations after more than a fortnight of working remotely due to the Covid-19 pandemic, reported news agency PTI.Union Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju on Monday visited SAI’s headquarters in New Delhi wearing a mask and sanitised his hands before entering the premises.“The ministry has started its office with minimum staff because work has to go on. We are ensuring strict compliance of rules like social distancing, wearing masks and temperature checks,” PTI quoted Rijiju as saying.All ministers were on Saturday asked to resume office from Monday along with joint secretary level officers and one-third of their essential staff.The Union home ministry, meanwhile, has been asked to look into the possibility of letting a select group of industries resume production to revive economic activity and provide liquidity in the hands of the people.The recommendation, made by the department for promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT), said the home ministry should expand the list of activities that are permitted once the Centre decides how to move on the Covid-19 lockdown. It came up with a list of 12 categories of industries that should be allowed to resume production in the first instance.PM Modi hasn’t indicated his mind on the subject yet but stressed at his video conference with chief ministers that the government would need to strike a balance between “jaan” (lives) and “jahan” (the outside world). It was interpreted to imply that the restrictions will continue in some form to preserve lives but with relaxations to resume economic activity and preserve livelihoods.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/some-govt-staff-resumes-work-as-centre-yet-to-decide-on-lockdown-extension/story-sSkmJKvo0tecJPkr4Vw0MK.html
13-04-2020||India||Telangana Health Minister comes to the aid of pregnant woman who couldn’t afford hospital delivery||Telangana government came to the rescue of a pregnant woman who needed medical attention but was unable to afford the treatment.The woman was treated at a government hospital in Huzurabad after the state Health Minister Eatala Rajender intervened.As per the minister, the woman is a native of Ongole in Andhra Pradesh and lives with her parents in Kothapally village of Karimnagar District of Telangana, to earn a livelihood.The woman used to regularly visit a private hospital in Karimnagar for checkups. She approached the hospital in a critical condition as her delivery date was due but the hospital management allegedly asked for Rs 2 lakh.The family decided to return to their native place as they were unable to afford the amount. But they got stuck in Telangana due to the lockdown and that is when the minister intervened after the family brought the matter to his notice.The minister ordered the doctors at Huzurabad government hospital to admit her and provide the best possible treatment.The woman later delivered a healthy baby at the hospital and is in a stable condition.“I would like to thank Eatela Rajendra for acting immediately and sending me to this hospital, and the doctors’ team which saved me and my baby,” said the woman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/south/telangana-health-minister-comes-to-the-aid-of-pregnant-woman-who-couldn-t-afford-hospital-delivery/story-RdXw37bsWo8fESn0hg6z7K.html
13-04-2020||India||Once a Maoist, he now stitches 90 masks a day to combat Covid-19||Life has come a full circle for Madakam Lakha, who would stitch uniforms for the outlawed Communist Party of India (Maoist) commanders such as Ramanna --- he died last December --- and Madvi Hidma in the remote jungles of South Sukma in Chhattisgarh till he surrendered eight months ago. Now, he is devoting all his energy in sewing masks to combat the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. Lakha (38), a resident of Bhimapuram village under Jagargonda police station surrendered in August 2019, is lodged in Sukma Police Line, which is located about 400km away from the state capital Raipur.Follow live updates on coronavirus “Lakha came to know about the shortage of personal protective equipment (PPE) units such as masks a few days ago and started stitching them inside Sukma Police Line. He’s making up to 90 masks a day that are being distributed by the police among the local tribal people,” Sundarraj Patilingam, Inspector General of Police (IG) in South Bastar Range, said.“Lakha joined the Maoists in 1998 as a member of Bal Sanhgam (child soldiers). Earlier, he used to stitch the Maoist commanders’ clothes, but after he surrendered he’s helping the police,” the IG said.Lakha, who hails from the Muriya tribe, a sub-tribe of the Gond, from the state’s Sukma district, feels privileged that he got the opportunity to stitch masks for the local tribal people amid the Covid-19 pandemic. “It’s a matter of great personal satisfaction for me that I’m contributing in my humble way in this battle against Covid-19. I wanted to utilise my stitching skills to good use to help the local tribal people,” Lakha said. Shalabh Sinha, superintendent of police (SP), Sukma, said that Lakha has been a goldmine of information about the Maoists. “Lakha comes from that inaccessible part of Sukma, which is the core of Maoists’ activities in Bastar. He’s helping us with invaluable inputs and also interpreting the local tribal dialects for us,” the SP said.Besides, Lakha holds the key for the police because of his access to the ultra-Left party’s top brass in Chhattisgarh. “He’s an asset for us because he has stitched clothes for Maoist commanders such as Ramanna and Madvi Hidma,” the SP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/once-he-maoist-he-now-stitches-90-masks-a-day-to-combat-covid-19/story-8uc1Z03IhevGwcQWbxgkhO.html
13-04-2020||India||20 days, 20 steps: A look at government’s measures against Covid-19 amid lockdown||On Monday, India entered the 20th day of the nationwide lockdown announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 25. The 21-day lockdown was put in place to contain the spread of novel coronavirus in the country.The 3-week lockdown was introduced to break the chain of Covid-19 infection across the country and ‘flatten the curve’. The lockdown will come to an end on April 14, if not extended further.In the past three weeks, the government has taken a slew of measures to ensure that the lockdown remains in place and is followed by all citizens. Many steps have been taken to make sure that people from different walks of society don’t feel the pinch of the lockdown. On day 20 of the lockdown, here’s taking a look at 20 steps taken by the government amid the coronavirus crisis:1. The government recently introduced the Aarogya Setu mobile application to educate citizens about novel coronavirus and help them make informed decisions amid the crisis.2. On Sunday, an oil ministry spokesperson said that poor households using 5kg cooking gas cylinders will be entitled to eight free refills in three months as a relief from the disruptions due to the Covid-19 outbreak. The number of free refills will be limited to three for beneficiaries using 14.2kg cylinders.3. The government said it plans to set up a chain of 20 lakh retail shops called ‘Suraksha Stores’ across India which will provide daily essentials to citizens while maintaining stringent safety norms, news agency PTI reported.4. Union Human Resource Development Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal on Sunday launched a web portal to monitor and record the initiative by the ministry to combat Covid-19 with Knowledge, Technology and Innovation (YUKTI).5. Under its Ujjawala scheme, the government is providing free LPG refills for the next three months to over 8.3 crore poor women.6. Earlier this week, the finance ministry announced that it will make an immediate release of Rs 18,000 crore in tax refunds to individuals and businesses.7. The government decided to double the collateral-free loan amount for women in self-help groups to Rs 20 lakh.8. Under the PM-KISAN scheme, the finance ministry said that over 6 crore farmers have been benefited amid the lockdown. Rs 13,855 crore have gone towards payment of the first instalment of PM-KISAN.9. Wages under MGNREGA to be hiked to Rs 202 from Rs 182. The move would bring in Rs 2,000 in addition to workers.10. Last month, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced a relief package worth Rs 1.70 lakh crore in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak.11. Under a special provision, the government had announced that individuals could now withdraw three months salary from Employees’ Provident Fund (EPF) account amid the coronavirus crisis. The EPF withdrawals have been exempt from service charge.12. Under the National Social Assistance Programme, Rs 1,400 crore has been disbursed to about 2.82 crore old age people, widows and disabled people.13.The last date for filing income tax returns for the financial year 2018-19 has been extended to June 30, 2020. The interest rate on delayed income tax payment has been decreased to 9% from 12%.14. Over 2 crore construction workers received financial support worth Rs 3,066 crore under the Building and Construction Workers’ Fund.15. The deadline for filing GST returns for March, April, May has been extended to June 30, 2020. There will be no interest or penalty on late fee for delayed returns for companies with turnover up to Rs 5 crore.16. Nearly 20 crore women Jan Dhan account holders received Rs 500 each in their account. The total disbursement under the head was 9,930 crore, the finance ministry said.17. Deadline for linking Aadhaar with PAN card has also been extended from March 31 to June 30, 2020.18. The government has also released around Rs 30,000 crore in assistance to various sections of the society.19. The government said it will release 12 million MT of food grain during the April-June quarter under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana amid the Covid-19 crisis.20. The government is also providing medical insurance cover of Rs 50 lakh per person to health workers fighting the coronavirus pandemic.On Monday, the total number of coronavirus tally in the country crossed the 9,000-mark with 9,152 cases. According to the Ministry of Health, India now has 7,987 active Covid-19 cases while as many as 856 patients have recovered or discharged. The coronavirus death toll in the country stands at 308.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/20-days-20-steps-a-look-at-government-s-measures-against-covid-19-amid-lockdown/story-aUNOgQ9Om2dxQt9WAyEaGI.html
13-04-2020||India||‘Will never forget their sacrifice’: PM Modi remembers Jallianwala Bagh massacre martyrs||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday paid tribute to those killed in the 1919 Jallianwala Bagh massacre, saying ‘we will never forget their courage and sacrifice’. “I bow to those martyrs who were killed mercilessly in Jallianwala Bagh on this day. We will never forget their courage and sacrifice. Their valour will inspire Indians for the years to come,” the PM said in a tweet while sharing an earlier photo of his visit to the Jallianwala Bagh Memorial in Amritsar.  I bow to those martyrs who were killed mercilessly in Jallianwala Bagh on this day. We will never forget their courage and sacrifice. Their valour will inspire Indians for the years to come. pic.twitter.com/JgDwAoWkAyThe Jallianwala Bagh massacre refers to the incident at the public garden in Amritsar on April 13, 1919, when General Dyer ordered British soldiers to fire at unarmed civilians, leading to the death of more than 400 people.Prime Minister Modi had visited the Jallianwala Bagh Memorial in 2015.Earlier last month, the National Archives of India inaugurated an exhibition titled ‘Jallianwala Bagh’, which put on display rare documents and reports related to the 1919 event||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-never-forget-their-sacrifice-pm-modi-remembers-jallianwala-bagh-massacre-martyrs/story-uHGujolq3ffnVMkVWeFtSK.html
13-04-2020||India||PM Modi greets citizens on Baisakhi, Odiya New Year||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday wished the people on the occasion of Baisakhi and the Odia New Year, also known as Maha Bishuba Pana Sankranti.“Many wishes to the countrymen on the auspicious occasion of Baisakhi. This festival associated with new aspirations should infuse new energy and new enthusiasm in everyone’s life,” the PM tweeted.Baisakhi marks the Sikh New Year and is a spring harvest festival celebrated in Punjab and other parts of north India.The country is currently under a three-week nationwide lockdown, which ends on April 14, to stem the spread of highly contagious coronavirus infection. However, some states - Odisha, Punjab, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Telangana - have already extended the lockdown till April 30.“Happy #OdiaNewYear and Maha Bishuba Pana Sankranti. May the coming year bring happiness and good health in everyone’s lives,” said the PM in another tweet.On Maha Bishuba Pana Sankranti, people consume ‘pana’, a traditional sweet and sour drink made with raw mango and sugar.Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik, who was the first to extend lockdown in his state, also wished citizens on the occasion and pledged to fight coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-greets-citizens-on-baisakhi-maha-bishuba-pana-sankranti/story-8zqR2JuLmIaUQ4g4IdDN9N.html
13-04-2020||India||Amid Covid-19 lockdown Assam, Meghalaya to open liquor shops from today||Two states in the northeast—Assam and Meghalaya—have decided to allow liquor shops to open from Monday amid the ongoing lockdown to break the chain of coronavirus infections.In an order issued on Sunday, the Assam excise department allowed liquor shops, wholesale warehouses, bottling plants, distilleries and breweries to open from Monday. Bars will, however, remain closed.The order stated that liquor shops will remain open from 10am to 5pm on permitted days provided the licensees ensure the maintenance of one-metre distance between customers, cough etiquette and other guidelines issued by the health department.Also read: Bootleggers resort to innovative ways to smuggle liquor into Delhi-NCRThe shops have been asked to operate with “bare minimum staff” and provide hand sanitisers to customers and staff while handling bottles and cash.Wholesale warehouses, bottling plants, breweries and distillers will have to operate with not more than 50% of their regular staff and workers. They will also have to arrange for staff to stay within the premises or a nearby place.“Since the lockdown started, manufacture and sale of illicit country liquor have increased manifold. There was a possibility of people dying from consumption of illicit liquor if authorised shops were not allowed to open,” a senior official said on condition of anonymity.On average, Assam earns nearly Rs 250 crore as revenue from the sale of liquor and in the past two weeks, the state has lost over Rs 100 crore in earnings. The official quoted above emphasised that financial consideration was not the reason for opening liquor shops.Assam’s decision followed an order issued by the Meghalaya government earlier on Sunday which allowed liquor shops to open from Monday for the next five days. Officials in Assam said there was a possibility of liquor being shipped to the state from neighbouring Meghalaya.Meghalaya excise department has allowed liquor shops in the state to open from 9am to 4pm from Monday till Friday while maintaining social distancing and cough etiquettes.“Home delivery of liquor will be allowed in the areas without wine shops for which modalities could be worked out by the respective deputy commissioners,” the order read.While Assam has recorded 29 Covid-19 cases and one death, Meghalaya is yet to record any.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-covid-19-lockdown-assam-meghalaya-to-open-liquor-shops-from-today/story-j2r0CrTuSJjGo5O8cnrbfP.html
13-04-2020||India||Veteran Congres leader MV Rajasekharan dies at 91||Veteran Congress leader and former Union minister M V Rajasekharan passed away at a hospital in Bengaluru on Monday after prolonged illness, family sources said. He was 91.The Congress leader was ailing from old-age-related diseases. He is survived by his wife Girija Rajasekharan, two sons and two daughters.An agriculturist and rural development consultant, the Congress leader was born on September 12, 1928, at Maralawadi in Ramanagara district.Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said Rajashekharan, who had served as an MLC, MP and Union minister, was a politician with simplicity, humility and great maturity.“Shri Rajashekharan, son in law of former Chief Minister S Njalingappa, was an authority on rural economy and had set up an institute to make studies on rural development,” Yediyurappa said.“He represented Kanakapura constituency in Lok Sabha. He was known for value-based politics and had served as the Union minister of state of planning and statistics,” the chief minister added.Yediyurappa prayed for his soul to rest in peace, and strength to his family and followers to bear this loss.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/veteran-congres-leader-mv-rajasekharan-dies-at-91/story-aGuiIGEGfLuc6i8o1sb43H.html
13-04-2020||India||Nagaland records first Covid-19 positive case; patient admitted in Assam||Nagaland recorded its first case of Covid-19 with a patient admitted in Assam’s Guwahati testing positive for the coronavirus on Sunday. Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma tweeted late on Sunday night that the patient, who was referred to Guwahati from a private hospital in Dimapur in Nagaland, was found positive.“A private hospital in Dimapur, Nagaland referred a patient to Guwahati Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) after he was found with symptoms of Covid-19. He has tested positive and is undergoing treatment,” Sarma tweeted.According to health officials in Assam, the patient is a resident of Dimapur and was referred directly from Nagaland. He was first admitted in a private hospital in Dimapur and when he showed symptoms for Covid-19 he was sent to GMCH.Nagaland’s health minister S Pangnyu Phom also took to Twitter to confirm the first Covid-19 positive case in the state.“Unfortunately one person from Dimapur has tested positive for Covid-19 and is under treatment at GMCH at Guwahati. Anyone who came in contact with the person will be immediately quarantined, also certain locations will be sealed for general safety,” he tweeted. Nagaland doesn’t have a testing laboratory for Covid-19 yet, but samples collected in the state are sent to Assam for tests. It is not known why the patient was allowed to travel to Assam.Till Sunday, 74 samples collected from suspected Covid-19 patients in Nagaland had been tested.Meghalaya now remains the only state in the northeast which is yet to record any Covid-19 positive case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagaland-records-first-covid-19-positive-case-patient-admitted-in-assam/story-iAbL2JYPPjxvLIVKI9H6eO.html
13-04-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: Teenager takes friend to apartment in suitcase||In a curious incident at an apartment complex in the city on Sunday, a teenaged student was caught while trying to sneak in his friend to his apartment by stuffing him inside a suitcase, police sources said.The student resorted to the bizarre attempt, frustrated at the apartment association denying permission to any outsider into the complex in view of the coronavirus scare.His valiant effort, however, turned futile as the occupants in the complex grew suspicious about some movement inside the huge suitcase as he was dragging it in.They made him open the suitcase there itself and were shocked to see his friend emerging out of it. Immediately, the residents called up the police, who came and took the two to the station. Later, the parents of both the students were summoned to the station.No case has been registered in this connection, the sources said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-teenager-takes-friend-to-apartment-in-suitcase/story-Rx9k2FLZuUwCoLYgzU4n8L.html
13-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Concern in Guwahati locality after arrival of 5 foreigners||Arrival of five foreign nationals at a locality in Assam’ Guwahati raised concerns among residents on Sunday night over fears of contracting coronavirus.The foreigners - three French, one Italian and one Spanish - had entered Assam from Manipur and had checked into a guest house in the Beltola area of the city.As soon as local residents came to know about it, they informed the Hatigaon police station. The police rushed a team to the spot and took them to the station and conducted their health check-up.Additional DGP (Law and Order) Assam Police, GP Singh, took to Twitter to inform that the foreign nationals reached Guwahati from Manipur and are on their way to Delhi.Urging the public not to panic, he added that the foreigners had completed their quarantine period in Manipur and they have approval from the external affairs ministry to travel to Delhi via Assam.“3 French, 1 Italian, 1 Spanish nationals have reached Guwahati, Assam from Manipur enroute Delhi. They have approval of ministry of external affairs to travel from Manipur to Delhi via Siliguri (West Bengal). They have completed their quarantine in Manipur. There’s no need to panic,” he tweeted.According to reports, the foreign tourists had entered India via the Moreh border with Myanmar in Manipur prior to start of the 21-day lockdown.Sources said that Assam Police will take the foreigners by road to the Srirampur border with West Bengal and will hand them over to authorities of the neighbouring state.The total number of Covid-19 infected people reached 9,152 in India on Monday after 620 fresh cases were reported in the last 24 hours. The health ministry said that 35 more people died of the disease in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-concern-in-guwahati-locality-after-arrival-of-5-foreigners/story-6fjWIPrOmUWg9xRzXRErGO.html
13-04-2020||India||Covid-19 state tally: Cases in Maharashtra near 2500, Delhi breaches 1200-mark||On Monday, the total number of coronavirus tally in the country crossed the 9,000-mark with 9,152 cases. According to the Ministry of Health, India now has 7,987 active Covid-19 cases while as many as 856 patients have recovered or discharged. The coronavirus death toll in the country stands at 308. In Maharashtra, the total number of coronavirus cases breached the 2,000-mark while the national capital inched towards the 1,500-mark.Here’s a look at the statewise tally of coronavirus active cases, fatalities and recovered patients. MaharashtraWith 1,985 Covid-19 active cases, Maharashtra has registered the highest number of coronavirus cases in the country. The state has recorded 149 deaths so far while 217 patients have recovered.DelhiDelhi closely follows with the second-highest number of coronavirus cases in the country. As many as 1,154 people have tested positive of coronavirus in the national capital. 24 people have died from the infection while 27 people have made a recovery, as per the health ministry’s data.Tamil NaduThe southern state has the third-highest number of Covid-19 cases in the country which now stand at a whopping 1075. Tamil Nadu has seen 50 recoveries and 11 Covid-19 deaths.RajasthanCoronavirus cases in Rajasthan touched 804 on Monday. The state has reported 3 fatalities. 21 patients have recovered from the infection.Madhya PradeshThe state has reported 532 positive cases of coronavirus. 36 people have died from Covid-19 here.Telangana504 positive cases of coronavirus have been reported from the state so far. 43 people have made a recovery from the virus while 9 people have died from Covid-19.Uttar Pradesh483 people have been infected from Covid-19 in the state. While 46 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, 5 have died from the infection here.GujaratPrime Minister Narendra Modi’s home state has registered 516 coronavirus cases and 44 recoveries so far. 25 people have died from the infection in the state.Andhra PradeshThe state has witnessed 427 positive Covid-19 patients and 11 cases of recovery. 7 people have died.KeralaAs per the health ministry, Kerala reported 376 coronavirus cases on Monday. Kerala has witnessed two deaths due to Covid-19 while 179 people have successfully recovered.KarnatakaThe state has recorded 232 Covid-19 cases and 6 deaths. 57 people have been cured and discharged.Jammu and KashmirThe union territory of Jammu and Kashmir has seen the number of Covid-19 patients rising to 245. 4 people have died from the infection while 6 were cured.Haryana and PunjabThe neighbouring states have 185 and 151 Covid-19 cases respectively. While 11 people have died in Punjab, Haryana has seen three deaths. 29 people have recovered from Covid-19 in Haryana, 5 in Punjab.152 people have been affected by the Sars-CoV-2 virus in West Bengal. There have been 7 deaths and 29 recoveries in the state. Odisha has 54 Covid-19 positive patients, 12 have recovered while one person has died. In Bihar, 64 people have tested positive for coronavirus, one has died while 19 patients have recovered.Assam has reported 29 Covid-19 cases, one person has died. Uttarakhand has 35 coronavirus patients, five patients have recovered from the infection. In Chandigarh, 21 people have contracted the Covid-19 disease and 7 have recovered. Andaman has recorded 11 coronavirus cases, 10 have recovered. Chhattisgarh has recorded 31 cases of coronavirus and 10 people have recovered. Ladakh has 15 patients, 10 people have recovered. Goa has reported seven cases of Covid-19 disease, five patients have recovered. Himachal Pradesh has 32 cases, one patient has died and 13 have recovered. Pondicherry has reported 7 cases, one has recovered. Jharkhand has 19 Covid-19 cases, 2 patients have died. Two coronavirus cases have been reported in Manipur, one has recovered. Tripura also has two Covid-19 patients. States and Union territories with just one positive Covid-19 case include Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram.Sikkim, Meghalaya and Nagaland have not reported any Covid-19 case yet.India on Monday entered the 20th day of the 21-day coronavirus lockdown which will come to an end on April 14 if not extended. Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-state-tally-cases-in-maharashtra-near-2500-delhi-breaches-1200-mark/story-0sJFuywPzNaq4XQas0EGzJ.html
13-04-2020||India||Covid-19: US could start reopening in May, top pandemic advisor says||The United States may be ready to start gradually reopening next month, the government’s top infectious diseases expert said Sunday, as signs grew that the coronavirus pandemic was peaking.President Donald Trump had earlier wanted the world’s largest economy to be “raring to go” by Easter Sunday, but most of the country remained at a standstill and churches took celebrations online to halt the spread of the virus that has killed more than 22,000 people in the US.Trump has cast the decision on when to ease the lockdown as the biggest of his presidency as he faces competing pressures from public health experts and businesses along with some conservative allies who want a swift return to normality.Anthony Fauci, the veteran pandemic expert who has quietly sought action to stem infections, said in a televised interview that parts of the country could begin easing restrictions in May -- but was cautious.“I think it could probably start at least in some ways maybe next month,” Fauci, head of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, told CNN.“We are hoping by the end of the month we can look around and say, OK, is there any element here that we can safely and cautiously start pulling back on?” Fauci said.“If so, do it. If not, then just continue to hunker down.”Fauci said that regions would be ready at different times rather than the United States turning back on like a “light switch.”Stephen Hahn, commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration, told ABC he was “hopeful” about a reopening on May 1 but added: “I think it’s too early to be able to tell that.”Unlike in many Western countries, lockdown decisions are primarily up to local governments, not the president, and leaders of a number of hard-hit, densely populated states have vowed to act as long as necessary.“We want to reopen as soon as possible,” New York Governor Andrew Cuomo told reporters. “The caveat is we need to be smart in the way we reopen.”Neighboring New Jersey’s governor, fellow Democrat Phil Murphy, said that an economic recovery depended on a “full health-care recovery.”If “we start to get back on our feet too soon, I fear, based on the data we’re looking at, we could be throwing gasoline on the fire,” Murphy told CBS.Trump, for his part, wrote on Twitter Sunday: “We are winning, and will win, the war on the Invisible Enemy!”‘Cautiously optimistic’The United States has been recording nearly 2,000 deaths a day from the coronavirus, disproportionately older people with weakened immune systems and ethnic minorities with less access to health care and teleworking.Worst-hit New York recorded another 758 coronavirus deaths, Cuomo said.“You’re not seeing a great decline in the numbers, but you’re seeing a flattening,” he said.Fauci similarly said he was “cautiously optimistic” as admissions into hospitals and intensive care had begun to decline.The United States, which has 4.25 percent of the world’s population, accounts for almost a fifth of the world’s nearly 110,000 deaths from COVID-19 since the disease first emerged in China late last year.The New York Times, in an extensive article published Sunday, described Trump as failing to act quickly in part due to confidence in his gut instincts and his distrust of civil servants he brands as a conspiratorial “deep state.”Trump slammed the paper’s story Sunday evening with his favorite insult: “Fake News!”“The @nytimes story is a Fake, just like the ‘paper’ itself,” he tweeted.“I was criticized for moving too fast when I issued the China Ban, long before most others wanted to do so,” he wrote, referring to the ban travel ban on the Asian power.Fauci, who has advised six successive presidents, acknowledged when asked about the article that the US could have saved lives by shutting down public spaces when the disease’s seriousness became clear early in the year.“But there was a lot of pushback about shutting things down back then,” Fauci told CNN, without naming Trump.Trump soon afterward posted an interview in which Fauci said that the United States “early on did not get correct information.”Trump last week zeroed in on the World Health Organization to explain early difficulties, saying the UN body was overly reliant on China when cases first emerged in Wuhan.Trump had been hoping to campaign on a strong economy as he seeks re-election in November.Instead, some 17 million people have lost their jobs in a matter of weeks and his presumptive Democratic rival, Joe Biden, has been hammering him over his virus response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-us-could-start-reopening-in-may-top-pandemic-advisor-says/story-gTzEBuDJtV2y3yhLntHBqJ.html
13-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: India crosses 9,000-mark, records 620 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hours||India on Monday recorded 308 deaths related to the coronavirus disease, 35 in the last 24 hours, and 620 new Covid-19 cases taking the tally across the country to 9152, according to the Union health ministry data.The health ministry’s website showed, at 8am, there were 7987 active cases, 857 people were cured, discharged or had migrated, two days before the national lockdown is about to end. India’s worst-hit state, Maharashtra, has 2351 coronavirus cases, including 217 people who have been cured and 149 fatalities as of Monday. The state had crossed 1000 cases just last Tuesday, but the past nine days reported more than 100 per day, including three days that saw more than 200 cases. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIn the national capital of Delhi, there have been 1205 coronavirus disease cases and out of which 24 people have died and 27 have been discharged from hospitals.Tamil Nadu is on the second spot with 1136 Covid-19 cases. There have been 11 deaths in the southern state and 50 people have recovered. The government has also said it is well prepared to handle a surge in the Covid-19 cases and has over a hundred thousand isolation beds across the 601 Covid-19 dedicated hospitals, Lav Agarwal, health ministry’s joint secretary, said they there were focusing on strengthening infrastructure and surveillance as part of the strategy to manage positive cases.“If you ask what is our strategy in managing positive cases, then I would say infrastructure and manpower strengthening, and surveillance. The number of available beds [105,980] in proportion to the number of required beds has been far higher, our analysis shows, so there is no need to fear about the adequate availability of beds,” Agarwal said at a media briefing on Sunday.After several states put in a request to extend the strict restrictions under the lockdown beyond the 21-day period, the Centre has said it will take into account their suggestions.There are 1,846,963 confirmed cases across the world and 114,185 people have been killed, according to the Johns Hopkins University’s coronavirus tracker on Monday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-india-crosses-9-000-mark-records-620-new-covid-19-cases-in-24-hours/story-DeNF30wFURhKW5fN3ASvNK.html
13-04-2020||India||Tiger sightings increase in the Sunderban with lockdown but no tourists to see them||With no hustle and bustle of tourists because of the pan-India coronavirus lockdown, tiger sightings in the Sunderbans – the only mangrove forest where tigers live – have increased in the delta, forest officials said.“Before the lockdown, when tourists were allowed, we used to get reports of tiger sightings on not more than two days in a week. But since the lockdown started, patrolling teams are spotting tigers almost five to six days every week. On some days, reports of multiple tiger sightings from different areas of the tiger reserve are also coming from the forest guards,” said Sudhir Das, director of the Sunderban Tiger Reserve.Even though there are around 90 tigers living in the Indian part of the Sunderban, that spreads over 4200 sq km, the impenetrable forest makes it almost impossible to spot tigers. The big cats can only be spotted when they cross the rivers and innumerable creeks that criss-cross the delta.“One has to be really lucky to spot a tiger in the Sunderban and that’s what makes tiger-sightings in the delta a real feast for the eyes. But now that there are no tourists and disturbance is almost zero, more and more tigers are coming out of the forests, swimming across rivers and creeks to move from one island to another. Sightings have increased over the past few days since the lockdown began,” said Ravi Kant Sinha, chief wildlife warden of the state.More than two lakh tourists, hundreds of honey collectors and fishermen enter the Sunderban Tiger Reserve, which forms a part of the entire forest, every year with permits. But because of the threat of coronavirus, entry of visitors to Sunderban and other national parks and sanctuaries in West Bengal was suspended from March 17. The pan India lockdown started on March 25.“Even though tourist activities and entry of other people have been completely stopped, forest teams are patrolling. Patrolling on boats, the only means of patrolling the delta, have been increased to look out for tigers that show signs of Covid-19, such as breathlessness. The BSF and police have also been asked to keep a watch,” said Sinha.Earlier this month, the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) had directed all tiger range states to observe tigers with Covid-19 symptoms like dry cough or laboured breathing. The advisory came after a tiger at the Bronx zoo in New York was detected with coronavirus. It was the first instance of a tiger being infected with the deadly disease.The Sunderban is the world’s largest delta and spreads over India and Bangladesh. The Indian part has one national park and five sanctuaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tiger-sightings-increase-in-the-sunderban-with-lockdown-but-no-tourists-to-see-them-amid-covid-19/story-c0dWqJe7k1efUzTRV6F0VL.html
13-04-2020||India||Covid-19 impacts dental surgeries, patients forced to suffer in pain||It has been more than a fortnight since 38-year-old Ravinder Singh has been suffering from an acute pain due to the cavity in his two molars. Singh needs root canal treatment (RCT) or endodontic therapy to get rid of his toothache. However, Singh may have to bear his sufferings till the stemming of the Covid-19, a contagious disease caused by the coronavirus as endodontists are forced not to make any physical therapy fearing the virus’s spreading.“I have been taking antibiotics for last two weeks, as prescribed by my dentist, but there is no relief from the pain. Sometimes, the pain becomes too severe and I can’t sleep. I am imploring my dentist to extract my both teeth if RCT is not possible at this time, but he too seems helpless. I am also fearing for my health as taking antibiotics on daily basis is dangerous for heart,” said Singh, who is a businessman and a resident of Palasaur village in Punjab’ Tarn Taran district.Due to the coronavirus outbreak, most of the dentists are not opening their clinics. They are preferring providing phone consultation and antibiotic prescriptions to their patients. The endodontists feel that giving physical therapy until the virus is fully supressed is not possible.The endodontists further say that besides the availability of effective disinfectants, one PPE kit is required for every patient while conducting endodontic therapy, that too, in emergency cases. They, however, are also in trepidation that using separate kits and disinfectants in their clinics are not enough to arrest the spreading of the infection. With this, dental patients, including those who need emergency therapy, are forced to suffer. “I am receiving frequent calls from my patients who need RCT-like therapies. Some want their teeth be extracted due to severe pain. But we are not supposed to treat them physically. We are not caring about ourselves, but for the patients, and to check the spreading of the virus. According to guidelines of the World Health Organization (WHO), coronavirus infection spreads from mouth, nose and eyes. If we start giving physical therapy to our patients, it would be a catastrophic. Suppose a coronavirus patient comes to us for the treatment, he or she can infect the whole clinic, and the infection would spread to other patients. The main problem occurs when viral particles are aerosolised during the dental care,” said dentist Sher Singh, who has been practicing endodontics for last 15 years in Tarn Taran.He further said, “As the government has been saying, patient in emergency should be treated by using precautions, but, it is also not possible. We can’t treat emergency patients too. We need separate PPE for every patient. Besides, effective disinfectants will be required for disinfecting the clinic. However, there is already a shortage of PPE in the market.”Dr Sanjeev Sharma, general secretary of Indian Dental Association in Amritsar, said, “We have asked all dentists not to open their clinic, but continue giving free consultation to the patients on phone. There is no solution of giving physical therapy to dental patents until the virus is fully contained. When physical therapy, like teeth cutting, extraction and RCT, is given to the patient, droplets from their mouth and nose fly in the air that will be very dangerous. The small dentists are also suffering financially, but we are forced to do so.”He said some quacks are still constantly giving physical therapy to the dental patients, and it should be stopped immediately. Dr Pankaj, medical officer (dental) at Patti Civil hospital in Tarn Taran, said the machine being used by dentists can also spread infection. “Except severe emergency, we are avoiding giving physical treatments to patients. Even wearing of PPE kits can’t stop the spreading of coronavirus disease during dental care,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-impacts-dental-surgeries-patients-forced-to-suffer-in-pain/story-O7C5iMFVYNG9SOITJ04teK.html
13-04-2020||India||‘Be positive, use will power’: 59-year-old Bengal coronavirus survivor’s mantra||When Dharamnath Singh and nine of his family members tested positive for the coronavirus disease, his world came crashing down.The 59-year-old had already lost his sister-in-law, the first victim in north Bengal, to the respiratory illness that makes people like him more susceptible.Ten members of the family tested positive soon after Singh’s 44-year-old sister-in-law died on March 30, a day after testing positive for Covid-19. She had gone to Chennai alone on March 7 and returned with her daughter on March 19 in a Chennai-Bagdogra flight. On March 20, she visited a local doctor with a cough and high fever before being admitted in the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital (NBMCH) where she died. Also read: Masks made mandatory at all public places in BengalThe head of a business family in Kalimpong town and nine others were brought to Siliguri and admitted to NBMCH and later shifted to a private nursing home that the government has taken over for treatment of Covid-19 patients.“When I and other members of the family tested positive, I initially thought the world had come to an end. I soon realised that the virus has to be defeated and for that we need determination. I am home now and free again,” Singh said while speaking to HT.“Instead of being afraid of the virus people should stick to discipline and social distancing. The virus can be defeated with sheer determination and will power,” he said.However, the head of a business family in Kalimpong town fought the deadly virus alongside Kavya, his three-year-old granddaughter, and walked out the nursing home with the child on Saturday afternoon.Diabetes, kidney transplantAfter spending 12 days at NBMCH and later at the nursing home, Singh and his granddaughter tested negative to Covid-19 in three back-to-back tests.“Positive thinking, determination, will power, discipline and social distancing are the mantras in the war against the coronavirus,” Singh said.He had undergone a kidney transplant in 2006 and suffers from high blood sugar, a condition that makes many people, especially senior citizens, succumb to co-morbidity. In fact, the West Bengal government is reluctant to attribute these deaths to Covid-19 alone.‘Be positive’Julie, Kavya’s mother and Singh’s older daughter-in-law, also returned home on Saturday. She was not infected but had to stay with the child.“Initially we were scared. Had we remained scared and did nothing to bring out the positive energy from within we would not have come out of the nursing home so soon,” Julie said.“One should not be afraid. If you are afraid it becomes difficult to fight a crisis. There are doctors, and even common people, to help you,” she said.“Kavya was always in a playful mood during the treatment,” she added.Also read: What you need to know todaySingh has the same attitude and some advice.“One must be firm, keep social distance and have lukewarm water regularly to defeat the virus. If you have the symptoms, please don’t hide it. Tell others and go for treatment. There are people to help you. One can recover in 15 to 20 days,” he said.“Though they tested positive, members of my family did not have the typical symptoms,” said Singh.“We are extremely happy that the eldest amongst us and who underwent kidney transplant has been released. This sends out a positive message when people are looking at coronavirus as a killer,” said Bijay, Singh’s younger son who also underwent treatment at the nursing home. On Saturday, the entire team of doctors and nurses who attended to the family, was present when Singh and Kavya left for their home in Kalimpong. This was the first time that patients were released in north Bengal after treatment.Bijay, his mother, uncle and the family’s maid were discharged Sunday evening after their subsequent tests came negative.In Kalimpong, 46 people, including another member of the family, are in still quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/be-positive-use-will-power-59-year-old-bengal-coronavirus-survivor-s-mantra/story-j4uTZhMXm9MjapUddX2t5K.html
13-04-2020||India||India aims for balance, a grim milestone for the UK: Covid-19 news today||India intensified its efforts on Sunday to draft a policy striking a balance between lives and livelihood in the wake of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, while formulating guidelines to demarcate zones with different levels of restrictions and restart certain economic activities after April 14, when the three-week sweeping lockdown is set to end. Meanwhile, the UK became the fourth European country after Italy, Spain and France to reach the grim milestone of 10,000 deaths from Covid-19, and reports said the Donald Trump administration in the US acted casually on early warnings about the pandemic.Coronavirus in India: Ministries pitch plan to balance lives, livelihoodA day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke of striking a balance between lives and the world, the government intensified its effort to find the policy mix to implement this framework. This included the process of finalising guidelines to demarcate zones with different levels of restrictions, and restarting certain economic activities once the three-week lockdown ends on April 14.Read MoreCoronavirus in India: More red zones as Capital extends Covid clampdownDelhi added 10 new containment areas to arrest coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, which climbed to 1,154 – the national capital reported 85 fresh infections and five deaths on Sunday – even as chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said his government was focusing on zones designated “red” and “orange” to isolate and control the outbreak.Read MoreSome cheer: India’s coronavirus recovery count hits 1,000 As the coronavirus spreads across the country, a figure that not many have paid attention to is that of the number of people who have recovered from the highly infectious Sars-Cov-2. In India alone, over 1,000 people around the country have been cured, while across the globe at least 410,000 people have recovered.Read MoreCovid-19: What you need to know today As India nears the 10,000 cases mark — Covid-19 infections touched 9,191 on Sunday, and there have been 326 deaths so far — it is clear that the virus is still following its own trajectory in India. Many scientists expected that this would change at some point. It hasn’t .Read MoreRed, yellow, green: Zones may be coded to lift coronavirus curbsStates across the country plan to divide their respective regions into red, yellow and green zones based on high, limited and no cases of Covid-19 for easing the lockdown imposed to check the pandemic and submit their plans to the Centre for framing a uniform policy for the next phase of curbs expected to start from Wednesday, multiple officials said on Sunday.Read MoreStates bank on testing, tracking and containment As the government weighs steps to eventually ease the nationwide lockdown in a phased manner, certain successful models from across the country could prove to be a useful guide, according to experts watching the Covid-19 situation. A health ministry document on containment areas issued last week gave a glimpse of what post-lockdown restrictions may look like in the worst-hit areas.The states have adopted different strategies but some of them are seen to have potential to be replicated nationally. Read MoreNihang men chop off cop’s hand after defying restrictionsA policeman’s hand was chopped off with a sword and six of his colleagues were injured in an attack by a group of Nihangs at a vegetable market in Punjab’s Patiala, the state police said on Sunday.Read More India well-prepared to handle surge in Covid-19 cases, says health ministryIndia is well-prepared to handle a surge in Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, with over a hundred thousand isolation beds available across the 601 Covid-19 dedicated hospitals, the Union health ministry said on Sunday, adding that at present only 1,671 patients needed hospitalisation.Read MoreIndia’s GDP growth may range between 1.5 and 4%: World BankIndia’s economic growth is likely to range between 1.5% and 4% in FY21, depending on the severity of the spread of Covid-19 pandemic and the duration of the ongoing nationwide lockdown, the World Bank said on Sunday.Read MoreCentre raps states over hurdles in smooth supply of essentials The Centre on Sunday asked the states to ensure smooth interstate and intrastate transportation of goods, amid concerns of shortage of supply.Read MoreDischarge mechanism in focus after false Covid-19 negativesScientists have called for urgently revisiting the discharge protocol for Covid-19 patients after recent international studies showed people can test positive for the virus even after two consecutive negative results.Read MoreCoronavirus airborne up to 4 metres, health staff at high riskThe virus that causes Covid-19 can be airborne for up to four metres, according to a study of patients in hospital wards and intensive care units (ICUs) in China’s Wuhan, where it was first detected by the end of last year.Read MoreCovid-19 fatalities in Britain cross 10,000British Prime Minister Boris Johnson expressed his gratitude to the staff of the National Health Service (NHS) for saving his life when his experience with the coronavirus could have “gone either way” as the UK on Sunday became the fourth European country to surpass 10,000 virus-related deaths.Read MoreCovid-19 US toll grows, as do media accounts of Donald Trump’s missteps As the United States went from one coronavirus death on February 29 to more than 20,600 Sunday, media accounts are growing of the Trump administration’s response beset by unheeded warnings, delays and the president’s own reluctance to acknowledge the seriousness of the crisis.Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-aims-for-balance-a-grim-milestone-for-the-uk-covid-19-news-today/story-Q4I9INP5gdUk2wS1KqqsoK.html
13-04-2020||India||Mercury soars as several districts record over 40° C||The maximum temperatures have started rising with many districts in central and west India recording over 40 degrees Celsius, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Sunday.Delhi on Sunday recorded a high of 37.2 degrees Celsius, one notch above the normal for this time of the year, the IMD said. Weathermen said that the national capital could also record 40 degrees C next week.Heat wave conditions are likely to develop in Saurashtra and Kutch in Gujarat, according to the IMD’s Sunday bulletin. Heat wave is also likely to develop over southwest Madhya Pradesh and northwest Vidarbha on April 14 and 15, the IMD said.“Many places have started recording above normal temperatures now. This is mainly because there is no intense weather system or a western disturbance which brings rain. Maximum temperatures across the country are likely to rise even further next week,” said K Sathi Devi, head, national weather forecasting centre.The IMD said maximum temperatures were above normal by 3.1 to 5 degrees C at a few places in Saurashtra, Kutch, Jammu and Kashmir, Assam, Meghalaya, Manipur, Tripura and Nagaland; by 1.6 to 3 degrees above normal over parts of Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, a few places of east Rajasthan, west Madhya Pradesh, Kerala, coastal Karnataka, Odisha, Goa and West Bengal.The maximum temperature in Srinagar on Saturday was 24.4 degrees C, 4 degrees above normal, while Shimla recorded a maximum temperature of 24 degrees C, 4 degrees above normal. Many towns and cities have started recording maximum temperatures of over 40 degrees Celsius. According to the IMD, Ahmedabad recorded the maximum temperature at 42 degrees C, 3 degrees above normal, Bhuj at 42.5 degrees C, Gwalior at 40 degrees, 1.6 degrees above normal and Akola at 42 degrees C, 1.3 degrees above normal.“There is an anti-cyclone (which causes calm weather) over Gujarat. The temperature hasn’t risen much over northwest India, because of western disturbances that are affecting the region. But central India, parts of Gujarat, Odisha, Telengana, which are in heat wave zone, have started recording higher temperatures. They have clear skies and less wind,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist at national weather forecasting centre. Jenamani said that Delhi could also record 40 degrees C next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mercury-soars-as-several-districts-record-over-40-c/story-GbITiK2HvtZR6Q0IZBPuYL.html
13-04-2020||India||Pakistan firing kills 3 civilians, hurts 4 others in Kupwara||Three civilians, including a child and a woman, were killed in two villages on Sunday when Pakistani forces resorted to ceasefire violation in north Kashmir’s Kupwara district. Several houses were also damaged when shells landed in Reddi Chowkibal and Tumna villages, officials said, adding that it is the first time when shells fired from across the Line of Control (LoC) landed deep inside Kupwara villages. The shelling, which continued for two hours, has left villagers scared as they had to run for the cover. Defence spokesman Colonel Rajesh Kalia blamed Pakistan for ceasefire violation in Keran sector of Kupwara. “Unprovoked ceasefire violation was initiated by Pakistan in Keran sector at 5pm. Pakistan targeted civilian population in Kupwara near LoC, resulting in the killing of three innocent civilians, including one woman and a child,’’ he said.Indian troops retaliated by targeting Pakistani posts. A senior police officer said that rescue operation is underway and the police and army teams have reached the villages where shells landed. Four civilians were also injured in the shelling, the officer said.The army’s one of the biggest camps is located in Chowkibal. A few days ago, from this place only Indian troops had targeted Pakistani pickets by using artillery shelling. However, the shells fired from Pakistan used to land near the villages close to LoC. On Thursday, the army had blamed Pakistan for ceasefire violation and said in retaliation, Indian troops targeted the terrorist launch pads and ammunition dumps across the LoC.For the past several months, the army has been using heavy artillery to respond to the ceasefire violation from the Pakistani side.There was an exchange of heavy artillery and mortars from both the sides on Friday morning which continued for three to four hours. The army in Kupwara fired artillery shells towards the PoK from Chowkibal and Panzgam villages.The ceasefire violation took place in the same area where army and militants got engaged in a gunbattle in which five militants, three are believed to be locals from south Kashmir, were killed earlier this week. Five soldiers, all elite paracommandos, were also killed while trying to neutralizing the militants. Since then there has been tension in the area, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-firing-kills-3-civilians-hurts-4-others-in-kupwara/story-YEAtReIUrgPL45A3v7DQKP.html
13-04-2020||India||Textile ministry steps up procurement of PPE||The textile ministry has procured 130,000 coverall suits from Indian producers amid a shortage of the protective gear being used by health care workers while treating coronavirus disease patients. According to officials familiar with the matter, the producers have reached a daily production capacity of 22,000 units. Since domestic production of the PPE suits began last month, 33 Indian producers have passed the quality tests laid down under norms stipulated by the WHO. Earlier, the country relied on international players for the for the suits.“This is a significant achievement considering that we had started from nowhere a month back, and the fabric had to be developed in the country for the first time. We hope to touch 50,000 units daily in the coming week, which will stabilise the supply chain,” said a senior textile ministry official, on condition of anonymity. The daily production capacity for the suits has been steadily growing with new producers making the cut. It was 16,000 units on April 10, as many as 15,700 on April 9 and 11,500 on April 8, said officials. Officials said that an additional two lakh PPE suits have come in from China through Indian donors. South India Textile Research Association officials said that the number of producers writing to them for approvals has risen. However, some of the untested producers were selling the units to private players, prompting the ministry to lay down new norms under which all PPE units will have a Unique Certification Code and tamper-proof stickers in indelible ink, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/textile-ministry-steps-up-procurement-of-ppe/story-yPbBOjTJSkj6RdMYRdKXAP.html
13-04-2020||India||Coronavirus: US to begin random anti-body testing to gauge undetected community spread||The United States’ National Institutes of Health (NIH) is testing 10,000 random people who had not tested for Covid-19 for the presence of antibodies to assess how many have had disease but went undiagnosed, and gauge the extent of “undetected community spread”.“This study will give us a clearer picture of the true magnitude of the Covid-19 pandemic in the US by telling us how many people in different communities have been infected without knowing it, because they had a very mild, undocumented illness or did not access testing while they were sick. These crucial data will help us measure the impact of our public health efforts now and guide our Covid-19 response moving forward,” said Anthony S Fauci, director, National Institute of Allergic and Infectious Diseases, which is under the NIH.Antibody testing could also give important clues for managing the disease in India. “It will not tell us who is currently infected. It will tell us who has been infected in the past. Generally, antibodies are developed five to seven days after contracting the infection. Such testing tells us how widespread the infection is in the community, how large is the proportion of asymptomatic patients is, and whether mild symptoms are more common or severe. Such tests are required to understand the virus. It is a surveillance tool and is cheaper than reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR, which detects active infection)” said Dr Tarun Bhatnagar, epidemiologist, Indian Council of Medical Research-National Institute of Epidemiology. India plans to start rapid antibody testing of all people in hot spots areas showing at least week-old symptoms.The test involves analysing blood for two types of antibodies -- anti-SARS-CoV-2, and the proteins IgG and IgM. In blood samples found to contain antibodies against SARS-CoV-2, researchers will evaluate the person’s immune response for insights on why they had mild disease.Countries like Germany, Italy, UK and now US are considering issuing immunity passports to certify a person has recovered and doesn’t have the potential to infect others as an exit strategy from lockdowns. Dr. Fauci on Friday said the US government is planning to issue immunity cards and that a large number of antibody tests will be available in the market in the coming weeks. “Antibody is just an indicator that you had the infection. You may still have to do an RT-PCR test to check if the person still has active infection. It will be too risky to allow people to go back to work without determining if there is active infection,” said Amit Singh, associate professor, Centre for Infectious Disease Research, Indian Institute of Science. He added that antibody testing is one of the best tools to assess community transmission. “That’s what South Korea did. They conducted mass scale antibody tests to plan and contain the disease in affected areas. India will do the same in coming weeks. “South Korea has been running thousands of antibody tests everyday to contain the disease, but on Fridayofficials reported that 91 patients thought to have recovered tested positive again. This is why Singh stressed that antibody tests cannot be used for a final call on whether restrictions can be lifted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-us-to-begin-random-anti-body-testing-to-gauge-undetected-community-spread/story-Ikiy8d7LKEmJLY7CaKWtnI.html
13-04-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||As India nears the 10,000 cases mark — Covid-19 infections touched 9,191 on Sunday, and there have been 326 deaths so far — it is clear that the virus is still following its own trajectory in India. Many scientists expected that this would change at some point. It hasn’t (and to celebrate, this column is going to be repetitive, but with fresh numbers).Click here for Covid-19 updatesTill March 23, there were 499 Covid-19 cases in India. The number rose to 2,543 till April 2. On April 12, the count stood at 9,191. The death toll rose from 10 to 72 to 326 in this period.Consider the US. Till March 8, there were 541 cases in the US. The number rose to 9,296 till March 18 and 124,256 till March 28. On Sunday, the count was 545,830. The death toll rose from 22 to 150 and then 2,222. On Sunday, it stood at 21,474.Or Italy. Till February 27, the number of cases in Italy was 593. This rose to 5,061 till March 7 and 26,062 till March 17. The death toll rose from 17 to 233 to 2,503 in this period. On Sunday, the count was a total of 156,363 cases and 19,899 deaths.There is no need to get into the math — the Indian curve is a lot shallower, in terms of both infections and deaths. One explanation is that India is not testing as much as some of these countries have done.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageItaly has tested 15,935 per million of its population; the US 8,138; and India 137. To be sure, both the US and Italy were laggards in testing to begin with, and then aggressively ramped up as they realised the danger posed by the pandemic.All the numbers, other than the India tally as of Sunday evening are from the website worldometers.infoThe latest Indian numbers are from HT’s dashboard.It is a fact that India has tested far too few people (the numbers will increase once the rapid test kits arrive). This could mean that there are a lot of infected people out there. Many of them may be symptomatic, but at least some will require hospitalisation, advanced care, perhaps in critical care units, and, some of them may even die. Anecdotally at least, there’s no sudden surge in non-Covid mortalities in India that suggests that the disease is silently stalking people in the country’s hinterland.Clearly, India’s trajectory is mystifying and needs deeper scientific research. This column has previously pointed to at least three themes being studied by scientists — the impact of temperature and humidity on Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19; the strain of the virus; and the relationship, if any, between immunity to the coronavirus disease and the BCG vaccine.The coverage of the vaccine is almost universal in India, and Indian children have been given it since the late 1940s. There’s more anecdotal evidence about the seeming immunity of those given the BCG vaccine to Covid-19. Spain (163,027 infections 16,606 deaths and 7,593 per million tested) gives the vaccine to children in only one region. The vaccine is universally given in Portugal (15,987 infections, 470 deaths, and 15,966 tests per million). The results of a large experiment involving frontline health care workers in Australia are awaited (they have been given the BCG vaccine).The findings will be closely studied — especially in India, where the government is working to find a way to protect lives as well as livelihoods affected by the ongoing lockdown.That won’t be easy — a quarter of India’s cases are from its two most important cities from the perspective of business, Delhi and Mumbai. Gurugram, home to the local HQs of many Fortune 500 companies, has several hot spots too. It will be a while before it is business as usual in all three.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today-april-13-2020/story-aAvHRTDucRBtQtGMckHW3L.html
13-04-2020||India||HT Salutes: This man skipped his child’s first birthday to sell essential medicines||In his 15 years of running a pharmacy, Shamim Ahmed has missed many anniversaries and family functions because of the nature of his job. This year, he decided to keep his shop shut for a day and made plans to celebrate his daughter’s first birthday on April 2.A venue was booked and caterers were hired to arrange a party that would be the biggest their neighbourhood had seen. Ahmed and his wife had been planning the party since January. As the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) spread across the world and reached India, the plans fell apart. “We still thought that as a backup plan, we’ll have a dinner together as a family, but who was to know that even that plan would not materialise,” Ahmed, who owns AK Pharma Solutions,in south Delhi’s Gautam Nagar, says. On April 2, when his only daughter turned one year old, Ahmed spent his entire day in his pharmacy selling face masks, gloves and essential drugs to his customers. Most of the day, he was on his phone tracking the movement of a delivery person who had to drop in with some essential medicines that Ahmed’s pharmacy was short on.The rush of customers, in fact, forced him to keep his shop open for hours beyond the closing time of 10 pm. He says that by the time he reached home, carefully keeping his clothes and shoes aside for washing, and cleaned himself up to meet his daughter, she was already asleep. “I know she will not remember any of this, and we will get a chance to spend many birthdays in life. This is when people need me the most and I cannot think only about myself and my family at such a crucial time,” the 37-year-old says. To ensure the safety of his staff, he has only kept one employee to help him in the pharmacy and given the rest time off with pay until the lockdown ends,He is also been maintaining a distance from his family to save them from any kind of infection. He sleeps in a separate room and ensures that he does not sit too close to his daughter. “Two people were found coronavirus-positive in this neighbourhood and that has created panic. I know I cannot close my shop and sit at home, but I do fear for my family’s safety. So, the best way to do that {ensure their safety} is to take precautions,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-salutes-this-man-skipped-his-child-s-first-birthday-to-sell-essential-medicines/story-ag58RvEqqpHJVbv7rofFIO.html
13-04-2020||India||HT Salutes: This nurse travels 30 kms to look after Covid patients||“It is our duty, how can we be scared? We will keep coming to the hospital and ensure that all of the patients are healthy and comfortable till the last patient has gone home,” she said. She is one of the 1,000 healthcare workers engaged in the care of Covid-19 patients at the city’s biggest isolation facility in Lok Nayak hospital.At present, the standalone Covid-19 hospital has 602 positive and suspected patients admitted. It is gearing up to create space for 2,000 such patients.Every day she travels almost 30km from her home in Rohini to report for duty at 8am.She comes to the hospital and changes into a brown salwar kameez, her uniform. When she has to go into the Covid-19 ward, she wears the personal protective equipment (PPE) – a full body suit, head cover, gloves, goggles, and shoe covers.The rising temperatures will only make her job more difficult. “Earlier the hospital was planning on longer shifts, but we have stuck to three eight-hour shifts. It is very hot, making it difficult to stay in so many layers of the PPE. Plus, we cannot switch on the air-conditioning as it might lead to the virus circulating across the hospital. As the temperature rises it is going to be more difficult,” she said.She recounts the incident in the Covid-19 ward when the first batch of about 80 suspected Covid-19 cases were brought from the airport to the hospital.“They were irritable because they had not anticipated the 14-day quarantine. And, at the time, we did not know we would have so many patients. The hospital was in the process of purchasing things like buckets, soaps, toothbrush and paste, packs of biscuits for all of them, but it was taking time. I remember, we all pooled in money and got some of the supplies from shops nearby to ensure they faced no problems,” said Kain.She heads the team of nurses that take care of the Covid-19 patients. “Not only do I have to ensure that all the patients are comfortable and looked after, I also have to make sure my nurses are safe. I have to ensure that when they are staying away from their families, they have a good place to live in and get nutritious food,” she said. The staff working inside the Covid-19 wards work for 14 days at a stretch before remaining in quarantine for the next 14 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-salutes-this-nurse-travels-30-kms-to-look-after-covid-patients/story-MNjoFkXY4Ge2jzhZBuASRI.html
13-04-2020||India||HT Salutes: ‘Proud to be chosen... Whatever you do, strive to be the best’||After four hours of picking up piles of garbage bags and sorting waste, 47-year-old Dhani Ram, a sanitation worker with East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC), takes a break to smoke a bidi. He sits on the side of a pavement, unties his plastic cap, removes his mask, and the struggles to pull off his gloves. “It takes a while to remove all this. Even my glasses get foggy inside this suit. We are not used to so much protection,” Ram laughed.A contractual sanitation workers with the municipality for over seven years now, apart from his normal routine, Ram has now been tasked to handle biomedical waste from hospitals and the houses of people who have been home quarantined by the administration.Every other day, Ram and another colleague get dressed in their protective gear and head out to collect the waste from marked houses and hospitals in the vicinity. Their instructions are that the bags of garbage kept outside these places are to be picked up, put in a sack, sealed, and in no circumstances should this waste or other discarded masks that they find be handled without gloves. With more people working from home because of a nationwide lockdown, his work has increased. When the municipalities started stepping up action in view of the increasing number of Covid-19 infections in the city, EDMC officials tasked private contractors to employ their “best workers” to pick up waste from the houses that have been quarantined. “I am proud that I was chosen. I believe in giving my best at whatever job I do. If you’re a doctor be the best doctor, if you’re a garbage collector, be the best one,” he said, showing pictures on his mobile phone of an award got from EDMC last year for being among the best at his job.As Ram finishes his smoke, he shows a small tear on his plastic overalls, which he has stuck together with a tape. He needs to handle his suit with care because a new one is only given out once every three days.Talking about incidents of violence against some front-line workers across the country, Ram says that it upsets him to see that people can nurture anger against those who are risking their own lives to control the infection. “Last week, a young boy crossed me when I was walking towards my vehicle, he smiled at me and said ‘thank you’,” Ram said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-salutes-proud-to-be-chosen-whatever-you-do-strive-to-be-the-best/story-UtF0qww6tm1Ph1aYcG45sN.html
13-04-2020||India||Expect aid from Centre for basic requirements: Manohar Lal Khattar||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar spoke to R Sukumar about the impact of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Haryana’s economy, the need to test more people, the migrant movement, restarting business activity, the Tablighi Jamaat cases, and the return to normalcy. Edited excerpts:Even as Haryana’s economy is considered very robust, how will the ongoing lockdown impact the state’s economy and its fundamentals?We are staring at Rs 4,000 crore revenue loss in April, which was Rs 2,300 crore in March. We have committed liabilities such as payment of debt, interest on loan, advances, salary, pension etc. When there is a shortage in revenue, we can apply the brakes on capital expenditure, but not on committed expenditure. We will have to make payments. We need about Rs 4,000 crore per month and we are expecting to anyhow generate just Rs 1,000 crore revenue. Hence, the way forward is to take a loan. Central assistance or grants is another way out. We made arrangements in first month, but if this continues, it will be very difficult to manage. On Saturday, during the video conference with the Prime Minister, chief ministers urged PM that there should be a system in place to help all the states to tide over this fiscal crisis. We will certainly find a way out.What type of help you are expecting from the Centre?I am expecting help from the Centre in the form of grants so that we can meet out basic requirements. The percentage of the debt should be increased from the existing 3%. The rules concerning raising loans should be relaxed. If it is done, we can go for the loan instead of depending on the Centre for monetary help. We have to make arrangements for Rs 4,000 crore per month till the lockdown. If we get Rs 1,000 crore revenue receipts, we need Rs 3,000 crore. This can be in the shape of debt, in the shape of a grant, or in the shape of a special package. It depends.What are your expectations. When will the economic activity start?As the Prime Minister has indicated, we will have to move towards economic activity also, while taking utmost care of lockdown and social distancing. We must have a plan in place. While four districts in the National Capital Region (NCR) -- Palwal, Nuh, Gurugram, Faridabad -- will be categorised as the Covid “hot spots” or “red zones’’, meaning highly vulnerable, all the remaining 18 other districts will be partially or completely put in the two different categories of orange or green zones. A lockdown will be enforced in Red Zone. In the green zone, small and medium industry will be allowed to start operations, provided the entrepreneur give us an undertaking to fulfil the guidelines in letter and spirit. We want small industry to start its operations at lower capacity first. We will issue directions in this connection very shortly to help industry come out of this crisis.Out of 22 districts, cases are coming from four districts. What’s your lockdown release plan?We have declared the four districts hot spots. Naturally, other districts where there are no cases will fall in the green zone. We will take commitment from all industrialists to maintain social distancing while starting the factories. We will form social distancing plan committees up to block level.So far, there have been 4,000 tests. How and when will the state increase its testing?Two days ago, we have increased the number of testing labs. Earlier, we had just two labs, now permission has been given to five private labs. Now we have eight labs functioning and two or three more labs will start testing in a week or so. Thus, our target is to go for more than a 1,000 tests a day in dozen-odd labs in the days to come. Rapid antibody testing is on the cards. We have placed orders for more than 100,000 testing kits.Are you buying them from China?No, no... we have placed order within the state. The states have exemption to buy such equipments on their own. We have kept Rs 500 crore as reserve for purchasing equipment etc. for the coronavirus battle. We have collected roughly Rs 150 crore as corona relief fund from people and employees. I am expecting Rs 150 crore more donations for this fund.By what time will the rapid testing kits be delivered?I am expecting delivery within a weekThis is the harvesting season, and so what are your plans? How will you manage social distancing and procurement simultaneously?Last year, there were over 400 procurement centres. Now we have identified about 1,850 purchase centre across the state. School building, warehousing godowns, premises of rice shellers etc will be converted to purchase centres. Commission agents are on board. Mustard procurement will start on April 15, and wheat from April 20. We will stagger the procurement. Until last year, most of the procurement operations used to be over in 25 days; now we will stagger the procurement operations to two months. After starting on April 20, it will continue till June 20. We will regulate the arrival of farmers to mandis. In order to regulate and stagger the procurement, the Market Committee will issue online e-gate passes to allow the entry of the agricultural produce. The passes will be issued only to registered and verified farmers on “Meri Fasal Mera Byora” portal. The farmers will be allowed to visit Mandi in two time slots from 8am to 2pm and from 2:30pm to 6pm. The Rabi procurement season (wheat, mustard and gram) will start from April 15 and continue till June 30. Wheat procurement will start from April 20.At a macro level, what type of impact will this crisis have on the economy?Huge impact. First, the temporary jobs -- like those of daily wagers and jobs given through the outsourcing -- will be affected. Tourism will suffer a lot. There will be a dip in demand of luxurious goods, there will be a setback to tourism -- all these things will definitely happen. While one sector will revive, another sector will continue to take a hit and struggle. When this type of crisis takes place, we will have to make people aware about their responsibilities. We will have to shun the ‘I, me and mine’ attitude. After the lockdown is over, we have to educate people that we are for the state and for the country. People will have to change their outlook/approach towards work.We will have to strengthen our health services. There is uncertainty in every sphere of life.Apart from health, which are other areas you plan to focus on? What all do you plan to change/improve to run the state effectively in the post-lockdown scenario?First, we have to strengthen the administrative system. How to run the administration even during social distancing is the challenge. To face this challenge, we are strengthening our online systems like running the administrative via videoconference etc.The exchange of information needs to be accelerated and increased. We are working on creating 25,000 administrative units up to the block level having a minimum 200 houses and 1,000 population. District administration will play a major role in this. The objective is to ensure live contact with these 25,000 administrative units from the state to small units in village.The big target is to ensure food for all, jobs for daily wagers and ensure administration and health remain effective.How did Haryana handle the migrant labourers crisis?Initially, there was a crisis for two days on March 29 and 30. Thousands of persons were on the roads. How to deal with this migration of labourers was a major challenge. We set up camps immediately along the roads and slowly they started returning. People even returned from Delhi back to Haryana. Later, we sealed our borders. At present, we have about 200 camps in which 15,500 migrant labourers are staying as of today.Initially the number of camps had gone beyond 570. Once the number of migrant labourers staying in these camps had touched 55,000 for two days.Migrants labourers who reached different parts of UP are in quarantine and are not getting the nod to reach their villages.When will this crisis be over? Labour is required -- will these labourers come back? Definitely, once the confidence of people start increasing, they will come. Everybody wants employment and transfer of population in such a big country for the purpose of jobs has happened earlier, and will continue again. Things will not come to a grinding halt. Normalcy must return. It will happen in a phased manner. Labourer wants jobs and the industrialists want manpower.When will things return to normal?This is a question that I think nobody in the world has an answer to, given the kind of situation that has been prevailing. America is in the grip of this disease due to a rising trend of the virus. We are not sure what China has done to flatten the curve. In every country, this is on the rising trend. But comparisons are natural. And when we compare Haryana, we are on a safer side. Unfortunately most of the cases in Haryana are of the Tablighi missionaries.Have you traced all the people of Tablighi Jamaat?There are some who are yet to come forward. Till two days ago, we had given opportunity to all of them to report. After that, we have registered cases against some of them who were caught; we had to act tough. We may again give them another chance to surrender. We don’t know if those who are yet to be traced are within the state or have managed to go out of the state.There is a need of complete coordination at all levels. Your thoughtsI think across the country all of us are working unitedly and by removing their political barriers to fight this corona disease. we are one at every place...In Haryana, all the political parties are united in this fight. This crisis is not targeting one individual. This virus is posing risk to the entire humanity. Therefore, all of us with a dogged determination must fight it out from our respective place by resolving to maintain social distancing and following the lockdown norms.I am confident of winning this battle. In Haryana the catchphrase is “Corona Haryana se harega, bharat se bhagega (Coronavirus will lose to Haryana, run away from India)”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/expect-aid-from-centre-for-basic-requirements-manohar-lal-khattar/story-O1PNg9cagTVkVCZhtd23PL.html
13-04-2020||India||Coronavirus in India: Ministries pitch plan to balance lives, livelihood||A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke of striking a balance between lives and the world, the government intensified its effort to find the policy mix to implement this framework. This included the process of finalising guidelines to demarcate zones with different levels of restrictions, and restarting certain economic activities once the three-week lockdown ends on April 14. Two Union ministers, a chief minister, two Niti Aayog officials, and two government bureaucrats who are a part of empowered committees dealing with various elements of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) said that the lockdown after Wednesday will be more calibrated than in the first phase. The commerce ministry has also offered a specific road map, in a note to the home ministry, on sectors that can be opened up now and relaxations that should be introduced once a decision on the lockdown is taken. The letter was seen and reviewed by HT. It also mentioned that there have been a “lot of problems” in the movement of people and vehicles in sectors allowed by the government; this was followed up by a home ministry note to state governments, reiterating the need to enable movement which has been permitted. The letter also proposed restarting big companies such as textiles, automobiles and electronic manufacturing with proper sanitation and distancing norms in place in sectors. It suggested restricting their capacities to 20-25% in a single shift to start with. It proposed allowing companies and micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) with export commitments to operate with minimal manpower and necessary movement of material; resumption of housing construction activities provided labour stayed at the site; and listed out a range of industries such as heavy electrical items, fertiliser plants, all types of food and beverages plants, among others, which should be allowed to function on a single-shift basis. To be sure, this detailed note is just a proposal — and is at the level of an intra-government communication so far. No decision has been taken or announced on it.India’s case tally stood at 9,191 on Sunday, including 326 deaths -- a rise of 811 positive cases since Saturday night.A Union minister familiar with the decision-making process in government said that a decision on the lockdown, however, is likely to be announced only on April 14, after a high-level meeting. Summarising the government’s broad approach, Vinod Paul, member of Niti Aayog and co-chair of the empowered committee for Covid-19 response in India, said that there were three things to keep in mind when the lockdown eventually ends. The first, he said, was the realisation for each citizen that life was going to be different till a drug or a vaccine was found. “So we would have to continue with a new norm of social distancing in every phase of our life.” The second factor was that the government would have to ensure that its hospitals and testing facilities were geared up to be more efficient. And the third factor was balancing “how much economic activity and vocational activity should be opened up without compromising the spread of the disease”.One element of this balance appears to be the proposal to demarcate the country into three zones — red, orange and green, depending on the incidence of coronavirus cases in the specific geography. A bureaucrat, who is a member of an empowered committee, explained that red zones will define areas which have a high number of cases — they will include affected districts and containment zones, and the lockdown here will remain in place and enforced strictly. Orange zones will be buffer areas which will see some relaxation but will be closely monitored; and green zones will include areas which have seen no incidence of the disease and where restrictions may be lifted substantially. In a separate interview, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar confirmed that this option is close to being implemented. “As the Prime Minister has indicated, we will have to move towards economic activity also, while taking utmost care of lockdown and social distancing.” Giving the example of his state, Khattar said this meant that four districts — Palwal, Nuh, Gurugram, Faridabad — will be categorised as “Covid hot spots” or “red zones”. He underlined: “Lockdown will be enforced in red zone. In the green zone, small and medium industry will be allowed to start operations, provided the entrepreneur gives us an undertaking to fulfil the guidelines in letter and spirit. We want small industries to start their operations at a somewhat lower capacity first. We will issue directions in this connection very shortly.”This push for resumption of partial economic activity was also reflected in a letter to the home ministry by the secretary of department for promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT) in the commerce ministry, Guruprasad Mohapatra, on Saturday. It proposed opening certain activities with “reasonable safeguards” once a final decision regarding “extension and nature of lockdown” is taken by the Union government. According to the proposal, the industries that would be allowed to operate must ensure a single entry points for workers, sufficient space for ensuring social distancing, use of separate transport for ferrying workers or stay arrangements in factory premises and high quality regular sanitisation of the premises. The local authorities must ensure strict observance of these conditions, it said.It also asked the home ministry to reiterate and allow the free movement of individuals and material for sectors that have already been permitted to operate, claiming that a “lot of problems were being faced in this regard”. Late in the evening on Saturday, the home secretary wrote to all chief secretaries reiterating the need to ensure intra and interstate transport of vehicles carrying cargo, movement of workers in essential services, functioning of cold storages and warehouses, among other measures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ministries-pitch-plan-to-balance-lives-livelihood/story-MiAikhBvf4jFDzmOnFeXpK.html
13-04-2020||India||Coronavirus in India: More red zones as Capital extends Covid clampdown||Delhi added 10 new containment areas to arrest coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, which climbed to 1,154 – the national capital reported 85 fresh infections and five deaths on Sunday – even as chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said his government was focusing on zones designated “red” and “orange” to isolate and control the outbreak.The new containment zones were located in East of Kailash — a lane in E Block, Kailash Hills and Shera Mohalla in Garhi village — apart from two in Abu Fazal Enclave, two in Madanpur Khadar and two in Jaitpur Extension-II in the south-east Delhi district; and Mahavir Enclave near Dwarka in south-west Delhi.With the new containment zones, Delhi has demarcated 43 such areas so far. While there is a 21-day lockdown in place across the country, these places are under firmer restrictions, with buildings, housing societies and even entire neighbourhoods sequestered under heavy police presence. People are not allowed to step out of their houses and authorities are delivering essentials to their homes. Kejriwal said the Delhi government was treating the containment areas as “red zones”. The increase in infections in Delhi has largely been driven by the detection of hundreds of patients who attended a congregation of the Tablighi Jamaat, a Muslim missionary group, in Nizamuddin last month. Of the 85 fresh cases on Sunday, 35 were identified “under special operations”. Starting Saturday, the Delhi government’s daily health bulletins were not giving specific details on the cases linked to the Nizamuddin cluster. Officials, however, said the “special operations” cases, 746 so far, included those present at the Jamaat gatherings and their contacts.“Over the last few days, [Covid-19] cases have been rising and I am worried about them. We are taking all steps to control the disease,” Kejriwal said during a digital news briefing. The chief minister said that large-scale sanitation drives will be conducted in the red zones and other high-risk zones labelled “orange” on the basis of advice from experts.Shortly after the CM said his government planned to announce several new containment zones, the Delhi government released an updated list. The south-east Delhi district now has the highest number of containment zones (12), overtaking the count in east Delhi, which previously had the most such zones at nine.“The case in East of Kailash E block is of a woman doctor who got infected while treating a patient. She was admitted to a private hospital almost 10-12 days back. There is another case from Kailash Hills. We were told that the person had travelled abroad,” said RK Rathore, chairman of Federation of East of Kailash residents’ welfare associations.According to a Delhi government official, one confirmed case was reported in Shera Mohalla in Garhi, an urbanised village in the locality. As it is a densely populated area, the government has decided to seal it so that the neighbourhood can be screened for people who may have come in contact with infected people, the official said on condition of anonymity.Chief minister Kejriwal said the government will keep adding containment zones wherever new patients of the highly contagious disease are detected. He said the Delhi government’s “Operation SHIELD” was effective in Delhi’s Dilshad Garden, where no new cases were reported in 10 days. SHIELD stands for sealing, home quarantine, isolation, essential supplies, local sanitation and door-to-door health checks.“Both red zones and orange zones will witness heightened sanitation and disinfection drive,” he added.An official said on condition of anonymity that buffer zones – areas immediately surrounding the containment clusters – were currently being considered as orange zones. The definition of orange zones may be expanded to include areas with high population density, he indicated.In a tweet, deputy CM Manish Sisodia said: “So far, 43 areas have been sealed under Operation SHIELD of the Delhi government. Beware of the virus. Step out only if necessary. But wear a mask, maintain distance from others and keep washing your hands.”In Jaitpur Extension, two areas were sealed after two people tested positive recently. In Madanpur Khadar, one case each was confirmed in Kachhi Colony and Mahela Mohalla.In south-west Delhi’s Mahavir Enclave that was sealed on Sunday, a nurse working with a hospital that has a Covid-19 isolation ward tested positive last week. On Saturday, her two children and a neighbour were also confirmed to have the disease, said Rahul Singh, district magistrate (south-west).“It’s a densely populated pocket... The risk of transmission is very high. We tested as many as 70 people in the containment area today [Sunday] but the results are awaited,” he added.Delhi recorded five fresh deaths from Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the death toll to 24, according to the Delhi government’s data.Four of the five people who died on Sunday were admitted to the Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital and another one to the Safdarjung Hospital. Two people who died – both residents of Turkman Gate – were in their early 40s. The other three were a 52-year-old man who lived near Bada Hindu Rao, a 78-year-old man from Inderpuri, and a 58-year-old man from Bulandshahr in Uttar Pradesh.There were 85 new cases, nearly half the number of cases recorded a day ago. The highest single-day tally so far was 183 on Friday last week. According to the official data, reports of 984 suspected cases were awaited as of Sunday evening.Another staffer at the Delhi State Cancer Institute, which has become a hot spot for Covid-19, tested positive on Sunday, taking the total number of cases at the facility to 23.The Delhi government has decided to convert the 200-bed Guru Nanak Eye Centre into a Covid-19 hospital attached to Lok Nayak Hospital, the biggest Covid-19 hospital in the Capital.A Delhi police sub-inspector, posted at the trauma centre of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), also tested positive for the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-red-zones-as-capital-extends-covid-clampdown/story-Cz5xWmNTbKuXbJIsHsiZHL.html
13-04-2020||India||Coronavirus: Kerala on track to curtail spread but says too early to lower guard||The low mortality, high recovery rates and a decline in the number of Covid-19 cases indicate Kerala is moving towards flattening the curve, the state government said on Sunday while adding it was too early to lower its guard. The state reported just two more cases on Sunday as its tally went up to 376. Officials said 36 patients have been discharged over the last one week and the number of those discharged is almost double of the new cases. Kerala, which reported the first Covid-19 case in India in January, was the worst hit state by the pandemic in March before Maharastra pushed it to the second spot. Eight states apart from Maharashtra have since reported more cases than Kerala. According to state health ministry data, at least 62 cases were detected since March 5 while the number of patients discharged in the corresponding period is 124. After Kottayam , Idukki district is now free of Covid-19 after all 10 patients were discharged. Now 500 people are under observation in their homes in Idukki and none of them have shown any symptoms of the disease over the last two weeks, said the district administration.Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan underlined it is too early to say the worst is over and asked the state machinery to remain vigilant. He asked the health ministry to make use of the lean period to step up medical infrastructure. “Statistics show we have a good grip on the disease and things will turn in our favour soon. But the time is not to lower our guard. If some lapses take place, things will go topsy-turvy...we have examples of some developed countries before us,” he said. Health and finance ministers K K Shailaja and Thomas Issac echoed Vijayan.Public health expert Dr B Ramankutty said it is a new virus and nobody has any idea about its behaviour. “No doubt, the state has got some control over cases. It is too early to say the state is on the verge of flattening the curve. It has to continue its surveillance and increase its medical infrastructure,” he said . Indian Medical Association office bearer Dr Sreejith N Kumar said the lockdown has had desired effects. “It has proved again social distancing is the best medicine. This is the time for some homework. In Kerala, each sector will have to devise plans on how to phase out the lockdown and work in the changed scenario. But of course zero case scenario is too far,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-on-track-to-curtail-spread-but-says-too-early-to-lower-guard/story-GTOSPHhhHE1SFXSbfTdFYL.html
13-04-2020||India||Coronavirus: India well-prepared to handle surge in covid cases, says health ministry||India is well-prepared to handle a surge in Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, with over a hundred thousand isolation beds available across the 601 Covid-19 dedicated hospitals, the Union health ministry said on Sunday, adding that at present only 1,671 patients needed hospitalisation. Health ministry joint secretary, Lav Agarwal, said they there were focusing on strengthening infrastructure and surveillance as part of the strategy to manage positive cases. “If you ask what is our strategy in managing positive cases, then I would say infrastructure and manpower strengthening, and surveillance. The number of available beds [105,980 ] in proportion to the number of required beds has been far higher, our analysis shows, so there is no need to fear about the adequate availability of beds,” Agarwal said at a media briefing.Apart from the dedicated Covid-19 hospitals, some prominent hospitals in the country such as the All India institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi and Safdarjung Hospital have separate beds and blocks for those suffering from Covid-19, the government has said. “About 80% cases with no or mild symptoms can be housed in Covid-19 care facilities equipped with all basic medical care required, and about 15% [cases] with moderate symptoms will be admitted to Covid-19 health facilities that will have oxygen support. Patients with serious symptoms will be kept in Covid-19 hospitals that are equipped with ventilators and advanced Intensive Care Units. The previous two facilities will be linked to a hospital, and will have an ambulance to transport a patient in case the symptoms turn severe,” said Agarwal.The government is also looking to make use of the private and government medical colleges’ laboratories to increase the country’s testing capacity, according to Agarwal.“They have the laboratories to do the molecular testing, if given a little training and resources, these labs can be utilised for testing purposes,” said Dr Sanjeev Bagai, chairman and managing director, Nephron Clinic.Ten institute of national repute such as AIIMS, Delhi and Bengaluru’s National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences have been identified to mentor these medical colleges, the health ministry said.“AIIMS, Delhi has been conducting webinars on a regular basis to train doctors, nurses, paramedics and our field staff involved in Covid-19 management. The training programme can be scaled up to include these medical colleges as well so that these can also be utilized in disease management and testing,” said Agarwal.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the country’s apex biomedical research organisation, has tested 1,86, 906 samples for Covid-19 since January 24, with a positive percentage of 4.3%.“If you look at last five days, 15,750 samples on an average were tested per day [across the country], with an average of 584 positive cases. There are 151 government laboratories and 68 private labs performing tests,” said Dr Manoj Murhekar, director, National Institute of Epidemiology, Chennai.India does not have a Covid-19 vaccine candidate as of now but at least 40 vaccine-related research projects are currently on across the globe. “There is no news of any successful attempt as of now. These trials haven’t reached the next level,” he added.Dispelling doubts on shortage of Hydroxychloroquine (HCQ), a drug that has shown some promise against Covid-19, in the country, Agarwal said that there was no dearth of HCQ and it was being exported to 13 countries, including the US, in the first batch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-well-prepared-to-handle-surge-in-cases-health-ministry/story-M6qPPV8vcc9MjnylveTgVJ.html
13-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Virus airborne up to 4 metres, health staff at high risk||The virus that causes Covid-19 can be airborne for up to four metres, according to a study of patients in hospital wards and intensive care units (ICUs) in China’s Wuhan, where it was first detected by the end of last year. Infection rates are high among health care workers despite the use of personal protection equipment (PPE) such as gloves, masks and coveralls. While the presence of the genetic material of the virus in the environment does not indicate it is viable (alive outside a living host) and infective, the study, published in Emerging Infectious Diseases, a journal of the US Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), offers important clues on how infection spreads and how health care workers can be protected.The RNA genetic material of Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, was found suspended in the air in hospital wards and ICUs four metres away from patients, which is four times more than distance recommended for protection against infection by the World Health Organization (WHO).The viral concentration was highest in ICUs, but it was also heavily concentrated on the floors of the wards, with “half of the samples from the soles of the ICU medical staff shoes tested positive. Therefore, the soles of medical staff shoes might function as carriers” ,said the study.High levels of the virus were also found on frequently touched surfaces, such as door knobs, trash cans, bed rails, and the computer mouse. “Overall, we found that the air and object surfaces in Covid-19 wards were widely contaminated by Sars-CoV-2. These findings can be used to improve safety practices,” said the authors.Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests were used for nucleic acid (genetic material, which includes DNA and RNA) amplification to detect Sars-Cov-2 from environmental samples.“Yes, (finding) RNA is not equal to a viable virus, but the study highlights the need for PPE and need for care. Good personal protection for health care workers is the key to success, else morale will be down and care will be compromised,” said Dr. Anurag Agrawal, director, Institute of Genomics & Integrative Biology, Delhi.“RT-PCR is very effective in diagnosing viral infection, but using it to detecting RNA in the environment is not a scientific way of measuring transmission because nucleic acid traces are not indicative of virus viability. RNA by itself is not transmissible and infective. The outer wall of the virus, which is what it uses to enter human cells, gets destroyed pretty quickly from sterilisation and environment exposure,” said Dr. T Jacob John, professor emeritus and former head of virology at Christian Medical College, Vellore.Earlier this month, a high-level US scientific panel said contended that the virus is airborne and can be stay suspended in air in the ultra fine mist that is produced when people breathe or speak, which prompted several governments, including India, to make it mandatory for everyone to wear masks in public places. The earlier guidelines said masks should only be worn by the sick, health care workers and people with symptoms of cough, fever and respiratory distress.In a scientific brief in March 27, WHO said aerosol transmission “may be possible in specific circumstances and settings that generate aerosols”, such as when severely ill patients are intubated with a breathing tube for ventilator support, but added that an analysis of more than 75,000 coronavirus cases in China revealed no cases of airborne transmission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/virus-airborne-up-to-4m-health-staff-at-high-risk/story-qiQdXlGmxzuQFAfxziPBqM.html
13-04-2020||India||Centre raps states over hurdles in smooth supply of essentials||The Centre on Sunday asked the states to ensure smooth interstate and intrastate transportation of goods, amid concerns of shortage of supply. In a letter, home secretary Ajay Bhalla pulled up states for not adhering to previous guidelines and advisories enabling the movement of both essential and non-essential goods. “It has come to the notice of this ministry that in some parts of the country, guidelines and clarification are not being implemented in letter and spirit. Specifically, trucks carrying essential and non-essential goods are being detained. Workers needed for operation for operation of manufacturing units of essential goods and other exempted categories are not getting authorization/passes for movement,” the letter said.Click here for full coverage of Covid-19The restrictions on activities, specifically permitted by the home ministry, have the potential of creating shortages of essential commodities. The letter said empty goods carriers should also be allowed on their way to pick up goods or return after a delivery. Units involved in manufacture of essential items should be allowed to function without any hindrance. The letter also said that godowns and cold storages should be allowed to function during the lockdown. Tens of thousands of trucks have been left stranded across state borders since the lockdown took effect on March 25. The government has issued several advisories to state chief secretaries to ensure that smooth movement of goods takes place, seeking to avoid shortages.On Saturday, HT had reported that the Centre had reached out to transporters to resolve problems being faced by stranded truck drivers, so that essential supplies could reach their destinations. Transporters have also sought safeguards, including ₹50 lakh in insurance cover for those engaged in the supply chain and free medical treatment for those who test positive for the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-raps-states-over-hurdles-in-smooth-supply-of-essentials/story-EegQP1sJjsxhDZHrAHQapN.html
13-04-2020||India||Red, yellow, green: Zones may be coded to lift coronavirus curbs||States across the country plan to divide their respective regions into red, yellow and green zones based on high, limited and no cases of Covid-19 for easing the lockdown imposed to check the pandemic and submit their plans to the Centre for framing a uniform policy for the next phase of curbs expected to start from Wednesday, multiple officials said on Sunday.The national lockdown is due to end on Tuesday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has indicated the restrictions will continue in some form to save lives through enforcement of social distancing but with some relaxations to resume economic activity and preserve livelihoods. National guidelines are expected on what activities can be allowed and areas to be exempted from the extended lockdown.The officials cited above said they were working on details of activities that can be allowed in green and orange zones. To provide relief to migrant workers stranded in different states, the state governments are working on allowing operation of certain small and medium enterprises in green and orange zones. Carpenters, plumbers, and barbers are expected to be allowed to resume work but with social distancing norms in place. There is a proposal to allow those factories to reopen, where employees work and stay with strict social distancing norms and proper sanitization.“We cannot keep businesses shut and choke the economy. From lockdown, we can go to lock-in by having lesser people,” said a Maharashtra government official who did not want to be named. “It is not always a conveyor belt system in production and component processing can be segregated, while integration can happen in one place. All options are being studied.”All states are likely to allow crop harvest from April 15. States like Punjab will provide on-farm procurement facilities while Madhya Pradesh is creating block level markets, where only 10 to 15 farmers will be allowed to sell their produce. Telangana and Andhra Pradesh plan to buy maximum produce from farmers through district authorities.“Procurement of harvested crops will start at the local level for which special markets should be created,” said Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday told officials that farmers should be encouraged to sell their produce at their farms or villages and travels to markets should be minimized.Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope the state could be divided into red, orange and green zones depending on the number of cases. Districts, where there are no cases, will come under the green zone, those with up to 15 cases will fall under the orange zone, and districts having over 15 cases under red zone, he said.Tope said Mumbai city, Mumbai suburban, Thane, Palghar, Raigad, Aurangabad, Pune, Sangli, Nashik, Ahmednagar and Raigad districts would fall under the red zone. Districts like Amravati, Sindhudurg, Ratnagiri, Kolhapur, Satara, Osmanabad, Hingoli, Jalna, Washim, Beed, Dhule, Gondhiya and Yavatmal would be in yellow zones and the rest in green.A final decision will be taken after the Centre’s advisory, a state government official said.In Rajasthan, a task force has suggested withdrawal of the lockdown in a phased manner with districts having no Covid-19 cases being exempted first. The 12-member task force, headed by additional chief secretary DB Gupta, submitted a report to chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday.“Lockdown should not be withdrawn in one go, but in phases based on the number of cases geographically,” said an official familiar with the matter. The panel had recommended four categories–high risk, medium risk, low risk and districts with no cases.Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur announced the state will be divided into a red zone, four orange and green zones and a final exit plan will be initiated when the coronavirus curve flattens. He added the red zone will be completed isolated from the rest of the state but essential goods would be allowed. Thakur said all horticultural activities will be allowed in orange and green zones but inter-state travel will remain banned for some time.In Karnataka, around 14,000 fishermen from the state’s coastal districts resumed fishing, officials said on Sunday.Representatives of most states on Saturday agreed to extend the lockdown till April end and suggested easing of lockdown norms in districts having no Covid-19 cases with strict inter-district travel restrictions during a video conference with Modi.(With inputs from state bureaus)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/red-yellow-green-zones-may-be-coded-to-lift-curbs/story-YcySk4BNvWgrQqlKBSugHP.html
13-04-2020||India||Coronavirus Update: Jaipur’s Ramganj emerges as new Rajasthan Covid-19 hotspot||Rajasthan reported 96 positive coronavirus disease cases on Sunday. Of these, 35 were reported from Ramganj, a densely populated locality in Japiur, which has emerged as hotspot for the infectious disease. Health officials have, however, said that the spike is due to aggressive testing being done to identify the magnitude of the problem. Ramganj, with a population of 2.6 lakh, has been put under a curfew, along with 11 other police station areas in the city. Door-to-door screening is being performed here to monitor the situation. Alok Vyas, a social worker, said the numbers were rising at an alarming rate due to which the people were anxious. “Initially when curfew was imposed, people took it casually and did not adhere strictly. But now the administration is also very strict and people have become more disciplined,” he said.The health department has set up six centres for people to get tested. The residents, however, have alleged people are not getting a regular supply of essentials. A resident, Prabhakar Sharma, said, “We are not getting ration nor have any government vans come to our area.”He said that milk is available only in the mornings at the government dairy and only a couple of medicine shops were open in the neighbourhood.The first person to test positive for Covid-19 in the area was a 45-year-old man who returned from Oman on March 12. He was asked to home quarantine himself, but he continued to meet people. He tested positive on March 26.Health minister Raghu Sharma said the Bhilwara model to prevent community spread of the virus could not be followed in Ramganj because of its population density, so the government has come up with the cluster model for Ramganj in which random sampling is being done.Additional chief secretary, health, Rohit Kumar Singh said the high numbers should not worry anyone. “Ramganj is reporting large number of positive cases because of very aggressive testing. It is part of our strategy to identify the real magnitude of the problem,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ramganj-emerges-as-new-raj-hot-spot/story-6KRiEiyAai6spqWxvY54gM.html
13-04-2020||India||Coronavirus: NCERT devises plan to teach kids at home||The National Council for Education Research and Training (NCERT) has for the first time designed a four-week alternative academic calendar for primary school students, which includes an assignment for maintaining a diary about the Covid-19 lockdown, as they stay indoors because of the measures put in place to ensure social distancing to check the spread of the pandemic. The students have also been asked to use spoons and bowls, coronavirus charts and graphs to learn about numbers, millions and trillions as they continue learning at home.The calendar of the NCERT, which designs the school curriculum, explains how kitchen equipment and other similar things can be used to teach children subjects like maths and even environment studies. For teaching numbers to students of class 1, the calendar, a copy of which HT has seen, suggests that parents can ask their children to take out as many bowls, spoons, and plates and ask them to count the objects. They can also count the number of chairs in a room, family members etc. Similarly, a class 3 students can learn about shapes using utensils besides making posters about the dos and don’ts recommended during the coronavirus outbreak.The calendar suggests the children may be asked to record surprise voice or written messages for their friends or family members. The messages can be about anything like how they feel, what new things they did or learned during the lockdown, the around 100-page document suggests. It adds the children may be asked to observe kitchen activities and be encouraged to observe and list the activities and processes taking place.The document suggests class 4 students can learn about measurements by comparing heights of their family members and estimating, for instance, whether a cupboard can be taken inside a room through a door. It adds, for learning languages, children can try tongue twisters like “tiny Tim tells time”. The document also suggests children may be encouraged to observe and list food items like cereals, pulses, spices and to help with chores.For class 5 students, the document says they can find charts about the number of coronavirus patients across the world to learn about Indian and international number systems and terminology like lakh, crore, millions, trillions, etc. Other exercises suggested in the calendar include writing about how one’s family is contributing to society and taking care of plants, birds, and animals during the lockdown period. The document suggests discussions with family members on TV programmes children watch after approval.NCERT chief Hrushikesh Senapati said the document has been created because of the extraordinary circumstances. “There definitely is a lot of good material online. But our effort here has been to encourage engagement of children when they are at home through the involvement of parents and under the guidance of teachers,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncert-devises-plan-to-teach-kids-at-home/story-A6RjCSKnVcdWsT0AATsX3H.html
13-04-2020||India||Coronavirus in India: States bank on testing, tracking and containment||As the government weighs steps to eventually ease the nationwide lockdown in a phased manner, certain successful models from across the country could prove to be a useful guide, according to experts watching the Covid-19 situation.The government could go by the strategy of converting the so-called red zones into yellow and then green. Red zones are Covid-19 hot spots, yellow are ones where the case count sees a quick decline and green are where no cases exist. The Centre has asked states to adopt containment strategies as per local conditions, which include hard lockdowns, aggressive scanning of areas and rapid testing, all aimed to scale down the zones to green.A health ministry document on containment areas issued last week gave a glimpse of what post-lockdown restrictions may look like in the worst-hit areas. “The cluster containment strategy would be to contain the disease within a defined geographic area by early detection of cases, breaking the change of transmission and thus preventing its spread to new areas,” the document said.The strategy builds on experience from the 2009 H1N1 influenza pandemic, with that virus affecting bigger cities and well-connected towns much more than rural areas.“This suggests that while the spread of Covid-19 in our population could be high, it’s unlikely that it will be uniformly affecting all parts of the country,” the document said. “This calls for a differential approach to different regions of the country, while mounting a strong containment effort in hot spots.”The states have adopted different strategies but some of them are seen to have potential to be replicated nationally. Here are some:Aggressive screeningMumbai (Maharashtra): Mumbai has 381 containment zones – highest for any city in India – the result of aggressive screening of close to a million people. The city plans to start pool testing around containment zones to intensify the screening process and identify possible community transmission.In pool testing, multiple swab samples are tested together through the RTPCR (real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) test to quickly identify Covid-19 areas. If the test is negative, it means that all persons, whose swabs were tested together, are negative. In case of it being positive, individual tests of all persons are done.Till Sunday, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had traced 40,000 high and low-risk contacts of Covid-19 positive persons and managed to identify 620 cases through contact-tracing measures, up from 29,755 tracked till April 12. A total of 474 flying squads have so far screened close to a million persons for symptoms of Covid-19, officials said.Effective trackingPathanamthitta (Kerala): With a track, trace and treat approach, a hilly district in central Kerala, Pathanamthitta, tasted success within a month. It was one of the early hot pots of the country with 16 positive cases in March first week and now it has eight out of the state’s tally of 364. The district was the first to identify red, yellow and green zones. At one point, the district had 20,000 people under observation and their number came down to 6,477, according to district programme manager Dr Ebey Sushan.The district introduced flow charts tracking every movement of patients and geo-fencing people in quarantine. It set up an exclusive Covid hospital and banned the entry of pilgrims at Sabarimala hill temple.District collector PB Nooh, said: “We literally chased the contacts of imported cases (those who came from abroad) and quarantined as early as possible. Initial slip-ups in identifying and quarantining were plugged properly.” By Sunday, the district had moved into the yellow zone.Ruthless containmentBhilwara (Rajasthan): The containment happened in three phases: the first task was to isolate the district, second was screening strategy in city and rural areas and third was quarantine and isolation wards, said Rajendra Bhatt, district collector. The first case was reported on March 19. Within days, cases increased to 28 and of them, 24 were cured.For isolating the district, curfew was imposed on March 20 and continued till April 2. From April 3 to 13, even essential purchases were prohibited and door-to-door supply was done. Disinfection of the containment zone and buffer areas, all ambulances and police vehicles was done daily.A total of 3,072 teams of health workers screened 1,071,325 people in Bhilwara city, and 1,937 teams screened 2,239,134 people in the rural areas....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-bank-on-testing-tracking-containment/story-ex3swDm5tFBqzKc0G8C15M.html
13-04-2020||India||Uttarakhand’s specially-abled lend helping hand to migrants amid Covid-19 lockdown||Uttarakhand’s hearing and speech impaired people have come forward to the aid of stranded immigrants and daily wagers amid the lockdown, helping in day-to-day relief works being carried out by the administration and as well as their groups.Under the aegis of Devbhoomi Hearing and Speech Impaired Association, more than a dozen people, for the past nine days, are collecting ration and essential items from their association members.Named ‘Maa Ganga Ki Rasoi’ (mother Ganga’s kitchen), these specially-abled persons come together early mornings at the makeshift kitchen to collect and pack ration and other essentials in boxes.Initially, food was also cooked, but the association members decided on ration kits as the better option, as the same can be delivered at the doorstep of poor and given to the needy who live in distant areas.Sandeep Arora, the president of the Devbhoomi association, through a written communique, said that when he saw migrant labourers, domestic helps, rickshaw pullers and wandering seers queuing up to get food after the lockdown in the state on March 22, he decided to help them to the best of his capacity.“We communicated through mobile text chats and internet with our members across the district and state who expressed a willingness to contribute to this initiative. During lockdown relaxation hours (7am-1pm), we carry out food ration collection and distribution work. Domestic helps, daily wage labourers, rickshaw drivers, wandering seers and slum dwellers are our prime focus,” said Sandeep Arora, who has also compiled poems on fighting the coronavirus scare.These specially-abled people also helped a group of 15 stranded vendors, of Bahraich area in Uttar Pradesh, who sold ‘prasad’ (holy offerings) near Mata Mansa Devi Shrine a week before the lockdown.“Today we have been provided 25 kilograms of wheat, 10 kg rice, mustard oil and related items by the association members. We are thankful to such people, who despite facing difficulties, are helping us. They have also taken our numbers so that we can inform them about our ration requirements,” said Jitendra Maurya, one of the vendors.The association members have already started generating more resources by using social media, apprehensive of an extension to the lockdown.“After our social work was highlighted in local media, we have also been receiving calls and communications from people who want help us. We are committed to providing food ration to the needy till April 30, even if we have to cut short our personal and family requirements,” said Har Deep Singh Chawla, a social activist associated with the association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-s-specially-abled-lend-helping-hand-to-migrants/story-Y1aJA2nwmxTdjpTN2H5YUP.html
13-04-2020||India||Covid lockdown mars Bohag Bihu celebrations in Assam||The Assam government has asked the public to follow the Covid-19 lockdown guidelines by staying indoors and directed Bohag Bihu committees to restrict their celebrations of the week-long festivities beginning Monday to just ceremonial hoisting of flags.Bohag Bihu, or Rongali Bihu, is Assam’s biggest festival and marks the onset of spring and the beginning of the Assamese new year and involves feasting.The Bihu celebrations start with Goru Bihu when cattle are bathed and worshipped. Most rituals will be restricted with the social distancing norms in place to check the spread of Covid-19.“I request all Bihu committees to conclude this year’s programme by hoisting flags in presence of not more than 5 persons,” Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said.Bihu is marked by preparing of sweets and delicacies called pitha and laru and making of gamochas (traditional towels) in handlooms, which are distributed among loved ones. Month-long cultural programmes are held to mark the festivities across the state.The first day of the new year as per the Assamese calendar (Tuesday) is marked as Manuh (human) Bihu when younger people touch feet of elders in their families to seek their blessings.In Guwahati, 26 committees announced the cancellation of Bihu cultural programmes on March 20 five days before the national lockdown was implemented.All Assam Students Union (AASU), which has been holding Mukoli Bihu (open Bihu) in Guwahati since 1982, has decided to do away with the event this year. It will not hoist the Bihu flag either to mark the festivities.“Let us all resolve this Bohag to fight the menace of coronavirus unitedly. Let us maintain all rules and safety measures. Only then we will be able to win this battle,” AASU general secretary Lurinjyoti Gogoi said.Assam has recorded 29 Covid-19 cases till date. A 65-year-old person died of the disease on Friday at Silchar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-lockdown-mars-bohag-bihu-celebrations-in-assam/story-sWaIbItDx2o4JGUQLGkA6J.html
13-04-2020||India||UP woman throws her 5 kids into river, jumps in. Then she changes her mind||A woman reportedly threw her five children, including a three-year-old boy, into the Ganges near Jahagira Ghat in Bhadohi district on Sunday following an altercation with her husband. All children are feared drowned, police said.Police said that Mridul aka Munna, a resident of Jahagira village, had an altercation with her wife Manju who reportedly asked him for money to meet domestic expenses. After sometime, she along with her five children went to the ghat and allegedly pushed the children into the river, before jumping herself.While the children- Shiv Shankar (8), Keshav Prasad (3) and Puja aka Saraswati (6) and two others aged 10 and 12- are all believed to have drowned, the mother is alleged to have changed her mind after jumping into the river and swam back to the shore. She sat on the bank of the river after the incident. Watch: Woman throws her five children into river after argument with husband Some locals, who were working in the nearby fields, rushed to rescue the children but didn’t succeed. District magistrate Bhadohi Rajendra Prasad and superintendent of police Rambadan Singh soon reached the spot and engaged two teams of divers to look for the children.The DM confirmed that it was due to the quarrel with her husband that the woman took the decision to throw her five children into the river.According to some locals, the mental condition of the woman was not sound, but her husband claimed that she was mentally fit. He said he couldn’t understand why his wife had to take such an extreme step.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-woman-throws-five-children-into-ganga-after-fight-with-husband/story-euPyWuSQe3g5drAI2x3jPL.html
13-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Noida apartment owners start ‘Roti Bank’ for poor||In order to help the homeless and the poor, homeowners in Noida started a ‘Roti Bank’ on Sunday by collecting two rotis each from an apartment in several complexes in sector 78 and 79.After this, the home-made rotis were sent to the nearby Noida Authority’s kitchen in nearby Sorkha village and then delivered to migrant daily workers and needy living in the city.Apartment owners of Sector 78’s three housing complexes--- Antriksh Golf View 1, Golf View 2, Assotech Windsor Court --- and Sportswood in sector 79 have started this “Roti Bank”.“We have requested via WhatsApp groups and other social networking sites that every family will make two rotis extra at home only in the evening daily for next two weeks. Each apartment owner will hand over the rotis to security guard at the gate in a packet. And then the authority representative will collect these packets daily in the evening,” said Brijesh Singh, an apartment owner. Antriksh Golf View projects have at least 1500 families, Assotech 500 families and Sportswood 600. Volunteers hope all families come forward to donate.“We hope we will be successful in helping as many people we can and other society residents will also follow us,” said a volunteer, requesting anonymity.The Noida authority is running five community kitchens in Shani temple sector 14A, Harola sector 5, Bhangel, Sorkha and Mamura for the poor. Social groups are coming forward in large numbers to help needy get regular food across the city. We will continue serving food as per government orders,” said Ritu Maheshwari, the chief executive officer of the Noida authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-noida-apartment-owners-start-roti-bank-for-poor/story-akTYnI14r3BAQAM5rwoLIP.html
13-04-2020||India||Covid-19 update: Govt to develop platform to monitor HCQ availability amid reports of supply crunch||The central government’s department of pharmaceuticals is developing a platform driven by information technology (IT) to monitor the availability of anti-malaria drug hydroxychloroquine after allegations of supply crunch in several places, according to officials.But industry players said there is no shortage of hydroxychloroquine, which is used as a prophylaxis (a treatment to prevent a disease) for people at high risk of contracting the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). They added that reports of shortages could be attributed to a popular brand running out of stock because of hoarding by patients.Hydroxychloroquine pills are prescribed to non-Covid-19 patients with conditions such as rheumatoid arthritis.Acting on the complaints, the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA), which functions under the pharmaceuticals department (ministry of chemicals and fertilizers), is working on developing the IT-driven platform to monitor hydroxychloroquine at all distribution channels starting from customs to warehouses to distributors and finally retailers.NPPA and the Drugs Controller of India, which is under the health ministry, have approached all stakeholders to ensure information on the supply of the medicine is uploaded and updated on the platform on a regular basis. This will help officials keep tabs on the medicine’s availability and address gaps as and when they surface.“…it is informed that all sellers of drugs are requested to register first in the platform to create master data, and then upload details…It is to ensure availability of these drugs to all needy people,” read a message from the drugs controller’s office to those involved in the supply chain. HT has seen the communication.Basant Goel, the president of Retailers and Distributors Chemist Association (RDCA), said there is a particular brand that is facing supply shortage though others are available in the market.“The initial shortage was reported because, when there was no restriction on the sale of hydroxychloroquine, people started hoarding a popular brand. But now we will be getting more supplies. Also, the sale of hydroxychloroquine is restricted by the government, and you need to have a valid prescription to buy it,” he said.On March 26, the Union health ministry restricted the over-the-counter sale of hydroxychloroquine. It is now available only on prescription. While health ministry says all departments are taking extra steps to ensure the supply of hydroxychloroquine, the external affairs maintains that only the surplus stock is being exported after the recent relaxations of rules.“We have adequate manufacturing capacity, today, in the country and have sufficient supply to meet both domestic and export demand,” the Indian Pharmaceutical Alliance said in a statement on Sunday, adding that companies are ramping up production to ensure an uninterrupted supply for domestic and export markets.India has recommended the use of hydroxychloroquine for asymptomatic (not showing symptoms of the disease) health care workers treating suspected or confirmed Covid-19 patients, and asymptomatic household contacts who live in close proximity with patients. The medicine, along with antibiotic Azithromycin, is given to Covid-19 patients in intensive care units.The government has warned people against the indiscriminate use of hydroxychloroquine, which can have severe side effects in people with a history of heart and kidney ailments, among other underlying conditions.Last week, the government relaxed restrictions on the export of the medicine as several countries, including the US and Brazil, sought supplies from India, which is hydroxychloroquine’s largest producer.According to government data, against the projected requirement of 10 million tablets (including those for health workers dealing with Covid-19 patients, ICU cases and high-risk contacts), the availability is 32.8 million tablets a day. In addition, there is a buffer stock of about 20-30 million tablets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-platform-to-monitor-hydroxychloroquine-stock/story-6iEx1EJEepFtJxA45SpJsK.html
13-04-2020||India||Woman leaves Patna hospital after doctors prescribe Covid-19 test||A 72-year-old woman from Siwan suspected to be infected with coronavirus left the Patna Medical College Hospital (PMCH) Saturday evening quietly after doctors prescribed her test for the virus, officials said.Raisa Begum, 72, a resident of Sultanpur village in Siwan, who was admitted to the hospital suffering from kidney-related ailment, gave authorities the slip even before they could collect her sample for test.Siwan accounts for 29 of the 64 coronavirus cases reported so far in Bihar.Follow coronavirus updates here. “She was in the process of being shifted from the Tata Ward (exclusively for women) to the quarantine section for coronavirus suspects, when she left the hospital against medical advice,” said PMCH principal Dr Vidyapati Choudhary.“We could not take her sample for Covid-19 test,” he added. Nose and oral swab are taken for test through real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT PCR) methodology, which is the confirmatory test for coronavirus.“Presuming that she will test positive and will have to stay in hospital isolation for a minimum of 14 days, the woman left the hospital against medical advice,” said another doctor requesting anonymity.The patient was admitted to the PMCH on April 9. The hospital administration had lodged a police complaint, said Dr Choudhary.“We received a complaint from the hospital administration that a 72-year-old woman left the hospital against medical advice last night. We have registered a case and are investigating it,” said Amit Kumar, in-charge of the PMCH police outpost on the hospital campus.Sources said the woman had switched off her phone, which her relatives had mentioned at the time of admission at the hospital.When this reporter asked the principal if it was a lapse of the hospital administration in shifting a coronavirus suspect, Dr Choudhary parried the question, saying, “Please talk to the superintendent for further details in the case.” Repeated efforts to contact PMCH medical superintendent Dr Bimal Karak proved futile, as he did not respond to phone calls or text message.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-leaves-patna-hospital-after-doctors-prescribe-covid-19-test/story-ociYSsfq0GYvJgOJ4HkBEL.html
13-04-2020||India||2 more deaths in Pune, toll goes up to 31||Two more Covid-19 related deaths were reported from Pune on Sunday, taking the toll due to the coronavirus disease to 31 in the Maharashtra city.News agency ANI cited health officials in Pune as saying that the two who died had tested positive for Covid-19 and also had co-morbidity. Thirty-one people, including two residents of Thane and Ahmednagar, have died in Pune till now.Also read: With 134 new Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra nears 2000-markMumbai and Pune have reported 91% of the Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra of which 61% of them are from Mumbai and 20% from Pune, Rajesh Tope, the state’s health minister, had said on Saturday. Maharashtra had recorded 17 deaths due to Covid-19 on Saturday, 12 of which were recorded in Mumbai, the largest single-day toll recorded in the city so far. Maharashtra had recorded a mortality rate of 7% and Mumbai 6.6% on Saturday.The number of Covid-19 related deaths recorded in the state was 127, with 76 fatalities in Mumbai, till Saturday.On Sunday, Maharashtra, the worst-hit state in the country, had 1895 Covid-19 patients after the state recorded 134 new cases since Saturday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-more-deaths-in-pune-toll-goes-up-to-31/story-MtOqGV7A9zh0uRBfPIH2xH.html
13-04-2020||India||Cats or dogs can spread only love, not coronavirus, say prominent personalities||Eminent personalities, including BJP leader Maneka Gandhi, have appealed to people to take care of cats and dogs and not fall for rumours of them being vectors of novel coronavirus. “Cats cannot give or get coronavirus. If you have seen some nonsensical thing on television that a tiger in one zoo has got it. Remember this a cat is not a tiger. There is no relationship. It is same as comparing dogs to wolves,” Gandhi, who is also an animal rights activist, said in a video message on Twitter. The BJP MP’s reaction comes after several incidents of attacks on cats and dogs were reported due to misinformation that they can be vectors of Covid-19. Asserting that a cat cannot be compared to a tiger which reportedly contracted the coronavirus in a zoo in New York, the former Union Minister said there is no relationship between the two. “Your cats are completely safe to be around so allow people to feed them. Allow them to be in every colony. They are a great asset,” she said. Wrestler and philanthropist Sangram Singh said it is absolutely incorrect that cats and dogs spead coronavirus. “Pets can spread only one thing and that is love. So please take care of your pets and also ensure street animals are taken care of,” he said in a video message. Mukesh Batra, Founder and Chief Managing Director, Batra’s Positive Health Clinic Private Limited said the new coronavirus does not spread from pets. “In fact, it is the love you get from them that will keep you going in these times,” Batra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cats-or-dogs-can-spread-only-love-not-coronavirus-say-prominent-personalities/story-OTGhoPfoc7lYWiMFp0hLXM.html
