14-04-2020||India||Another IAS officer tests +ve in MP||Bhopal: Another Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer tested positive for Covid-19 in Madhya Pradesh on Tuesday as the number of people diagnosed with the disease in the state rose to 741 and prompted the state government to constitute an advisory panel to deal with the seriousness of the situation.Officials said the officer is the fourth top bureaucrat to have tested positive and all of them are associated with the state health department. Over 70 officials and employees from the department have contracted the disease and the health department’s directorate is now one of the Covid-19 hotspots in the state. HT on Saturday reported that almost every senior member of the Madhya Pradesh state health department is in quarantine or in the hospital after two officers allegedly flouted social distancing norms and suppressed symptoms.The government had last week instituted an inquiry against the officers and expanded testing to arrest the spread of Covid-19 in the state. The state has one of the lowest rates of testing in the country. The health department reported its first case on April 2 when the managing director and an IAS officer in the National Health Mission tested positive. Two days later, another IAS officer contracted the virus. An additional director in the department, who returned from a foreign country, too, tested positive. On Saturday, the principal secretary in the department, who had allegedly not reported to the authorities about her son’s US trip, tested positive.HT reported the two IAS officers heading the department showed symptoms of cold and cough almost the same time but continued to attend meetings and were responsible for at least 50 infections.Madhya Pradesh is the fourth worst-hit state by the pandemic and has recorded 127 new Covid-19 cases since Monday, the highest jump in a day so far, the state health department said.The state government said the technical advisory committee will include doctors from Bhopal’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences. “Technical advisory committee is being constituted in view of seriousness of Covid-19 infection in the state. The committee will chalk out the action plan for control of Covid-19 and daily analyse the situation in the state,” the government said in a statementThe statement added health services director Sudam Khade will head the committee while additional director Santosh Shukla will be its coordinator.Additional chief secretary (health) Mohammad Suleman said of the 127 new cases reported since Monday, 98 were from Indore and 20 from Bhopal. He added those tested positive in Indore were under quarantine as they had come in contact with the patients identified earlier.Officials said a compounder, who died of Covid-19 in Indore last week, has become the first person to have contracted the disease in Tikamgarh district. He had returned to his native place on March 28 despite the lockdown restrictions. His sample was sent for testing on April 11 and is believed to have contracted the virus at the clinic of a doctor, who has tested positive for Covid-19 in Ujjain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-ias-officer-tests-ve-in-mp/story-szS3yWclrdxWuRX1RtHBEK.html
14-04-2020||India||Maharashtra orders probe into rumours that fuelled migrants’ rush at Bandra||Maharashtra’s home minister Anil Deshmukh late Tuesday night ordered a probe into rumours that fuelled a rush of migrant workers to the Bandra West railway station in Mumbai in the afternoon despite the lockdown.“I have ordered an investigation into the rumour that claimed trains to take migrants back home. Those found guilty of sparking such rumours will be dealt severely invoking the fullest force of law,” Deshmukh tweeted. I have ordered an investigation into the rumour that claimed trains to take migrants back home.Those found guilty of sparking such rumours will be dealt severely invoking the fullest force of law.#ZeroToleranceForRumoursThe railways ministry also clarified that passenger trains will remain cancelled till May 3.“It is clarified that all Passenger train services are fully cancelled, across the nation, till 3rd May 2020 and there is no plan to run any special train to clear the passenger rush All concerned may pl. take note of the same and help us in resisting any wrong news in this regard,” the ministry tweeted.  It is clarified that all Passenger train services are fully cancelled, across the nation, till 3rd May 2020 and there is no plan to run any special train to clear the passenger rushAll concerned may pl.take note of the same and help us in resisting any wrong news in this regardHundreds of migrant workers in Mumbai ignored the lockdown and turned up at the Bandra West railway station, demanding that railways start trains to take them home. They were dispersed after a lathi charge by the police. Home Minister Amit Shah spoke to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray soon after the incident and said that events such as the protest weaken India’s fight against coronavirus disease and the administration needs to stay vigilant to avoid such incidents, according to ANI.In a live webcast later in the night, Thackeray assured migrant workers that they were not in a lockup and should therefore maintain discipline for the next two weeks after which arrangements will be made to have them sent home.The huge gathering at Bandra West despite a strict lockdown also raised fears of a spike in coronavirus cases in the state which already has the highest number of infections in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-orders-probe-into-rumours-that-fuelled-migrants-rush-at-bandra/story-MZDkLeoiGJQrAB8delSOCK.html
14-04-2020||India||Spike in Aarogya Setu app downloads after PM’s speech||New Delhi The Union government is planning a major push to make more people install Aarogya Setu, a mobile phone app that facilitates faster tracing of contacts of an infected person, by incorporating the curfew pass application process, the process of collecting samples of cases, and by offering incentives.Aarogya Setu is among several such tools being developed across the world for digital “contact tracing”, a practice of identifying potential infections that is crucial to contain any infectious disease. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday listed installing the application among seven specific things people should do. The PM has in the past suggested using the app – launched on April 2 -- to help people move during the lockdown.According to a government official involved in the development of Aarogya Setu, the app has notched up 47.1 million registrations, a big chunk of which took place immediately after Modi’s appeal. “There were 8 million downloads on Tuesday by evening, the sharpest single-day surge since launch. The PM’s announcement led to a spike of nearly 100,000 registrations per minute in the afternoon,” said Arnab Kumar, programme director of frontier technologies, Niti Aayog.A member of the empowered group for technology and data management, which will take the final call on how the application is upgraded, said an announcement will be made in a few days after technical arrangements are made to incorporate each of the state portals, which include websites for the curfew pass applications. The pass mechanism will be such that an infected person or someone told be in quarantine will not be given a pass. In addition to the curfew pass system, “sample collection is also a key function we are hoping to work on,” said the official, asking not to be named. According to Kumar, the application will also be upgraded to allow people to get medical consultations remotely and search for essential supplies nearby. Such tracing tools have triggered concerns about privacy and surveillance.Advocacy group Internet Freedom Foundation in a statement on Tuesday flagged concerns, saying the data the application takes in is excessive and the software’s code as well as the policies governing its use are not transparent. “Protecting personal information is a priority and the data is only used for providing the Covid-19-related information and medical services necessary to protect people and stop the infection from spreading,” Union health minister Harshvardhan said on Tuesday amid the repeated criticism.According to experts, the app could address a critical handicap in contact tracing. “You need to have a way of focusing (contact tracing) as an asymptomatic person travels over various distances, over time. We need to find out who all were close to that person and warn the others after the person is identified as positive. This is what Aarogya Setu also does – it will find the symptomatic person and also identify all asymptomatic people around them in the past few days and advise them too,” said Dr K VijayRaghavan, principal scientific advisor to the government of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spike-in-aarogya-setu-app-downloads-after-pm-s-speech/story-MxJZBtNCW87mtzDcCQ7doM.html
14-04-2020||India||Sonia Gandhi hails front-line workers, citizens||New Delhi: Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Tuesday praised doctors, police, health and sanitation workers who are on the forefront in the fight against the coronavirus despite the shortage of personal protection equipment (PPE).In a video message released by the party hours before Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address to the nation, she also regretted reports of harassment of doctors in some parts of the country while urging the people to follow the lockdown and adhere to social distancing norms.“Our warriors are working hard, day and night, in helping fight this battle and win over it, despite the shortage of PPE. These warriors include doctors, health workers and NGOs,” Gandhi said.Sanitation workers, police personnel and government officers too are working hard and round the clock to control the deadly virus, she said.“This fight will weaken without your support, and we should not allow this to happen. At some place, I hear reports about ill-treatment meted out to doctors. This is wrong. Our culture and tradition does not allow this and we should support them,” the Congress chief said.She also sought to assure the people of her party’s support and expressed confidence that with a strong morale, the country will emerge victorious against the crisis very soon.Gandhi urged the people to stay indoors, be safe and observe the lockdown stipulations, saying it will not be possible to win this battle without everyone’s support.She also thanked people for maintaining peace and patience while staying indoors and adhering to the lockdown stipulations.“Today, when the country is fighting such a big battle, every Congress worker understands his responsibility and is always ready to help every warrior. Anyone can ask for our support and every Congress worker will support you,” Gandhi added.She reiterated her party’s support in fighting the anti-corona battle. “I assure you that whether the Congress party is in power or in opposition, we will stand by you in this battle. I am confident that with a high morale, we will emerge from this crisis very soon.”Gandhi also lauded the work done by some people at individual level in providing food, ration and sanitisers to the poor and the needy.“Every Indian is united in fighting this battle and fulfilling his or her duty. Today, your support in dealing with the crisis is no less patriotism. The country is able to fight this virus only because of your help and support. I do not have words to thank you,” she said.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda thanked Gandhi for urging the people to stay indoors and observe lockdown regulations. “Thank you Sonia ji, take care of your health,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-gandhi-hails-front-line-workers-citizens/story-eXCaPFhTjie1tt3LlZaC2M.html
14-04-2020||India||‘No DTC or UP buses to take you home’: Kejriwal asks Delhi migrants to stay put||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday moved to pre-empt a repeat of migrant workers’ exodus from the national capital, seen last month at the beginning of the first phase of three-week-long national lockdown, by issuing a clarification in advance that it was impossible for anyone to take them home right now and that they should stay put in the national capital until May 3, when the second phase of the national lockdown-- announced today-- comes to an end.Kejriwal was forced to issue the clarification after a similar crisis erupted in Mumbai, where migrant labourers, said to be mostly from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, gathered at a bus stop near the Bandra railway station demanding the resumption of transport services enabling their return home. They had to be lathicharged first followed by assurances that they will be provided food and taken care of in the migrant camps in the state till the duration of the lockdown.The scene was an instant reminder of the crisis that unfolded on Delhi streets and its borders with Uttar Pradesh last month when hundreds of thousands of migrant labourers gathered at the interstate bus stations near UP border in the false hope that they will be provided transport home. The incident had led to a political war of words between the UP and the Delhi government with the former alleging that the Delhi government conspired to drop the migrants at Anand Bihar Bus Terminal using Delhi Transport Corporation buses in violation of the lockdown norms. The incident also led to action against senior bureaucrats in the Delhi government. Kejriwal, on this instance, made it clear that the migrants should not believe even if told that there were DTC buses ready to ferry them to some other place.“People may try to spread rumours. Someone will say they can take you to your home if you pay them so much. No one can take you to your home or village right now. Someone might tell you DTC buses are standing somewhere. No DTC bus is taking you anywhere..,” Kejriwal said.He asked migrants from other states to show little bit more patience so that the gains made in the first phase of lockdown are not lost by showing impatience. “Several of you have come to Delhi from other states like Uttar Pradesh, Bihar or Haryana. Some of you are desperate to return to your home. I pray to you with folded hands to wait till May 3. Control your anxiety and desperation now, because chaos at this stage will create huge problems,” Kejriwal said.The Delhi chief minister added that his government had made more than sufficient arrangements for food in the national capital and no one needed to worry on that count.For Coronavirus Live Updates“We are arranging for medicine and food. If you want anything we will have it delivered at your home,” Kejriwal added.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, too, told people this morning that the country needed to extend the lockdown by another couple of weeks if India was to not go the way of the European nations overwhelmed by the pandemic, and the resultant loss of thousands of lives.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-dtc-or-up-buses-to-take-you-home-kejriwal-asks-delhi-migrants-to-stay-put/story-qUPjl4CQGAYYpI9Fs1wxZK.html
14-04-2020||India||ICMR researchers detect coronaviruses in two bat species in India||Researchers of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) have detected coronaviruses (CoVs) among two species of bats in the country, highlighting the need for continuous active surveillance in the mammal to identify the emerging strains of the viruses that can cause an epidemic.Bats are considered to be the natural reservoir for many viruses, of which some can potentially infect humans. Many viruses have had their origin in bat species over the last two decades. Bats have been recognised as the natural reservoirs of a variety of pathogenic viruses such as Rabies, Hendra, Marburg, Nipah, and Ebola. Bats are known to harbour CoVs and serve as their reservoirs.In India, an association of Pteropus medius bats led to the Nipah virus disease outbreak in Kerala a couple of years ago. It is suspected that the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), which causes coronavirus disease (Covid-19), can also be traced to bats.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageIndia has a diverse population of bats. Around 117 species of bats have been recorded in the country, with around 100 sub-species coming under 39 genera belonging to eight families of the mammal.“To assess the presence of CoVs in bats, we performed identification and characterisation of bat CoV (BtCoV) in P. medius and Rousettus species from representative states in India collected during 2018 and 2019,” said the researchers in the paper published in the Indian Journal of Medical Research on April 13.The specimens were collected from Pteropus spp. bats from Kerala, Karnataka, Chandigarh, Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Puducherry, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, and Telangana, and Rousettus spp. bats from Kerala, Karnataka, Chandigarh, Gujarat, Odisha, Punjab, and Telangana between 2018 and 2019.Rectal swab (RS) and throat swab specimens of Pteropus and Rousettus spp. bats were screened for CoVs using a pan-CoV reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) from the seven states in the country, where bats are commonly found. Next-generation sequencing (NGS) was performed on a few representative bat specimens that were tested positive to know the whole gene sequence. The match was found with coronaviruses between 93.69 and 96.9%. The researchers screened 21 of the 508 RSs from Pteropus spp. bats that tested positive for the BtCoV. These positive bats belonged to Kerala (n=12), Himachal Pradesh (n=2), Puducherry (n=6), and Tamil Nadu (n=1), where n stands for the number of the samples tested. Altogether, 25 bats from both the species were found positive.The BtCoV causing human infection belongs to α- and β-CoV genera of the coronaviridae family, according to the available information.β-CoV genus has five strains known to infect humans. The two human-infecting strains (NL63 and 229E) from α-CoV genus, which causes mild-to-moderate respiratory infections, are believed to have originated in bats.Two members of the β-CoV genus (HCoV-OC43 and HCoV-HKU1) are known to cause the common cold and lower respiratory tract infections. The other three are known to be pathogenic to humans (SARS-CoV-1, MERS-CoV, and SARS-CoV-2). The SARS-CoV-1 and SARS-CoV-2 belong to L_B and MERS CoV belongs to L_C of β-CoV genus.“This study was a step towards understanding the CoV circulation among Indian bats. Detection of potentially pathogenic CoVs in Indian bats stresses the need for enhanced screening for novel viruses in them.This would help in the development of diagnostic assays for novel viruses with outbreak potential and be useful in disease interventions. Proactive surveillance remains crucial for identifying the emerging novel viruses with epidemic potential and measures for risk mitigation,” the researchers said.SARS-CoV-2 is reported to be 96% identical to BtCoV at the whole genome level.Most of the human CoVs are either zoonotic --- a disease that normally exists in animals but that can infect humans --- in origin or circulate in animals. CoVs can cause a wide range of infections, including respiratory tract infections, gastroenteritis, hepatitis, and encephalomyelitis in their respective hosts.In India, parts of the Western Ghats, particularly in Kerala, are reported to be the habitat of diverse bat populations. The reports of pathogenic human viruses from bat specimens demand enhanced methods to monitor the local population’s exposure to various bat species. Investigations in unexplored regions/states should be focused on gaining further insights into CoV diversity within Indian bat populations, according to the researchers.In the present scenario of changing demography and ecological manipulations, it is challenging to have checks on the encounters of bats with other animals and humans. Active and continuous surveillance remains crucial for outbreak alerts for bat-associated viral agents with epidemic potential, which would be helpful in timely interventions, they added.Experts said there is a need for proactive surveillance of zoonotic infections in bats. Detection and identifications of such causative agents will provide leads for the development of diagnostic along with preparedness and readiness to deal with such emergent viruses in a bid to quickly contain them from spreading.“This is something we have been asking for a long time. Bats and rodents harbour a number of pathogens that can cause possible harm to humans, and these also interact the most with humans. Bats, rodents, and primates are key targets for pathogens of human concern,” said Dr Abi Tamim Vanak, a wildlife scientist and senior fellow, Ashoka Trust for Research in Ecology and the Environment, and fellow, department of biotechnology, Wellcome Trust India Alliance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-researchers-detect-coronaviruses-in-two-bat-species-in-india/story-G2P2tClRUTG9MsvX77Vt2K.html
14-04-2020||India||Covid-19: US allows H-1B visa extension, relief for stranded Indians||In a big relief for thousands of stranded Indian professionals in America due to the coronavirus pandemic, the US government has decided to accept their H-1B visa applications for an extended stay in the country.The H-1B visa is a non-immigrant visa that allows US companies to employ foreign workers in specialty occupations that require theoretical or technical expertise. The technology companies depend on it to hire tens of thousands of employees each year from countries like India and China.The US Department of Homeland Security (DHS) in a new notification has said it recognises that there are immigration-related challenges as a direct result of the coronavirus pandemic.The announcement comes at a time when countries around the world have closed their borders and all international passenger flights have been suspended globally.The travel restrictions have left a number of H-1B visa holders stranded in the US with their visa permits soon to expire. However, the DHS will shortly start accepting applications for the extension of expiring visas.“We recognise that non-immigrants may unexpectedly remain in the United States beyond their authorised period of stay due to COVID-19,” the DHS said.“We continue to carefully analyse these issues and to leverage our resources to effectively address these challenges within our existing authorities. The DHS also continues to take action to protect the American people and our communities, and is considering a number of policies and procedures to improve the employment opportunities of US workers during this pandemic,” it said.Generally, non-immigrants must depart the United States before their authorised period of admission expires, it said.Non-immigrants could apply for an extension of stay (EOS) or change of status (COS) permit. Without a visa extension, thousands of students and professionals in the US would have suffered.If applicants put in their forms within the specified time frame, their presence will not be taken as “unlawful” and where applicable, “employment authorization with the same employer, subject to the same terms and conditions of the prior approval, is automatically extended for up to 240 days …when an extension of stay request is filed on time,” the notification said.The US Citizen and Immigration Services (USCIS) added that it “reminds petitioners and applicants that it can consider delays caused by the COVID-19 pandemic when deciding whether to excuse delays in filing documents based on extraordinary circumstances.” According to rules, if an employer terminates the contract of an H-1B holder, the employee needs to find new employment within 60 days, in order to retain the visa status. Indian IT workers have been seeking an extension of this 60 day grace period to 180 days.According to the USCIS, Indians are the biggest beneficiaries of the H-1B visa programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-us-allows-h-1b-visa-extension-relief-for-stranded-indians/story-a3N3TXRHUKRQTsqQFMGCUI.html
14-04-2020||India||Lockdown extended, Gadkari asks biz to be prepared to restart economy||Union Minister Nitin Gadkari on Tuesday asked micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) to turn the adverse impact of the coronavirus outbreak on their business into an opportunity while urging them to be prepared to attract investors who he said were looking to move out of China after the pandemic outbreak in search of safer locations.The minister for road transport and highways and MSMEs said the government was ready to support their resurgence after the outbreak was contained and added that he was striving to increase the credit guarantee to MSMEs to Rs five lakh crore from the present level of about Rs one lakh crore, according to a government release.Gadkari made these statements while interacting with FICCI representatives on a web-based seminar on Tuesday where he apprised the industry representatives of the various decisions taken by the government to keep businesses afloat during the times of coronavirus.Gadkari’s interaction comes on a day when prime minister Narendra Modi decided to extend the national lockdown by another 19 days to May 3 and said certain relaxations for the resumption of economic activities could be granted in areas that were free from coronavirus infections after doing a strict assessment of the situation post April 20. The PM also added that he was aware of the huge business losses due to the lockdown measure but there was no other way to overcome the situation. Several political parties have demanded that the government announce a larger fiscal stimulus equalling at least 5-6% of the GDP in addition to the first package worth Rs 1.7 lakh crore announce last month. A government release said Gadkari also informed them that the Reserve Bank of India has allowed rescheduling of term loans and working capital facilities to ease the liquidity pressure on businesses.Speaking about the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises, Gadkari said he was working to increase credit gaurantee to MSMEs to Rs Five lakh crore from the present level of about Rs one lakh crore wherein 75per cent of the advances granted by financial institutions are gauranteed under the Credit Gauranttee Scheme of the Govt. He assured that the issues raised by the industry especially by MSMEs will be taken up discussed with relevant Ministries and Departments.On construction of highways, Gadkari said it should increase pace by 2-3 times in the coming years to meet the growing needs of the infrastructure sector. He added that work is being done on a war footing to kick start the road construction projects at various locations while taking adequate measures to prevent the spread of coronavirus.He promised cutting down on time taken to clear projects and other decisions to avoid delays. He said he has requested National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) and its arbitration units to decide matters within 3 months.He added that around 280 matters had already been resolved within a short time. He added that the ministry had definitive plan to clear all legitimate claims for payments more or less within the next 3 months.He also asked the industry to work towards improving its export potential.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-extended-gadkari-asks-biz-to-be-prepared-to-restart-economy/story-GcKet5njobiCbBW2eWZxAO.html
14-04-2020||India||Meghalaya traces 2,000 contacts of state’s first Covid-19 patient to locate carrier||The Meghalaya government on Tuesday launched an intensive drive to locate the ‘silent carrier’ who infected the state’s first patient - doctor on Monday. Nearly 2,000 primary and secondary contacts of the doctor at Shillong’s Bethany Hospital have been traced and samples collected from 90 of them, almost half of the primary contacts. Results are expected later.Initial investigations suggest that the doctor, who doesn’t have a travel history outside the state, could have been infected by his son-in-law, a pilot with Air India who had returned from New York last month, but was asymptomatic for Covid-19.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.“Preliminary investigation suggest that one of the relatives of the concerned person had a travel history to one of the infected countries and he was back in Shillong before the 14-day quarantine period was over,” Meghalaya Chief Minister Conrad Sangma said on Tuesday in a video shared on Facebook by his office.According to a letter written by the Meghalaya health department to the union health ministry, the patient’s son-in-law travelled from New York to Delhi on March 16. He travelled from Delhi to Imphal on March 17 and returned to Delhi on March 20.On March 24 he travelled from Delhi to Shillong on March 24 and was placed under home quarantine from March 24 to April 7 after registering with the state government. The letter adds that surveillance team of heath department had visited him during the quarantine period.“Though the person took all precautions, but sometimes we see asymptomatic cases as well, who don’t show any signs but could be a carrier. Therefore there is a high chance that it could have been passed on from there. We are looking at all possibilities of how this could have happened,” Sangma said.The Meghalaya government has asked its Assam counterpart for support in the testing of the 2,000 contacts. The Shillong-based North Eastern Indira Gandhi Regional Institute of Health and Medical Sciences (NEIGRIHMS) is the lone Covid-19 testing lab in Meghalaya.“Our basic strategy would be to identify, isolate and test all contacts for the first few days till we are able to zero down and close the loop of transmission,” Sangma said in Shillong after a cabinet meet.Both branches of the private hospital where the doctor worked have been shut and the staff placed under quarantine. The government has asked everyone who may have visited Bethany Hospital on or after March 22 to register themselves by calling 108 or getting in touch with the health department.Meghalaya’s capital Shillong has been placed under curfew for 48 hours beginning 6:00 am on Tuesday.Patient commits suicide at Bethany HospitalMeanwhile, a patient who was admitted to Bethany Hospital, the hospital where Meghalaya’s first Covid-19 patient works, committed suicide by jumping out of his room early on Tuesday—a day after the institution was sealed.“This case has nothing to do with coronavirus. This individual who committed suicide was a substance user (drug addict) and he was admitted for rehabilitation. He also had some psychiatric problems and in all likelihood the suicide may be result of withdrawal symptoms and psychiatric problems,” the chief minister told journalists in Shillong.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meghalaya-traces-2-000-contacts-of-state-s-first-covid-19-patient-to-locate-carrier/story-esUUanbOJeOENuljIG8riN.html
14-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Centre, states in Catch-22 situation, says Aaditya Thackeray on Bandra clash and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion curated for you. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times. Centre, states in Catch-22 situation, says Aaditya Thackeray on Bandra clashShortly after the Mumbai Police launched a lathi charge to disperse hundreds of protesting migrant workers near Bandra railway station who defied a lockdown to get a ride home in other states, Maharashtra Tourism Minister Aaditya Thackeray said the Centre and states are facing a Catch-22 situation. Read more. Hundreds reached Mumbai’s Bandra railway station to go home; lathichargedIn a replay of scenes at Delhi’ border with Uttar Pradesh last month, hundreds of migrant workers gathered outside Bandra West railway station on Tuesday evening to demand that the railways run trains to take them home. The migrant workers, who defied the lockdown to reach the railway station, were eventually dispersed by the police after a lathicharge was ordered. Read more. Amit Shah dials Uddhav Thackeray after Bandra protest sets off political firestormHome Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday dialled Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray after hundreds of migrant workers in Mumbai turned up at the Bandra West railway station, demanding that railways start trains to take them home. Read more. Coronavirus recoveries outpace new cases in Kerala as hope lingers in the airThe number of active coronavirus patients in Kerala continue to drop in a positive sign in the fight against the deadly contagion. While the state reported eight fresh cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, taking the total number of positive cases to 386, hope continued to float as the number of people discharged from hospitals, at 13, was significantly higher than the number of new cases, as per the state health ministry. Read more. West Bengal: 20 cops injured in clash over Covid-19 quarantine centreAround 20 police personnel, including at least one senior officer, were injured in West Bengal’s West Burdwan district on Tuesday when hundreds of villagers attacked them twice at Churulia, the native village of Kazi Nazrul Islam, the national poet of Bangladesh, demanding the removal of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) quarantine centre set up at a youth hostel in the hamlet two days ago. Read more. Quarantine makes cooking cool for menThe ongoing lockdown due to the coronavirus pandemic has turned a lot of us into culinary enthusiasts and some have even started enjoying the joys of being in the kitchen. And with the lockdown spiritual leader Sri Sri Ravi Shankar started a cooking challenge for men. Read more. Covid-19: Aarogya Setu app may act as an e-pass during lockdown, says govt officialFor now, the government has been requesting people to download the Aarogya Setu app in order to track the coronavirus spread. However, the app may soon act as an e-pass that will let people move around during lockdown. This move will also result in the app being downloaded on more smartphones that will help the government gather more Covid-19 data from different areas. Read more. ‘More chances of snowfall in Lahore than bilateral series between India and Pakistan,’ says Sunil GavaskarFormer India captain and batting talisman Sunil Gavaskar has given his opinion on the possibility of bilateral cricket between India and Pakistan during a conversation with former Pakistan cricketer and commentator Ramiz Raja on the latter’s Youtube channel. Read more. Mumbai: Wave of migrant workers swamp bus stand after lockdown extensionPost the Prime Minister’s announcement of extending the lockdown, migrant workers gathered near Bandra (West) bus depot demanding transport arrangements to return home. Hundreds of migrant workers gathered and sat near the Bandra station at around 3 pm on Tuesday. Police had to resort to lathi charge to disperse the crowd. The visuals of gathering come at a time when social distancing is advised to contain the spread of Covid-19. Migrant workers, daily wage labourers have been out of jobs due to coronavirus. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-centre-states-in-catch-22-situation-says-aaditya-thackeray-on-bandra-clash-and-all-the-latest-news/story-atK4nb0lee3DiIqkw5mGUJ.html
14-04-2020||India||Convert crisis into opportunity, accelerate infra projects during lockdown: Gadkari||India should convert the Covid-19 crisis into an opportunity, accelerate infrastructure projects and win the war against the coronavirus to achieve economic growth, Union minister for road transport and MSMEs Nitin Gadkari said on Tuesday. “Indian industry should look at the current situation as a blessing in disguise and aim towards improving its export potential,” Gadkari said in a discussion with members of FICCI via video conference.The micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) minister also told industry officials to clear pending dues owed by them to units to ease distress in the sector and inject liquidity into the market.Ensuring liquidity in the market is key during the crisis and to ensure this, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has started settling all pending claims and arbitration, he said.The ministry has a definitive plan to clear all legitimate claims within three months, he said. “Time taken in reaching decisions should be kept at the minimum possible to avoid delays. For this purpose, I have requested all chairmen of such bodies to work till 7 pm everyday instead of 5 pm at present,” he added. Referring to the importance of liquidity in markets, he said his ministry is striving to increase credit guarantee for MSMEs to Rs 5 lakh crore from Rs 1 lakh crore at present, wherein 75% of advances granted by financial institutions are under the government’s credit guarantee scheme. MSMEs contribute 29% of the country’s GDP, Gadkari noted. “The government’s endeavour was to protect MSMEs from the coronavirus-induced crisis. We have decided to raise (turnover) limits for MSMEs. I would like to request you, major industries also have huge outstanding dues of MSMEs,” he said.“We were earlier considering framing a law entailing stringent rules regarding such payments. However, now is not the right time for this. We do not wish to go down that road. An order to this effect should hopefully be out in eight to 10 days, which will naturally enhance their coverage,” he added. Gadkari informed the industry that RBI has allowed rescheduling of term loans and working capital facilities. He called on the industry sector to work in tandem with the government and banking sector. Construction of highways, which witnessed record growth during 2019-20, should increase pace by two to three times in the coming years to meet growing needs for infrastructure, Gadkari said. The ministry plans to go ahead with critical projects during the lockdown.“We have spoken to the Uttarakhand government for starting work on the Char Dham Expressway National Highway project. Necessary precautions of social distancing etc will be taken for the construction,” he said. To kick-start recovery for the road sector, the ministry is open to re-starting projects at different locations on the condition that adequate measures are put in place to prevent the spread of the Coronavirus, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/convert-crisis-into-opportunity-accelerate-infra-projects-during-lockdown-gadkari/story-eoInCJPtqODkthKyDiUR9O.html
14-04-2020||India||Amit Shah dials Uddhav Thackeray after Bandra protest sets off political firestorm||Home Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday dialled Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray after hundreds of migrant workers in Mumbai turned up at the Bandra West railway station, demanding that railways start trains to take them home.The protest, which was dispersed by police after a mild lathicharge, has triggered a back-and-forth between the Shiv Sena-led ruling alliance in the state and the state’s opposition BJP.Shah picked up the phone to quell the storm. The Union home minister underscored that events such as the protest weaken India’s fight against coronavirus disease and the administration needs to stay vigilant to avoid such incidents. He also offered his full support to the Maharashtra government, according to news agency ANI.Watch | Mumbai: Wave of migrant workers swamp bus stand after lockdown extensionMaharashtra minister Aaditya Thackeray had led the Sena attack at the Centre shortly after the police were able to disperse the crowds. He held the Centre responsible for the situation, contending that the railways should have run special trains to take the migrant workers to their hometown as demanded by Sena boss and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray.Aaditya Thackeray’s outburst prompted a sharp comeback from state BJP leaders.Ex-MP Kirit Somaiya asked the Uddhav Thackeray government to explain how a thousand people gathered at Bandra(West) near the station despite prohibitory orders.Somaiya asked the chief minister to explain what the intelligence agencies were doing and how a large number of people could gather when the police did not allow more than four people at one place. “How and why today,” he asked.The parting shot was seen as a reference to Prime Minister Narendra Modi announcement earlier in the day, extending the national lockdown that had kicked in from March 25 to May 3.Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh told a local news channel that the protest was a fallout of the manner in which lockdown has been extended.“People who were stuck in Mumbai were expecting that the lockdown would end and they’ll be allowed to go home but they were disappointed with PM’s address today and their anger burst out on streets of Bandra,” Deshmukh said, according to news agency ANI.Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis blamed the state government for making inadequate arrangements for the labourers. “That is why we had to face such an embarrassing situation today that labourers in huge numberS came and said that either provide us food or let us go home. That too in Bandra, under the nose of the government,” Fadnavis said.Long before PM Modi made the announcement, Uddhav Thackeray had already declared that Maharashtra would remain under a lockdown till April 30; for longer if people don’t adhere to it.In his address to people later, Uddhav Thackeray made it clear that he and PM Modi were on the same page on the lockdown extension “I thank Prime Minister for it, as I had suggested the same,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-dials-uddhav-thackeray-after-bandra-protest-sets-off-political-firestorm/story-6p6P6yU8FM9iZ2bOuVaQoO.html
14-04-2020||India||Centre, states in Catch-22 situation, says Aaditya Thackeray on Bandra clash||Shortly after the Mumbai Police launched a lathi charge to disperse hundreds of protesting migrant workers near Bandra railway station who defied a lockdown to get a ride home in other states, Maharashtra Tourism Minister Aaditya Thackeray said the Centre and states are facing a Catch-22 situation.“The centre has taken immediate cognizance of the issue and is assisting the State actively. We understand the catch 22 situation centre and states face. I’m thankful to PM & HM for understanding the situation, while trying to ensure the safety of home states of migrants,” he tweeted.“The migrant labour issue persists everywhere. Even as we house more than 6 lakh migrant labour, with breakfast lunch and dinner, the Union and State Govts are coordinating on further relief for the same. We will continue to ensure the comfort of all migrant labour in our camps,” he said in another tweet.Watch | Mumbai: Wave of migrant workers swamp bus stand after lockdown extension The mass gathering in the middle of a lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus also threw social distancing out of the window. Union home minister Amit Shah had called Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and expressed concern over the Bandra gathering. Shah stressed that such events weaken India’s fight against coronavirus and the administration needs to stay vigilant to avoid such incidents. Before the “Catch-22” tweet, Aaditya Thackeray had blamed the Centre for the situation leading to the lathi charge and sought a “mutual road map” to help the workers reach home in different states.The trouble began hours after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced an extension of the coronavirus-enforced lockdown till May 3. Hundreds of migrant workers, mostly daily wage earners, headed for the Bandra railway station in the afternoon demanding transport to return to their native places. “The current situation in Bandra, now dispersed or even the rioting in Surat is a result of the union government not being able to take a call on arranging a way back home migrant labour. They don’t want food or shelter, they want to go back home,” Thackeray had tweeted in one of his first reactions. He also said that the state government had raised the issue of enabling the workers to return home.“A mutual road map set by Union Govt will largely help migrant labour to reach home from one state to another safely and efficiently. Time and again this issue has been raised with the centre,” he said in another tweet.Thackeray said the feedback from all migrant labour camps indicate that these workers want to return home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-states-in-catch-22-situation-says-aaditya-thackeray-on-bandra-clash/story-2MErGUXPPXnVmQ7zZjaeJJ.html
14-04-2020||India||Coronavirus recoveries outpace new cases in Kerala as hope lingers in the air||The number of active coronavirus patients in Kerala continue to drop in a positive sign in the fight against the deadly contagion. While the state reported eight fresh cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, taking the total number of positive cases to 386, hope continued to float as the number of people discharged from hospitals, at 13, was significantly higher than the number of new cases, as per the state health ministry.While the recent numbers do show a trend of a declining number of active cases, which is seen by some as an early sign of a possible flattening of the Covid-19 curve in the near future, others have warned against early celebrations and urged the state to continue keeping a strict vigil.Out of a total of 386 positive cases registered in the state so far, 211 have been discharged and 175 are undergoing treatment. The number of people under observation has also come down to 17,775 from close to 2 lakh at one point.Among the eight new cases, Kannur in north Kerala reported 4 while Kozhikkode reported three and Kasaragod reported one case.With four districts in Tamil Nadu bordering Kerala-- Thiruvelveli, Theni, Kanyakumari and Coimbatore--- having been declared red zones, the state has heightened its vigil along the border.Kerala reported the first Covid-19 case in India in January and it was the worst-hit state till it was overtaken by Maharashtra in March. Eight states apart from Maharashtra have since reported more cases than Kerala. CM Vijayan asked his administration to remain vigilant while admitting that the statistics did show a favourable turn. The state cabinet will take a decision on extending the lockdown on Wednesday and it may announce some relief from restrictions for districts least affected by the pandemic.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Meanwhile, Kerala government has criticised Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address to the nation and said that the states needed not just praise but also financial assistance to tide over the crisis triggered by the pandemic.“The PM praised the role of states in containing the contagion. We don’t need just praises, but more funds. Most of the states have limited borrowing capacity. We are forced to cut salaries and halt other developmental activities,” said state finance minister Thomas Issac.For Coronavirus Live Updates||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-recoveries-outpace-new-cases-in-kerala-as-hope-lingers-in-the-air/story-u6j0PfHSqZI3uYHi7g7S3J.html
14-04-2020||India||Hotels, luxury resorts offer quarantine deals in West Bengal||Asked by the government to go into quarantine and not keen to do so in a state-run facility? By paying between Rs 1800 and Rs 7000 a night, people can now isolate themselves at hotels and luxury resorts across West Bengal.Star hotels and luxury resorts in Kolkata, other towns and tourist destinations in the state are offering their rooms as Covid-19 quarantine facilities to those reluctant to complete their government-mandated isolation in state-run centres.The costliest hotel, charging Rs 7000 a night without GST, is located near NSCBI airport in Kolkata. Luxury resorts in popular tourist destinations such as Muktumanipur in Bankura district are also offering their rooms.“Apartment from the usual facilities such as satellite TV, wi-fi connection and coffee maker, our quarantined guests can use our gym one by one. The gym is sanitised after one uses it and then another person is allowed in,” said Rahul Saxena, general manager of a four-star hotel at Siliguri in north Bengal that charges Rs 4,500 without GST for a room.“They are not allowed to use the swimming pool though. There are recreational facilities, such as carrom and table tennis. One can also sing using karaoke for entertainment,” he said.The cheaper and budget hotels, whose tariffs start from Rs 1800 a night, will serve vegetarian fare for breakfast, lunch and dinner. One has to pay Rs 100 more to get non-vegetarian food.Sudesh Poddar, honorary secretary of the Hotel and Restaurant Association of Eastern India, said the organisation has provided the state government a list of hotels in Kolkata, Siliguri and Durgapur with around 750 rooms that can be used for quarantine.“We will add more hotels and rooms in various other towns in almost all the districts of West Bengal,” he said.The idea is to create a pool of private quarantine facilities that can be used by people on a “pay and use” basis. The idea was lauded by chief minister Mamata Banerjee at a recent meeting with industry associations.Poddar said: “All one needs to do is to choose from the list of hotels once he or she is asked to stay in institutional quarantine by the state government. The hotel will allot the room on arrival but the person has to show the letter of the state government.”West Bengal has around 580 institutional quarantine centres, where more than 11,000 people are currently under observation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hotels-luxury-resorts-offer-quarantine-deals-in-west-bengal/story-8zCFQmvvSQ3irWdIeHN4YO.html
14-04-2020||India||Bring J&K residents stranded in different parts of India back: Omar to Centre||Jammu and Kashmir (J&K)’s former chief minister and National Conference (NC) leader, Omar Abdullah, on Tuesday urged the central government to bring back hundreds of local residents stranded in other parts of the country because of the ongoing nationwide lockdown and even suggested the use of the Union Territory’s nine-seater Beechcraft aircraft for the evacuation. The lockdown has been enforced since March 25 and on Tuesday further extended till May 3 to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.Abdullah said that he and his father, former three-time J&K CM Farooq Abdullah, have been flooded with calls and messages from Kashmiris stuck in various parts of the country, especially north India.“The stranded people include labourers, shawl traders, businessmen and also other walks of life who have been repatriated to India and have completed their quarantine. It’s been frustrating to not do as much, as one would have liked for them,” Omar tweeted.“Now, that the Modi government is planning an extension to this lockdown something will have to be done for the people stuck in other states. A lot of them don’t have much money and can’t access anymore. There is no work available for them to earn,” he added.Omar warned the Centre that the stranded Kashmiris would die of starvation rather than the viral outbreak if they are made to stay away from home till May 3.“A common sentiment expressed by most of them had been ‘long before corona gets us we will die of hunger’. The government will have to work out some way of bringing these people home and pending that needs to do a better job helping them with food and emergency funds,” he said.Omar suggested that the UT administration use its nine-seater Beechcraft aircraft to bring back some of the stranded Kashmiris home. He made the suggestion after Iltija Mufti, the daughter of another ex-J&K CM Mehbooba Mufti, had tweeted about 14 Kashmiri girls stuck in Amritsar because of the lockdown restrictions.“J&K has a nine-seater Beechcraft aircraft that isn’t doing much these days. Why can’t this plane make two sorties to Amritsar to fly these girls back home? The whole exercise will be completed in a matter of a few hours with support from @capt_amarinder Sahib,” he said, tagging Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh.In a separate demand on Sunday, the elected representatives of Kargil, including the chairman of Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council (LAHDC), Kargil, Feroz Ahmad Khan, threatened mass resignation if pilgrims and students of the Union Territory of Ladakh are not evacuated from Iran and other parts of the country within a week.All elected representatives of Kargil, including the chairman and members of LAHDC, Kargil, district panchayat coordination committee (DPCC) and municipal committee Kargil (MCK) passed a three-point resolution and sent their charter of demand to Radha Krishna Mathur, the lieutenant governor of Ladakh.The demands include the evacuation of pilgrims from Kargil who have completed their quarantine in Iran and students and other people from the UT stranded in other parts of the country. Besides, permission must be granted to move within Ladakh for stranded passengers and ensure unrestricted supply of essential commodities via the Zojilla Pass, as there have been traffic restrictions on national highways because of the ongoing nationwide lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bring-j-k-residents-stranded-in-different-parts-of-india-back-omar-to-centre/story-yMDq2IJzQI2eemASdoDAuK.html
14-04-2020||India||HT Dialogues: Deep Kalra on Covid-19 impact on travel sector and spirit of Gurugram||At a time when the whole world is hit badly by the coronavirus disease Covid-19, the hardest hit is the travel sector. The rapid spread of the disease has made people wary of coming in contact with each other, and hence, they have stopped travelling unless absolutely necessary.The scenario was highlighted by Deep Kalra, founder and executive chairman of online travel compay MakeMyTrip.“Travel is hit as bad as any business, and will take the longest time to recover. That’s the nature of the travel business. Non-discretionary travel might come back a little earlier, but it looks like a distant thing, you know, to think about people getting on to planes, or trains, or staying in a hotel unless absolutely necessary,” he said on HT Dialogues on Tuesday. He added that the spirit of Gurgaon has come out very well in this difficult time.“We are bracing up for the worst. Because of the nature of the beast out there. It is unknown, and no country has been able to tackle it,” added Kalra.HT Dialogues was organised with top officials of Haryana government and Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority to deliberate and discuss what the state government has done in tackling Covid-19, and what is the way forward. The participants also included industry representatives and members of the resident welfare associations.The virtual event took place on a day when Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced extension of the nationwide lockdown for another 19 days to check the spread of Covid-19. Kalra welcomed the decision.“There is no other way but to keep on extending lockdown in a smart way. The prioroty is to survive, to ride this time out and conserve cash as much as possible. We can thrive later,” he said.The business man also suggested developing more automated solutions to prepare for such scenarios and ensure that businesses take the minimum hit.The death toll due to coronavirus infection in the country rose to 339 while the number of cases soared to 10,363 on Tuesday, said the Union Health Ministry.While the number of active Covid-19 cases stood at 8,988, as many as 1,035 people have been cured and discharged and one had migrated, it said.The total number of cases include 72 foreign nationals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-dialogues-deep-kalra-on-covid-19-impact-on-travel-sector-and-spirit-of-gurugram/story-WUKSXAOjCzW2b0Fjn6nXRM.html
14-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Migrant workers gather near Bandra station, demand ride back home||Hundreds of people, including scores of migrant labourers stranded in Mumbai due to the nationwide lockdown, gathered outside the Bandra West railway station on Tuesday, demanding the resumption of railway services hours after the central government extended the restrictions till May 3, according to a railway official and a minister in Maharashtra. The Mumbai Police stopped the workers, who were desperate to return home in different parts of the country, from entering the station premises. “The labourers were protesting against extension of the lockdown, saying they do not have access to food and other essentials,” a Western Railway official, who was present outside the Bandra station, said. “The city police tried to convince the workers to move away from the area. The crowd dispersed after a lathi charge,” this official, who did not want to be named, said. Following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement of extending restrictions --- a three-week lockdown was first imposed on March 25 --- the government suspended all domestic and international flights, and passenger trains till May 3. These services, according to an earlier order, were banned till the midnight of April 14. Maharashtra minister Aaditya Thackeray tweeted about the incident. He said migrant workers are desperate to return and many are refusing to eat and stay in camps opened for them. “The current situation at Bandra Station, now dispersed or even the rioting in Surat is a result of the Union Government not being able to take a call on arranging a way back home for migrant labour. They don’t want food or shelter, they want to go back home.” Thackeray posted, referring to an incident in Gujarat’s Surat where migrant workers resorted to violence last week fearing the extension of lockdown.“A mutual road map set by the union government will largely help migrant labour to reach home from one state to another safely and efficiently. Time and again this issue has been raised with the centre. The law and order situation in Surat, Gujarat, largely has been seen as a similar situation and the feedback from all migrant labour camps is similar. Many are refusing to eat or stay in. Currently more than 6 lakh people are housed in various shelter camps across Maharashtra,” he tweeted.After the lockdown was announced in March, the plight of migrant labourers walking hundreds of kilometers to reach their villages hit the headlines. Finally, states opened shelters to house them and feed them during the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrant-workers-gather-near-bandra-station-demand-ride-back-home/story-m8aAm4Qjt0Qjky2GtF5iOO.html
14-04-2020||India||Hundreds reached Mumbai’s Bandra railway station to go home; lathicharged||In a replay of scenes at Delhi’s border with Uttar Pradesh last month, hundreds of migrant workers gathered outside Bandra West railway station on Tuesday evening to demand that the railways run trains to take them home. The migrant workers, who defied the lockdown to reach the railway station, were eventually dispersed by the police after a lathicharge was ordered.“The workers were protesting against extension of the lockdown, saying they do not have access to food and other essentials,” said a western railway official who was present outside the railway station.Watch | Mumbai: Wave of migrant workers swamps Bandra station after lockdown extension Also read: Coronavirus case count to guide India’s lockdown futureScores of police personnel, who were rushed to the railway station to augment the strength, however, prevented them from entering the station premises. Police resorted to lathi charge to disperse the crowd outside the station.“The city police tried to convince the workers to move from the area but they did not relent… The crowd only dispersed after lathi charge,” added the railway official.Maharashtra minister Aaditya Thackeray took to social media to announce that the crowd had been dispersed but also took a swipe at the central government.Thackeray said the migrant workers wanted to go back to their hometowns and many were refusing to eat and stay in labour camps.“The current situation at Bandra Station, now dispersed or even the rioting in Surat is a result of the Union Government not being able to take a call on arranging a way back home for migrant labour. They don’t want food or shelter, they want to go back home.” tweeted Aditya Thackeray.Also read | 43 Covid-19 cases, 4 deaths: How coronavirus spread in Dharavi has kept authorities on toesThackeray also reiterated the state government’s demand to operate trains for 24 hours for migrant labourers.“Right from the day the trains have been shut down, the State had requested trains to run for 24 hours more so that migrant labour could go back home. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray raised this issue in the PM- CM video conference as well requesting a roadmap for migrant labour to reach home,” he said.Thackeray said a mutual road map set by the union government will largely help migrant labour to reach home from one state to another safely and efficiently. Time and again this issue has been raised with the centre. The law and order situation in Surat, Gujarat, largely has been seen as a similar situation and the feedback from all migrant labour camps is similar. Many are refusing to eat or stay in. Currently more than 6 lakh people are housed in various shelter camps across Maharashtra.” tweeted Thackeray||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hundreds-reached-mumbai-s-bandra-railway-station-to-go-home-lathicharged/story-HSuvgxFC9jj74FjT01axIK.html
14-04-2020||India||Army doctor in Delhi tests positive for Covid-19, colleague is symptomatic||An Indian Army doctor posted in Delhi has tested positive for the novel coronavirus and a colleague of his is symptomatic, two people familiar with the details said on Tuesday on condition on anonymity.The necessary contact tracing has been carried out and 18 contacts of the doctor, a lieutenant colonel, have been identified to be in the high-risk category while two others are in the low-risk category, said one of persons cited above. The high-risk contacts include the officer’s wife, daughter and the colleague who is symptomatic, he said.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageThe latest case has taken the number of soldiers infected by Covid-19 to five. Two soldiers, including an army doctor of the rank of colonel tested positive for Covid-19, in March-end at a time the force is taking aggressive measures to tackle the spread of the disease its ranks.In the latest case, the lieutenant colonel had no direct contact with patients under treatment, said the second person cited above. “The doctor who is symptomatic is under medical care and the others who were in contact with the doctor found positive are in home quarantine,” he said.The office block of the lieutenant colonel has been sanitized and locked till April 19, his residential building has been quarantined and other buildings he visited are being fumigated, he added.A colonel-ranked officer posted at the Kolkata-based Eastern Command hospital and a junior commissioned officer serving with a unit in Dehradun tested positive for coronavirus in March-end. Both had history of domestic travel in the first/second week of March.A a 34-year-old soldier tested positive for the coronavirus in Leh on March 18, becoming the first case in the army. The soldier from Ladakh Scouts has recovered.In an address to soldiers on the Covid-19 outbreak last month, army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane said it was important for them to stay fit and remain away from coronavirus if they have to help the countrymen in these serious times.The army has asked its units across the country to strictly adhere to protocols for containing the spread of Covid-19.The army, which is at the forefront of the country’s fight against the pandemic, has taken a raft of preventive measures to stop the spread of the infection within its ranks.These measures include cancellation of all non-essential training, conferences and travel, a freeze on postings and foreign assignments, avoiding any assembly that involves more than 50 personnel and postponing all courses for officers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-doctor-in-delhi-tests-positive-for-covid-19-colleague-is-symptomatic/story-yZiE9UUYQgOcal9aYhbyZK.html
14-04-2020||India||‘Need funds for Covid-19, not praises’: Kerala minister criticises PM Modi||Kerala’s Finance Minister T M Thomas Issac on Tuesday criticised Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address to the nation saying states need not just praise but financial assistance to tide over the crisis triggered by the coronavirus pandemic.He said Kerala’s economic condition was precarious and warned that all activities, including the health sector will come to a standstill if it does not get additional funds.“The PM praised the role of states in containing the contagion. We don’t need just praises, but more funds. When we approach banks they charge high interest rates. Most of the states have limited borrowing capacities. We are forced to cut salaries and halt other developmental activities,” he said. Follow coronavirus latest updates here.He sought an immediate video conference of finance ministers of all states with the Centre to address some of the pressing financial problems.“The rural economy is in bad shape. People will starve if the situation continues like this. We need more money. The Centre should borrow money from the Reserve Bank and give to the states,” he said adding the state cabinet on Wednesday will decide how to go about extending the lockdown till May 3.“We agree lockdown is the only way to prevent the rapid spread of the virus. Though it is under control in the state many others are still struggling with it. We need more testing also. Mere lockdown will not be effective if it is without extensive testing,” he cautioned. Kerala has reported 386 cases of coronavirus and three casualties so far.“Without income support it will be difficult to rein in migrant workers. Livelihood will collapse if people under job- guarantee programmes are not supported,” he said adding norms can be relaxed in districts where there is a considerable reduction in the number of cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-funds-for-covid-19-not-praises-kerala-minister-criticises-pm-modi/story-2i96CENnqX3y9YH3rhlJPJ.html
14-04-2020||India||HT Dialogues: What Haryana has done in Covid-19 fight is best in the country, says top official||The Haryana administration has said that what the state is doing to fight the coronavirus disease Covid-19 is the best in the country.“These are very uncertain time, but we are on top in terms of three things: In terms of containment, keeping the supply chains running in this crucial time and making sure nobody sleeps hungry in the night,” Rajesh Khullar, Principal Secretary to the Haryana Chief Minister, said on HT Dialogues.HT Dialogues has been organised with top officials of Haryana government and Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority to deliberate and discuss what the state government has done in tackling Covid-19, and what is the way forward.The session comes on a day when Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the extension of Covid-19 lockdown till May 3. He also said that the Centre will come out with detailed guidelines for the second part of the lockdown beginning tomorrow.Speaking about it, Khullar said, “Tomorrow the government will come out with a plan on easing relaxation. Gurugram is likely to end up in the red zone, so relaxations are not expected. We have 16 active patients so far so we are likely to end in orange zone. Gurugram may not see relaxations for a week, even for a week after that,”He also appreciated the spirit of the people of Gurugram in fighting Covid-19.“Surely it is unprecedented all over the world, and it holds true for Gurugram and Haryana too. I have 30 years of service and have seen many tough situations. But the understanding of the citizens, of what we are up against and what it will take - such broad based consensus - feeling of community prevails to combat this challenge,” said Khullar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-dialogues-what-haryana-has-done-in-covid-19-fight-is-best-in-the-country-says-top-official/story-0dlPQ3uqgGUcXA9HGefGUO.html
14-04-2020||India||Man-elephant conflict falls sharply around Corbett as Covid-19 lockdown stops traffic||There has been a significant reduction in man-elephant conflict around the Corbett National Park in Uttarakhand mainly because traffic has reduced to a trickle due to the lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus, say experts and locals.Experts say that elephants can now cross roads easily without running into traffic or human beings in animal corridors.AG Ansari, a wildlife expert who lives in the Corbett landscape said that due to reduced human interference in the protected area and nearby animal corridors man-elephant conflict has significantly reduced.“What we have seen so far since the imposition of lockdown is that man-elephant conflict, especially that used to happen due to traffic has reduced a lot. Villagers now tell us that they don’t even realise when an elephant passes through a corridor without any disturbance to human settlements,” said Ansari.He added that behavioural changes are being noticed in elephants since the lockdown was imposed.“Earlier while an elephant would cross through a corridor, there would be heavy traffic with some people trying to come close to the animal, which would irritate it and eventually lead to conflict; that has significantly reduced now and we can see behavioural changes in them,” added Ansari.Parag Madhukar Dhakate, Uttarakahand’s chief conservator of forests (CCF) for the western circle in the state also said that the reduced anthropological pressures have helped in the reduction of conflict.“Due to reduced anthropological pressures, elephants are moving freely without any disturbance which is why they are also not disturbing humans. We are also continuously monitoring the whole landscape to see for changes in the behaviour of animals in pre and post-lockdown period,” said Dhakate.The official said that the data is being collected with camera traps at different locations on the national highway that cuts through the Corbett landscape to study conflict cases pre and post-lockdown.He said that the camera traps are also helping the forest department to keep an eye on anti-social elements trying to enter the forests during the lockdown.“Along with continuously monitoring the health status of animals, like any animal being injured which gets captured in the cameras, they also act as a psychological deterrent for anti-social elements who might try to enter the forests despite the lockdown for illegal activities,” said Dhakate.Last November, a wild elephant killed a 52-year-old man after pulling him out of a bus near Corbett Tiger Reserve in Mandal forest range in Nainital district. The bus was going to Bageshwar from Ramnagar.The Corbett landscape is estimated to have over 1,400, say forest officials.The elephants regularly create commotion around the highway which they have to cross to reach the Kosi river. The crossings often bring them in conflict with human beings and lead to elephants attacking vehicles. There have been several instances when tourists have fled from their vehicles to save their lives.Elephants sometimes also attack vehicles for food items on the 25-km road stretch in Ramnagar area near the Corbett Tiger Reserve. The forest department had forbidden vehicles laden with food items to stop on this stretch of the road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-elephant-conflict-falls-sharply-around-corbett-as-covid-19-lockdown-stops-traffic/story-6KGtIXi5SVW1BsKFpWK8CK.html
14-04-2020||India||J&K government revokes PSA for 70 prisoners amid Covid-19 crisis||The Jammu and Kashmir government has revoked the application of the Public Safety Act (PSA) to 70 people being held in jails within and outside the Union Territory, paving the way for their release against the backdrop of the Covid-19 crisis.Two dozen prisoners held under the PSA, a majority of them political detainees, have already been released from Srinagar’s Central Jail and Kot Balwal Jail in Jammu.Other prisoners are set to be released soon from jails in Haryana and Uttar Pradesh after the government issued orders to revoke the application of PSA against them, people familiar with developments said on Tuesday.Under the provisions of PSA, people can be held without charge for up to two years. The law was invoked against several politicians after the Union government revoked Jammu and Kashmir’s special status last year.The decision to revoke the application of PSA against the prisoners, most of them from different parts of the Kashmir Valley, was made after the Centre gave its nod to a proposal from the Jammu and Kashmir government. The order for the revocation was then issued by the union territory’s home affairs department, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity.Leaders of mainstream political parties and civil society groups have made several appeals to the Central government to release detained people, especially those held ahead of the revocation of Article 370 of the Constitution last August.The director general (prisons), VK Singh, said the release of the prisoners is an ongoing process. “The prisoners in Jammu and Kashmir and jails outside are being released, it a continuous process,” he said.Hindustan Times has reviewed more than a dozen PSA revocation orders for people from several districts of Kashmir. The orders were issued in the past two days for many people currently held in jails outside the Union Territory.The Jammu and Kashmir government is making arrangements to bring the released prisoners back to the Kashmir Valley, especially after the nationwide lockdown was extended till May 3 on Tuesday. The people said the released prisoners are expected to be either given special passes for travel or provided vehicles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-government-revokes-psa-for-70-prisoners-amid-covid-19-crisis/story-yDBLSg35Cj8w6MLTFDMH6J.html
14-04-2020||India||Give district-wise details of Jamaat attendees: Chhattisgarh HC to govt||The Chhattisgarh high court (HC) on Monday ordered the state government to file an affidavit furnishing district-wise data of the people who had attended the international congregation organised by Tablighi Jamaat at Nizamuddin in Delhi held between March 13 and 15, and also of those came in contact with the attendees.The Jamaat event --- held in violation of the Delhi government’s order against public gathering --- proved to be a superspreader of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak in India with attendees fanning out across the country and infecting many others.A two-member division bench of the HC, comprising Justices Prashant Kumar Mishra and Goutam Bhaduri, directed the police and health department authorities to file the affidavit.The HC also ordered the state government to carry on with its search for the Jamaat attendees and the people they might have come in contact with on their return to Chhattisgarh, as they could be the potential carriers of the SARS-CoV-2 virus.Earlier on April 9, Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel had announced during a press conference that 107 people from the state had attended the Jamaat event in Delhi.The court also asked the state government to take necessary steps to open a medical facility at Bilaspur within three days to carry out Covid-19 tests.In another separate case on Monday, the HC quashed the state government’s April 2 order, which sought to form a committee to take steps for initiating preparations to operate liquor shops from April 8 despite the ongoing nationwide lockdown, on technical grounds.The lockdown has been enforced since March 25 and on Tuesday further extended till May 3 to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.The HC, however, allowed the state government to take a decision on the matter based on Tuesday’s fresh lockdown notification, which has been issued by the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) under the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA).A two-member division bench of the HC, comprising Justices Prashant Kumar Mishra and Goutam Bhaduri, disposed of the state government’s order on technical grounds while hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Mamata Sharma, a Raipur-based social worker.The PIL objected to the state government’s April 2 order to form a panel to look into preparations to operate liquor shops in Chhattisgarh after April 7, despite the Central government’s nationwide lockdown restrictions were in place.Sharma’s counsel Rohit Sharma argued that the Bhupesh Baghel-led government’s bid to open liquor stores in the state from April 8 was in violation of the Centre’s order, as the latter did not grant any relaxation during the lockdown period.The state government’s counsel argued that the initial order of liquor ban was issued on March 31 and the prohibition was in place till April 7. The April 2 order was explicit that the liquor shops would open the after prohibition was lifted from April 8 onwards, he added.The HC has urged the petitioner to move the court afresh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/give-district-wise-details-of-jamaat-attendees-chhattisgah-hc-to-govt/story-6eeutDWpAtKbBW9Fsj1x8K.html
14-04-2020||India||Gautam Navlakha and Anand Teltumbde surrender before NIA in Bhima Koregaon case||Human rights activists Gautam Navlakha and Anand Teltumbde surrendered in the Bhima Koregaon case on Tuesday following a Supreme Court directive. Navlakha surrendered before the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in Delhi while Teltumbde surrendered in Mumbai where he was taken into custody by the anti-terror agency.Navlakha, Teltumbde and several other activists were booked for their alleged Maoist links and several other charges following the violence at Koregaon Bhima village in Pune district on January 1, 2018. Bhima Koregaon probe was recently transferred to the central agency.A senior official, who didn’t wish to be named, said Gautam Navlakha will be arrested by evening and produced before a court in Delhi on Wednesday.“We have sufficient evidence” against both Navlakha and Teltumbde in the Bhima Koregaon case, he said.The officer added that the Pune Police had collected some evidence against the two while the NIA was further investigating their presence at the Elgar Parishad and evaluating the technical evidence.The evening before coming to the NIA office for surrender, Anant Teltumbde, who is also a professor at the Goa Institute of Management, penned an open letter; in which he stated - “In my voluminous writings comprising over 30 books, and numerous papers, articles, comments, columns, interviews, published internationally, not an insinuation of support to violence or any subversive movement could be found. But at the fag end of my life, I am being charged with heinous crimes under the draconian UAPA (unlawful activities prevention act)”.Gautam Navlakha said in a statement: “My hope rests on a speedy and fair trial for myself and all fellow co-accused. This alone will enable me to clear my name, and walk free, having also used the time in jail to rid myself of acquired habits”.Navlakha and Teltumbde were directed by SC to surrender within three weeks but he had moved a plea last week seeking an extension the coronavirus outbreak. The SC, however, rejected the application and asked them to surrender within a week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gautam-navlakha-and-anand-teltumbde-surrender-before-nia-in-bhima-koregaon-case/story-6ma0gGIFBY5ln3ADwp46dO.html
14-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Ordnance Factory Board to supply 1.1 lakh coveralls in 40 days||Stepping forward in the fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the Ordnance Factory Board has begun supplying coveralls as part of an initial order of 1.1 lakh units placed by HLL Lifecare Limited, a government statement said on Tuesday. Also, the Defence Research and Development Organisation has come up with a Covid sample collection kiosk.The OFB’s protective suits, which are vital for the safety and well being of healthcare professionals at the forefront of the fight against the pandemic, conform to ISO Class 3 exposure standards.“The manufacture of an initial order of 1.10 lakh units from HLL is in full swing. This order will be completed in 40 days,” the statement said.The OFB is the country’s main producer of military arsenal and controls 41 ordnance factories engaged in the production of artillery guns, tanks, armoured personnel carriers, bombs, rockets, anti-aircraft guns, parachutes and small arms.The board is ramping up its efforts to help fight the coronavirus. It has already developed and begun supplying special tents that can be used for medical emergency, screening and quarantine. The DRDO has also developed a bio-suit to protect healthcare professionals at the forefront of the fight against Covid-19.In its latest contribution to the fight against the pandemic, the DRDO has designed and developed a Covid sample collection kiosk (COVSACK).This has been developed by the Defence Research and Development Laboratory, Hyderabad, in consultation with the doctors of Employees’ State Insurance Corporation.It will reduce the requirement of personal protection equipment (PPE) change by healthcare workers, said another government statement.“The kiosk is automatically disinfected without the need for human involvement, making the process free of infection spread. The shielding screen of kiosk cabin protects the health care worker from the aerosols/droplet transmission while taking the sample,” the statement said.After the patient leaves the kiosk, four nozzle sprayers mounted in the cabin take 70 seconds to disinfect the chamber.“The COVSACK costs nearly Rs one lakh and the identified industry based at Belgaum, Karnataka can support 10 units per day. The DRDO has designed and developed two units and handed over these to ESIC Hospital, Hyderabad after successful testing,” the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ordnance-factory-board-to-supply-1-1-lakh-coveralls-in-40-days/story-ONpcmL4McU3XhcAJLM0egK.html
14-04-2020||India||IndiGo to resume flight operations from May 4 in phased manner||IndiGo, India’s largest airline, will resume flight operations from May 4, a day after the national lockdown ends on May 3, in a phased manner.The airline, however, maintained that presently it will be flying exclusively domestic. “Complementing the government’s efforts against Covid-19, we will start flight operations on vital corridors of air traffic from May 4. We will begin operations for domestic only and then gradually ramp up it up further, to commence operations on some international routes as well,” IndiGo CEO Ronojoy Dutta said in a statement.The airline further said that it will increase its operating capacity over subsequent months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indigo-to-resume-flight-operations-from-may-4-in-phased-manner/story-coRT0Y7djfNgoavWDE4CyJ.html
14-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Delhi govt revises yardstick to designate locality as Red Zone||The Delhi government has drastically revised the norm for designating a locality as a Red Zone in its fight to contain the spread of Covid-19.“There are 47 ‘Red Zones’ in Delhi now. We’ve made the criteria more stringent now. Earlier an area used to be declared a ‘Red Zone’ if 10 or more positive cases were found there. Now, if 3 cases are found in an area it’ll be declared a Red Zone and contained,” ANI quoted Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain as saying on Tuesday.“An area where one or two positive cases are found is considered an ‘Orange Zone’. It is monitored and declared a ‘Red Zone’ if more cases are found there,”” he said.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.Under its Operation SHIELD, the Delhi government seals off a locality once it is declared a Red Zone to prevent any possible transmission of the disease.Jain said the government is also waiting for rapid testing kits to increase the scale of tests.Also read: Metro services to remain suspended till May 3, announces govt“We haven’t received the rapid testing kits yet. There is a great need for them. The central government is about to receive the kits which have been imported, then we will get too. We will start working with it, the day we receive it,” he said.Shortly after Jain’s comments, Raman R Gangakhedkar, of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) who spoke at the daily briefing of the Union health ministry, said 37 lakh rapid test kits are expected to reach any time.On Monday, Gangakhedkar had said rapid testing kits from China will arrive on April 15. The kits were earlier expected to arrive on April 5.Last month, WHO Director General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus had called for vigorous testing to combat coronavirus. “We have a simple message to all countries - test, test, test,” the WHO Director General had said in Geneva, as he described the pandemic “the defining global health crisis of our time”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-delhi-govt-revises-yardstick-to-designate-locality-as-red-zone/story-WifxVH3fGgjYDkARzdX0dJ.html
14-04-2020||India||Akhilesh Yadav has a question for Modi govt on coronavirus’ entry in India||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav questioned the Centre’s claim of proactive action to prevent the outbreak of coronavirus pandemic in India by wanting to know if it had been effective in preventing the virus’ entry into the country.The SP leader specifically referred to the claim that screening of international passengers had begun very early, even before the detection of a single positive case, to ask how the country still managed to get its first case of coronavirus.“It was claimed that the screening started at different airports when there was not even a single corona case in the country. But then the question is if it was meaningful. If it is true, then it should be told how the country got its first corona case,” asked the Samajwadi party president.India’s first three cases of coronavirus were reported in Kerala on January 30, February 2 and 3 respectively. The first case was of a female student in Thrissur district who had returned from China’s Wuhan, the first epicenter of the disease. The second and third cases were also of students studying in China who had returned home on vacation.Earlier today, Prime Minister Narendra Modi credited the early measures taken by his government including the screening of international passengers and the national lockdown for the partial success in the containment of Covid-19 outbreak in the country.“India had started screening visitors from Corona-infected countries even when we had zero cases of Corona. India had made 14 days of isolation necessary for every foreign visitor even before we had reached 100 patients,” PM Modi had said this morning, while announcing a 19-day extension of the national lockdown.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19The prime minister added that the lockdown was announced even when the total number of positive cases hadn’t gone beyond 550 in a demonstration of the proactive attitude needed to address the problem before it exploded in our faces.“Had India not adopted a holistic approach, an integrated approach and not taken quick decisions, then India’s situation would have been very different (worse) today. But the experience of the past few days makes it clear that we are on the correct path,” said the Prime Minister.The health ministry on Tuesday said that the total number of positive cases in the country had reached 10,363, including 1,211 cases detected since yesterday. It added that the total casualties had reached 339, including 31 deaths registered since yesterday. A total of 1,036 people have been cured of Covid-19 including 179 people who have been declared cured in the last 24 hours.For Coronavirus Live Updates||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/akhilesh-yadav-has-a-question-for-modi-govt-on-coronavirus-entry-in-india/story-yYPZ2B9k8pYYEp0avnJPZL.html
14-04-2020||India||HT Dialogues: Haryana lockdown exit plan almost ready, says top official||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday extended the three-week nationwide lockdown till May 3. It is in this backdrop that Hindustan Times brings you HT Dialogues: Gurugram Covid Response. The event has top officials of Haryana government and Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority deliberating and answering questions as to how the administration went about checking the spread of the highly contagious coronavirus disease.The speakers included Rajesh Khullar, Principal Secretary to the Haryana chief minister, and Varinder Singh Kundu, Additional Chief Secretary of Haryana and CEO, Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority.On April 10, the Haryana government made wearing of masks compulsory for all who are out in public spaces even if they are inside their vehicles.The order also said that any person or officer will attend any meeting or go to the workplace wearing the facemasks and any violation of the order will attract punishment under the IPC.Here are the top points:*We are the only district to have 7 private testing labs. Since the SC order has been amended, we can expect more testing in the coming days: Varinder Singh Kundu, additional chief secretary of Haryana, CEO, Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority.Kundu pointed out that the testing percentage in Gurugram has been one of the highest in Haryana. “We have tested 1,884 cases till now. We happen to be the only district which has seven private testing facilities. Since the Supreme Court has amended its order, we can expect more testing in the coming days.”*Exit plan for lockdown is almost ready in Haryana, said Kundu.*District boundaries have been sealed for containment of Covid-19. Passes have been issued, said Kundu. *Rajesh Khullar, the Principal Secretary to the Haryana chief minister, said these are very uncertain times, but that the government is on top of things in terms of containment. It has, the officer added, kept the supply chains running making sure nobody sleeps hungry in the night.*“Tomorrow the government will come out with a plan on easing relaxation. Gurugram is likely to end up in the red zone, so relaxations are not expected. We have 16 active patients so far so we are likely to end in orange zone. Gurugram may not see relaxations for a week, even for a week after that,” said Khullar.*Looking at Haryana’s numbers, we can say we are lucky. Our death rate is at 5 per cent, said Khullar. *From government, the instruction is very clear that one is not supposed to leave one’s house, unless it is an essential activity or a medical emergency. The parks inside RWAs are not as monitored as villages and the clusters of low-paid workers. RWAs on their own have come up with set of rules with respect to taking morning-evening walks,” said Varinder Singh Kundu, additional chief secretary, Haryana.“The way people have come out - irrespective of their status - and have helpd everyone, has been heart-warming experience,” said Kundu. “I am not talking about corporates, individuals have put in their hard work.”*The blip in economy will be felt by the government as well. That is why the government employees have chipped in by taking a salary cut, said Kundu.*“We have a set of dos and don’ts for the industries on how to reopen businesses. To bring the workers in, we can facilitate for operating from home or in small batches. We will ensure lockdown is not compromised and social distancing is maintained,” said Kundu.*“Hope this situation ends fast, children love to play in the field and share their learning. It is a different kind of learning for children and they will value it more. It has kept the children occupied.”: Arti Chopra, Principal, Amity International School.*“Travel is hit as bad as any business, and will take the longest time to recover. That’s the nature of the travel business. Non-discretionary travel might come back a little earlier, but it looks like a distant thing, you know, to think about people getting on to planes, or trains, or staying in a hotel unless absolutely necessary,” Deep Kalra, founder and executive chairman of online travel compay MakeMyTrip.*“We are bracing up for the worst. Because of the nature of the beast out there. It is unknown, and no country has been able to tackle it,” added Kalra.*“There is no other way but to keep on extending lockdown in a smart way. The priority is to survive, to ride this time out and conserve cash as much as possible. We can thrive later,” Kalra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-dialogues-top-officials-answer-questions-on-gurugram-s-covid-19-response/story-55bsDQMnILCvuiCd0vSVvK.html
14-04-2020||India||Covid-19: In Bihar, spitting in public places will cost 6 months in jail||The Bihar government has banned spitting in public places after chewing tobacco to check the spread of Covid-19 and said offenders will be jailed for six months or fined Rs 200.Following the Centre’s advice to states on Friday to ban the consumption of smokeless tobacco, as part of its measures to contain Covid-19, the Bihar government on Monday banned chewing tobacco products and paan masala at public places. Chewing tobacco products, paan masala and areca nut increases the production of saliva followed by a very strong urge to spit, said a report by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the health department.“Consumption and use of tobacco poses threat to public health….. Spitting can cause serious diseases like Corona, Encephalitis, tuberculosis, swine flu, etc. Under Section 268 and 269 of IPC, and at the times of pandemic whosoever violates the provisions of the law, will undergo six months of imprisonment or Rs 200 penalty,” said an order issued by principal secretary (Health) Sanjay Kumar.The order bans use of all forms of tobacco including cigarettes in all government, semi-government office and their premises, all health institutions, police stations, etc.The order issued by the government has asked all district magistrates and Superintendents of Police to ensure proper implementation of ban.Bihar has so far recorded 66 Covid-19 positive cases.“Implementation of this order will be a big challenge for Bihar because 25.9% people use tobacco in the state, of which 23.5% take smokeless tobacco, including khaini. The police will have to play the lead role in it,” said Deepak Mishra, executive director of the Socio-Economic and Educational Development Society, an NGO, which supports the state government in implementation of the tobacco control programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-in-bihar-spitting-in-public-places-will-cost-6-months-in-jail/story-sdBM0dMz77V2bSuQkn5a6L.html
14-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: No need to panic, sufficient reserves of food and medicines, says Amit Shah and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion curated for you. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘No need to panic, sufficient reserves of food and medicines’: Amit ShahHome Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday assured there will be no shortage of essential items including food and medicine during the 19 days of extended national lockdown announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi a few hours ago. The home minister also lauded the coordination between the states and the Centre over the implementation of measures to contain coronavirus disease.Read more. ‘Arrest virus, revive economy’: PM Modi has a double-barrel lockdown exit planPM Modi extended the lockdown to May 3 but made it clear to people and the states that they should start work on a calibrated revival of the economy after the April 20 review. The prime minister called the next week an agni pariksha, a trial by fire, and nudged states to carry out a granular assessment of neighbourhoods to identify localities that had been free of the disease and allow some essential activities. Read more. ‘Nowhere in the game’: Rahul Gandhi lashes out at govt over Covid-19 testing kitsCongress leader Rahul Gandhi criticised the government on Tuesday for what he said was a delay on its part in the purchase of testing kits for Covid-19 and said the country is “now critically short of them”.The comments by the former Congress president came after the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Monday that the rapid testing kits, which were supposed to be in the country on April 5 and then April 10, will now reach by April 15. Read more. Covid-19 update: Centre set to launch 24*7 call centre to manage movement of goodsThe Centre is set to launch a 24x7 countrywide call centre on April 15 to manage intersectoral movement of goods, from farming and agro-processing to household necessities in order to iron out supply hurdles during the coronavirus lockdown, by far a key challenge. Read more. CBSE, Fit India Movement collaborate to stream live fitness sessions for students amid lockdownThe Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and Fit India Movement have collaborated to provide live fitness sessions by experts for school students during the lockdown. These sessions will be live on youtube, facebook, instagram daily from 9.30am on April 15, for a period of one month. Read more. Lockdown extension: Hockey India postpones all National Championships indefinitelyHockey India on Tuesday postponed all its rescheduled national championships indefinitely after the national lockdown to contain the COVID-19 pandemic was extended till May 3.These tournaments were rescheduled to start on April 29 and continue till July 3 but have been suspended for now. Read moreAmid lockdown, this game called Utopias is all about a better futureAn art game called Utopias, made by the AAA collective, is a particularly interesting experiment to indulge with at this given point in time. As the world stays at home, isolated, in an attempt to control the spread of Covid-19, AAA (a Berlin-oriented group) has created a game which asks us about utopias we conceive of alone and “what happens when these visions are thrust together”. Read more. Ever seen a mud volcano? IFS officer shares video, asks people to identify the locationThe words active volcanoes often evoke the images of mountains that have the potential to erupt and spew out hot molten lava. IFS officer Parveen Kaswan tweeted a video of such an active volcano but instead of hot lava it ejects something else – boiling mud. He also asked people to name the place where active mud volcano is found in India. Read more. Indian Navy develops air evacuation pod to airlift COVID-19 patientsIndian Navy’s Southern Command, Kochi has developed an air evacuation pod to airlift COVID-19 patients with minimal chances of cross infection. It has been developed locally and with available stretchers and will also be available for use by other agencies. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-no-need-to-panic-sufficient-reserves-of-food-and-medicines-says-amit-shah-and-all-the-latest-news/story-qnZThKZvg9dRMtjJwcQ6tO.html
14-04-2020||India||Not just medical treatment, this Mumbai doctors’ group is going the extra mile||The world is hailing the medical staff and sanitisation workers and for all the right reasons, they are after all “corona warriors” on the frontline tackling Covid-19.While doctors have been working day and night to treat the people infected with the novel coronavirus and conducting research to come up with a vaccine to treat the disease, a group of doctors in Mumbai is going the extra mile to help people deal with mental and emotional stress. The group wants to spread cheer and lift up spirits in a unique way of not only their patients but the entire nation dealing with stress and anxiety amid the nationwide lockdown, which was on Tuesday extended till May 3. Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Sargam, a group of medical professionals in Mumbai, is going the digital way and will launch their first “Sing From Home Concert” on Tuesday evening. The group will go live on Facebook at 6:30 pm to use music therapy as a remedy to keep hope afloat in the times of coronavirus. “The current lockdown has been a challenging task for individuals across all age groups and is affecting the psychological and emotional well-being of many,” Dr Bipin Pandit, member of the Sargam group told hindustantimes.com.At a time when social media has become the go-to medium, the doctor says the initiative will help people ease their stress and bring cheer in homes during the time of isolation, self-quarantine and of course work-from-home. “There’s evidence that music helps the human body mentally, physically and most importantly emotionally,” says Priyanka Trithapti, an NCR-based therapist and counsellor. “Especially coming from doctors, who have a credibility associated with them, the initiative sends out a strong message and will help people understand the significance of music in dealing with challenging situations,” she added. Here’s the link to the live concert Click here for complete coronavirus coverage||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-not-just-medical-treatment-this-mumbai-doctors-group-is-going-an-extra-mile/story-niUCwTc54cfM8qZkJrsg6I.html
14-04-2020||India||Covid-19 update: Govt set to launch 24*7 call centre to manage movement of goods||The Centre is set to launch a 24x7 countrywide call centre on April 15 to manage intersectoral movement of goods, from farming and agro-processing to household necessities in order to iron out supply hurdles during the coronavirus lockdown, by far a key challenge.Restoring supply chains emanating from the agriculture sector is quite urgent as farmers are poised to wind up winter harvests during April-May and prepare for summer sowing. The farm sector isn’t just a supplier of food, it serves as a provider of primary and intermediate raw materials for a wide range of industrial goods, from textiles to pharmaceuticals. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday announced that the current lockdown will be extended till May 3. Movement of primary articles, such as grains and vegetables, as well as other essential goods have continued to stumble. The Union government is still grappling with lack of compliance of its advisories in a country where ground-level decisions are taken by local administrators. In a letter to all states, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla on April 12 reiterated federal guidelines on freeing restrictions in the agriculture and transport sectors, which are not being implemented in “letter and spirit”, he said. Trucks carrying essential and non-essential goods “are being detained”, workers are “not getting authorizations” and operations of “cold storages and warehouses are not being allowed”, Bhalla’s letter stated.Without access to warehouses and cold chains, farm goods can rot. Farmers are already dumping produce for want of buyers. “The lockdown and limited movement of goods because of absence of labour, trucks and activity in wholesale markets have led to a sharp decline in supplies of commodities such as foodgrains, horticulture and sugar,” said Madan Sabnavis, chief economist at CARE Ratings.The Centre hopes to smoothen bottlenecks through realtime updates in its call centre, an official said, requesting anonymity. Truck drivers, traders, retailers, transporters or any other stakeholders who are facing problems in inter-state movement of essential commodities can seek help by calling at the call centre and executives will forward the vehicle and consignment details along with the help needed to state officials for resolution, the official said.The troubleshooting hub, to be anchored in the farm ministry, will be called the all-India agri-transport call centre. It will help to coordinate supplies between states for inter-state movement of perishables, inputs like seeds, pesticides and fertilizer. The call centre number, 18001804200 and 14488 (not yet functional), can be accessed from any mobile or landline. As the country heads into summer-sown kharif farm season, the Centre will provide subsidized seeds to states under National Food Security Mission, the official said. The subsidy under the scheme shall be for varieties less than 10 years, which means farmers can access higher-yielding varieties cheaply. Retail inflation eased to four-month low of 5.91% in March, according to official data released on Monday. However, food prices have gone up sharply in April, Sabnavis said. There appears to be three main supply-side constraints that have driven up food prices not yet captured officially. One, arrivals (of farm commodities) in APMC markets have plunged sharply. Two, land transportation costs have risen sharply and, three, restrictions and quarantine measures have resulted in crippling labour shortages. Yet, higher prices at the retail end stand in sharp contrast to poor prices for farmers, said Vidhi Agarwal, an economist with commodities trading firm, Comtrade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-set-to-launch-24-7-call-centre-to-manage-movement-of-goods/story-qEbXspATDTqNQkplaKhzPM.html
14-04-2020||India||‘No need to panic, sufficient reserves of food and medicines’: Amit Shah||Home Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday assured there will be no shortage of essential items including food and medicine during the 19 days of extended national lockdown announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi a few hours ago. The home minister also lauded the coordination between the states and the Centre over the implementation of measures to contain coronavirus disease.Shah’s assurance follows an acknowledgement by the prime minister of the challenges faced in maintaining a smooth supply of essential items. PM Modi, too, during his televised address on Tuesday morning, had extended an assurance that the bottlenecks in the supply chain of essential items were being cleared gradually.Prime Minister Modi had also added that there was no dearth of essential items including food material. Shah also reiterated the point while advising residents not to panic.“Sufficient reserves of food, medicines and other daily essentials in the country, no need for any citizen to panic,” Shah’s statement released by PIB said.Shah’s ministry is coordinating the response to Covid-19 through the disaster management act, which has been invoked to deal with this global pandemic. Shah said the coordination between the states and the Centre was praiseworthy.“Commendable coordination seen between Centre and States to fight COVID-19,” Shah said adding that it needed to be intensified so that all citizens follow the lockdown properly and no one faces any problem to access things of their everyday needs.The PM earlier today said there was near unanimity among the states over the extension of the lockdown and as many as eight states had independently announced an extension to the restrictions till April 30, even before the centre made the decision on the matter.Shah also said that the decision to extend the national lockdown till May 3 was taken to protect the lives of people threatened by the outbreak of coronavirus pandemic.Prime Minister Modi, too, had emphasized on the need to protect people’s lives when he first announced the national lockdown on March 23. A few days ago, he said the motto of the government had progressed over the two weeks of lockdown to ‘Jaan bhi, Jahaan bhi’ meaning the need to protect both lives and livelihoods.The country is suffering a huge economic setback due to disruption of business activities and the daily wagers who are employed in the unorganized sector or in the construction and manufacturing sector are said to be the hardest hit.The Prime Minister earlier today, said that alleviating the suffering of the poor, the labourers and the farmers was his government’s top priority. He added that the new guidelines to enforce the lockdown to be released tomorrow have taken utmost care of their interests. The government had earlier released a 1.71 lakh crore relief package for industries, businesses, salaried class and the poor people including the daily wagers. For Coronavirus Live UpdatesShah also lauded the people for their cooperation and claimed that the Indian citizens, under the leadership of the Prime Minister Narendra Modi, have set an example for the whole world when it came to a united response to the disease. The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-panic-there-s-no-shortage-amit-shah-assures-as-india-readies-for-extended-lockdown-life/story-YZGnTqEszJzRoeXHjxIpvO.html
14-04-2020||India||Covid-19 impact: Banarasi paan goes missing, vendors left in lurch||The famous “Banarasi paan” has gone missing in this city, with all shops that catered to cravings for the traditional after-meal mouth freshener having been closed as part of the lockdown to prevent the spread of the coronavirus.Paan is popular across India but in Varanasi, the Banarasi paan is a must-have after a meal. Popularised by actor Amitabh Bachchan in the song Khai ke paan Banaraswala from his 1978 hit movie Don, the Banarasi paan is a favourite with everyone from politicians to film stars and the common man.The nimble fingers of paanwallahs, adept at wrapping the right ingredients such as rose petals, silver foil and tobacco in a betel leaf to make the perfect paan, are idle and betel leaves are rotting.Kailash Gupta, who runs a paan shop near Anand Cinema in Teliabagh area, said: “On March 21, I bought five dholis (bundles) of paan pattas (betel leaves) from Paan Dariba, Paan Mandi, and stored them at my house. I was under the impression that after the janata curfew on March 22, the markets would open the next day and I would open my paan shop too.“But as the district administration passed an order that people would stay home for the next two days, the market remained closed and I couldn’t open my shop. Then the complete lockdown came. All five bundles of paan leaves rotted.”He also had bookings for five marriage parties, at which paan is served after the main meal, but all the orders were cancelled because the weddings were postponed. A bundle of paan leaves – called a “dholi” in the local parlance – comprises around 300 leaves and costs Rs 300 to Rs 500, depending on the quality. A dholi of Bangla paan, which comes from Kolkata, usually costs around Rs 600. During summer, the price of Bangla paan increases to Rs 900.A bundle of paan leaves cannot be preserved for more than two days in summer, because the intense heat causes them to rot.Gupta said during other seasons, the betel leaves can be preserved for up to four days.The supply of betel leaves to Varanasi from West Bengal and other adjoining areas has completely stalled because of the nationwide lockdown as paan hasn’t been included among the essential items. “In normal times, many tourists from south India, especially from Chennai, visit my shop to enjoy Banarasi paan. The tourists also get 10 to 20 paans packed in Mahua leaves and take them to Chennai,” Gupta said. Recalling celebrity visits, he said actor Vivek Oberoi visited his shop in 2014 and relished the paan. Many foreigners also got paan packed from his shop and took it with them. Local residents going to Mumbai get special Banarasi paans packed for their friends there. When actor Shah Rukh Khan visited Varanasi in July 2017, he enjoyed the Banarasi paan at Nadesar. “It is very delicious,” Khan had said.Kishan Kumar, who owns a paan kiosk in Naria area near Banaras Hindu University (BHU), is known to prepare such a tasty Banarasi paan that it dissolves soon after being put in the mouth.But he too said several bundles of betel leaves, bought a day before the janata curfew, rotted because his shop couldn’t be opened since March 22 and the bookings for marriage parties too were cancelled.Other paan shop owners had similar tales of their plight.In Varanasi alone, there are approximately more than 500 paan shops. Of these, around 50 are famous and known for their unique paans.On an average, any popular paan shop usually sells more than 2,000 paans daily, said a paan shop owner on condition of anonymity.Vivek Pathak, a professor in the faculty of law at BHU, often visits Kishan Kumar’s kiosk at Naria on his way home from work. “The taste of paan prepared by Kishan is unique. I am fond of it,” Pathak said. Sadhusaran Singh, another paan lover, said: “I wish this pandemic comes to an end quickly so that the lockdown is lifted and I can enjoy Banarasi paan.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-impact-banarasi-paan-goes-missing-vendors-left-in-lurch/story-6poqivpumZzE0rIytyND7N.html
14-04-2020||India||‘India delayed purchase, now critically short’: Rahul Gandhi on testing kits||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi criticised the government on Tuesday for what he said was a delay on its part in the purchase of testing kits for Covid-19 and said the country is “now critically short of them”. The comments by the former Congress president came after the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Monday that the rapid testing kits, which were supposed to be in the country on April 5 and then April 10, will now reach by April 15.These kits are being seen as the next phase of India’s strategy to combat the coronavirus disease with widespread and rapid testing not just in hot spots and containment zones but also areas relatively free of the virus.Rapid Test Kits, or RTKs, are blood tests that search for antibodies in the sample of those tested. A positive test means the person is or has been infected by the virus. “With just 149 tests per million Indians, we are now in the company of Laos (157), Niger (182) & Honduras (162). Mass testing is the key to fighting the virus. At present we are nowhere in the game,” Rahul Gandhi tweeted.The Congress leader’s tweet also came on a day India recorded 10,363 coronavirus cases and 339 deaths. Prime Minister Narendra Modi also announced the extension of the 21-day lockdown from March 25 till May 3 to arrest the spread of the infection.Also read: ‘Arrest virus, revive economy’: PM Modi has a double-barrel lockdown exit planCountries around the world are looking to use these tests to determine who has immunity to the Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19 apart from being a fast way to identify the extent of infections in clusters.RTKs give out results in 30 minutes unlike the RT-PCR tests currently in use, which take up to five hours to throw up a result. However, ICMR’s protocol requires a confirmatory RT-PCR test to back up a negative RTK result.ICMR raised a tender on April 11 for 4.5 million more rapid testing kits to be delivered in batches apart from the order for 500,000 kits that has already been placed. The plan is to have the first batch in by May 1 and the final batch latest by May 31.Also read: Congress backs lockdown extension but asks PM Modi to spell out strategy to fightIndia had ordered 500,000 kits from Chinese suppliers on March 30. In addition, several Indian states have also placed orders for RTKs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nowhere-in-the-game-rahul-gandhi-lashes-out-at-govt-over-covid-19-testing-kits/story-ia4zAEtZ1HDr0oajuw4zsJ.html
14-04-2020||India||With 4 more Covid-19 deaths, Pune toll at 38 now||Four people have succumbed to the coronavirus disease in Maharashtra’s Pune, taking the death toll in the city to 38, health officials said on Tuesday.Three women and a 27-year-old man died and all had co-morbid conditions, according to the officials.On Monday, two deaths were reported in the city due to Covid-19 at Sassoon Hospital. A 40-year-old man, who was admitted on April 11, was declared dead on late on Sunday night. The patient had co-morbid conditions, including diabetes, doctors had said. The report of his samples confirming coronavirus infection came on Monday.A 50-year-old woman from Kondhwa Khurd, who was admitted on April 9, was declared dead on Monday. She reportedly suffered from obstructive airway disease with acute kidney injury and obesity.In Pune city, 27 patients have been declared as completely recovered from the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-4-more-covid-19-deaths-pune-toll-at-38-now/story-RLyGhvRMCVtK69qCa8DEcO.html
14-04-2020||India||You won’t face any problem, assures Amit Shah as PM Modi extends lockdown till May 3||Union home minister Amit Shah said on Tuesday there will no shortage of essential items like food and medicines soon after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the extension of the lockdown to fight Covid-19 until May 3.Prime Minister reinforced the existing restrictions to control the spread of coronavirus on a day India crossed the 10,000 mark. In his 25-minute video address, he also said the restrictions would be reviewed on April 20.Amit Shah, in a series of tweets, welcomed Prime Minister’s decision to prevent the spread of Covid-19 and eliminate and said it was taken to protect India and the life of Indians. He said he was thankful to PM Modi for extending the lockdown.The home minister also said people of the country won’t face any problem during the period till May 3.“As the home minister of the country, I assure the public again that there is enough stock of food, medicines and other things of everyday use in the country, so there is no need to bother any citizen,” he said.“Also, I request the rich people to come forward and help the poor living nearby.”Also read: All you need to know about Covid-19 lockdown extensionAmit Shah also put in a praise for the state governments for working with the Centre. “Now, we have to deepen this coordination so that all the citizens follow the lockdown properly and no citizen should have the problem of the things they need,” he added.Just like the Prime Minister’s seven-point request, which included a thought for those who are fighting against the coronavirus pandemic from the front, Shah called upon people to appreciate their efforts.Also read: PM Modi changes Twitter profile picture, it has an important message“The contribution of our doctors, health workers, sweepers, police and all the security personnel who are playing an important role in this fight is very touching. Your courage and understanding in this tough situation inspire every Indian. Everyone should follow the guidelines and cooperate with them,” he said.Experts have said the lockdown, which was put in place on March 25, has helped the country has slowed the spread but also warned that if clusters are not contained effectively and testing is not done widely and aggressively, India could fritter away the gains of the restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/you-won-t-face-any-problem-assures-amit-shah-as-pm-modi-extends-lockdown-till-may-3/story-Fbf1CA1iWbtLcQ3slAGNOM.html
14-04-2020||India||Rajasthan cops arrest over 6,000 for violating Covid-19 lockdown and curfew||The Rajasthan Police have arrested over 6,000 people between March 22 and April 13 for violating curfew and lockdown norms to check the spread of coronavirus, officials said. According to official data, out of the 6078 arrests 5,243were preventive arrests under section 151 of CrPC while 835 were arrested for risking contagion. “Police arrested 5,243 people under Section 151 of CrPC to prevent the commission of cognizable offences. Most of these people arrested under this section were roaming in the markets without any reason in the lockdown or areas where curfew has been imposed. Also, those who circulating fake and misleading messages have also been arrested under Section 151 of the CrPC,” said additional director general of police (ADGP – Crime), Bhagwan Lal Soni.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.The police arrested 835 people for violating lockdown orders under Section 188 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of Disaster Management Act. “There are multiple directions issued by various district administrations. Like in some areas, curfew has been imposed, in some areas gathering of more than four persons is not allowed etc. Those who are violating these orders increases chances of contamination and are been booked and arrested for violating lockdown orders,” Soni added.Anyone who disobeys orders duly promulgated by public servant which cause or tends to cause obstruction, annoyance or injury, or risk of obstruction, annoyance or injury can be arrested under Section 188 of IPC.The districts from where maximum numbers of preventive arrest were made are Alwar (549), Jhunjhunu (402), Jaipur rural (285) and Dholpur-(277).Similarly, the districts from where maximum cases of violating lockdown orders were lodged are Sri Ganganar (86), Chittorgarh (85), Bikaner (62), Jaipur North-(61) and Banswara (50).During the same period, police have seized 74,312 vehicles, booked 1.29 lakh people under the MV Act and collected a fine of Rs 1.76 crores.The vehicles were seized under section 207 (vehicles used without certificate of registration permit) of the Motor Vehicles Act. Most of them were commercial vehicles and were found moving without permits.According to official data of the state health department, Rajasthan has reported 969 cases of coronavirus of which 441 are from Jaipur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-cops-arrest-over-6-000-for-violating-covid-19-lockdown-and-curfew/story-oZGfeMvxiXzWb4hcIFrMhI.html
14-04-2020||India||Metro services to remain suspended till May 3, announces govt||Hours after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the extension of nationwide lockdown till May 3, the government announced suspension of the metro services too.“With today’s announcement of extending complete lockdown in the country till May 3, metro rail services will continue to be suspended till May 3,” said DS Mishra, Secretary of Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs.When PM Modi announced the lockdown last month till April 14, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) had said that its services will also remain closed till the said period.DMRC Managing Director (MD) Mangu Singh had asked the staff to follow precautionary measures in line with those prescribed by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and guidelines issued by DMRC.The Indian Railways too extended the suspension of all its passenger services till May 3. It also said that full refund of fare would automatically be provided to its online customers for trains cancelled up to May 3, while those who have booked at the counters can claim the refund till July 31.“In continuation of the measures taken in the wake of Covid-19 lockdown, it has been decided that all passenger train services on Indian Railways, including premium trains, mail/express trains, passenger trains, suburban trains, Kolkata Metro Rail, Konkan Railway shall continue to remain cancelled till 2400 hours of May 3,” a statement from the railways said.It also said that to ensure essential supplies in various parts of the country, movement of goods and parcel trains will remain operational.It said no advance reservation of trains tickets, including e-tickets, will be allowed till further orders. However, facility of online cancellation will remain functional.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/metro-services-to-remain-suspended-till-may-3-announces-govt/story-4ZssgPfbk08Y44pANg0YUM.html
14-04-2020||India||Railway cancels trains till May 3, get full refund including for advance bookings||Indian Railways will refund all the bookings made on trains that stand cancelled in the wake of the extension of the national lockdown till May 3 and also for bookings made on trains scheduled for beyond May 3 that have not been cancelled yet. Railways made the announcement on Tuesday after Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended the lockdown with an aim to continue India’s efforts to contain coronavirus.The national transporter’s interstate and suburban services for passengers remain suspended since March 21. After PM’s announcement, it said that those who had made online bookings will get refunded automatically while bookings made on railways ticket counters will get time till July 31 to apply for full refunds.Customers will also get full refunds for their tickets if they cancel the advance bookings on trains not yet cancelled, it said.In another important announcement, the Railways will not open advance reservations for passenger services even for dates beyond May 3.“No advance reservation of train tickets, including e-tickets, will be allowed till further orders,” an official release said.However, online cancellations will be allowed. Railways had earlier announced the suspension of all its services to prevent community transmissions of Covid-19 on March 21 and the services have remain suspend ever since.Only good trains are being operated to ensure there is no disruption in important commerce and essential services including grocery, vegetables and dairy products notified by the government. The railways have also extended a major helping hand by offering its health infrastructure for Covid-19 prevention and treatment efforts along with converting its passenger coaches into temporary isolation and treatment wards to treat patients as the government scales up its capacity to handle coronavirus cases that have crossed the 10,000-mark in the country.The prime minister has said that the country will slip into a six-day period of stringent lockdown implementation till April 20, following which certain infection-free areas could be opened up for some commercial activities in order to restart the economy.There is no clarity if railway passenger services will resume after May 3.For Coronavirus Live Updates||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railway-cancels-trains-till-may-3-get-full-refund-including-for-advance-bookings/story-4jjhcSfzE7lWJ1LrZ7bzbP.html
14-04-2020||India||US to consider requests for visa extensions due to Covid-19 crisis||The US department of homeland security has said it will consider requests for visa extensions for travellers and holders of other visas affected by the Covid-19 pandemic, a move expected to benefit hundreds of Indians stranded in that country.The US citizenship and immigration services (USCIS), which is part of the department of homeland security, said in a notification posted on its website on Monday that it will process applications for extension of stay on a case-by-case basis.The move comes in the wake of the Indian government’s request to the US last week to extend the validity of visas, including H-1B and other types of visas, held by Indian nationals who have been hit by Covid-19-related economic slump.Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla had taken up the matter during his telephone conversation with US deputy secretary of state Stephen Biegun on April 8, when the two sides also discussed ways to enhance cooperation to counter the pandemic and ensure the availability of essential medicines and equipment.“This will provide some assurance to Indian nationals stranded in the US in case their visas are about to expire,” said a person who declined to be named.“India had requested for a wholesale extension of all visas, while the US has agreed to consider applications made for such extension in view of the pandemic,” the person added.The department of homeland security acknowledged immigration-related challenges as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic and said while it continues to take action to protect the American people, it also recognises that “non-immigrants may unexpectedly remain in the United States beyond their authorised period of stay due to Covid-19”.“Most non-immigrants can mitigate the immigration consequences of Covid-19 by timely filing an application for extension of stay (EOS) or change in status (COS),” the notification said.“USCIS reminds petitioners and applicants that it can consider delays caused by the Covid-19 pandemic when deciding whether to excuse delays in filing documents based on extraordinary circumstances,” it added. If an applicant files an extension of stay request “after the authorised period of admission expires”, USCIS “may excuse the failure to file on time if it was due to extraordinary circumstances beyond their control, such as those that may be caused by Covid-19”.The applicant “must submit credible evidence to support their request, which USCIS will evaluate on a case-by-case basis”, the notification said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-to-consider-requests-for-visa-extensions-due-to-covid-19-crisis/story-MzyxJgDyt3uwUXtGsu5mbJ.html
14-04-2020||India||Prashant Bhushan, Kannan Gopinathan booked by Gujarat police||Lawyer and activist Prashant Bhushan and former Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer Kannan Gopinathan booked were booked by Gujarat police over their social media posts on Sunday. While Bhushan was charged for allegedly using objectionable tweet against the Ramayana, Kannan Gopinathan was booked for using government orders on social media to mislead people.The first information report (FIR) was registered at Bhaktinagar police station of Rajkot city on Sunday evening. Later, the investigation was transferred to the special operations group (SOG).“A complaint was submitted by a retired captain from the army identified as Jaydev Bhai Joshi, a native of Rajkot. In his complaint, Joshi accused Bhushan of using word opium with Ramayana and Mahabharata in a tweet made on March 28 which has hurt the sentiments of many Hindu people,” Rohit Rawal, a police inspector with SOG, said.Rawal is also the investigating officer of the case.Also read: Govt asks former IAS officer to return citing Covid-19, but he says no“As crores starve & walk hundreds of miles home due to forced lockdown, our heartless ministers celebrate consuming & feeding the opium of Ramayana & Mahabharata to the people,” Bhushan had tweeted on March 28.The complainant also alleged that Gopinathan and Ashlin Mathew, the news editor of National Herald newspaper, tweeted government orders in a misleading manner which can lead to a disturbance of peace in society.“On the basis of the complaint, we have registered a case against the trio under section 34 (criminal act done by several persons), 295-A (deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage the religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or the religious beliefs), 505(1) (publishing or circulating any statement, rumour or report which can cause fear and alarm amongst people) and section 120 –B (criminal conspiracy of the Indian Penal Code. We are verifying the tweet. Further investigation is on,” Rawal added.Also read: All you need to know about Covid-19 lockdown extensionPrashant Bhushan refused to comment.Gopinathan had tweeted on Monday that Gujarat police registered an FIR against him for allegedly misinterpreting government order. “Nice try. You can arrest. But you won’t silence. No one is afraid of you here,” he said.The former IAS officer was recently asked to join his duty immediately in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic but he said he will extend his “services in health, wealth and mind to the government in this fight against Covid-19 pandemic, it will be as a free and responsible citizen and not anymore as an IAS officer.”Gopinathan had quit the service alleging “growing intolerance and curtailment of freedom of speech”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prashant-bhushan-kannan-gopinathan-booked-by-gujarat-police-for-insulting-religion/story-MD2TZHTVV2DjB7YHSOnAGL.html
14-04-2020||India||After Sonia Gandhi’s Covid-19 video message, BJP thanks her||Soon after Congress president Sonia Gandhi’s video message on the coronavirus pandemic, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) tweeted to wish her well.Sonia Gandhi had thanked and praised all those who are fighting Covid-19 from the frontline and appealed to the people to follow rules during the lockdown, which was later extended till May 3.“Thank you Sonia ji, take care of your health,” BJP tweeted the message from party president JP Nadda on its handle.Her video message had come hours ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address to the nation.Doctors, health and sanitation workers, policemen, non-profit organisations are helping others without thinking about their personal safety, she had said.Also read: ‘Care for elders, respect Covid-19 warriors’: PM lists 7 points in coronavirus fightThe Congress president had said in her message that there is no greater patriotism than the persistence of these warriors during the time of coronavirus crisis. “We will defeat corona with a sense of unity, discipline and self-confidence,” she said.BJP’s Nadda had earlier criticised Sonia Gandhi for doing politics at the time of a crisis and when the country should be united.Prime Minister Modi has announced that the countrywide Covid-19 lockdown will be extended by another 19 days till May 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-sonia-gandhi-s-covid-19-video-message-bjp-thanks-her/story-zYwS1oDNDxoKcridqrieHM.html
14-04-2020||India||‘Arrest virus, revive economy’: PM Modi has a double-barrel lockdown exit plan||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement on the national lockdown was driven by the assessment of states that they were not ready or prepared to exit the Covid-19 lockdown, people familiar with the development said. PM Modi also accounted for the fact that except for some pockets, the states had not been able to hit the brakes on the spread of the disease. It is for this reason, they said, PM Modi invoked the shared responsibility with the state as health and law and order are state subjects.PM Modi extended the lockdown to May 3 but made it clear to people and the states that they should start work on a calibrated revival of the economy after the April 20 review. The prime minister called the next week an agni pariksha, a trial by fire, and nudged states to carry out a granular assessment of neighbourhoods to identify localities that had been free of the disease and allow some essential activities.Government functionaries who have been part of the consultations at the Prime Minister’s Office said the extension of the lockdown to 3 May and a April 20 review for some areas was part of the prime minister’s double-barreled response to arrest the spread of the virus and revive the economy.“The strength of the problem (virus) is the spread of the problem. We have to hunt it down from states and districts right down to towns and villages. At a time when the virus is making a comeback in China, India cannot afford to fritter away its gains…. We are in the middle of a war,” a senior minister told Hindustan Times.In this blueprint, a senior government official said, April 20 will be an important date. It is designed to give the government at the Centre and the states time to rapidly ramp up the hospital and health infrastructure before taking the steps that could lead to the first green shoots of economic recovery.“In this interregnum, the testing committee under Environment Secretary CK Mishra has been strengthened with induction of two additional secretary-rank officers from the PMO, Bharat Lal and Debashree Mukherjee, so that testing for virus infection is taken to a different level. The fourth aspect to be completed is the accelerated deployment of the Aarogya mobile application so that a bridge is formed between the citizens and the government,” said a senior official.The rapid testing kits that are expected to land in India by April 15 are going to be central to this strategy. These kits can be used for widespread testing in hot spots and containment zones as well as areas relatively free of the virus. It essentially looks for protective antibodies in a prick of blood and gives out test results in 30 minutes or so., The Indian Council of Medical Research has already placed orders for 500,000 kits. Last week, it also raised a fresh tender for 4.5 million more rapid testing kits for deliveries starting May 1.The consignment from China, which was originally supposed to reach India by April 5, has been delayed due to multiple reasons including international politics.According to a government official, Beijing has instituted stricter inspections and controls after these kits failed in European countries. The other reason for delay is the return of the virus to China due to people coming in from Russia carrying the infection. So Beijing wants to keep adequate supply for itself before exporting the kits and lastly, because the product is in high demand.While health advisors want the testing to be ramped up, the sensitivity of the test is directly linked to the population and prevalence.“ For example, if in an area where there are more coronavirus positive cases, an individual tests negative in rapid tests, then the person may not be tested again. However, in an area with few cases, a person testing positive will be tested again. This sensitivity must be kept in mind,” said a Covid-19 committee member.While the Centre will throw all it can at the virus to stop the disease from spreading in the country, particularly the rural areas, the period after one week will be critical as the government intends to restore the supply chains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arrest-virus-revive-economy-pm-modi-has-a-double-barrel-lockdown-exit-plan/story-yDd5g1Cnr5yMUall54pvhM.html
14-04-2020||India||‘A lot of talk, but no road map’: Congress on PM Modi’s Covid-19 address||The Congress on Tuesday backed the extension of nationwide lockdown till May 3 to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak but asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to specify his government’s road map and strategy to fight the pandemic.The opposition party also wanted the PM to spell out the steps his government plans to take to mitigate the woes of migrant labourers stranded on the borders of various states and those of the farmers waiting to harvest rabi crops.Congress spokesperson Manish Tewari said the PM in his address to the nation did not talk about the plight of stranded migrant workers and what the government plans to do for them, as most of them have completed their 14-day quarantine period.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverage“He also did not talk about ramping up mass testing in the country for Covid-19 and did not specify steps taken to increase the purchase of personal protection equipment (PPE) units,” Tewari said, addressing a news conference through video-conferencing.There was no mention about ensuring maintenance of the supply chain of essential commodities and for the harvesting of rabi crops, he added.“The PM told the nation what he expects out of the people but did not address their concerns or talk about what his government is doing for the country, something everybody wanted to hear.”“What we have not heard from the PM is what is his government’s strategy regarding testing. Will it be limited to hotspots or will there be community-level screening as it has happened in Bhilwara?” Tewari asked.“What the PM has not spoken about and made for most horrifying images when the lockdown was first implemented, is about the plight of migrant workers. They are in camps spread out across the country. Is there any plan to ensure that they go to their homes,” the Congress leader said.“Essentially, if someone has gone through the mandatory quarantine period and is not showing any symptoms, is it not the government’s responsibility to facilitate their return. That’s what we wanted to hear. Are you allowing them to go back to their homes?” he questioned.Tewari said that the Congress understands the inevitability of the lockdown and consequently supported its extension besides the Centre and all states have agreed on this.“What is the government’s roadmap for harvesting? Are you going to allow the farmers to carry out the harvest? How will it then be collected and taken to procurement centres? How will procurement be facilitated? Will the government pay a bonus over the MSP (minimum support price)?” he asked.Tewari said the PM also did not talk about the frontline workers battling the pandemic and the status of procurement of PPE units for them.Earlier, party’s chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala asked about the country’s roadmap to fight the pandemic.He said the leadership does not mean making the people realise their responsibilities but to fulfill the government’s duty of accountability towards the country.“A lot of talk has taken place. But, where is the roadmap to fight corona?,” Surjewala asked.His senior party colleague P Chidambaram tweeted, “The poor have been left to fend for themselves for 21+19 days, including practically soliciting food. There is money, there is food, but the government will not release either money or food. Cry, my beloved country.”Welcoming the lockdown extension, Chidambaram said the chief ministers’ demand for money elicited no response. “Not a rupee has been added to the miserly package of March 25, 2020. From Raghuram Rajan to Jean Dreze, from Prabhat Patnaik to Abhijit Banerji, their advice has fallen on deaf ears,” the former finance minister said.Another Congress spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi said the PM’s address was like Hamlet without the Prince of Denmark.“Amazing PM address. Exhortation, rhetoric, inspiration.....yet hollow on specifics! No financial package, no details, no concrete item. Neither for poor nor middle class nor industry nor businesses. Lockdown is good but cannot be an end in itself! Where is a single livelihood issue?” he tweeted.Singhvi assured that all stakeholders will do their duties and will strictly observe the lockdown restrictions.“After this: should we pray? We want concrete palliatives for these deprived classes and even for middle India and MSMEs,” he tweeted.“PM address without single specific and without guidelines is like Hamlet without Prince of Denmark. Like PM without details! We want to increase GDP allocation; specific targeted monetary injections; Keynesian spending; loosen FMRB etc. not a single word!” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-lot-of-talk-but-no-road-map-congress-on-modi-s-address/story-sYnST26yAFQAJOFX89MUWJ.html
14-04-2020||India||‘Thank you, Sonia ji’: BJP chief to Congress president for her Covid-19 message||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Tuesday praised doctors, police, health and sanitation workers who are on the forefront in the fight against the coronavirus despite the shortage of personal protection equipment (PPE). In turn, she received a rare congratulatory message form the BJP.In a video message, released by the party hours before Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address to the nation, she also regretted reports of harassment of doctors in some parts of the country while urging the people to follow the lockdown and adhere to social distancing norms.“Our warriors are working hard, day and night, in helping fight this battle and win over it, despite the shortage of PPE. These warriors include doctors, health workers and NGOs,” Gandhi said.Soon after her speech, BJP president JP Nadda tweeted to thnak Gandhi for urging the people to stay indoors and observe lockdown regulations. “Thank you Sonia ji, take care of your health,” he tweeted.The BJP chief had earlier criticised Sonia Gandhi for doing politics at the time of a crisis and when the country should be united.Prime Minister Modi has announced that the countrywide Covid-19 lockdown will be extended by another 19 days till May 3.Sanitation workers, police personnel and government officers too are working hard and round the clock to control the deadly virus, she said.“This fight will weaken without your support, and we should not allow this to happen. At some place, I hear reports about ill-treatment meted out to doctors. This is wrong. Our culture and tradition does not allow this and we should support them,” the Congress chief said.She also sought to assure the people of her party’s support and expressed confidence that with a strong morale, the country will emerge victorious against the crisis very soon.Gandhi urged the people to stay indoors, be safe and observe the lockdown stipulations, saying it will not be possible to win this battle without everyone’s support.She also thanked people for maintaining peace and patience while staying indoors and adhering to the lockdown stipulations.“Today, when the country is fighting such a big battle, every Congress worker understands his responsibility and is always ready to help every warrior. Anyone can ask for our support and every Congress worker will support you,” Gandhi added.She reiterated her party’s support in fighting the anti-corona battle. “I assure you that whether the Congress party is in power or in opposition, we will stand by you in this battle. I am confident that with a high morale, we will emerge from this crisis very soon.”Gandhi also lauded the work done by some people at individual level in providing food, ration and sanitisers to the poor and the needy.“Every Indian is united in fighting this battle and fulfilling his or her duty. Today, your support in dealing with the crisis is no less patriotism. The country is able to fight this virus only because of your help and support. I do not have words to thank you,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thank-you-sonia-ji-bjp-chief-to-sonia-gandhi-for-her-covid-19-message/story-uIYpi5lVqc9ZhfiRVUmhON.html
14-04-2020||India||Congress backs lockdown extension but asks PM Modi to spell out strategy to fight Covid-19||The Congress on Tuesday backed the extension of lockdown till May 3 but asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to specify his government’s roadmap and strategy to fight the coronavirus.The opposition party also wanted the Prime Minister to spell out the steps his government plans to take to mitigate the woes of migrant labourers stranded on the borders of different states and those of the farmers waiting to harvest crops.Congress spokesperson Manish Tewari said the Prime Minister in his address to the nation did not talk about the plight of stranded migrant workers and what the government intends to do about them, as most of them have completed their 14-day quarantine period.“He also did not talk about ramping up mass testing in the country for Covid-19 and did not specify steps taken to increase purchase of personal protection equipment (PPE),” Tewari said, addressing a news conference through video-conferencing.There was no mention about ensuring maintenance of supply chain of essential commodities and for harvesting of the Rabi crop, he added.“The Prime Minister told the nation what he expects out of the people but did not address their concerns or talk about what his government is doing for the country, something everybody wanted to hear.”“What we have not heard from the Prime Minister is what is his government’s strategy regarding testing. Will it be limited to hotspots or will there be community level screening as it has happened in Bhilwara?” Tewari asked.“What the Prime Minister has not spoken about and made for most horrifying images when the lockdown was first implemented, is about the plight of migrant workers. They are in camps spread out across the country. Is there any plan to ensure that they go to their homes,” the Congress leader said.“Essentially, if someone has gone through the mandatory quarantine period and is not showing any symptoms, is it not the government’s responsibility to facilitate their return. That’s what we wanted to hear. Are you allowing them to go back to their homes?”Tewari said the Congress understands the inevitability of the lockdown and hence supported its extension besides the Centre and all states have agreed on this.“What is government’s roadmap for harvesting? Are you going to allow the farmers to carry out the harvest? How will it then be collected and taken to procurement centres? How will procurement be facilitated? Will government pay a bonus over the MSP?” he asked.Tewari said the Prime Minister also did not talk about the frontline workers and the status of PPE procurement.Earlier, party’s chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala asked about the country’s roadmap to fight the pandemic.He said the leadership does not mean making the people realise their responsibilities but to fulfill the government’s duty of accountability towards the country.“A lot of talk has taken place. But, where is the roadmap to fight corona,” Surjewala asked.His senior party colleague P Chidambaram tweeted, “The poor have been left to fend for themselves for 21+19 days, including practically soliciting food. There is money, there is food, but the government will not release either money or food. Cry, my beloved country.”Welcoming the lockdown extension, Chidambaram said the chief ministers’ demand for money elicited no response. “Not a rupee has been added to the miserly package of March 25, 2020. From Raghuram Rajan to Jean Dreze, from Prabhat Patnaik to Abhijit Banerji, their advice has fallen on deaf years,” the former finance minister said.Another Congress spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi said the Prime Minister’s address was like Hamlet without the Prince of Denmark.“Amazing PM address. Exhortation, rhetoric, inspiration.....yet hollow on specifics! No financial package, no details, no concrete item. Neither for poor nor middle class nor industry nor businesses. Lockdown is good but cannot be end in itself! Where is single livelihood issue?” he tweeted.Singhvi assured that all stakeholders will do their duties and will strictly observe lockdown.“After this: should we pray? We want concrete palliatives for these deprived classes and even for middle India and MSMEs,” he tweeted.“PM address wo single specific and without guidelines is like Hamlet without Prince of Denmark. Like PM without details! We want increased GDP allocation; specific targeted monetary injections; Keynesian spending; loosen FMRB etc. not a single word!” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-congress-backs-lockdown-extension-but-asks-pm-modi-to-spell-out-strategy-to-fight-covid-19/story-yawf7qNQBvkMdKXJat3hYM.html
14-04-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: Railways extend suspension of passenger services till May 3||The Indian Railways on Tuesday extended suspension of all its passenger services till May 3, following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s decision to extend the nationwide lockdown amid COVID-19 threat.Modi on Tuesday announced that the lockdown across the country will be extended till May 3 to fight the coronavirus pandemic, saying the measure has produced a significant outcome in containing the infection. “In continuation of the measures taken in the wake of COVID-19 lockdown, it has been decided that all passenger train services on Indian Railways, including premium trains, mail/express trains, passenger trains, suburban trains, Kolkata Metro Rail, Konkan Railway shall continue to remain cancelled till 2400 hours of May 3,” a statement from the railways said.It also said that to ensure essential supplies in various parts of the country, movement of goods and parcel trains will remain operational.The railways also said that all counters for booking of rail journey tickets for reserved/unreserved travel at railway stations and outside railway station premises shall remain closed till May 3 midnight.The Railway Board has also issued instructions to the zones that full refunds for fares of cancelled trains should be initiated by them. “No advance reservations shall be made till further notice,” it said. After Modi’s announcement of a 21-day lockdown across the country on March 22, the railways on March 24 had announced that its suspension of all passenger services will continue till April 14 in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak.The railways said that passengers could claim a full refund for all trains cancelled in this period till June 21.Around 12,000 trains will be affected. The Indian Railways operates around 9,000 passenger trains and 3,000 mail express services daily. India has reported 10,363 cases of the virus and 339 deaths so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-railways-extend-suspension-of-passenger-services-till-may-3/story-CLBzKWqDn2wRapc3my1DqJ.html
14-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Loss of smell, taste to make people 10 times more prone to Covid-19, finds Study||Researchers have reported the first empirical findings linking the loss of smell and taste in patients with Covid-19, a finding that may become a new clinical screening measure for the virus. According to the study, published in the journal International Forum of Allergy and Rhinology, people with influenza-like symptoms, and a dysfunction of smell and taste, are strongly associated with Covid-19 infection.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here  “Based on our study, if you have smell and taste loss, you are more than 10 times more likely to have Covid-19 infection than other causes of infection,” said Carol Yan, an otolaryngologist and study co-author from the University of California San Diego in the US. While the most common first sign of a Covid-19 infection remains fever, Yan said, fatigue and loss of smell and taste follow as other very common initial symptoms. “We know Covid-19 is an extremely contagious virus. This study supports the need to be aware of smell and taste loss as early signs of Covid-19,” she added.The researchers surveyed 1,480 patients with flu-like symptoms and concerns regarding potential Covid-19 infection who underwent testing at UC San Diego Health from March 3 through March 29, 2020. Of the patients surveyed, 102 tested positive for the virus and 1,378 tested negative. According to the study, there is a high prevalence and unique presentation of certain sensory impairments in patients positive with Covid-19. Of those who reported loss of smell and taste, the scientists said, the loss was typically profound, not mild. But they added that the rate of recovery of smell and taste was high and occurred usually within two to four weeks of infection. “Our study not only showed that the high incidence of smell and taste is specific to Covid-19 infection, but we fortunately also found that for the majority of people sensory recovery was generally rapid,” Yan said. “Among the Covid-19 patients with smell loss, more than 70 per cent had reported improvement of smell at the time of survey and of those who hadn’t reported improvement, many had only been diagnosed recently,” she added. The researchers also found that persons who reported experiencing a sore throat more often tested negative for Covid-19.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage  Based on the findings, UC San Diego Health has included loss of smell and taste as a screening requirement for visitors and staff, as well as a marker for testing patients who may be positive for the virus. Respondents in the study were most often persons with milder forms of Covid-19 infection who did not require hospitalization or intubation. According to the scientists, other known symptoms of Covid-19 include fever, fatigue, cough, and difficulty breathing.The findings, Yan said, underline the importance of identifying early or subtle symptoms of Covid-19 infection in people who may be at risk of transmitting the disease as they recover within the community. “It is our hope that with these findings other institutions will follow suit and not only list smell and taste loss as a symptom of Covid-19, but use it as a screening measure for the virus across the world,” she added. VIS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-loss-of-smell-taste-to-make-people-10-times-more-prone-to-covid-19-finds-study/story-YcYNcfNkCWrl0MD0E6RwtI.html
14-04-2020||India||Anand Teltumbde arrives at NIA office to surrender in Bhima Koregaon case||Activist and scholar Anand Teltumbde on Tuesday surrendered before the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in connection with the Elgar Parishad-alleged Maoist links case, his lawyer said on Monday.Teltumbde’s surrender coincides with the birth anniversary of Dalit icon B R Ambedkar.Teltumbde and several other civil liberties activists were booked under stringent provisions of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) for allegedly having Maoist links and conspiring to overthrow the government.The activists were booked initially by the Pune police following the violence that erupted at Koregaon Bhima there.As per the police, the activists had made inflammatory speeches and provocative statements at the Elgar Parishad meet held in Pune on December 31, 2017, which it said triggered violence the next day.The police also said they were active members of banned Maoist groups. The case was later transferred to NIA.Teltumbde and activist and co-accused Gautam Navlakha were yet to be arrested as they were given interim protection by the Bombay High Court while their pre-arrest bail pleas were being heard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anand-teltumbde-arrives-at-nia-office-to-surrender-in-bhima-koregaon-case/story-MTSfun0UwGCbjgmJIhnaSI.html
14-04-2020||India||Animals reclaim lost territory, courtesy Covid-19 lockdown||The lockdown to contain coronavirus pandemic has sent humans scurrying indoors but has widened the artificial boundaries for wild animals in Dudhwa Tiger Reserve, spread over 1200 square kilometre in Bahraich and Lakhimpur Kheri districts of Uttar Pradesh. Wildlife enthusiasts and foresters in the area say that since there is no movement of vehicles on the connecting roads, the animals venturing out in human territories can be spotted easily.Some wildlife experts termed it as a behavioural change, saying curiosity was driving animals out of the jungle. “The lockdown has impacted the forest area as well because there is no human movement on roads passing through it. Only a week ago I saw a flock of about 35 elephants on Gauri Panta road that passes through the core forest area and ends at Nepal border,” said Sanjay Narain, a wild life enthusiast, who owns a farm on the periphery of Dudhwa forest.Narain said Gauri Panta Road was usually quite busy, with movement of more than 200 heavy and light vehicles every day. “But during lockdown, there is no traffic on the road and the animals venture out as if they are trying to re-claim their lost territories,” said Narain.On the same day, he said he also saw a tiger on the main road, which was a rare sight.Sanjay Pathak, director of Dudhwa Tiger Reserve, said the lockdown was a big change for animals. “Now since they do not hear hearing any honking, or engine roars along the road, they can be seen moving freely on the roads through the forest area. This is certainly a big change in the behaviour of wild animals,” said Pathak.Recollecting an incident, he said, “I was on the way to Pilibhit via Kishanpur road in the evening when I noticed a leopard sitting along the roadside. I asked my driver to stop the vehicle and wait until it disappeared into the forest. But the leopard seemed in no hurry. After waiting for 15 minutes I asked my driver to proceed. Leopard is a shy animal, so this kind of behaviour is quite strange.”He said that before lockdown, more than 300 vehicles moved on this road on a daily basis.The scene is no different in other parts of the forest reserve. Anil Patel, DFO North Kheri, said spotting animals had become common during lockdown. “Perhaps the animals are moving out due to curiosity. Initially, the animals ventured out on roads only at night when there was little or no traffic. But now since the roads are deserted even during the day, the animals are moving freely and also in human habitats,” said Patel. The forester said wild boar, spotted deer and elephants were commonly seen on Dhira Kukra Road and Pilibhit-Basti Road in Mailani range.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/animal-reclaim-lost-territory-courtesy-covid-19-lockdown/story-klprFiCm8DKPTj6bzPx9FP.html
14-04-2020||India||Karnataka reports one Covid-19 death, 11 new cases; count rises to 258||A 69-year-old man from Vijayapura became the ninth COVID-19 related fatality in Karnataka, where 11 new cases of the virus were confirmed, taking the total number of infections in the state to 258, the health department said on Tuesday.The deceased was the husband of a patient who tested positive earlier. He expired at a designated hospital in Vijayapura, the department said in a mid-day situation update. Two patients, a 55- year-old man from Kalaburagi and a 65-year-old man from Bengaluru urban had passed away last night.Eleven new positive cases have been reported in the state from Monday evening to this noon, including the person who died in Vijayapura. Till date 258 COVID-19 positive cases have been confirmed. This includes 9 deaths and 65 discharges, the department said. Other than the dead person from Vijayapura, those newly tested positive are three each from Bagalkote and Kalaburagi, two from Bengaluru urban, one each from Chikkaballapura and Belagavi. Among the 11, seven are contacts of patients who tested positive, two are with Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI), one with travel history to Delhi and the other is with a history of travel to Hindupur. From across the state most number of infections have been reported in Bengaluru with 80 cases, followed by Mysuru 48 and Belagavi 18. Those discharged include 31 patients from Bengaluru, 10 from Mysuru, eight from Dakshina Kannada, six from Chikkaballapura, three from Davangere, two each from Uttara Kannada and Kalaburagi, and one each from Udupi, Dharwad and Kodagu. Among those dead are three from Kalaburagi, two from Bengaluru urban, and one each from Bagalkote, Vijapura, Gadag and Tumakuru.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-reports-one-covid-19-death-11-new-cases-count-rises-to-258/story-fkdls9yoatDmTXoITvyVdK.html
14-04-2020||India||PM Modi says Aarogya Setu is crucial to fight Covid-19: Here’s all about the app||Prime Minister Narendra Modi once again urged people to download the Aarogya Setu mobile application to fight the coronavirus pandemic in the country as he announced an extension in the nation-wide lockdown till May 3.“To help prevent the spread of corona infection, download the Arogya Setu app and also inspire others to do it as well,” PM Modi said during his video address on Tuesday.Aarogya Setu app has been developed by the government to track the spread of coronavirus infections in the country through its users and alert those who may have either come into contact with a positive case or a suspect by using location tracking technology. The app, which was launched on April 2, also provides information on the containment of the disease.Also read: Care for elders, respect Covid-19 warriors’: PM lists 7 points in coronavirus fightPM Modi has stressed the importance of Aarogya Setu in the past as well. In fact, his tweet about the app has been pinned on his Twitter account.“Aarogya Setu is an important step in our fight against COVID-19. By leveraging technology, it provides important information. As more and more people use it, its effectiveness will increase. I urge you all to download it,” PM Modi had tweeted on April 8.Also read: National lockdown extended till May 3. Why April 20 is still a crucial dateAvailable in 11 languages, the app is available on Google Play Store and Apple App Store as well.Here’s all about the Aarogya Setu app:1. The app currently available for Android and Apple smartphones and is free to download2. You need to register with your phone number and can download it from the Play Store and the App Store3. You can enter your health stats and other credentials as well4. It app has been developed by the National Informatics Centre under the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (Meity)5. The Aarogya Setu app uses the government database of known Covid-19 cases in the country6. Aarogya Setu uses your phone’s location to determine where you are and the Bluetooth connectivity to check if you have been within six feet of a Covid-19 affected person7. The app tells you if you are at ‘high risk’ or not based on these two8. For the app to work you need to give it location access and keep your phone’s Bluetooth on all the time9. It will ask you to go for a test and call the toll-free number 1075 to schedule an appointment at the nearest testing centre if you are at ‘high risk’ or in a ‘high risk’ area, the app 10. Aarogya Setu also has tips on basic precautions to prevent getting the virus11. It will share your data with the government in case you test positive for Covid-19 or if you came in contact with any coronavirus disease patient12. The app’s privacy policy mentions that it does not share data with other third-party apps. Your data is shared only with the government and it does not allow your name or number to be disclosed to the public at any time13. The chatbot in the app can answer basic queries and help you check symptoms14. It also gives you state-specific helpline numbers||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-pm-modi-says-aarogya-setu-is-crucial-to-fight-covid-19-here-s-all-about-the-app/story-4SHF1J9us43CgMQgthnuhL.html
14-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: ‘PM’s speech rhetoric, failed to address economic concerns’, says Shiv Sena||The Shiv Sena and NCP said Prime Minister Narendra Modis address to the nation on Tuesday lacked substance as he did not suggest ways to strengthen the economy or a relief package for the poor and those worst hit by the lockdown.Shiv Sena spokesperson Manisha Kayande also took a dig at the prime minister, saying he thankfully did not give any activity to people this time like clanging utensils or lighting lamps.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Modi on Tuesday announced that the lockdown across the country will be extended till May 3, saying the measure has produced a significant outcome in containing the infection.He said implementation of the lockdown will be strictly ensured in its second phase and detailed guidelines will be brought out on Wednesday to ensure that outbreak does not spread to new areas.Some relaxations may be allowed after April 20 in places where there are no hotspots, he said.Kayande said Modi could have announced extension of the lockdown on Wednesday itself along with the new guidelines, instead of declaring it separately.Also read| ‘Care for elders, respect Covid-19 warriors’: PM lists 7 points in coronavirus fight“He could have elaborated steps to be taken to tackle the coronavirus, relaxing restrictions on movements in different areas (depending upon threat posed by the disease),” she said.“His speech normally is more of a rhetoric than substance. Thankfully, he did not give any other event to the people like lighting up lamps or clanging utensils. There was nothing substantial (in the address), the only takeaway was that the lockdown has been extended, she added.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Maharashtra Minister and NCP national spokesman Nawab Malik noted that Modi talked about helping the poor.“But, he could have announced a package on behalf of the central government to help the poor, those working in the unorganised sector who are the worst hit due to the lockdown.There was no mention of it anywhere,” Malik said.Another NCP spokesman Mahesh Tapase said it was expected that the prime minister would address the economic concerns being faced by the country.“The least to expect was the announcement of a slew of measures to kick-start the economy in a phased manner as and when the restrictions are lifted, he added.Tapase said the employers and employees wanted to know from the government how recession and unemployment will be tackled in the time to come.Also read| FAQ: All you need to know about Covid-19 lockdown extension“Access to capital for business, especially for MSMEs and agriculture, is a big concern. Supply and logistics is the cornerstone of economic activity which has come to a virtual standstill,” he said.The 2020-21 fiscal looks grim and hence, the right stimulus from the government coupled with a renewed zeal by the industry will only bring the economy back on track, he suggested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-pm-s-speech-rhetoric-failed-to-address-economic-concerns-says-shiv-sena/story-2ZdKvPOc1qYhU2PCRRIMbL.html
14-04-2020||India||Maharashtra doubled its Covid-19 tally in 6 days, now inches towards 2,500||Maharashtra added 121 Covid-19 positive cases to its already staggering number of infected, taking the total to 2,455 on Tuesday. No deaths were reported since Monday, the state health authorities said.Giving the break-up, the health authorities said that Mumbai recorded the highest number of 92 cases, taking its Covid-19 count to 1,632. Thirteen cases were reported in Navi Mumbai, 10 in Thane, five in Vasai Virar and one in Raigad.The state has seen rapid rise in the number of Covid-19 positive cases - it doubled its tally in six days and recorded its biggest 24-hour jump on Monday.The Thackeray government on Monday extended the lockdown, which was to end at midnight on April 14, until April 30, even as it looks at allowing micro-, small- and medium- enterprises to start operations in districts that are not affected, or relatively less affected, by the outbreak. A proposal for allowing industries to reopen is being prepared by the state industries department.Maharashtra took 30 days to cross the 1,000-case mark on April 7 and exceeded the 2,000 tally in just six days. But the state health department isn’t perturbed because it is still in stage two or the local transmission phase, where the spread of the disease is limited to those with a travel history or are in contact with infected people, and not entered stage 3 or community transmission in which the source of the infection cannot be traced.The state has not taken a call on colour-coding districts based on the severity of cases and relaxing curbs in regions that are not much affected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-doubled-its-covid-19-tally-in-6-days-now-inches-towards-2-500/story-U3YUFu9GgiV7cYeqca4geJ.html
14-04-2020||India||Here’s how Jharkhand plans to protect health staff from contracting Covid-19||Robots will serve food and give medicine to Covid-19 patients in two hospitals in Jharkhand’s West Singhbhum district from Tuesday, in a step to protect doctors and health workers from getting infected with coronavirus.Developed by District Deputy Development Commissioner (DDC) Aditya Ranjan, the remote-controlled COBOT-Robotics will provide food and medicine to patients without human intervention, an official release said.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The 20 and 30-bed ‘high-tech isolation wards’ will be inaugurated at the ANM Skill Centre, Chaibasa Sadar Hospital and Covid-19 Railway Hospital, Chakradharpur respectively on Tuesday, it said.“Each bed has been designed like a room where medicine and food will be provided to patients through COBOT-Robotics.This is the first-of-its kind initiative in the country,” the release said, quoting the DDC.Also read: National lockdown extended till May 3. Why April 20 is still a crucial dateA team of engineers, under the supervision of the DDC, designed and programmed COBOT-Robotics in a garage in Ranjan’s residence, the release said.The DDC had earlier designed a booth to protect health workers collecting samples of persons suspected to be infected with coronavirus, it added. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-here-s-how-jharkhand-plans-to-protect-health-staff-from-contracting-covid-19/story-6BseQysOCmosH8yAYpVd1H.html
14-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Message behind PM Modi’s changed Twitter profile picture amid Covid-19 crisis and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion curated for you. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19 lockdown: PM Modi changes Twitter profile picturePrime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday changed the profile picture of his Twitter handle, minutes after addressing the nation where he announced that the Covid-19 lockdown has been extended till May 3. The new picture shows PM Modi with his mouth and nose covered with a traditional ‘gamcha’ (towel-like cloth), and is taken from the opening shot of his address today, his third televised address in less than a month.Read MoreNational lockdown extended till 3 May. Why 20 April is still a crucial dateIn his address to the nation, Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended the national lockdown till 3 May but held out hope that the lockdown norms, to be enforced strictly for the next one week, could be relaxed for localities that do not have a single case from April 20. What is the importance of April 20?Read MoreUS govt body ‘troubled’ by denial of food to Pakistani Hindus, Christians amid Covid-19 crisisA US bipartisan panel that monitors religious freedom around the world has expressed concern over reports that Pakistan’s Hindu and Christian minorities were being denied food aid amid the Covid-19 crisis.Read MoreRa One producer Karim Morani tests positive for Covid-19 the second time Ra.One and Chennai Express producer Karim Morani has reportedly tested positive for the second time. He is admitted at the Nanavati Hospital in Mumbai and had showed no symptoms of the virus after testing positive on April 8.Read More‘If the pitches are flat...’: Nasser Hussain on how Test cricket can be preservedFormer England captain Nasser Hussain believes the health of Test cricket can be preserved only when the bowlers have a slight advantage over batsmen and when the first innings score can be around 300. He wants the pitches to have more life for the bowlers in the first innings and this will make the scenario a lot more interesting.Read MoreLife in the times of lockdown: Here’s how to turn something old into something newAll those bottles, cards and papers you swore you’d do something with, now’s the time. It’s not even hard. You can turn coconut shells into planters, for instance, in a matter of minutes.Read MoreInstagram redesigns IGTV app to help you discover more creatorsInstagram first launched its standalone Instagram TV or the IGTV app back in 2018 in a bid to put emphasis on the vertical videos, which it believes would be the future of video. With just one million downloads on the Play Store, the app isn’t exactly popular among the users. At least not in a way the company would want it to be. Now, the company is making major changes to the app that would lay greater emphasis on vertical videos.Read More‘President has total authority’: Donald Trump on reopening the economyUS President Donald Trump has said that he exercises total authority over reopening the economy. Speaking to reporters, the US President said that he has been there for the states and will continue to work with the states on the issue. When told that states have taken the call on opening schools & even restaurants, Trump said that he let it happen and he could have closed it up. Watch the full video for all the details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-message-behind-pm-modi-s-changed-twitter-profile-picture-amid-covid-19-crisis-and-all-the-latest-news/story-7MkMbo9tjvEDjy38SVn85I.html
14-04-2020||India||34 new Covid-19 cases in Andhra Pradesh, doctor who treated Jamaat attendee dies||Thirty four new cases of Covid-19 were reported in Andhra Pradesh in the last 12 hours, according to the state health department, taking the total number of infected people to 473. Nine people have so far died due to the disease, including a doctor who had treated a member of Tablighi Jamaat.According to latest bulletin from the state medical and health department on Tuesday, the 56-year-old doctor from Nellore got admitted in local government hospital on April 3 with symptoms of high fever and vomiting and later tested positive for Covid-19.“He was already suffering from diabetes and hypertension. On the request of his family members, the doctor was shifted to Apollo Hospitals, Vanagaram in Chennai on April 6. He succumbed to the disease on Monday,” the bulletin said, adding that the doctor was a primary contact of another Covid-19 patient having travel history to Delhi.An official in the health department in Nellore said the doctor, an orthopaedic surgeon, had treated a patient who returned from Tablighi Jamaat congregation held at Nizamuddin in Delhi in the second week of March. “He was a private doctor who had recently opened a clinic, where he treated the Jamaat returnee,” the official said.Another person, a 55-year-old from Vijayawada, died of the disease in the last 12 hours, said authorities. He had come in contact with another Covid-19 patient having travel history of Jalandhar in Punjab. “He was admitted to Vijayawada general hospital on April 5 and had been kept on ventilator from April 9 to 12. He was also suffering from diabetes and asthma and he succumbed on April 12,” the bulletin said.Among the new Covid-19 positive cases reported in the last 12 hours, 16 were from Guntur, eight in Krishna, seven in Kurnool, two in Anantapur and one in Nellore. The maximum number of cases in the state are 109 from Guntur, followed by 91 in Kurnool, 56 in Nellore, 44 in Krishna and 42 in Prakasam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/34-new-covid-19-cases-in-andhra-pradesh-doctor-who-treated-jamaat-attendee-dies/story-cTMSO8HNLD2UDKVr4hysZM.html
14-04-2020||India||Govt allows paperless customs clearance from Wednesday||The government will allow paperless customs clearances and permit electronic submission of documents starting on Wednesday to speed up imports, particularly of raw materials like active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) used in manufacturing medicines, to help domestic industry as it battles the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).“The aforementioned reforms combine to expedite customs clearances and reduce the transaction cost,” said a circular issued on April 13 by the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC), an arm of the finance ministry. A copy of the circular was reviewed by Hindustan Times.These steps complement the “turant” (instant) scheme including answers to online queries, eSanchit (paperless processing, uploading of supporting documents), web-based goods registration, electronic processing of licenses, machine -based release of imported goods based on customs compliance verification, and electronic transmission of PDF-based first copy of bill of entry (BoE) to customs brokers and registered importers, it said.Turant is an ongoing exercise of the CBIC to expedite its systems and processes. It was introduced in February last year as a next generation reform to push up India’s position in the World Bank’s Ease of Doing Business (EODB) Index wherein “trading across borders” is a critical component of the evaluation of a country’s performance, according to a February 28, 2019 CBIC circular.The steps are “in line with the ease of doing business measures undertaken by India in terms of reduction of dwell time and move towards faceless assessment which seeks to reduce physical interface between customs and trade. Hence, it is one more positive step towards India’s commitment to the trade facilitation agreement,” said Rahul Shukla, executive director--indirect tax, PwC India.Explaining the rationale behind the launch of the paperless system such as electronic documents and eGatepass, the circular said the specific measures to reduce interface between the customs authorities and exporters or importers are “especially relevant in these challenging times” in tackling the Covid-19 pandemic.“This electronic communication would reduce interface between the Customs authorities and the importers/customs brokers and also do away with the requirement of taking bulky printouts from the Service Centre or maintenance of voluminous physical dockets in the Customs Houses,” the circular said.As of now, physical signing of the final Out of Charge (OoC) copy of bill of entry (BoE) is insisted on at many customs locations. This necessitates the importer or customs broker to take a paper printout from the service centre to be produced before the customs officer. “It has now been decided to do away with the paper printout,” the circular said. Instead, the systems will immediately email a PDF version of the documents, digitally signed and with encrypted QR codes that can be scanned to verify their authenticity.The new system will also generate an electronic gate pass. Currently, such documents are physically signed and verified by a Gate Officer as well as a Custodian before allowing the actual movement of the imported goods out of the customs premises. “This physical printout is now being replaced by the PDF eGatepass generated and electronically communicated to the importer/customs brokers,” the circular said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-allows-paperless-customs-clearance-from-wednesday/story-kAzz0pU3oTMLcWk8knz3PI.html
14-04-2020||India||‘May the 4th be with us’: Twitter reacts to lockdown extension||Soon after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the extension of Covid-19 lockdown, Twitter users started posting messages wishing each other good luck. And the phrase they used is a twist to the popular phrase used in Star Wars movies: ‘May the force be with you’.“May the 4th be with us,” said a Twitter user with the handle Textual Offender. May the 4th be with us.Another user used a video of PM Modi’s speech from his address at the Madison Square Garden in 2014 where he used the phrase. “Gob bless you, May the 4th be with you,” tweeted Kattehaiklu. "Gob bless you, May the 4th be with you " #Lockdown2 pic.twitter.com/nTrA9YKsJYHere are some more Twitter posts on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address: India - May the 4th be with you.....Till then Sith at home!!! pic.twitter.com/4zn1FYKzbX Lock down in India till May 3. For my friends in India - May the 4th be with you. #lockdownMay the 4th started trending as soon as PM Modi announced that the lockdown has been extended till May 3, 2020. In his address to the nation, PM Modi announced extension to the country’s lockdown, but said there may be some easing in restrictions in people’s movement after one week to help the poor daily wage earners and those working in agriculture sector.The Prime Minister said the lockdown will be eased only in areas which do not show any deterioration in the spread of coronavirus.He said India has paid a big economic price by imposing the lockdown, but it was much better placed than many other countries as it had acted quickly imposing travel and quarantine restrictions even before the first death was reported in the country. He said the lockdown and social distancing among people have worked in their favour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/may-the-4th-be-with-us-twitter-reacts-to-lockdown-extension/story-S4bbet0ZSZj68YDnO875UM.html
14-04-2020||India||Covid-19: All domestic, international flight ops to remain suspended till May 3||All domestic, international flight operations have been suspended till May 3 in view of the extended nationwide lockdown announced earlier today by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to fight the coronavirus pandemic. “All domestic and international scheduled airlines operations shall remain suspended till 11.59 pm of 3rd May 2020,” the civil aviation ministry said. To be clear, India at present, is also not allowing flights to rescue stranded Indian citizens abroad.The PM underlined that the energy of “we the people” will have to be harnessed to fight the coronavirus battle. “In my discussions with the state governments, and various stakeholders, one thing was unanimous: That we should extend the lockdown. So, I announce today that the lockdown will be extended till May 3,” PM Modi said this morning.On April 3, national carrier Air India was the first to stop advance bookings for all flights till April 30.All modes of conveyance, including rail traffic, road and air transport, have been suspended after the lockdown came into effect. Initially, international flights were suspended for a week from March 22 but later extended until April 15 coinciding with the lockdown. Domestic flights were suspended from the day the lockdown started on March 25.On April 11, Hindustan Times reported that suspension of commercial flights and railway travel may be extended till month-end.India’s airport sector has prepared a ‘business continuity plan’ for probable opening of commercial flight operations post lockdown. In a letter written to the civil aviation ministry, which has been reviewed by the Hindustan Times, the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) has asked for extra security measures to be implemented for the safety of its personnel.The CISF has prepared a ‘Business Continuity Plan’ for opening of commercial aircraft operations from the security perspective of aircraft operators, airline operators and CISF personnel, once restrictions are lifted. The plan includes setting up of separate earmarked, isolated security checking facilities across airports for carrying out security checks of passengers, crew and others, who have undergone home quarantine or hospital quarantine during the last one month. It also proposes airlines should spread out the flight timings, to avoid a large number of passengers. Reporting time for passengers at the airport should be increased up to 120 minutes, so that passengers may smoothly pass through all the channels like access control, random screening, check-in, Immigration (in case of International passengers) by maintaining appropriate distance, according to the plan. Aviation regulator, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) is also preparing a standard operating procedure (SOP) to ensure social distancing among passengers and reducing contact with staff on board. This includes measures like leaving the middle seats empty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-all-domestic-international-flight-ops-to-remain-suspended-till-may-3/story-OACwuYszaQA9sGhSn9JiMJ.html
14-04-2020||India||US clears sale of Harpoon missiles, torpedoes for India’s P-8I aircraft||The US State Department has cleared two deals to sell India Harpoon Block II air launched missiles and lightweight torpedoes worth $ 155 million. The anti-ship missiles and the torpedoes would be integrated with the P-8I aircraft, also called the “submarine killer”.The 10 AGM-84L Harpoon Block II air launched missiles that have a range of about 124 km is estimated to cost $ 92 million. The 16 MK 54 All Up Round Lightweight Torpedoes and three MK 54 Exercise Torpedoes are expected to cost $ 63 million, the Defense Security Cooperation Agency said in two separate notifications to the Congress.According to the Pentagon, the Harpoon missile system will be integrated into the P-8I aircraft to conduct anti-surface warfare missions in defence of critical sea lanes while enhancing interoperability with the United States and other allied forces.“India will use the enhanced capability as a deterrent to regional threats and to strengthen its homeland defense. India will have no difficulty absorbing this equipment into its armed forces,” the Pentagon said.The proposed sale, it said, will improve India’s capability to meet current and future threats from enemy weapon systems.The Harpoon missiles will be manufactured by Boeing and will be integrated into the P-8I aircraft, the Indian variant of Boeing’s P-8s. This is a multi-mission aircraft designed for long-range anti-submarine warfare, anti-surface warfare, and intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance mission.The 3.84 metre long missile has a 500-pound penetration, high-explosive blast warhead that gives it enough firepower to destroy coastal defence and surface-to-air missile sites, industrial installations and docked ships.According to the Pentagon, this proposed sale will support the foreign policy and national security of the United States by helping to strengthen the US-India strategic relationship and to improve the security of a major defensive partner, which continues to be an important force for political stability, peace, and economic progress in the Indo-Pacific and South Asia region.China is engaged in hotly contested territorial disputes in the South and East China Seas. Beijing has also made substantial progress in militarising its manmade islands in the past few years, which it says it has the right to defend, according to news agency PTI.China claims sovereignty over all of the South China Sea. But Vietnam, Malaysia, the Philippines, Brunei and Taiwan have counter claims. In the East China Sea, Beijing has territorial disputes with Japan.The South China Sea and the East China Sea are stated to be rich in minerals, oil and other natural resources. They are also vital to global trade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-approves-sale-of-anti-ship-missiles-torpedoes-worth-usd-155-million-to-india/story-7wO8HPefjYWt2uIA5FFaLN.html
14-04-2020||India||Covid-19 war rooms: Officials tap ‘Survey of India’ to plan responses better||Which is the biggest banquet hall in a neighbourhood that can be used as a quarantine facility for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients? Or, which are the entry and exit points of a containment zone, where police personnel can be deployed?These are the key questions that can be answered by a map -- created by the Survey of India in collaboration with the Department of Science and Technology (DST) -- to help officials working in Covid-19 war rooms.“We have an existing map of the entire Indian topography. When we collect information, we also collect certain secondary information such as locations of hospitals and automated teller machines (ATMs) in an area that can be overlaid on the map. Besides, there’re various other public databases, which can be integrated with this map to help the personnel working in Covid-19 war rooms to plan their responses better,” said Pankaj Mishra, deputy surveyor-general, Survey of India.The map comes with a mobile application SAHYOG, which can come in handy to add more geospatial data to provide localised delivery of healthcare services. “We’ve looked at the guidelines of the health department to put together all the information that is needed for effective delivery of health services. More parameters can be added in line with the health department’s requirements. For example, if they require information on the number of hotels and banquet halls in an area, the public databases already have around 70% of this data and our officers can do location tagging for the rest. The revised map will be available to the war room personnel within eight to 10 hours,” said Mishra. “It can also help the war room officials demarcate containment zones effectively and check what are the resources available within these areas and where the entry and exit points are,” he said.The integrated geospatial information can help take quicker spatial information-based decisions.“Integration of demographic information with geospatial data is essential for decision making, governance and development,” said Prof Ashutosh Sharma, secretary, DST.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-war-rooms-officials-tap-survey-of-india-to-plan-responses-better/story-QI2uVGYY9HPYv8PXQMEvvL.html
14-04-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: PM Modi changes Twitter profile picture. It’s a message||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday changed the profile picture of his Twitter handle, minutes after addressing the nation where he announced that the Covid-19 lockdown has been extended till May 3.The new picture shows PM Modi with his mouth and nose covered with a traditional ‘gamcha’ (towel-like cloth), and is taken from the opening shot of his address today, his third televised address in less than a month.The new profile picture is aimed at increasing awareness about covering faces at the time of Covid-19 outbreak, and opting for homemade solutions.The white coloured ‘gamcha’ or scarf being used in the picture has a red border placed alongside a black and white pattern. At the beginning of the speech, he greeted the nation with a namaskar with the scarf covering his mouth and nose. He later took it off while addressing the nation.While interacting with the chief ministers on Saturday, PM Modi was seen wearing a homemade mask as a precautionary measure against Covid-19.In his address to the nation, the Prime Minister announced that the national lockdown is extended till May 3 and urged the people to follow all norms.India’s total number of Coronavirus positive cases has climbed to 10,363 including 8,988 active cases, 1,035 cured/discharged/migrated and 339 deaths, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-pm-modi-changes-twitter-profile-picture-it-has-an-important-message/story-KOqMiFXAx3ZytJDZ3LmDdL.html
14-04-2020||India||From one Covid-19 testing lab in January, India now has 220: PM Modi||India is well prepared against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and has been able to minimise the threat posed by the pandemic to a large extent due to proactive and pre-emptive steps, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in his address to the nation on Tuesday, while announcing the extension of the nationwide lockdown till May 3. “On the health infrastructure front, we are moving ahead very fast. In January, there was one lab functional for Covid-19 testing (National Institute of Virology, or NIV, Pune), but now we have at least 220 labs doing the tests,” he said.According to protocols, there’s a need for 1,500-1,600 beds for every 10,000 Covid-19 cases, Modi said, adding that India has arranged at least 100,000 hospital beds for the same number of cases.“There are at least 600 hospitals that are working dedicatedly to treat Covid-19 cases. We are constantly upgrading the existing facilities to add more. I urge everyone to contribute in this effort,” Modi said.He said authorities moved swiftly to take precautionary steps, highlighting how the country launched screening at airports in mid-January, when India was yet to report any Covid-19 case. “…Before it reached 100 [cases], we started 14-day isolation for those coming from abroad. All public places, malls, gyms etc were closed down. When the cases reached 550, then we announced a 21-day nationwide lockdown. We did not wait for the problem to worsen, but took early steps to nip it in the bud,” he said.The Prime Minister advocated using masks and suggested following the AYUSH ministry’s guidelines to boost immunity. He also appealed to young scientists to come forward to help the country fight the pandemic,“India has limited resources today. I have a special request for India’s young scientists: come forward and take a lead in creating a vaccine for coronavirus --- for the welfare of the world, for the welfare of the human race,” he said.Concluding his speech, Modi appealed to citizens to take care of the elderly, especially those with existing health conditions. “…they need to be saved from any kind of risk that can lead to them contracting the infection,” Modi said.India has reported 10,363 cases of the virus infection and 339 deaths so far, according to the Union health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-one-covid-19-testing-lab-in-jan-india-now-has-220-modi/story-orhYonkaDpMJf692uKEhTJ.html
14-04-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown extended till May 3: PM Modi||New Delhi: Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said the nationwide lockdown, which was to end on Tuesday, will be extended till May 3 to control the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and a new set of guidelines will be issued on Wednesday.Though India had taken timely steps to control the virus, there is an urgent need to scale up efforts to ensure no new hotspots emerge and the casualty figures does not rise, he said during a televised address.In view of suggestions from state governments and the people at large, it was decided to extend the lockdown, he said. “I request all Indians to not allow this virus to spread at any cost to newer areas. If even one new case emerges, or anyone succumbs to it, that will be a cause for worry,” he added.Following recommendations from different ministries, state governments and sectoral experts that restrictions should be eased in areas where the virus isn’t prevalent, Modi said there will be relaxations for some activities. However, there will be extensive monitoring of hotspots and areas likely to turn into hotspots, he added.“Till April 20, how much work has been done, will be evaluated. All those areas that emerge successful in this trial by fire, and not allow hotspots to emerge, in those areas we will allow relaxations in some activities,” he said.“But there will be preconditions. If lockdown guidelines are broken, then all permissions will be revoked. We cannot be irresponsible nor allow anyone to be so,” he said.India has reported 10,363 cases of the virus infection and 339 deaths so far, according to the Union health ministry.Modi said his priority is to lessen the problems of the poor. While efforts have been made though schemes such as the PM Garib Kalyan Yojna, more needs to done to address their problems, he said.“The rabi crop is ready and efforts are being made to ensure farmers do not face problems. We have plenty of stocks of rations and drugs, and supply chain problems are being solved,” he said.He assured the people that India is equipped to fight the pandemic, as it has 100,000 hospital beds and more than 600 exclusive hospitals ready for Covid-19 cases. But he urged younger scientists to help develop a vaccine for the virus.Modi said it was clear India had chosen the right way to fight the global pandemic.“Social distancing and lockdown has benefited the country, only from an economic point of view we’ve paid a price, but it is worth the lives saved. With limited resources, what we have achieved is a talking point globally,” he said.Modi appreciated efforts by people to abide by the guidelines of the initial lockdown from March 25 and social distancing. He said these efforts had strengthened India’s fight against the Coronavirus.“The sacrifices made by people have helped keep the losses to a minimum. People withstood problems to save the country. Some are away from their family, some faced problems in getting food. But like a disciplined solider, everyone has fulfilled their duty. I bow before the people,” he said.He said the collective resolve and discipline shown by people is the power that the Constitution speaks of when it refers to “We the people of India”. This public display of collective resolve is the real homage to Bhimrao Ambedkar, he said.“Festivals are being celebrated in different parts of the country, yet amid the lockdown bindings, people have in an inspirational way stayed home,” he said.Modi said the people are partners, and witness to how India has been compared to other countries in fighting the global pandemic.“…Before it reached 100 [cases], we started 14-day isolation for those coming from abroad. All public places, malls, gyms etc were closed down. When the cases reached 550, then we announced a 21-day nationwide lockdown. We did not wait for the problem to worsen, but took early steps to nip it in the bud,” he said.Referring to efforts made so far in battling this challenge, Modi said that though it is not advisable to compare India with others, yet the fact cannot be dismissed that the country is in a better position than some bigger, powerful nations where the death toll is higher.“A month and a half ago, many countries were at par with India. Today those countries have much more cases, more than 25% to 30% compared to us, thousands have died. Had we not taken a holistic, integrated approach and timely steps, we cannot even imagine where we would have been, it sends a shiver down the spine,” he said.While appreciating the role of state governments and others who have worked responsibly, Modi urged the people to follow seven steps to control the spread of the Coronavirus.These include taking special care of the elderly and the unwell within the existing health conditions, observing social distancing and lockdown guidelines, using masks made at home, following AYUSH guidelines for increasing immunity, helping stop the spread of the virus by downloading the Arogya Setu Aap, helping as many poor families as possible, showing empathy to co-workers and not sacking people, and showing respect to the “corona warriors” who are on the frontline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-extended-till-may-3-pm-modi/story-y39oWFyVkqfOELcgFyil6L.html
14-04-2020||India||PM Modi extends lockdown till May 3: Highlights of his speech||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday announced the extension of the 21-day lockdown from March 25 till May 3 as he appreciated the efforts made by people in abiding by the guidelines of social distancing.In his video address to the nation, PM Modi also said that a new set of guidelines will be issued on Wednesday. Here are the highlights from his address:* People have made sacrifices to keep the losses to a minimum and gone through hardships to save India. Some are away from family, some faced problems in getting food but like disciplined soldiers, everyone has fulfilled their duty.* Modi said the collective resolve and discipline shown by people is the power that our Constitution speaks of when it refers to ‘We the people of India’. This public display of our collective resolve is the real tribute to Baba Saheb BR Ambedkar, he said.* Festivals are being celebrated in different parts of the country and yet amid the lockdown, people have in inspirational ways stayed home* India did not wait for the problem to escalate and tried to stop it by taking swift decisions as soon as the problem appeared* He said the lockdown will be extended till May 3. The work done by the states until April 20 will be evaluated. All those areas that do well in following rules and not allow hotspots to emerge, relaxations in some activities will be allowed. * There will be preconditions, he said and added that if lockdown guidelines are broken, then all permissions will be revoked. * He made a seven-point request which included respect for corona warriors - doctors, nurses, sweepers and police personnel. He also asked people to be kind to those who work for them. Don’t sack them, he said.* He said while making new guidelines, the government has kept in mind the interests of the poor and daily wage workers. The Centre and state governments are also working together to ensure that farmers face minimal problems as harvesting of Rabi crops is underway* He urged people to follow the rules of lockdown fully till May 3 and once again asked them to stay where they are.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-extends-lockdown-till-may-3-highlights-of-his-speech/story-Wp35m657OwlT0iVSBr3OkM.html
14-04-2020||India||‘Cry, my beloved country’: Chidambaram takes on PM Modi’s lockdown extension||Shortly after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced lockdown extension till May 3 to fight Covid-19, Congress leader P Chidambaram attacked the central government saying the poor have been left to fend for themselves.“We reciprocate the PM’s New Year greetings. We understand the compulsion for extending the lockdown. We support the decision. CMs’ demand for money elicited no response. Not a rupee has been added to the miserly package of March 25, 2020. From Raghuram Rajan to Jean Dreze, from Prabhat Patnaik to Abhijit Banerji, their advice has fallen on deaf years,” Chidambaram said on Twitter on Tuesday.“The poor have been left to fend for themselves for 21+19 days, including practically soliciting food. There is money, there is food, but the government will not release either money or food. Cry, my beloved country,” he said in another tweet. The poor have been left to fend for themselves for 21+19 days, including practically soliciting food. There is money, there is food, but the government will not release either money or food. Cry, my beloved country.PM Modi on Tuesday extended a nationwide lockdown until May 3 as the number of coronavirus cases crossed 10,000 despite a three-week shutdown.PM Modi, in his third address to the nation, said the challenge was to stop the virus from spreading to new parts of the country.“Till May 3, every Indian will have to stay in lockdown. I request all Indians that we stop the coronavirus from spreading to other areas,” he said.Also Read: PM Modi’ 7 Steps to Tackle Coronavirus Disease Covid-19The current three-week-old lockdown was scheduled to end at midnight on Tuesday.The Prime Minister had on Saturday held consultations with chief ministers through video-conferencing, during which talks were held over the need for extending the lockdown further after taking into consideration the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cry-my-beloved-country-chidambaram-takes-on-pm-modi-s-lockdown-extension/story-gH7TVIglI3EPrb4OBXwlTP.html
14-04-2020||India||FAQ: All you need to know about Covid-19 lockdown extension||Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended the nationwide lockdown on Tuesday, highlighting that India was moving in the right direction in its fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Here are seven key points that you need to know.1) How long will the lockdown continue?The nationwide restrictions to stop the spread of Covid-19 have been extended till May 3. The three-week lockdown imposed on March 24 was set to end on April 14 (today). Simply put, India will be under a lockdown for a total of 40 days.2) Is there any relaxation?Not till April 20. In fact, according to the Prime Minister, authorities will keep a close watch on how strictly the lockdown guidelines are followed at the local level over the next seven days.3) What happens after that?Places that score satisfactorily in the assessment test are expected to get some breather with authorities allowing limited activities. But such a move will come into place only after officials are satisfied that the area concerned has eliminated the threat of Covid-19 to a large extent. If a case surfaces or resurfaces, the relaxations will be rolled back. All possible relaxations are conditional.4) What do we know about the relaxations?Not much immediately. A detailed guideline will be issued on Wednesday. But the Prime Minister, in his address, said steps will be taken to help the poor, especially daily wage workers whose livelihood has been severely hit.5) Will the ban on air and rail travel continue?Yes, restrictions on rail and air travel will continue. Soon after the PM’s announcement, the government extended the suspension on all domestic and international flights, and passenger trains till May 3. These services were earlier banned till the midnight of April 14. Cargo flights and freight trains are allowed to run for the supply of essential commodities. 6) What about essential services?They are likely to continue the way they are functioning right now. Frontline workers, such as health care staff and police, among others, are exempt.7) What are the PM’s seven appeals to citizens?Concluding his speech, the Prime Minister underscored seven areas that the country must focus on to reach the “victory path” in the fight against the pandemic. These are:a) Take care of the elderly, especially those with underlying health conditionsb) Follow lockdown rules, maintain social distancing and wear masks at public placesc) Follow the AYUSH ministry’s guidelines on boosting immunityd) Download the AarogyaSetu appe) Look after the poor; try to feed people in distressf) Be compassionate about your fellow workers; do not sack your employeesg) Respect health workers and doctors8) What was restricted in phase 1 of the lockdown?*b) Commercial and private shopsc) Factories and industrial establishmentsd) All transport – air, rail, roadways and even metro servicese) Hotels, homestaysf) Educational and coaching institutions, including schools and collgesg) Places of worship and all religious congregationsh) Social/political/sports/entertainment/ academic/cultural gatherings9) What was allowed in phase 1 of the lockdown?*a) Government offices such as treasury, law and enforcement, and disaster management b) Municipal bodies for electricity and water, public utilitiesc) Vegetable markets notified by state governmentsd) Shops selling groceries and food items, agricultural productse) Delivery of all essential goods including food, pharmaceuticals, medical equipmentf) Hospitals, pharmacies, emergency services as well as manufacturing of health care itemsg) Veterinary hospitalsh) Banks, insurance offices, ATMs, and post officesi) RBI and RBI-regulated financial marketsj) Social welfare department, shelter homes h) Print and electronic mediai) Telecommunications, internet servicesj) Petrol pumps, LPG agenciesk) Cold storage and warehousing servicesl) Shops for truck repairs on highwaysm) Manufacturing units of essential goods, tea plantationsn) Transportation for people engaged in providing essential serviceso) Transport for essential goods, cargo movementp) Intra and inter-state movement of harvesting and sowing-related machines q) Hotels hosting stranded tourists, medical and emergency staffr) Funerals with no more than 20 people in attendance(*These guidelines were applicable till April 14. The government will release new guidelines on Wednesday. This new set of rules is also expected to highlight possible relaxations in some places after April 20)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-extension-possible-relaxations-6-highlights-of-modi-s-speech/story-CcP4NRyjsqZOqh1lPCyqtL.html
14-04-2020||India||Favourable monsoon could give farmers some hope: Scientists||Indian farmers may be suffering because of the nationwide lockdown imposed since March 25 to check the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak that has disrupted supply chains. But global weather models may have something to lift their spirits, as they are suggesting that the monsoon will be normal this year and may set in a day or two early.India Meteorological Department (IMD) is expected to issue its monsoon forecast later this week.India receives about 70% of its annual rainfall during the monsoon season, which usually begins in June before starting to retreat by September. The monsoon rainfall is crucial to rice, wheat, sugarcane and oilseeds cultivation in the country, where farming accounts for about 15% of the economy and employs over half of its people.Global weather models are numerical weather prediction models run by various agencies. The seasonal forecasting of the southwest monsoon is done with the help of statistical and dynamical models.IBM’s The Weather Company, a private weather forecasting company, has said that the monsoon is likely to set in slightly earlier than normal on May 31 as against June 1 and the above normal rain at 105% of the long-period average (LPA) is likely. “Uncalibrated climate model forecasts suggest an unusually wet monsoon season this year although our calibrated and bias-corrected model suggests a lesser degree of dryness. We’re expecting a transition from weak El Niño conditions towards La Nina conditions as we progress through the monsoon season, which will favour a large-scale atmospheric pattern that will become increasingly conducive to heavier rainfall later in the season,” the company said in a statement.La Nina is associated with a strong monsoon and above-average rains in India while El Niño is a climate pattern characterised by high sea surface temperatures in the tropical Pacific Ocean. El Niño years in India are linked to below-normal monsoon rains and higher than normal frequency of heatwaves. Last year, weak El Niño conditions prevailed and led to a delayed onset of the monsoon.“Our observations suggest more rains in south-western parts of the country and lower rains in northwestern India,” said Himanshu Goyal, India business leader, The Weather Company.Roxy Mathew Koll, a climate scientist at Pune-based Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, said global agencies unanimously indicate normal monsoon rains for June to September, which is good news. “This is largely based on the favourable conditions in the Pacific as there is no coherent sign of an El Niño developing during the early stage of the monsoon. El Niño, if present, can weaken the moisture carrying monsoon winds and reduce the rainfall received.”The rain in the pre-monsoon period has also been above average, which experts say will help improve and retain soil moisture and help with sowing in some parts of the country. From March 1 to April 12, central India received 165% and north-western parts 52% excess rain even as eastern and the north-eastern parts are 44% deficient, according to IMD.Ocean temperatures in the equatorial Indian Ocean are forecasted to be warmer than normal, which has the potential to reduce monsoon rains. “Our analysis has shown that such conditions can have an adverse impact on monsoon rains over central-north India. The significance of the Indian Ocean is increasing year by year as it is warming rapidly due to increasing carbon emissions. Forecast models do not generally pick this link between the warm Indian Ocean and the monsoon rains,” Koll said, clarifying that his analysis is not a forecast.The warm Indian Ocean could also trigger cyclones during the onset of monsoon.Air pollution levels have reduced in India and across the world due to Covid-19 lockdown restrictions and this is also likely to impact the monsoon. There have been scientific studies that show high air pollution levels have led to a decline in monsoon rains over the past decades.“I don’t know if the models are factoring in this new scenario with less pollution,” Koll said.M Rajeevan, secretary, Union Ministry of Earth Sciences, said there is no El Niño influence this year and the government will share full details of the onset and monsoon performance in their forecast later this week.Mahesh Palawat, vice-president, climate and meteorology at Skymet Weather, a private weather forecasting agency, said there is some warming in the eastern pacific but as the monsoon progresses, there will be a likely movement towards La Nina or low sea surface temperatures across the east-central Equatorial Pacific.“The Indian Ocean Dipole (IOD) is also negative. High temperatures are already being recorded in central and western India. Rain in the pre-monsoon period has also been good. All these factors indicate that it is likely to be normal or slightly above normal monsoon.”IOD is characterised by warmer sea surface temperature in the equatorial Indian Ocean; positive IOD conditions are associated with normal monsoon.Skymet Weather will not issue a monsoon forecast this year because its services have been impacted by the ongoing lockdown restrictions. “Our modelling teams haven’t able to run these models from home. Also, last year, none of the weather agencies got the monsoon forecast right. We also plan to reflect on what’s going wrong with monsoon forecasts,” Palawat said.After a delayed onset of the south-west monsoon on June 8 last year and very little rain in June due to presence of a weak El Niño, there were fears among meteorologists that it would be a drought year. June ended with a deficit of 33% but July, August and September received 105%, 115% and 152% of their LPA, respectively.The IMD announced monsoon withdrawal on September 30 last year with cumulative rainfall of 110% of the LPA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/favourable-monsoon-could-give-farmers-some-hope-scientists/story-C5MxWDET3IxDGV1S7nwIDJ.html
14-04-2020||India||‘Care for elders, respect Covid-19 warriors’: PM lists 7 points in coronavirus fight||As Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday extended the 21-day lockdown till May 3, he also sought people’s support in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic in the country.The Prime Minister also said that all districts, localities, states will be closely monitored on how strictly they are implementing norms of the lockdown till April 20.“States which will not let hotspots increase will be allowed to let some important activities resume, but with certain conditions,” he said.Modi’s announcements came on a day India recorded 10,363 coronavirus cases and 339 deaths. Here are the seven requests made by PM Modi in his address:* Elders at home“We have to do take extra care for them and keep them very safe from corona. Especially those who have chronic diseases,” PM Modi said.* Lockdown rules“Follow the Lakshman Rekha of lockdown and social distancing and use masks and homemade face covers mandatorily,” he said.* AYUSH ministry“Follow the instructions given by the ministry of AYUSH to increase your immunity. Drink hot water and kadha continuously,” he said.* Aarogya Setu app “To help prevent the spread of corona infection, download the Arogya Setu app and also inspire others to do it as well,” he said.* Help the needy“Take care of as many poor families as you can and try to meet their food requirement,” he said.* Be kind“Be sensitive to people who work with you in your business and industry and their needs. Do not sack people working for you,” he said.* Corona warriors“Respect doctors, nurses, sanitation worker, police personnel and all those fighting against Covid-19,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-caring-for-elders-to-respecting-covid-19-warriors-pm-modi-lists-7-points-in-coronavirus-fight/story-2PuH6uNlVE1P3FGbs2FIuI.html
14-04-2020||India||Lockdown extended: New guidelines to be issued on Wednesday for way forward, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said that a news set of guidelines will be issued tomorrow, as he announced the extension of lockdown till May 3.“While making new guidelines, we have kept in mind the interests of the poor and daily wage workers. Harvesting of Rabi crops is also underway. Central government and state governments are working together to ensure that farmers face minimal problems,” the Prime Minister said in his third address to the nation.“The daily wage labourers are my extended family. It is my priority to reduce the difficulties faced by these people. The government has tried to help them in every possible way through Pradhan Mantri Gareeb Kalyan Yojana,” the PM said.Announcing the extension of lockdown, PM Modi said, “From the economic angle, we have paid a big price. But the lives of the people of India are far more valuable.”A day ahead of the address, Modi held in-depth talks with the principal scientific adviser Prof K Vijay Raghavan apart from holding his regular meetings with principal secretary PK Mishra and cabinet secretary RK Gauba. The talks with Vijay Raghavan focussed on how the Aarogya app is contributing to tracking the spread of Covid-19, HT has learnt.A majority of India’s states have backed an extension of the lockdown so as not to fritter away the benefits that may have accrued from the strict social distancing norms put in place to keep the highly infectious virus at bay, but some sought an easing of the lockdown in areas outside the so-called red zones that include Covid-19 hotspots and containment zones.At least seven states - Maharashtra, Odisha, Punjab, West Bengal, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Telangana - have already announced an extension of the lockdown until April 30.India’s total number of Covid-19 positive cases climbed to 10,363 on Tuesday, including 8,988 active cases, 1,035 cured/discharged/migrated and 339 deaths, the Union health ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-extended-new-guidelines-to-be-issued-on-wednesday-for-way-forward-says-pm-modi/story-E5LlEFcxVwacvrypZUUg4L.html
14-04-2020||India||India’s relentless fight against Covid-19 tribute to BR Ambedkar, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday people of India have shown the power of ‘We The People’ as called for in the Constitution by following the norms under the three-week lockdown and paid a true tribute to BR Ambedkar.PM Modi, in his fourth address to the nation in less than a month, made the comments as he said the 21-day lockdown will be extended till May 3 to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic in the country.“People have gone through hardships to save India and know how many difficulties you faced. I respectfully bow to the people of India for their sacrifice,” Modi said in his video message. “You have been following your duties just like a disciplined soldier. We have shown the power of the people of India as given in our Constitution,” he said. “This is the demonstration of the collective power by the people of India. And this resolve is the true tribute to Baba Saheb Dr Bhim Rao Ambedkar on his birth anniversary,” he said.Follow live updates on coronavirus hereA social reformer, jurist, economist, BR Ambedkar was also India’s first law minister. BR Ambedkar—one of the principal architects of the Constitution—was posthumously given the Bharat Ratna, India’s highest civilian award, in 1990. The Prime Minister also said that all districts, localities, states will be closely monitored on how strictly they are implementing norms of the lockdown till April 20.“States which will not let hotspots increase will be allowed to let some important activities resume, but with certain conditions,” he said.Modi’s announcements came on a day India recorded 10,363 coronavirus cases and 339 deaths. The Union health ministry data at 8am showed there were 1211 new cases and 31 deaths in the last 24 hours even as 1035 people were sent home after being cured of the deadly respiratory disease across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-relentless-fight-against-covid-19-true-tribute-to-br-ambedkar-says-pm-modi/story-pfUhlWbZE3OYaRyqdChxpK.html
14-04-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown, extended till May 3, will become more strict for next one week, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday appreciated the discipline showed by the people of the country in making the 21-day lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus a success as he announced its extension.“In my discussions with the state governments, and various stakeholders, one thing was unanimous: That we should extend the lockdown. So, I announce today that the lockdown will be extended till May 3,” PM Modi said.He also asked people to be alert and prevent the spread of the disease. “We will impose more stringent measures in the next week. Till April 20, we will evaluate how different states are dealing with the pandemic. States which will not let hotspots increase, they could be allowed to let some important activities resume, but with certain conditions,” PM Modi said.“The fight is moving ahead with strength. I know the hardships you faced, you are fulfilling your duties and I respectfully bow to the people of India for their sacrifice,” the PM said in his address“People have saved the country while facing difficulties,” he added.He also invoked Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar on his birth anniversary. “Our constitution talks about ‘We the People’. The spirit was displayed during this period,” said PM Modi.It was PM Modi’s third televised address to the nation in less than a month. On March 19, Modi said he would seek the “coming few weeks” of Indian citizens, asked them to stay determined and patient in the fight against the global pandemic, senior citizens to remain indoors and called for a “people’s curfew” on March 22 to demonstrate their unity and resolve.He then announced a three-week nationwide lockdown that halted commercial flights and train journeys,taken public transport off the streets, closed schools and colleges and shut industrial production.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-extended-till-may-3-will-become-more-strict-for-next-one-week-says-pm-modi/story-8zuRtTJ1QbeELsFvi0KeyI.html
14-04-2020||India||On Ambedkar Jayanti, BJP says Congress didn’t pay the respect Baba Saheb deserved||JP Nadda, the BJP’s president, on Tuesday accused the Congress of not giving the respect BR Ambedkar deserved when he was alive and said his party has been working towards filling that gap as he paid his respects on the birth anniversary of the leader.“It was unfortunate that the Congress party, which was in power with a majority then, did not give the respect Baba Saheb deserved. It was unfortunate that Bharat Ratna was conferred upon him four decades after his death,” Nadda said in this address to the party’s workers. BR Ambedkar—one of the principal architects of the Constitution—was posthumously given the Bharat Ratna, India’s highest civilian award, in 1990.The senior leader pointed out that when the Bharatiya Janata Party came to power, BR Ambedkar was accorded the respect he deserved.“The BJP has been making a systematic effort to make his resolutions a reality,” he said.In his message, Nadda also said party workers should take a pledge to uphold the ideals of the Constitution and obey the government’s advisories to fight Covid-19. He also requested them to share and spread the measures and decisions taken by the government, party and its leaders for the poor of society on social media.BJP workers will mark the birth anniversary of BR Ambedkar by distributing ration and masks among the poor on Tuesday, the party’s media in-charge Anil Baluni has said.They will organise blood donation camps following social distancing norms to mark the birth anniversary of Ambedkar, he said.BJP workers will distribute masks and provide rations to all people in at least two slums of their areas, he said, adding they will also motivate people in slums to keep their area free from the virus, he said.A social reformer, jurist, economist, BR Ambedkar was also India’s first law minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-ambedkar-jayanti-bjp-says-congress-didn-t-pay-the-respect-baba-saheb-deserved/story-lTNoDdIXwMo7CyfoAry9hI.html
14-04-2020||India||‘Can we be so selfish?’ Shivraj Chouhan’s comeback on Opposition’s ‘one-man show’ barb||Under fire from the Opposition for running a ‘one-man show’ without a cabinet, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said the decision was taken by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Chouhan further said that he would consult the party in this regard after the first phase of lockdown is over on Tuesday.“When I took over as the CM, corona was the biggest challenge. Hence, the party decided against formation of the cabinet,” he said in a video clipping released to the media on Monday evening. Chouhan took oath as the chief minister on March 23.Notably, former chief minister Kamal Nath and Rajya Sabha member Vivek Tankha in the past couple of days questioned the propriety behind the CM not forming his cabinet for such a long time and ‘running a one-man show’.In a letter to President of India on Saturday, Tankha even demanded imposition of President’s Rule in the state if the chief minister is unable to form his cabinet.Tankha said in the letter, “Alternatively, if the chief minister is unable to form his cabinet because of issues beyond his control, then a case of breakdown of constitutional machinery will be self-evident in the state of Madhya Pradesh, warranting the Union to consider the imposition of President’s Rule in the state.” On his part, while citing the reason behind not forming his cabinet, Chouhan attacked former chief minister Kamal Nath for “doing nothing” on his part to fight coronavirus.Chouhan said, “Kamal Nath in his press conference said Rahul Gandhi had warned the government against the threat of corona on February 12. Kamal Nath remained the chief minister till March 23 but he did nothing.”Chouhan asked, “Can we be so selfish to stop work right now if there is no chance of continuation in the chair of CM after some time?”“The fact remains,” he said, “No preparation was done in time. The problem was overlooked. The necessary arrangements were not made. There was no concern over safety of people. It was all because there was no compassion for people.”The CM said, “I called up Kamal Nath between February 20 and 23 and requested him to take necessary steps as pandemic of Covid-19 was looming large. But the then government did nothing. Who is responsible for the situation in Indore and Bhopal?”Chouhan said, “When I took over only 7 tests were being conducted in a laboratory but today the number of laboratories has gone up to 7. We are conducting 1080 tests in our labs. But we are not dependent on only our labs. We are getting tests done in other labs in the country too. Then, the number of testing kits and PPE kits was insignificant. Now, we are manufacturing 5,000 PPE kits daily on our own and we have 63,000 PPE kits right now. There was no facility for isolation in hospitals but today there are 23 hospitals only for Covid-19 patients. There are 4,000 beds for these patients.”Kamal Nath’s media coordinator Narendra Saluja, meanwhile, said, “Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan should also tell people as to what he and the central government were doing when Covid-19 was spreading in the country. Is it not true that the Central government was waiting for toppling of the elected Congress government in Madhya Pradesh and this was the reason even parliament session was not adjourned? The moment BJP toppled the Congress government lockdown restrictions were imposed in the entire country.”Saluja said, “Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan should come out with all the facts and documents as to when he issued ordered for PPE and testing kits and what are the measures he undertook and also when to protect the state and also Indore and Bhopal. He should also make it clear as to why Madhya Pradesh under his leadership became one of five worst affected states in the country and why Indore became one of the worst affected cities in the country as far as Covid-19 positive cases and death of such patients are concerned.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-we-be-so-selfish-shivraj-chouhan-s-comeback-on-opposition-s-one-man-show-barb/story-kRD9JSdweb7L3B5Pjv4gmI.html
14-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: India’s Covid-19 cases surge past 10,000, death toll at 339||India recorded 10,363 coronavirus cases and 339 deaths on Tuesday morning, as the infections doubled within a week across the country, on a day the 21-day lockdown about to end and the government expected to extend the restrictions.The Union health ministry data at 8am showed there were 1211 new cases and 31 deaths in the last 24 hours even as 1035 people were sent home after being cured of the deadly respiratory disease across the country.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation on Tuesday morning at 10am and could announce an extension of the three-week nationwide lockdown, possibly with some exemptions to restart the economy.Maharashtra, which had doubled its tally from 1000 to 2000 Covid-19 cases in six days, neared the 3000 mark. On Tuesday morning, there were 2711 people who have been infected with coronavirus in the western state. Also read: ‘No greater patriotism than persistence’, Sonia Gandhi thanks Covid-19 warriorsIt had recorded its biggest 24-hour jump in cases with 352 more patients on Monday. The state had recorded 11 deaths on Monday, the health department said, taking the toll to 160.The Maharashtra government on Monday also officially extended the lockdown, which was to end at midnight on April 14, till April 30. Delhi recorded 1568 cases so far, becoming the city with the most number of infections, and 28 fatalities. In Tamil Nadu, which is the third worst-hit state, there have been 1132 Covid-19 cases and 11 deaths to date.Also read: What you need to know todayAccording to experts, the national lockdown has slowed the spread but warned that if clusters are not contained effectively and testing is not done widely and aggressively, India could fritter away the gains of the restrictions.The three-week lockdown ends at midnight on Tuesday and several states have urged the Centre for an extension as the infection spreads through densely packed communities, but they also want a less sweeping shutdown.PM Modi has told chief ministers that the focus of the second phase would be not only to save lives of people from the disease but also their livelihood.Also read: Areas without containment zones on a war footing to avoid clustersThe government has, on its part, stepped up containment efforts and ramped up testing in an attempt to curb the highly contagious pathogen from sweeping across the country.According to the Johns Hopkins University’s coronavirus tracker, the number of confirmed Covid-19 cases across the world is at 1,920,618 and more than 119,660 people have died as of Tuesday morning.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-india-s-covid-19-cases-surge-past-10-000-death-toll-at-339/story-iTDSImEgT83lMETmokKryI.html
14-04-2020||India||Covid-19 fight: 100% screening of foreigners gives Bihar the edge||Bihar, which has reported 65 Covid-19 cases, with one death, believes it can combat the Sars-CoV-2 virus while handling the burden of other diseases as well.The first indication of this came from Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, who on Sunday directed his health officials to resume treatment of general patients at all district and sub-divisional hospitals, after following necessary precautions for Covid-19.Outpatient department (OPDs) services in these hospitals had been put on hold since March 25, after Prime Minister Narendra Modi declared 21-day nationwide lockdown.Bihar’s confidence stems from the fact it has taken smart initiatives to contain the progression of the virus, said health officials.“We decided to test all international passengers, who came between March 18 and 23 after we found that most Covid-19 cases in the state, since the first tested positive on March 21, had international travel history. The symptomatic ones, who came between March 15 and 17, were also tested,” said chief secretary Deepak Kumar.The testing helped detect around 20-30 positive cases, said officials.Bihar went for 100 per cent screening of foreign passengers, when the Centre’s guideline was to test only the symptomatic ones. It identified around 3,556 international travelers between March 15 and 23 and samples of 2,254 people, who were within the 14-day incubation period, were taken for tests.Bihar was also quick to decide on containment zones and impose a strong lockdown, where people have not been allowed to move out of their homes and essential supplies delivered to them at their doorstep, said Sanjay Kumar, Bihar’s principal secretary, health.“We have been keeping a watch on activities of villagers, especially in sensitive areas and those under containment zone, through drones,” added Kumar.Panjwar village of Siwan district, where 23 of the 29 cases in the district were accounted to a superspreader, was the first to be put under the ‘red zone’ and complete barricading of the village was done at 200 metres, 500 metres, 1 kilometre, 2 kilometre and 3 kilometre.Kadirabad in Begusarai district was also put under containment zone. Eight Indonesians of Tablighi Jamaat who were here in mid-March, are believed to have infected young boys, said top government sources, requesting anonymity.Begusarai and Nawada have accounted for at least 10 Covid-19 cases, which were tracked to those having come either in contact with members of the Tablighi Jamaat or returnees from the Nizamuddin Markaz.The government has also drawn up containment plan for Bahadurpur village in Nawada where a Tablighi Jamaat member, who returned from the Nizamuddin Markaz had tested positive. Later, a 45-year-old mason and a 16-year-old girl, who came in contact with the 38-year-old male, tested positive for the virus on Saturday.The state has already sanitised two mosques in Nawada and seven in Begusari and is keeping close tabs on them, said officials.The ICMR has approved four laboratories in Bihar for conducting real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests of nose and throat swab, a confirmatory test for Covid-19. So far 7,611 samples had been collected of which 7,199 tested, at an average 103 tests per day. Of them, 65 were positive. Twenty-six people had so far recovered and discharged from hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-fight-100-screening-of-foreigners-gives-bihar-the-edge/story-gPLHo8BOWyVdUZnrzfo0mJ.html
14-04-2020||India||Covid-19: 5 worst-hit states and what they are doing||The coronavirus disease has affected millions across the world, and has led to hundreds in India. But there are five states which have been hit the hardest by the spread of the disease.These states have taken stringent measures to check the coronavirus outbreak. Here is a list of five worst-affected states by the Covid-19 pandemic:Maharashtra: The number of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra on Monday crossed the 2000-mark, with 352 more people, including 242 from Mumbai, testing positive for the novel coronavirus infection, a Health department official said. While the number of total cases has gone up to 2334, the Covid-19 death toll increased to 160 with 11 more people succumbing to the infection on Monday. Notably, Maharashtra had crossed the 1000-mark of Covid-19 cases on April 7. The state government on Monday set up a task force of nine senior doctors to give a fillip to its fight against the disease by providing guidance to health professionals and streamline services in the state.Delhi: The number of coronavirus cases in the national capital on Monday rose to 1,510, with 356 fresh cases and four deaths being reported in a day, according to Delhi government authorities. Of the total cases, 1,071 are those who have been brought to facilities through special operations. With the number of Covid-19 containment zones in the city rising to 47 on Monday, a massive sanitisation drive has begun in those areas to prevent further spread of the disease.Tamil Nadu: Monday was another heavy day for Tamil Nadu in terms of Covid-19 cases with 98 people, including 91 “same source” contacts, testing positive for the disease, taking the tally rose to 1,173. Tamil Nadu is the third state other than Maharashtra and Delhi to report more than 1,000 cases. The state government has announced extension of the lockdown till April 30 to check the spread of the disease. Meanwhile, wearing of masks was made compulsory with immediate effect from Monday for people in Chennai whenever they they step out of their homes, the city civic body said.Rajasthan: Ninety-three people tested positive for coronavirus in Rajasthan on Monday, taking the total number of Covid-19 cases in the state to 897, Additional Chief Secretary Rohit Kumar Singh said. The virus has so far claimed 11 lives in the state.Madhya Pradesh: Madhya Pradesh on Monday reported 43 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total number of the affected people in the state to 615, health department officials said. Six more deaths were reported from Indore, Bhopal, Ujjain and Khargone, taking the overall toll to 50 so far. Indore continues to lead the chart with 22 new cases being detected on Monday, taking the Covid-19 case tally in the state’s commercial hub to 328.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-5-worst-hit-states-and-what-they-are-doing/story-K4VNJvbwFhIqDPG5B2qdHO.html
14-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: India’s 5 most populous states adopt distinct strategies to deal with Covid-19 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion curated for you. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India’s 5 most populous states adopt distinct Covid strategiesAs the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) continues to spread, India’s most populated states have adopted both common, and distinct, strategies to deal with the pandemic.Read More‘No greater patriotism than persistence’: Sonia Gandhi thanks Covid-19 warriorsCongress president Sonia Gandhi on Tuesday thanked and praised all those who are fighting against the coronavirus pandemic from the frontline as she urged people to follow rules during the lockdown and adhere to social distancing norms.Read MoreOdisha announces relaxation of lockdown for livelihood generationOdisha, the first state in the country to extend the lockdown to April 30, on Monday, announced several measures to ensure generation of jobs under a flagship scheme and Swachh Bharat. It will also allow e-commerce platforms like Amazon to deliver goods at homes.Read MoreIran foreign minister raises US sanctions with IndiaIran foreign minister Javad Zarif on Monday raised the issue of “illegal and unilateral US sanctions” on his country during a telephone conversation with his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar.Read MoreVirat Kohli or Steve Smith? Darren Sammy, Carlos Brathwaite give interesting answersIn a video chat show with ESPN Cricinfo, Darren Sammy and Carlos Brathwaite were asked to choose between India captain Virat Kohli and Australia’s Steve Smith. While Brathwaite had no hesitation in taking Kohli’s name, Sammy took some time but eventually went in with Kohli.Read MoreShah Rukh Khan donates 25,000 PPE kits to MaharashtraActor Shah Rukh Khan has been in the forefront of providing help, in whichever way, as India fights Covid-19. In his latest endeavour, he has provided 25000 Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) to medical teams across Maharashtra. He took to Twitter to throw light on it after a minister in the Maharashtra government thanked him.Read MorePUBG Mobile: Most common mistakes newbies make while playingWhile PUBG Mobile fans have a lot of time in hand right now to play their favourite battle royale, the lockdown is also the perfect opportunity for a lot of new players to get used to the game. PUBG Mobile recently marked their 2nd anniversary and while many players might have already mastered the game to a point where they have their strategies in place even before logging into the game, there are some common and silly mistakes which are made by both noob (newbies, in case you didn’t know) and experienced players as well.Read MoreImportance and significance of BR Ambedkar’s 129th birth anniversaryAmbedkar Jayanti or Bhim Jayanti falls on April 14 - the birth anniversary of Bhimrao Ambedkar or BR Ambedkar, who is known as the ‘Father of The Indian Constitution.’ On this day, BR Ambedkar, the Dalit icon is honoured as the person who did so much for the upliftment of women, labourers and untouchables.Read MoreCovid-19: With 1-month-old baby in arms, IAS officer G Srijana rejoins workAn IAS officer has set an inspiring example amid Covid-19 battle. Gummulla Srijana rejoined work within just 22 days of giving birth. Srijana voluntarily gave up her maternity leave to contribute in Covid fight. Srijana said, “My responsibility to be of help to administration at such a time.” Watch the full video for more details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-india-s-5-most-populous-states-adopt-distinct-strategies-to-deal-with-covid-19-and-all-the-latest-news/story-RNz4MiwgqEnLQzy1ZYsnpN.html
14-04-2020||India||On traditional new year, PM wishes for more strength to fight Covid-19 together||Prime Minister Narendra Modi greeted people observing the traditional new year across the country on Tuesday, the last day of the national lockdown in the country to break the chain of coronavirus infections.Modi will address the nation on Tuesday morning at 10am and is likely to announce an extension of the nationwide lockdown and likely with measures to restart the economy.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here In Assam, Kerala, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal, people will mark the beginning of the new year as the number of coronavirus disease cases crossed 10,000—the infections doubled over six days.“Greetings to people across India on the various festivals being marked. May these festivals deepen the spirit of brotherhood in India. May they also bring joy and good health. May we get more strength to collectively fight the menace of COVID-19 in the times to come,” PM Modi tweeted.The Prime Minister also tweeted in Bengali, Tamil, Telegu and Assamese language to extend his greetings. The traditional new year in these parts of the country is celebrated with family, food and new clothes. PM Modi also wished for well-being, health and prosperity on the occasion in his tweets. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-on-tradition-new-year-pm-modi-wishes-for-more-strength-to-fight-covid-19-together/story-cMLPCdRpo1KetuqyJkCn5K.html
14-04-2020||India||Covid-19 state tally: Maharashtra leads with 2,334 cases, Delhi crosses 1,500-mark||On Tuesday, the total number of coronavirus cases in the country rose to 10,363. According to the Ministry of Health, India now has 8,988 active Covid-19 cases while as many as 1035 patients have recovered or discharged. The coronavirus death toll in the country stands at 339. In Maharashtra, the total number of coronavirus cases reached 2,334 while the national capital crossed the 1,500-mark.Here’s a look at the statewise tally of coronavirus active cases, fatalities and recovered patients. MaharashtraWith 2,334 Covid-19 active cases, Maharashtra has registered the highest number of coronavirus cases in the country. The state has recorded 160 deaths so far while 217 patients have recovered.DelhiDelhi has the second-highest number of coronavirus cases in the country. As many as 1,510 people have tested positive of coronavirus in the national capital. Twenty eight people have died from the infection while 30 people have made a recovery, as per the health ministry’s data.Tamil NaduThe southern state has the third-highest number of Covid-19 cases in the country which now stand at 1173. Tamil Nadu has seen 58 recoveries and 11 Covid-19 deaths.RajasthanCoronavirus cases in Rajasthan touched 873 on Tuesday. The state has reported three fatalities, and 21 patients have recovered from the infection.Madhya PradeshThe state has reported 604 positive cases of coronavirus. Forty three people have died from Covid-19 here.TelanganaFive hundred sixty two positive cases of coronavirus have been reported from the state so far. Hundred people have made a recovery from the virus while 16 people have died from Covid-19.Uttar PradeshFive hundred fifty eight people have been infected from Covid-19 in the state. While 49 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, five have died from the infection here.GujaratPrime Minister Narendra Modi’s home state has registered 539 coronavirus cases and 54 recoveries so far. Twenty six people have died from the infection in the state.Andhra PradeshThe state has witnessed 432 positive Covid-19 patients and 11 cases of recovery. Seven people have died.KeralaAs per the health ministry, Kerala reported 379 coronavirus cases on Tuesday. Kerala has witnessed three deaths due to Covid-19 while 198 people have successfully recovered.KarnatakaThe state has recorded 247 Covid-19 cases and six deaths. Fifty nine people have been cured and discharged.Jammu and KashmirThe union territory of Jammu and Kashmir has seen the number of Covid-19 patients rising to 270. Four people have died from the infection while sixteen were cured.Haryana and PunjabThe neighbouring states have 185 and 167 Covid-19 cases respectively. While 11 people have died in Punjab, Haryana has seen three deaths. Twenty nine people have recovered from Covid-19 in Haryana, 14 in Punjab.One hundred ninety people have been affected by the Sars-CoV-2 virus in West Bengal. There have been seven deaths and 36 recoveries in the state. Odisha has 54 Covid-19 positive patients, 12 have recovered while one person has died. In Bihar, 65 people have tested positive for coronavirus, one has died while 26 patients have recovered.Assam has reported 29 Covid-19 cases, one person has died. Uttarakhand has 35 coronavirus patients, five patients have recovered from the infection. In Chandigarh, 21 people have contracted the Covid-19 disease and seven have recovered. Andaman has recorded 11 coronavirus cases, 10 have recovered. Chhattisgarh has recorded 31 cases of coronavirus and 10 people have recovered. Ladakh has 15 patients, 10 people have recovered. Goa has reported seven cases of Covid-19 disease, five patients have recovered. Himachal Pradesh has 32 cases, one patient has died and 13 have recovered. Pondicherry has reported seven cases, one has recovered. Jharkhand has 24 Covid-19 cases, two patients have died. Two coronavirus cases have been reported in Manipur, one has recovered. Tripura also has two Covid-19 patients. States and Union territories with just one positive Covid-19 case include Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram and Nagaland.Sikkim and Meghalaya have not reported any Covid-19 case yet.Prime Minister Narendra Modi , meanwhile, announced today that the lockdown to break the cycle of infection has been extended till May 3. The PM said, though India has taken timely steps to control the spread of the virus, there is an urgent need to scale up efforts to ensure no new hotspots emerge and that the casualty figures does not rise..Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-state-tally-maharashtra-leads-with-2-334-cases-delhi-crosses-1-500-mark/story-M1ff5ivBthOxFrqBCw4ZFL.html
14-04-2020||India||Covid-19 mortality rate in India not ‘severe’, says Niti Aayog member||Niti Aayog Member V K Paul on Monday said the mortality rate in the Covid-19 pandemic in India is not “severe” and the impact of the disease is “very very limited” keeping in view the size of the country. He was speaking at a session, held virtually, on a theme ‘Covid-19: India Fights Back - Strategy and Way Forward’. Adviser (health) at the Niti Aayog Alok Kumar was also part of the interactive discussion.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here  On the Centre’s move to impose various curbs to contain the coronavirus spread, Paul -- who is also heading a panel to coordinate efforts to tackle the virus outbreak -- added the 21-day lockdown was the “decision of the century” and the purpose has been achieved to a large extent. “We are very very certain that it (Covid-19) is not an outbreak that is causing severe mortality in any part of the country. We also have not heard anecdotes that intensive care units (ICUs ) are filled up in government or private hospitals like what had happened in Europe where all ICUs were full,” he said. “We prepared ourself as if every day there are 1.5 lakh new cases. By the way this is a number which is the same as Italy experienced per day, when they were experiencing peak coronavirus cases in their country...we can raise our preparedness to next higher level or downgrade to lower level depending on the situation,” he said. On rising number of cases in the country, he said the figures are “very much limited” keeping in view the size of the country and moreover the government took early and effective steps.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage  He, however, cautioned that it doesn’t mean the situation will remain same and people have to be vigilant. On the lockdown decision, the Niti Aayog member said, “Once you create extreme decision like that then as a society we have moved to a new normal, we have adjusted to a new reality.” “The lockdown was the decision of the century. The purpose of lockdown has been achieved to a large extent,” he added. The 21-day lockdown period is ending on April 14 amid a strong possibility that this will be extended further. “In a calibrated manner, we will have to open our economic activity,” he said. In a word of caution, he said people must ensure that social behaviour and lifestyle changes for the good. “By strengthening our healthcare , we have to make sure that we are ready for potential healthcare challenges in the future,” Paul said adding that India needs to make sure it loses a minimum number of lives. He also revealed that four Indian laboratories are working on developing a vaccine for the coronavirus. “We know that whoever discovers the vaccine, even if it is outside India, we will be the manufacturing hub,” he said. Also participating in the session, Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant said that India has opened up mobile manufacturing and manufacturing of APIs in the country. “In a similar way, we should look at five to six sectors for manufacturing in India,” Kant said. According to Kant, individual discipline will be the key to our success in controlling the spread of COVID-19. “Companies have to be vigilant and forthcoming to ensure workers function in multiple shifts, maintain social distance and observe high level of hygiene at the workplace,” he said. The Niti Aayog CEO admitted that when first lockdown was imposed, the government  did not have much time to prepare, therefore there was some issue of supply chain. “Now we have to ensures efficient supply chain of consumer goods,” Kant said. He informed that about  four crore people have already downloaded  AarogyaSetu app. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation at 10 am on Tuesday, the last day of 21-day nationwide coronavirus lockdown, amid indications that the shutdown could be extended by another two weeks with certain relaxations to boost economic activities. According to the Health Ministry, 796 new Covid-19 cases and 35 deaths have been reported in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 9,152 and deaths 308.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-mortality-rate-in-india-not-severe-says-niti-aayog-member/story-8IP6664Yzx1WYT0ikx7ttL.html
14-04-2020||India||‘No greater patriotism than persistence’: Sonia Gandhi thanks Covid-19 warriors||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Tuesday thanked and praised all those who are fighting against the coronavirus pandemic from the frontline as she urged people to follow rules during the lockdown and adhere to social distancing norms.In her video message, which came hours ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address to the nation, Gandhi spoke about doctors, health and sanitation workers, policemen, non-profit organisations who are helping others without thinking about their personal safety.“I hope that you are staying safe at your homes during this hour of the coronavirus pandemic. At the very beginning, I want to extend a heartfelt thank you to all the citizens for maintaining peace and keeping patience and resolve during this tough time,” she said in the nearly six-minute video. There is no greater patriotism than the persistence of these warriors during the time of coronavirus crisis, the Congress president said in her message. “We will defeat corona with a sense of unity, discipline and self-confidence,” she said.“I can never forget the sacrifice of your family members, wife, husbands, children. Despite the dangers, it is only because of your cooperation and support that we are able to fight this war. I do not have words to thank them,”.“Dear citizens, these warriors are helping us win this war despite the lack of personal security. Our doctors, health workers and non-government organisations are treating people despite the lack of personal protection equipment,” she said. Click here for full Covid-19 coveragePolice personnel and soldiers are making sure that people are following the norms of lockdown. Sanitation workers, she said, are working without the safety gears to stop the infection from spreading. Government officials are also working hard to make sure essential services reach people.“But if we don’t support them they won’t be able to do their jobs. We have to honour them,” she said.She mentioned reports of people misbehaving with doctors. “This is quite wrong because this is against our culture. We have to help and support them.”She thanked all those who are working on their personal level—feeding the poor, giving away sanitisers, mask and dry ration to those who need them—to extend help in any way they can.“Every Indian has come together and fulfilled their responsibility to fight this war against corona. All of you must be thanked,” she said.The Congress party and its workers are always ready to do their bit to help anyone who needs it.“When the country is fighting such a big war, very Congress worker understands their responsibility too and will be there to help all the warriors. You can contact our central control room or those in the states for help or in time of any need. Congress’ soldier will help in any way they can,” she said.“I want to assure you that we are standing shoulder to shoulder with you in this war either we are in power or in the opposition. I am sure that we will come out of this danger soon with our resolve,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-greater-patriotism-congress-president-sonia-gandhi-thanks-covid-19-warriors-people/story-8Woppqd7udoxNw8H3YvoNI.html
14-04-2020||India||Ahead of PM Modi’s address, Odisha announces relaxation of lockdown for livelihood generation||Odisha, the first state in the country to extend the lockdown to April 30, on Monday, announced several measures to ensure generation of jobs under a flagship scheme and Swachh Bharat.It will also allow e-commerce platforms like Amazon to deliver goods at homes.Till Monday, Odisha had reported 55 Covid-19 cases of whom a 72-year old man died and 18 have recovered so far. Only two of the remaining 41 patients are critical. The relaxation order came a day before Prime Minister Narendra Modi addresses the nation on the possible extension of the nation-wide lockdown, as the number of Covid-19 positive patients in the country raced to 10,000, with more than 300 deaths in less than a month.Last week, the state government had announced that during the extended lockdown period beginning April 15, farmers in the state will be allowed to undertake farming operations for the Rabi season and also prepare for the Kharif season, on the condition that they ensure social distancing. According to the order issued by chief secretary Asit Tripathy, marketing and transportation of agricultural inputs, agricultural and horticultural products to markets both intra- and inter-state by retailers and transporters will be permitted without any restrictions. Also read: What you need to know todayFarmers will be allowed to resume all agricultural activities, including harvesting, selling their Rabi crops and other activities to prepare their fields for the coming Kharif season. Shops and establishments selling agricultural implements, cattle feed and fish feed and food processing and packaging units will also be allowed to remain open.The order said that activities relating to Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) scheme, construction of individual toilets under Swachh Bharat Mission and individual houses under rural housing schemes will go on. The panchayati raj department will also facilitate construction and repair of drinking water facilities. Farmers can also dig farm ponds and purchase agricultural implements. Cooperatives banks and other such institutions will disburse loans to farmers during the lockdown period. The procurement of the Rabi crop will resume and all cold storages and godowns allowed to carry out their activities, conditional to social distancing.People engaged in fishing, floriculture, tendu leaf plucking and collection of non-timber forest produce can also carry out their work. The forest department will be allowed to execute plantation and take up construction and repair of water bodies for wild animals across the state. Also read: Covid-19 cases in India double to 10,000 in six daysState Special Relief Commissioner (SRC) Pradeep Jena said that social distancing norms would be strictly followed while facilitating activities that were related to livelihoods of the people.The relaxation in agriculture and pisciculture came following reports that distressed farmers of Rabi crops like vegetables, were forced to sell their harvest. In several districts, farmers had to either throw away vegetables, a highly perishable commodity or, sell them at very low rates. Though Rabi crops such paddy, maize and millet have not been damaged, procurement during lockdown had become an uphill task.Farmer leader Ashok Pradhan of Sambalpur Zilla Krushak Surakhya Sangathan said that the relaxation of lockdown measures was all fine, but that the order needed to be passed down to the lower police functionaries on the ground, as they would be implementing the lockdown.However, Pradhan said the relaxation would not solve the problem of shortage of farm labourers in districts like Bargarh and Sambalpur, where agricultural labourers from Chhattisgarh come to work.“As long as the lockdown is in place, there is little scope of people coming from Chhattisgarh. Further, there is no clarity on whether farmers will be allowed to transport their produce to mandis in vehicles,” said Pradhan.Also read: Areas without containment zones on a war footing to avoid clustersBesides, e-commerce platforms like Amazon, Flipkart and Big Basket etc will be allowed to deliver goods across Odisha. Companies engaged in home delivery of goods and services will be allowed to operate without any hindrance. Restaurants, too, will be allowed to carry out home delivery but cannot allow people to dine at their premises. Similarly, roadside eateries will remain open and people can fetch their food to eat outside.Meanwhile, Odisha police have proposed to hire around 2400 retired policemen of state and central forces as special police officers for deployment in different districts. They will help maintain proper law and order in different containment zones, as well as trace Covid-19 suspects.The police force has requested the home department to fill 2394 vacancies of the rank of inspector, sub-inspector, assistant sub-inspector and constables in different districts for a period of at least six months. Uninterrupted round-the-clock deployment on roads and containment zones is adversely affecting the sensitiveness and morale of the existing manpower, a senior police official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-pm-modi-s-address-odisha-announces-relaxation-of-lockdown-for-livelihood-generation/story-sOKoMyU2QHzwFtVlesJilM.html
14-04-2020||India||PM Modi to address nation, India cases cross 10,000: Covid-19 news today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation at 10am on Tuesday, the last day of the three-week lockdown for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), amid expectations that he will extend the emergency protocol until at least the end of April and move, in a limited way, to restart the economy by selectively easing curbs on industry. Hours before the PM’s speech, India went past a bleak milestone on Monday as the number of Covid-19 cases crossed 10,000, with the infections doubling over six days.Covid-19 cases in India double to 10,000 in six daysIndia went past a bleak milestone on Monday as the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases crossed 10,000, with the infections doubling over six days and the government expanding containment efforts and ramping up testing in an attempt to curb the highly contagious pathogen from sweeping across the country.Read MorePM Modi to spell out plan on coronavirus lockdown at 10am todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation at 10am on Tuesday, the last day of the three-week lockdown for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) , amid expectations he will extend the emergency protocol until at least the end of April and move, in a limited way, to restart the economy by selectively easing curbs on industry.Read MoreRapid test kit shipment delayed again amid urgent requirementThe rapid testing kits, which were supposed to be here on April 5, and then April 10, will now be here by April 15, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Monday, commenting on what could well be the lynchpin of the next phase of India’s strategy to combat the coronavirus disease -- widespread (and rapid) testing, not just in hot spots and containment zones but also areas relatively free of the virus.Read MoreTech surveillance only way forward for contact tracing: ExpertsTools such as cellphone-based contact tracing are becoming increasingly important in the fight to contain Covid-19, a disease spreading too quickly and silently for conventional disease control measures to contain it, according to experts and researchers who say this could fundamentally involve some compromises on personal privacy.Read MoreCovid-19: What you need to know todayFor three weeks, life and work across India have been upended. There is no doubt that the lockdown has prevented the march of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) to some extent; people have spent time in self-isolation, and all establishments and offices other than those providing essential services have been closed (with people working from home or not at all), breaking possible chains of infection.Read MoreIndia’s 5 most populous states adopt distinct Covid strategiesAs the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) continues to spread, India’s most populated states have adopted both common, and distinct, strategies to deal with the pandemic.Read MoreGovt plans pool testing in areas with no Covid-19 casesAs the number of cases of coronavirus disease in India crossed 10,000 , the health ministry is considering pooled testing of people with symptoms in areas from where no Sars-Cov-2 (the virus that causes Covid-19) infections have been reported, a health ministry official said on condition of anonymity.Read MoreShortage of workers, choked ports disrupt supply chainsAt least 50,000 shipping containers have been lying orphaned at container freight stations and private container terminals at three large ports in Tamil Nadu with no trucks available to transport them. Most Indian ports have declared a so-called force majeure -- declared when unprecedented events overtake them and prevent them from doing their job .Read MoreCovid spread, curbs delay procurementFarmers of Punjab trooped to the mandis, or agricultural markets, to sell their produce on Baisakhi, the spring harvest festival, on Monday, holding invitations sent by the state government.Read MoreSC modifies order, says free private testing only for poorFree testing for Covid-19 in private laboratories will be available only to people covered by the Ayushman Bharat health insurance scheme and to economically weaker sections of society notified by the government as eligible for such free tests, the Supreme Court ordered on Monday, modifying its April 8 order, which forced private laboratories to offer free tests to everyone.Read MoreFor now, doctors bank on HCQ, antibioticIndian doctors are depending on a combination of a tried and tested antimalarial drug and an antibiotic to treat people hospitalised in isolation wards and intensive care units in the absence of a specific treatment for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Read MoreNew York is first city with 100,000 casesNew York City, the epicenter of the American coronavirus epidemic, alone had way more confirmed cases Monday than the whole of China,the United Kingdom and others. The city had reported more than 104,410 confirmed cases, which was way over 85,212 in the United Kingdom and 83,213 in China. The death toll stood at 6,898.Read MoreAfter US, Italy loses 20,000 lives to viruItaly’s death toll from the coronavirus pandemic topped 20,000 on Monday but its number of critically ill patients dropped for the tenth successive day. The 566 new deaths reported by the civil protection service take Italy’s fatalities total to 20,465 - officially second in the world behind the US.Read MoreLabour woes, logistics gaps key hurdles to reboot planBroken logistics and a crippling manpower crunch pose the biggest hurdles to resuming operations, multiple executives said, as the government weighs a limited restart of industries in a phased exit from the nationwide lockdown.Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-nation-india-cases-cross-10-000-covid-19-news-today/story-1ZYsWniZGtLurgr5PpeRzO.html
14-04-2020||India||28 bureaucrats empanelled to secretary-level posts at Centre||Appointments Committee of the Cabinet (ACC), headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, approved on Monday the empanelment of 28 top bureaucrats to the secretary level.Tarun Bajaj, an Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer of 1988 batch of Haryana cadre, and his batchmate from Gujarat, Arvind Kumar Sharma, have been empanelled as secretary, or secretary equivalent, officers. Significantly, both the officers are currently posted in the prime ministers’ office.Among others who have been empanelled to the secretary-level rank are: National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) Chairperson Sukhbir Singh Sandhu and Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) chairperson Anita Karwal.Both the officers belong to the 1988 batch.Others who are now eligible to join as secretaries are IAS officers Ajay Tirkey of the 1987 batch, Madhya Pradesh, Rameshwar Prasad Gupta of Gujarat cadre and his batchmate from Jammu and Kashmir Sudhanshu Panday.Former CBSE chairperson Rajesh Kumar Chaturvedi, a 1987 batch officer of the Madhya Pradesh cadre, has also been empanelled for holding secretary-level post at the Centre. Currently, he is posted as an additional secretary and financial advisor in the ministry of culture.In addition to 28 officers empanelled as secretary or secretary equivalent, six officers were empanelled as secretary equivalent. These include IAS officers Jyoti Arora of the 1987 batch of Haryana cadre, and Alka Tiwari of the 1988 batch of Jharkhand cadre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/28-bureaucrats-empanelled-to-secretary-level-posts-at-centre/story-uE8GfxXlRqoIXzdkPEKZsI.html
14-04-2020||India||Coronavirus Update: Communications minister Ravi Shankar Prasad directs India Post to prioritise medicines delivery during lockdown||Communications and IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Monday directed the Department of Posts to prioritise delivery of medicines during the lockdown. The post offices have been kept open under essential services to support movement of important documents and parcels during the lockdown.  “I have instructed Secretary, Dept.of Posts to ensure that delivery of medicines through Speed Post is given the highest priority during lockdown. All employees of @IndiaPostOffice should be sensitized so that no one should face any difficulty in receiving or sending medicines,” Prasad said in his tweet. The minister also shared that the postal department has been able to achieve record financial transaction during the lockdown either by paying people at their doorstep or from nearby post offices. “Delighted to announce that @IndiaPostOffice today (Monday) hit an all-time high, crossing 1 lakh mark, to record 1.09 lakh transactions a day in disbursing cash through Aadhaar Enabled Payment System (AEPS),” the minister said in his tweet.  Several state governments and central government departments dole out benefits of various scheme through India Post. “Through these (AEPS) 1.09 Lakh transactions @IndiaPostOffice disbursed Rs. 22.82 Crore of cash in a day to people at their doorsteps or Post Offices nearby using a simple fingerprint authentication, ensuring availability of cash in their hand during lockdown,” the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-communications-minister-ravi-shankar-prasad-directs-india-post-to-prioritise-medicines-delivery-during-lockdown/story-PEZ98QKOHOCkrgKLRCl9GO.html
14-04-2020||India||Probe laxity behind event: SC to govt||The Supreme Court has asked the Centre to examine a petition demanding inquiry into the aspects leading to the Tablighi Jamaat convention in the national capital last month. The petition, filed by a Jammu-based lawyer Supriya Pandita, questioned the role of the Centre, the Delhi government and the Delhi Police for risking the health of millions of citizens by allowing the huge congregation comprising foreign delegates. The matter will be taken up by the court after two weeks.The petition came up for hearing before a bench of Chief Justice SA Bobde and Justices LN Rao and MM Shantanagouder. The court directed a copy of the petition to be served to the Solicitor General Tushar Mehta appearing for the Central government.The Court also heard a related petition filed by Jamiat Ulama i-Hind which demanded an end to demonizing of Muslims following the Tablighi event. The petition raised objections to news reports naming the members of Tablighi Jamaat who were infected. Advocate Ejaz Maqbool argued that the petition had led to violence against members of the Muslim community in Karnataka.The bench told Maqbool that the remedy for defamation against media organizations cannot be in a writ petition. Also, it questioned why the petition did not make Press Council of India (PCI) a party. Not inclined to pass any interim orders gagging the media, the court allowed the petition to join PCI as a party and posted it for hearing along with Pandita’s petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/probe-laxity-behind-event-sc-to-govt/story-OCBtzh709z9eIQ6sz26rBJ.html
14-04-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||At 10am today (Tuesday, April 14), Prime Minister Narendra Modi will announce if and how India will exit the three-week lockdown, which came into effect on March 25 and is scheduled to end at midnight.For three weeks, life and work across India have been upended. There is no doubt that the lockdown has prevented the march of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) to some extent; people have spent time in self-isolation, and all establishments and offices other than those providing essential services have been closed (with people working from home or not at all), breaking possible chains of infection.But the economy has taken a hit and may take months to recover; millions have been rendered jobless (mostly in the unorganised sector); agricultural and industrial supply chains are broken.Also read: Covid-19 cases in India double to 10,000 in six daysThe government has to find a way of balancing two situations that, on the face of it, look like they cannot be balanced.The Prime Minister’s comments during a meeting with chief ministers on Saturday and reports on the thinking within the government suggest that the lockdown could be partially lifted – by geographies and businesses, and, even within these, in parts.India’s dilemma isn’t unique. Other countries that have declared a lockdown to fight the spread of the disease are debating how and when to end it (even as they mull the health costs of not enforcing one, and the economic costs of enforcing one).Also read: India’s 5 most populous states adopt distinct Covid strategiesEven Italy and Spain, two countries ravaged by the pandemic (20,465 and 17,489 dead till Monday) have announced steps to restart some business activity.The key to this, everyone agrees, is antibody testing. Widespread and rapid antibody testing can help identify those who have been exposed to the virus and are, therefore, immune to it. These people can then safely return to work – without the risk of infecting others, or themselves getting infected.For almost two weeks now, officials in the health ministry and the Indian Council of Medical Research have spoken of these rapid tests, which they plan to use to test for infections in clusters and so-called containment zones. These tests, it was held out by these people, would also improve India’s abysmal testing statistic (137 per million). The kits had been ordered (from China) and were on their way, the officials said. All good; except for one problem. The kits have already missed two deadlines. The officials are now hoping they will meet a third (April 15) (see page 1).Separately, Indian states have also been trying to order these kits, but without much success. A minister in Tamil Nadu said last week that kits his state ordered were diverted to the US. There’s clearly a shortage of these kits, and because countries have figured out that these are the easiest, fastest, and most efficient way of deciding who gets to return to work, that shortage could intensify.Meanwhile, the state-owned HLL Lifecare, which last week said that it would begin production of similar rapid testing kits on Monday (April 13), will now do so only later this week because it has just received clearances to do so.When Israel fell short of the RT-PCR kits needed to test for Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, it deployed its spy agency Mossad to source kits. In March, the agency delivered, sourcing half-a-million kits (in two batches) from undisclosed countries.India has to realise that sourcing the rapid kits could mean the difference between a functioning economy (or, at the least, a partially functioning one) and an economy in lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-OidrbLpibY3KDgOJeIC73O.html
14-04-2020||India||Man collects milk spilt on road in Agra while stray dogs feed on it. Video goes viral||A video of man scooping milk that was spread on road at Ram Bagh crossing in Agra went viral. The video shows man collecting the milk from the road, just metres away from a group of stray dogs feeding on the same milk. According to reports, the milk spilled down the road from a motorcycle carrying the load. The man is seen scooping the milk spread in a stretch on road with his hands and gathering it in his earthen pot. आगरा में भूख ने मिटाया इंसान और जानवर का फर्क। सड़क पर बिखरे दूध को पीने के लिए दोनों एक साथ टूट पड़े।#COVID2019 #CoronavirusLockdown pic.twitter.com/c6zolUgnDEWhen contacted, the SHO of Itimad-ud-daula police station, Uday Veer Malik confirmed the incident but said that man, believed to be mentally unstable, is fond of feeding the dogs and was collecting milk to feed the strays.“The man (50) lives under the Ram Bagh flyover and sometimes moves to temple nearby. He collects food and other edibles to feed dogs and on Monday morning had collected milk to feed the dogs,” said Malik. “The man was not collecting milk for himself but for feeding the dogs after a milkmen carrying milk in container slipped and milk was spread on road,” he added. The man lives alone with no family or relatives.Agra is facing lockdown these days along with other cities and crises is faced by many who do not have regular earning or who have no home and family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/video-shows-man-collecting-milk-from-road-in-agra-while-stray-dogs-feed-on-it/story-ClGLUsg3hfHshSkNDDqYlM.html
14-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Phones may hold key to catching up with the pandemic||Tools such as cellphone-based contact tracing are becoming increasingly important in the fight to contain Covid-19, a disease spreading too quickly and silently for conventional disease control measures to contain it, according to experts and researchers who say this could fundamentally involve some compromises on personal privacy.The problem stems from the insidious nature of Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19: it can be spread by a person who does not show symptoms (thus probably unaware of the illness), and merely breathing, coughing and sneezing could pass it on to anyone close by. Tracing contacts through conventional methods, therefore, may be ineffective, require too much manpower, and take too much time for effective containment.“To defeat this virus, you either need a vaccine or testing, contact-tracing, quarantine, which is the hallmark of epidemiological containment. The issue is that normally viruses don’t spread as fast. Most that kill or are serious are infectious at a stage when someone gets very sick,” said Eric Feigl-Ding, an epidemiologist at Harvard University, who was one of the first prominent public health officials to raise an alarm about the virus in January when it spread mostly within China.“Contact tracing only works if you trace far enough and people remember well enough. And it needs a huge manpower. In Wuhan alone, they deployed almost 10,000 people,” added Ding during an interview over video. With a mobile phone-based tool, “you don’t need the manpower and it is instantaneous – the speed is the most crucial aspect. Problems in recalling who an infected person met or where they were too get taken care of,” he said. Ding led efforts to create one of the first such mobile applications back in 2014 called Germ Theory. “During the Ebola crisis, we realised contact tracing is a tedious effort and people have terrible recall,” he said.The idea was also floated by researchers from Oxford University in a paper published on March 31 in which they said, “a mobile phone app implementing instantaneous contact tracing could reduce transmission enough for sustained epidemic suppression, stopping the virus from spreading further.”On April 2, the Indian government launched its own contact-tracing mobile application and roughly a week later, Apple and Google – who together dominate the cellphone software platform market almost entirely – announced they are working on similar mechanism for iPhone and Android-based phones.The apps work on a simple premise: a phone will exchange details – converted into a random, unique alphanumeric – with another phone if the two are in the range of their Bluetooth radios. Bluetooth is a short-distance radio wave, which is picked up only when someone is close enough to, say, be in the same flat or office.The data will be shared with health authorities in the event that either of the device’s users test positive for an infection, triggering an alert to all other devices that may have been in the contact chain, according to the workings disclosed by India’s Aarogya Setu (health bridge) app and the proposed Google, Apple mechanism. Union health ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal, during the daily briefing on Covid-19, said the Aarogya Setu application was downloaded by 35 million people till Monday.PRIVACY WORRIESThe approach, however, has drawn questions about privacy violations. “People will wonder: who profiteers from these apps? Will there by government intrusion?” said Ding.India’s Aarogya Setu has drawn criticism by privacy advocacy groups such as the Internet Freedom Foundation, which says the programme has “a systemic lack of auditability and transparency”. “[There] appears to be a much wider collection and possible sharing [of data] outside of the device, than envisioned under other apps,” said a working paper by IFF, which analysed a similar application used in Singapore and one developed by researchers at MIT.Technology lawyer Rahul Matthan, who advised the Indian government in the development of the Aarogya Setu app, said the features in the application need to be looked at in the context of the circumstances of the epidemic. “If we agree we need some sort of a technological solution to carry out contact tracing, we know that the only way to do that is fundamentally privacy invasive,” said Matthan, a partner-lawyer at Trilegal. “Our approach in designing the privacy features have been to look at what basic privacy principles are around the world,” he said, adding that he supported calls for the programme code to be made public if there was a trust deficit between users and the government. Matthan said the Aarogya Setu app seeks details needed to create demographic profiles since it is crucial to understand the scale of the disease in India. “Age and gender data is relevant because we know the disease stratifies by age. Location data is used to create heat maps – this is crucial because in India, we are a densely populated country and not a lot of people have smart phones. If you contact only those with phones, you leave out a lot of others,” he said. Matthan said the app is distinct from an operating system-level solution that Google and Apple are working on because it involves health officials.“Putting too much trust in algorithmic solution is dangerous. They cannot take into account several factors that can influence the probability of contracting an infection. They may also give people a false sense of hope,” he said, adding that health officials ultimately determine which people identified by the Aarogya Setu must be tested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tech-surveillance-only-way-forward-for-contact-tracing-experts/story-JxbOgDxEPwJXnyjN6gNyFN.html
14-04-2020||India||Rapid test kit shipment delayed again amid urgent requirement||The rapid testing kits, which were supposed to be here on April 5, and then April 10, will now be here by April 15, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Monday, commenting on what could well be the lynchpin of the next phase of India’s strategy to combat the coronavirus disease -- widespread (and rapid) testing, not just in hot spots and containment zones but also areas relatively free of the virus. Called Rapid Test Kits, or RTKs, these are blood tests that search for antibodies in the sample of those tested — a positive test means the person is or has been infected by the virus. Apart from being a fast way to identify the extent of infections in clusters, countries around the world are looking to use these tests to determine who has immunity to the Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19.As such, they are in demand everywhere. Unlike the RT-PCR tests currently in use, which take up to five hours to throw up a result, RTKs give out results in 30 minutes. However, ICMR’s protocol requires a confirmatory RT-PCR test to back up a negative RTK result.“We cannot comment on whether our Chinese consignment of rapid testing kits got diverted to the US or somewhere else because we neither maintain commercial data nor are we manufacturers who would know where our supplies are going. Kits are coming from China, and we have been told some of the kits should reach us by April 15,” said Dr Raman R Gangakhedkar, head, division of epidemiology and communicable disease, ICMR. An ICMR official who asked not to be named said that after many kits failed quality tests, the Chinese regulator, National Medical Products Administration, restricted exports, allowing only five to six companies to sell them. “Quality control is important as there is no point in getting a product and then realising it is of no use. The products from China have to be cleared by their local regulator and we will also conduct tests on batches to check their accuracy on a random basis,” added this person.In addition to the order for 500,000 kits that has already been placed, ICMR raised a tender on April 11 for 4.5 million more rapid testing kits to be delivered in batches. The plan is to have the first batch in by May 1 and the final batch latest by May 31.India ordered 500,000 kits from Chinese suppliers on March 30, and in anticipation of the arrival of the kits first on April 5, India issued an advisory on starting rapid antibody testing on April 4, and revised the testing guidelines on April 9 to include rapid testing of all symptomatic individuals in hot spot areas with symptoms at least a week old.In addition, several Indian states have also placed orders for RTKs. Tamil Nadu, for instance, awaits 400,000 RTKs from China in order to scale up testing across the state“The consignment which was to come to India is not for Tamil Nadu alone. Reports from the vendor’s side suggest seven lakh kits (700,000) were supposed to be shipped out, of which five lakh was for the government of India, one lakh for Tamil Nadu and another one lakh for other states. Unfortunately, due to some issues, these never made it out of China,” a state government official said on condition of anonymity. Tamil Nadu health secretary Beela Rajesh said on Monday that the kits were expected to reach the state within two days, but Tamil Nadu has already expanded its testing pool using existing RT-PCR tests. “We have ordered rapid test kits that will serve as a screening and surveillance tool. We have already ordered four lakh kits, and they will reach us in a day or two. But we are not waiting for that [to scale up screening]. The confirmatory test is our PCR test and that is now deployed as part of a large-scale massive testing.” On Saturday, Tamil Nadu chief secretary K Shanmugam told reporters that China had diverted kits meant for India to the US.HLL Lifecare Limited, a public sector company whose rapid antibody testing kit is approved by ICMR, will start manufacturing kits this week and may be able to deliver some to the government for large-scale testing in the community by the end of the week.But other domestic manufacturers are dependent on China for some components to manufacture these kits, and constrained by an embargo on exports of these components.On April 10, the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, said eight antibody-based rapid tests have been validated and found satisfactory by the facility. Some of those test kits are made by Indian manufacturers. “HLL got a clearance from Indian Council of Medical Research, National Institute of Virology, Pune to manufacture rapid antibody testing kits but we were awaiting a license from the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) which we have received today. Manufacturing is likely to start in the next three to four days in our Manesar plant. In the initial phase, we plan to manufacture two million kits till May 30,” said an HLL executive who asked not to be named.A member of the Association of Diagnostics Manufacturers of India (ADMI), a body representing testing kit manufacturers, said some of the important components for the kits are imported from China. “China has an embargo on exports now. This has slowed down manufacturing of these kits in India. The process takes time, if your order hasn’t been delivered by a vendor, you will have to then look for other vendors. Logistics are not at their best now.”Dr Tarun Bhatnagar, epidemiologist, ICMR-National Institute of Epidemiology, said: “Antibody testing will not tell us who is currently infected. It will tell us who has been infected in the past. Generally, antibodies are developed five to seven days after contracting the infection. If people test positive, it tells us that they were exposed to the virus sometime in the past and developed no symptoms or very mild symptoms. Firstly, such testing tells us how widespread the infection is in the community and how large is the proportion of asymptomatic patients because infection spreads more from a person who is symptomatic. It tells us what is more common, mild symptoms or severe. Antibody tests are required to understand the virus. It is a surveillance tool and is cheaper than RT-PCR (which detects active infection).”Veena Kohli, CEO of Vanguard Diagnostics Limited, which has also been validated for manufacturing of these kits and president of ADMI, said: “The Indian diagnostics manufacturers are working earnestly towards making the detection kits available for the screening of Covid-19 infection. Depending on the assay design of the manufacturer’s product, each kit has some imported and some indigenous components. A majority of these components including antibodies and antigens are imported from China. As we are given to understand, the Chinese government has slowed down the process of export. The Indian manufacturers are also developing alternative sources of raw materials and components to tide over the current situation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rapid-test-kit-shipment-delayed-again-amid-urgent-requirement/story-nUL3PtACQNvFfV3ouPaDcJ.html
14-04-2020||India||PM Modi to spell out plan on coronavirus lockdown at 10am||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation at 10am on Tuesday, the last day of the three-week lockdown for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) , amid expectations he will extend the emergency protocol until at least the end of April and move, in a limited way, to restart the economy by selectively easing curbs on industry.The Prime Minister’s Office announced Modi’s address in a post on the microblogging site Twitter on Monday. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation at 10am on 14th April 2020,” the PMO tweeted on a day the number of Covid-19 infections rose by 1,253 to 10,444 cases, and deaths increased 29 to 355.It will be the PM’s third televised address to the nation in less than a month. On March 19, Modi said he would seek the “coming few weeks” of Indian citizens, asked them to stay determined and patient in the fight against the global pandemic, senior citizens to remain indoors and called for a “people’s curfew” on March 22 to demonstrate their unity and resolve.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayOn March 24 came the announcement of a nationwide, three-week lockdown -- the world’s biggest -- that has halted commercial flights and train journeys,taken public transport off the streets, closed schools and colleges and shut industrial production, as the government tried to break the chain of infections.A day ahead of the address, Modi held in-depth talks with the principal scientific adviser Prof K VijayRaghavan apart from holding his regular meetings with principal secretary PK Mishra and cabinet secretary RK Gauba. The talks with Vijay Raghavan focussed on how the Aarogya app is contributing to tracking the spread of Covid-19, HT has learnt.Shops that sell food, groceries, fruits and vegetables and dairy products, pharmacists, banks and automated teller machines, and petrol pumps have been exempted from the lockdown. Establishments that have been kept out of the purview of the lockdown also include utilities, sanitation, municipal bodies,the police, home guards and civil defence, hospitals, veterinary clinics and pharmaceutical manufacturing and distribution units.A majority of India’s states have backed an extension of the lockdown so as not to fritter away the benefits that may have accrued from the strict social distancing norms put in place to keep the highly infectious virus at bay, but some sought an easing of the lockdown in areas outside the so-called red zones that include Covid-19 hot spots and containment zones.At least seven states -- Maharashtra, Odisha, Punjab, West Bengal, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Telangana -- have already announced an extension of the lockdown until April 30.Some ministries have suggested reopening production units and restarting work in the agricultural sector provided all the mandatory guidelines for sanitation and social distancing are followed.Prime Minister Modi indicated his thinking at the meeting by video conference with state chief ministers.“While announcing the lockdown, I had said ‘jaan hai to jahan hai’ (health is wealth)... Most people in the country understood it and discharged their responsibilities by remaining indoors. And now it is imperative to focus on both aspects, ‘Jaan bhi, jahan bhi’ ((lives as well as livelihoods), for India’s bright future, and prosperous and healthy India,” Modi said.On Monday, members of the Union council of ministers returned to work at their offices for the first time since the lockdown began. The government, in an order last week, also asked all officers of the joint secretary level and above to be present in the ministries along with one-third of the essential staff from Monday.The Union ministry of home affairs (MHA), which has been issuing guidelines to be followed by all sectors, reaffirmed that all offices except those in the defence, central armed police forces, essential services such as power and postal services will remain closed.The ministry also directed all States and Union territories to implement lockdown guidelines in letter and spirit and also to ensure smooth movement of inter and intra-state cargo, trucks, workers and functioning of warehouse and cold storages, Punya Salila Srivastava, joint secretary in the MHA ,said on Monday.“Vehicles carrying essential and non-essential items should be permitted to avoid the shortage of commodities,” Srivastava told reporters.“Warehouses of companies should also be allowed to operate. Railways, airports, seaports, and customs authorities have already been authorised to issue passes for their staff and contractual labour,” she added.The Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) recommended to the home ministry that certain identified industries and services be allowed to resume limited activity with “reasonable safeguards” to restart economic activity and put money in the hands of people.It said industries engaged in manufacturing telecom equipment and components including optical fibre cable; compressor and condenser units; steel and ferrous alloy mills; spinning and ginning mills, power looms; defence; cement plants; pulp and paper units; fertiliser plants; paints; plastic; automotive units; gems and jewellery; and all units in special economic zones (SEZs) and export oriented units (EOUs) be allowed to open limited operations.The Federation of Indian Export Organisations (FIEO) welcomed the suggestion. “Opening of all export industries, large as well as MSMEs (micro, small and medium enterprises) including SEZs and EOUs , will help the exporters execute whatever little orders remain with them after huge cancellations in the last two months,” FIEO president Sharad Kumar Saraf said in a statement. It will also send a signal to overseas buyers that the situation in India is returning to normal, and encourage them to place more orders, he said.The Federation of Retailer Association of India (FRAI) urged the government to let small shops open immediately, as the daily cash flow of small retailers has stopped completely since the lockdown came into force.Covid-19 is expected to take a heavy toll on Asia’s third largest economy, which was already in the midst of a slowdown when the virus hit. The World Bank said on Sunday that India’s economy is expected to grow 1.5% to 2.8% in 2020-21 in a baseline scenario, the slowest pace since India in 1991 embarked on a path of reform that reversed four decades of semi-socialist insulation. Centrum Institutional Research said the country again stares at the possibility of low single-digit growth in the year to March 2021.“Nationwide complete lockdown is likely to shave off at least ~7-8 trillion,” it said.On Monday, Congress president Sonia Gandhi wrote a letter to Prime Minister in which she emphasised the humanitarian aspect of the pandemic ,demanding the provision of 10kg of foodgrains free for six months to the poor who don’t hold ration cards.“The current crisis has pushed many relatively food secure families into food insecurity and poverty,” she wrote in the letter. “In our fight against the pandemic we must ensure that no one faces hunger.”(PTI and ANI contributed to this story)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-to-spell-out-plan-on-lockdown-at-10am-today/story-svsPJbST1VtJ9sAcSEnKgN.html
14-04-2020||India||Covid-19 cases in India double to 10,000 in six days||India went past a bleak milestone on Monday as the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases crossed 10,000, with the infections doubling over six days and the government expanding containment efforts and ramping up testing in an attempt to curb the highly contagious pathogen from sweeping across the country.On Monday, 1,253 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in the country. Delhi recorded its biggest daily spike with 356 cases. The national capital has recorded 1,510 cases so far, becoming the city with the most number of infections.Four people died of Covid-19 on Monday, taking the Capital’s death toll to 28.Until March 24, there were 536 Covid-19 cases in India. The number rose to 2,520 by April 2; 5,305 by April 7; and the latest tally stood at 10,444, according to HT’s dashboard. Of these, 355 people have died of the disease that rages uncontrolled across several nations and has left at least 117,000 dead across the world.The tally of Covid-19 cases first jumped in India after the detection of hundreds of patients who attended gatherings of the Tablighi Jamaat, a Muslim missionary group, in New Delhi’s Nizamuddin last month. Once the cluster – the largest single source so far in the country – was identified and isolated on March 30, daily cases have surged.Also read: India’s 5 most populous states adopt distinct Covid strategiesThe number of cases in Delhi increased from 72 on March 29 to 1,510 so far -- most of the 356 cases reported on Monday appeared to be linked to the Nizamuddin gathering. The Capital reported its first case on March 2, when a 45-year-old who travelled from Italy tested positive. According to officials in the Delhi government, about 1,050 of the total cases are attendees of the Nizamuddin event or their contacts. With the mass identification and isolation of such cases across the country, however, the focus has now shifted to how well the government can contain and localise the infections. “The home secretary and the ministry of health communicate regularly through video conferencing with states and we tell them our containment strategies and they are working in coordination,” Lav Agarwal, joint secretary in the Union health ministry, said at a news briefing on Monday.Also read: Enough HCQ to meet domestic, export demand, says CentreExperts say that the impact of India’s 21-day national lockdown -- imposed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi from March 25 -- which appears to have relatively slowed the spread, could be undermined if disease clusters are not contained effectively, and people are not tested widely and aggressively. The next few weeks will likely determine the country’s trajectory in managing the outbreak and in preventing the health care infrastructure from being overrun by infections.Modi will address the nation on Tuesday morning at 10am, and is likely to announce an extension of the nationwide lockdown, possibly with some exemptions to get the wheels of the economy turning again. In about 100 days this year – the first case of the new disease was reported in China’s Wuhan late last year – Sars-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19, has infected nearly 1.9 million people. The pathogen has spread across at least 200 countries, as even developed nations’ hospitals are overwhelmed, with many dying because of a shortage of medical equipment.The Union health ministry said that 25 districts across 15 states that reported cases earlier had not detected fresh infections over the last two weeks, an optimistic statistic that stood in contrast to some states that have alarmingly turned into big Covid-19 hot spots.The number of cases in Maharashtra surpassed 2,000 as it remained the state with the most Covid-19 patients across the country. Three-hundred-and-fifty-two tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday, taking the state tally to 2,334, according to the state’s health bulletin. Among the new cases, 59 were reported from Mumbai.The Uddhav Thackeray-led government issued an official notification extending the lockdown in the state till April 30 after a previous announcement to this effect. “Since there has been no reduction in the number of Covid-19 cases... the lockdown was extended till April 30,” an official said.Tamil Nadu, meanwhile, is the third state other than Maharashtra and Delhi to report more than 1,000 cases. The government in the state also announced the extension of the lockdown till April 30.Eight doctors have contracted Covid-19 in the state, which said it was focusing on “aggressive testing” now in coordination with the private sector. The death toll from the virus in Tamil Nadu now stands at 11. While the state has scaled up its infrastructure to trace and treat patients, there have been other states that present worrying trends.Rajasthan reported its highest single-day addition of Covid-19 cases on Saturday, with 65 of these being identified in Ramganj, Jaipur, which has become a hot spot for the infection. On March 29, the number of cases in Jaipur was 10. By March 30, the count doubled to 20. By April 6, Jaipur recorded 100 cases. As of Monday night, the case count was 897 across Rajasthan.Madhya Pradesh has reported the highest death rate of Covid-19 patients in India, with almost the entire health department either in quarantine or in hospitals. Public health experts say the high deaths and spurt in cases indicate poor state response to the deadly virus.Indore, the state’s industrial hub, has been one of the worst affected in the country. A 42-year old man died of the disease in Indore on Monday, taking the toll in the Madhya Pradesh city to 33.While the government has created more than 1,200 containment zones across the country, much more needs to be done on the testing front to guard against the disease spreading undetected, they say.Other than swab tests to diagnose the disease, the government is waiting to launch rapid testing kits that can check for antibodies and indicate if a person was ever infected with Sars-CoV-2, and if they have now developed an immunity to it. The rapid kits, however, are still to arrive from suppliers in China amid untraceable delays since April 8. “The first consignment of some rapid test kits is likely to reach from China on April 15,” said Raman R Gangakhedkar, head of epidemiology and communicable diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), at a news briefing. The government also said that 200,000 tests have been conducted so far and there are enough swab kits to carry out diagnoses for the next six weeks.An official said on condition of anonymity that ICMR is also considering “pool testing” to ramp up testing speed – under the procedure, labs pool samples collected from an area and test for the disease; if nobody tests positive, they move on, and only when infections are detected do they test individually.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cases-double-to-10-000-in-six-days/story-O9N0XrmeGZMQvfAK5WHdBJ.html
14-04-2020||India||SC backs MP guv’s order for floor test by Kamal Nath govt||New Delhi: The law must be strengthened to curb the increasing trend of the breakdown in the composition and allegiances of the political parties due to private allurements as opposed to public policy considerations, the Supreme Court said on Monday while upholding Madhya Pradesh governor Lalji Tandon’s direction in March for holding a floor test in the state assembly.Kamal Nath resigned as Madhya Pradesh chief minister on March 20 two hours before a floor test in the state assembly on the directions of the Supreme Court that his government looked set to lose following the rebellion of 22 Congress lawmakers.Tandon had earlier written to Nath on March 14 directing that a floor test be held on March 16. When the House was convened on March 16, the speaker adjourned it till March 26 citing the coronavirus threat without holding the floor test. The Bharatiya Janata Pary then moved the apex court submitting Nath government had lost majority in the assembly. The Congress, in a counter-petition, said the floor test can happen only when all the elected lawmakers are present in the assembly. It argued that a governor can order a floor test only when the House is not in session. If the House is in session, the only remedy is to seek a motion of no confidence, the Congress said.The top court on Monday turned down this argument saying a governor can exercise his power and direct a floor test even if the House is in session. “The governor is not denuded of the power to order a floor test where on the basis of the material available to the governor it becomes evident that the issue as to whether the government commands the confidence of the house requires to be assessed on the basis of a floor test,” the court said in its order. It added such a decision is subject to judicial review.The top court’s observation related to the composition of political parties came in relation to the submissions made by the Congress alleging that the 22 of its lawmakers were taken away to Bengaluru and that it faced resistance when it tried to contact them. “The law may have to evolve to address these burgeoning evils,” it said.The court referred to the spectacle of rival political parties whisking away their political flock to safe destinations and added it is best that courts maintain an arm‘s length from the “sordid tales of political life”. It added it must be conscious of the position on the ground and an effort has to be made to the extent possible to ensure that democratic values prevail. “It is an unfortunate reflection on the confidence which political parties hold in their own constituents and a reflection of what happens in the real world of politics…Poaching is an expression which was bandied about on both sides of the debate in the present case,”The top court had on March 19 ordered that a floor test should be held but had not given any reasons for that order.Its Monday’s order explained in detail the rationale behind the top court’s order of March 19. The court ruled a governor of a state is empowered to order a floor test if he/she has reasons to believe that the council of ministers headed by the chief minister has lost the confidence of the house.This power can be exercised by a governor at any time during a “running assembly”, that is when the House is in session, a bench of justices DY Chandrachud and Hemant Gupta held, reaffirming its order passed on March 19 asking Nath to prove his majority. “The governor in calling for a floor test cannot be construed to have acted beyond the bounds of constitutional authority.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-backs-mp-guv-s-order-for-floor-test-by-kamal-nath-govt/story-1lULKeDS7Yuvambfl9iSTJ.html
14-04-2020||India||Centre sends revised Parliament building plan to environment ministry||The Centre has submitted a revised application to the environment ministry for the new Parliament building of the Central Vista redevelopment project after an expert appraisal committee (EAC) on infrastructure deferred its environment clearance last month. A new Parliament building with enhanced technology and a capacity to seat several hundred more parliamentarians in both the Upper and Lower houses was to be built as part of a Rs 20,000 crore redevelopment project in Lutyens’ Delhi planned out in a phased manner over the next four years. The new Parliament complex was expected to be ready by 2022.In its application which has been reviewed by the Hindustan Times, the union ministry of housing and urban affairs’ construction arm, the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) has stated that the project cost for the new Parliament building has been increased from Rs 776 crore to Rs 922 crore instead “due to changes in specifications which have been approved after the application submission.” The EAC is scheduled to hear the matter on April 22.Addressing concerns raised over the project in the application stated that “there will be no adverse impact due to construction activities on existing structures and suitable precautions will be accordingly made… There are several ASI regulated archaeological sites present within the study area. However none of them will be impacted due to the project activities. Since their regulated boundaries are outside the project site.” “Transportation of raw material will cause impacts for the short-term only. Barricading will be provided all around the construction site. Air pollution will be minimized by water sprinklers and by covering the vehicles during transport. The trucks used for transport will be thoroughly checked for emission parameters and will be properly maintained. The raw materials transport will be avoided during the peak hours to reduce traffic load,” the application stated.The new two-storied Parliament building is to come up on a triangular plot close to the existing Parliament. It has been designed to seat at least 1300 parliamentarians. Both the Rajya and Lok Sabha have been designed to have up to date audio-visual features, improved acoustic technology, as well as better seating design to ensure efficiency and productivity while the houses are in session. The new building will also have an open to sky courtyard, meeting halls, cafeterias and MP’s offices.The existing Parliament building which is almost 90 years old has faced deterioration over the years due to environmental conditions, and the project aimed to preserve the building by retrofitting to make it compliant to current safety standards.The new application clarified the renovation of the existing Parliament building would include a condition survey to assess the structure, strengthen and renovate its interiors and utilities. Hindustan Times on March 9 had reported Centre’s application seeking environmental clearance for the construction of a new Parliament complex has been deferred by the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC). EAC had citied pending court cases related to the project as one of the reasons for deferring the application. It had also noted that the project would provide a “larger Parliament building for the nation for better functioning of the legislature” but also added that CPWD needed to meet a slew of conditions before the proposal can be reconsidered.However, the plan could face delays due to the lockdown as the project was scheduled to be tendered in April. This also comes at a time when nearly all opposition parties have urged the government to shelve the project and spend the money instead on advancing the fight against Covid-19.The Centre had in March notified the land use change of over 86-acre area in Lutyens’ Delhi to expedite completion of the redevelopment project, which was to include a new Central Secretariat, and other new government office buildings on either side of the Central Vista, among other things.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-sends-revised-parliament-building-plan/story-TSzrwF8vAvtfWxo25G4mqL.html
14-04-2020||India||Mild quake hits Delhi, 2nd in two days||New Delhi: A mild 2.7 magnitude earthquake hit Delhi for the second time in two days on Monday. The tremor at 1:30 pm had its epicentre at the depth of 5 km in northeast Delhi’s Sonia Vihar. The 3.5 magnitude earthquake on Sunday had its epicentre at the same location at the depth of 8 km. “These earthquakes were well recorded by seismological network maintained by the National Center for Seismology (NCS),” the NCS said in a statement.AP Pandey, an NCS seismologist, said normally such small earthquakes are followed by more tremors. “If the next event occurs close to the epicentre as is the case this time, then it shows that the movement is settling back. Delhi and surrounding regions have lots of faults. There may be other earthquakes but we cannot say when,” he said.According to the NCS statement, Delhi experienced last perceptible earthquake of magnitude 3.5 on April 24, 2018. Prior to that, a magnitude 3.8 earthquake occurred on September 7, 2011, near the Delhi-Haryana border. Delhi also recorded low magnitude earthquake with the epicentre within Delhi in 2007. Another earthquake was recorded in Delhi on April 28, 2001, of 3.4 magnitude. Officials said the people perhaps felt the latest earthquakes strongly than usual since most are at home and the “ambient vibrations” road traffic causes have died down because of the Covid-19 lockdown.“These are called tremors and very small earthquakes have been recorded in the past in the Jhajjar and Rohtak areas. We are in seismic zone 4 [severe earthquake intensity zone]. We are close to the Himalayas where even magnitude 8 earthquakes can be recorded. The local soil quality also plays a role. Thick sediment soil in Delhi also amplifies the impact. The area where the epicentre is has newer alluvium soil which can record more tremors. It is close to the Yamuna belt,” said Pandey. He added that less noise from traffic or other sources has made the recording on seismometer very accurate and intense experience for the people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mild-quake-hits-delhi-2nd-in-two-days/story-nwjQ1TOrYlb5aZS5m5AbDI.html
14-04-2020||India||Ashok Desai: A legal luminary, a multifaceted scholar||Ashok Desai, India’s former attorney general and one of the country’s most distinguished lawyers, passed away on Monday. It was deeply distressing and saddening news. I was privileged to know him over decades and every interaction with him was always enlightening. He also had a wit and sense of humour even while pursuing the somewhat sombre profession of an attorney. He was a product of the London School of Economics (LSE) and thereafter of the Lincoln Inn, London. He was the chairman of the Committee on Administrative Law of International Law Association, and worked with the United Nations Human Rights Commission in Geneva as well as represented India at the World Trade Organisation Appellate body. Understandably, he was conferred the Padma Bhushan having served both as Solicitor and Attorney General of India.Having worked with him closely on some matters, here are a few instances I would like to recall.First, he played a critical role in drafting an affidavit on behalf of the central government, which brought the famous Hawala case to a final closure. The case had, in many ways, altered the political milieu since many important politicians and others had suffered when their names had figured in the Jain Hawala diary. At a certain stage, when I became the revenue secretary, the repetitive hearings and adjournments by the Supreme Court was becoming exhausting for the government. It was Ashok — the then attorney general — who felt that we should expeditiously bring this matter to a closure.The then Prime Minister I K Gujral had constituted a committee under the chairmanship of NN Vohra, former principal secretary to PM for drafting an affidavit. I was a member of the committee. The affidavit drafted by him, and which was finally accepted by the Supreme Court, made important changes by way of guaranteeing the security of tenure, the adherence to the selection procedures and the autonomy to be given to the Central Bureau of Investigation and the Enforcement Directorate. Later, the Central Vigilance Commissioner became the supervisory entity as an overarching watchdog. Ashok’s drafting of the affidavit, which was in line with the psychology of the court, led to the ultimate closure of the case. It was a relief to all the concerned stakeholders.Second, much later, we were both members of the India Advisory Board of the London School of Economics, which was co-chaired by Lord Nicholas Stern and myself. As a member of the Advisory Board, given his past LSE connections, he always had creative ideas on what could be done to enhance the academic reach of this prestigious institution in India. Fostering interchange of students, faculty members and joint research projects were some of the ideas which he had put forward persuasively.Third, on a somewhat a lighter side, being an exceedingly sophisticated individual, and given his interest in art and culture, his fondness for classical music, both western and Indian, was indeed awesome. I once recall that on a visit to Vienna, for a meeting of the Narcotics Control Board of the United Nations, we together witnessed an opera called Madame Butterfly by Giacomo Puccini. The opera was entertaining, although somewhat heavy and needed prior experience to be fully appreciated. I was stunned during the recital that he had remembered every aria (an elaborate melody sung solo) by-heart, and before the aria could even get started, to my amazement, he would fully recite the arias himself. Much later, when we were in London for a conference, we had gone to witness a popular opera by Giuseppe Verdi called La Traviata and, characteristic to his style, he repeated the same feat of reciting the operas by-heart as if he knew them inside out. He was equally conscious of British habits, and at the commencement of the play, reminded me that in case I wanted a drink, the right time to order was at the beginning of the performance to obviate any unseeming rush during the short interval. Perhaps few could recite the contents of all Shakespeare play with such velocity. I also recall that during the private recitals of Pandit Jasraj or Kishori Amonkar at my house, he would invariably occupy a seat in the front and savour and enjoy every bit of the classical recital. He was a man of great equanimity, cultivated manners and scholastic understanding of a wide range of subjects. He was a towering personality in the legal fraternity.India has lost one of its finest legal minds. I have lost a personal friend whose presence I will greatly miss. Without hesitation, it can be said that he was clearly a cut above the others, and by today’s standards, a class apart.(NK Singh is the chairperson of the 15th Finance Commission and a former Member of Parliament. The views expressed are personal)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ashok-desai-a-legal-luminary-a-multifaceted-scholar/story-P2uD8uQKGJNfc8MvRSmotM.html
14-04-2020||India||Bihar, Odisha may resume MGNREGS||Bihar and Odisha will soon allow resumption of works under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employee Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS), the world’s biggest rural social security scheme, in an effort to provide relief to the rural poor hit by the coronavirus disease (Covid) and consequent lockdown.The nationwide, three-week lockdown ends on Tuesday, April 14, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi is due to address the nation at 10 a.m.to outline immediate future plans to combat the pandemic and prevent its spread.On Monday, most state governments submitted their plans for the post-lockdown phase with a majority suggesting that the emergency measure continue with exemptions for agriculture and allied services and more measures to provide relief to the poor. Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar told divisional commissioners and zonal inspectors general of police on Monday that a comprehensive plan was being prepared to generate employment opportunities for people.The biggest concern of the state government has been the lack of work for large number of people, including migrant workers who have returned from different states after the lockdown came into force on March 25. The state government also wants to complete flood management work before the onset of the monsoon.Officials said the second phase of the lockdown after April 14 would be different, with the government planning to allow work under MGNREGS to resume or the conservation of traditional water sources, soil conservation, environment-specific crop cycles, organic farming, drip irrigation, rain water harvesting and use of solar energy.Kumar said that all precautions must be taken to ensure the safety of labourers and farmers. “After harvesting, employment generation in rural areas will be the main focus, there is no reason to be complacent at any stage in view of the Covid-19 outbreak,” he added.So far, Bihar has done well to restrict the spread of Covid-19, with 27 districts still untouched by it and most of the 64 reported positive cases tracked.In Odisha, which has already announced extension of the lockdown until April 30, the government on Monday announced that work under MGNREGS and construction under Swachh Bharat (Clean India) scheme will be allowed, apart from all agricultural activities.The state government also plans to hire retired state and central police officers to enforce social distancing norms for the next six months, the police said. Odisha police have proposed to hire around 2,400 retired policemen of state and central forces as special police officers for deployment in different districts. They will help maintain law and order in different containment zones, as well as trace Covid-19 suspects, officials said.According to the order issued by chief secretary Asit Tripathy, shops and establishments selling agricultural implements, cattle feed and fish feed, and food processing and packaging units will also be allowed to remain open during the extended lockdown.The order said that activities relating to MGNREGS and construction of toilets under Swachh Bharat mission and individual houses under the rural housing scheme would be allowed.The works related to water conservation and supply of drinking water would continue, apart from procurement of rabi, or winter-sown, crops. “People engaged in fishing, floriculture, tendu leaf plucking and collection of non-timber forest produce can also carry out their work,” the order said, adding that e-commerce platforms like Amazon, Flipkart and Big Basket will be allowed to deliver goods across Odisha. State special relief commissioner (SRC) Pradeep Jena said social distancing norms would be strictly followed while facilitating activities that were related to the people’s livelihoods.Till Monday, Odisha had reported 55 positive cases, one death and 13 recoveries. Only 2 of the remaining 41 patients are critical, said a state government statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-odisha-may-resume-mgnregs/story-DmFL5QZ8NpjmXL7g7GK2RK.html
14-04-2020||India||Maha crosses 2K-mark with biggest 24-hr jump||Maharashtra doubled its coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases to 2,000 in six days, recording its biggest 24-hour jump on Monday, as 11 more deaths in the state vaulted the number of fatalities in the pandemic to 160, prompting the Uddhav Thackeray government to extend the lockdown until the end of April.The state said 352 more people tested positive for Covid-19, taking the number of patients confirmed to have the infection to 2,334. Of Monday’s cases, Mumbai, the Indian city worst hit by the disease, alone recorded 242, taking its Covid-19 count to 1,540. Of the 11 deaths in Maharashtra, nine were reported by Mumbai and one each by Pune and Mira-Bhayander.Thirty-nine cases were recorded in Pune; 14 in Malegaon; 11 in Nagpur; nine in Thane; seven in Mira-Bhayander; six in Pimpri-Chinchwad; five in Vasai-Virar; four each in Aurangabad, Buldhana and Kalyan-Dombivli; one each in Ahmednagar, Dhule, Nashik, Navi Mumbai, Panvel, Raigad and Yavatmal.The Thackeray government on Monday extended the lockdown, which was to end at midnight on April 14, until April 30, even as it looks at allowing micro-, small- and medium- enterprises (MSMEs) to start operations in districts that are not affected, or relatively less affected, by the outbreak. A proposal for allowing industries to reopen is being prepared by the state industries department.“It was necessary to extend the lockdown period as the state has been the worst-hit by the pandemic and more than a hundred cases are coming per day for more than a week. The spread can be arrested only with the help of a lockdown,” said a senior official, requesting anonymity.On the lockdown extension, a notification issued by chief secretary Ajoy Mehta on Monday read: “It is expedient to take measures further to contain the spread of coronavirus; therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred under section 2 of the Epidemic Disease Act, 1897 the state government directs that the lockdown orders shall now be extended up to and inclusive of April 30, 2020.”Maharashtra took 30 days to cross the 1,000-case mark on April 7 and exceeded the 2,000 tally in just six days. The state health department isn’t perturbed because it is still in stage two or the local transmission phase, where the spread of the disease is limited to those with a travel history or are in contact with infected people, and not entered stage 3 or community transmission in which the source of the infection cannot be traced.State health commissioner Anup Kumar Yadav said the coronavirus spread was not “exponential” and under control. “We are still in stage two of transmission. The spread is now in clusters, but it is not exponential. Our cluster containment plans are showing results and it is not going out of control. Any infectious disease has a growth pattern. One is the way it is growing now, and the other is it is growing exponentially, which is seen in some other countries. We are confident that the measures we have taken at an early stage are well-placed; it is responding well. So it should not go out of control,” Yadav said.According to Yadav, the state is conducting an average of 3,000 coronavirus tests daily, and he attributed the increasing number of cases to aggressive testing. The state government, he said, was now awaiting antibody test kits from the Centre to carry out “rapid testing”. “We are waiting for the kits. They would be first used by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). We do not plan to use it elsewhere in the state. Besides, we are also awaiting the Centre’s nod for pool testing permission, which the state had sought,” he said.Malegaon in Nashik district has seen a surge in the number of coronavirus cases. On Monday, 14 cases were reported from the neighbourhood, taking the tally to 29. It is being looked at as another cluster where the spread has spiked. District authorities and the municipal council are looking at demarcating containment areas in Malegaon.The Maharashtra government is considering allowing industrial operations across the state except in Mumbai and Pune. State industries minister Subhash Desai held a review meeting on Monday and directed the department to submit a proposal on where MSMEs and other industries can be reopened.“Excluding the areas of Mumbai and Pune, which has a high number of Covid-19 cases, a proposal should be prepared to allow industries to start their operations with certain restrictions in the rest of the districts of the state,” Desai said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-crosses-2k-mark-with-biggest-24-hr-jump/story-Hio2NaypZJUw7eoFZkUZjM.html
14-04-2020||India||Agra registers its biggest 24-hr spike with 35 new cases||Agra recorded the biggest spike in Covid-19 cases in a day on Monday as 35 people tested positive for the disease and took the district’s tally to 138 even as officials attributed the sharp rise to aggressive testing and contact tracing as part of a containment model that the Centre has asked states to emulate.The Centre on Saturday cited the model while instructing states to learn from it. Officials say the Agra Model has involved a proactive approach in identifying cases, conducting intensive testing, door-to-door surveys and implementing strict quarantine measures to prevent the spread of Covid-19Officials said the 35 new cases include eight that are linked to the congregation at the headquarters of Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi that last month emerged as a Covid-19 hotspot. They added of the total 138, 60 are liked to the congregation.“We are witnessing a sharp rise in the number of patients but soon it will start decreasing. The institutional quarantine is the only solution to such types of cases,” said district magistrate Prabhu N Singh. He added they have been shifting those who come in contact with Covid positive cases to quarantine centres before collecting their samples. Singh said they will continue with their model based on massive sampling, social distancing and institutional quarantine.Officials said the virus has spread to a rural area of Fatehpur Sikri where a person infected 14 members of his family. They added these cases tested positive in a day. The other hotspots include a hospital in Agra where the staff and their contacts alone account for 20 Covid-19 patients.Chief medical officer Dr Mukesh Kumar Vats said some patients were undergoing treatment at the hospital and no new admissions of patients will be allowed there.The other coronavirus hotspot is Ghatia Azam Khan area, where a private practitioner first tested positive and is later believed to have infected at least five people.“One should not go by numbers at present because it is the outcome of our surveillance and proactive sampling with 2,264 samples having been tested in Agra till date. The cases coming positive are those whose origins are known to us and is part of Agra containment plan,” said Vats.“Till date, only one death has taken place that too of an aged lady who already had asthma. Other patients testing positive are kept under isolation and are getting cured.” He added they are handling the challenge posed by major hotspots including the hospital. “We are aggressively getting their contacts tested.”Vats said the hotspot in Fatehpur Sikri has been sealed. “The in charge of a community health centre has been made the nodal officer for measures to be taken there for containment.”Dr Satish Verma, the chief medical superintendent of Agra’s district hospital, said this month samples of 150 suspected Covid-19 patients have been tested daily on an average.The Agra Model kicked in early in the Covid-19 outbreak cycle when six patients tested positive on March 3. At the time, the entire country had only 30-odd cases. Authorities drew up a list of people with foreign travel and identified their families and close contacts. The neighbourhood where patients lived were declared hotspots, with a three-km radius around them acting like containment zones and a five-km radius areas as the buffer zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/agra-registers-its-biggest-24-hr-spike-with-35-new-cases/story-h13wFfoAOCFmonPcgnn84I.html
14-04-2020||India||India’s 5 most populous states adopt distinct Covid strategies||As the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) continues to spread, India’s most populated states have adopted both common, and distinct, strategies to deal with the pandemic.Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and West Bengal account for one-third of total 10,444 Covid-19 cases in India and about 40% of the country’s 1.21 billion population in 2011. Being densely populated, the probability of rapid spread of Covid-19 in these states was and remains higher than in less populated southern and Himalayan states. They are also more vulnerable because they house about 60% of 1.3 million migrant labourers in shelters across India.While providing food to all, including about 20 million poor citizens in these states, was a challenge, the state governments adhered to health ministry’s guideline of testing and strong Covid-19 cluster management. They also launched apps to track hundreds of patients and put thousands of people in quarantine. But they also opted for state specific models that helped in containing the spread. Maharashtra opted for aggressive testing (42,000 so far) and created the most number of containment zones in cities; Uttar Pradesh ensured that the virus is restricted to 41 of the 75 districts; Bihar focused more on isolating migrant workers and screening of all foreigners; Madhya Pradesh came across as lax initially before ramping up screening and testing efforts; and West Bengal termed its plan as containment with “humane face”.Here is what each state did over the past month: Maharashtra: The state’s approach to Covid-19 infection and management has been distinct. It got most of the initial Covid-19 patients from foreign travelers, unlike other populated states, where the infection came primarily from secondary sources or attendees of Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Nizamuddin Delhi in mid-March.After a rapid rise in the cases with an average of more than 150 positive cases and 12 deaths a day over last ten days , the state government shifted focus on the containment zones in Mumbai, adjacent areas, and other cities such as Pune that accounted for 90 % of the total positive patients and 91 % of total deaths.The state has more than 400 containment zones, including 381 in Mumbai alone, highest for any city in India. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has divided these containment zones in three categories — red with more than 5-6 patients, yellow up to six patients and green with no cases.“We have decided to concentrate on the most affected areas of Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and Pune by strictly implementing the lockdown. There are hotspots identified, in the containment zones, with the highest positive cases and they will be strictly monitored,” said state home minister Rajesh Tope.As on Monday, 2334 people had tested positive and 149 had died due to Covid-19 in Maharashtra. Around 70% of these cases were reported in last ten days. MMR, which comprises of 9 municipal corporation and 20% of the state population has 1520 patients.Uttar Pradesh: The state focused on 41 districts, from where Covid-19 cases were reported and adopted a multi-pronged strategy of aggressive identification of hotspots, intensification of restrictions and creation of new health facilities combined with relief to people.UP chief secretary RK Tiwari said that the UP model of “aggressive action to identify and act” has been appreciated by the Centre and others states have been asked to follow. When the Covid-19 pandemic first broke out, there was not even a single testing lab in the state. Now, the state has 10 labs and more are come up, he said. The spurt in Covid-19 cases in Uttar Pradesh has been substantially attributed to the Tablighi Markaz in Delhi in last week of March. Additional chief secretary, Home, Avnish Awasthi said 50% of the cases in the state are linked to Tablighi Jamaat and the administration got them quarantined as soon as they were identified.According to officials, 11 committees were set up to oversee the situation following lockdown announcement and suggest measures to provide relief to people. UP was the first state to announce financial relief of ₹1000 to half a million workers, daily wagers and vendors and is set to implement free distribution of food grains to nearly 30.54 million labourers.UP so far has 550 Covid-19 cases with nearly 190 hotspots in 41 out of 75 districts. Five persons have died, 47 have recovered while about 11,855 tests have been carried out so far.Madhya Pradesh: With a full Cabinet not yet in place after the formation of the new government, and 72 health department officials tested as Covid-19 positive, containing the disease has proved to be a challenge for chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan.The data provided by the state government shows that Covid-19 has primarily been restricted to Indore and Bhopal, even though cases have been reported from 21 of the 52 districts in the state. Of the 562 Covid-19 positive cases, Indore with 311 patients accounted for 55.33% and Bhopal, with 134, 26.22% of total cases. Overall, Madhya Pradesh has 7.29% death rate while in Indore the death rate of 9.64%, higher than the national average of 3.4. Of the 41 deaths, 30 were from Indore.Additional chief secretary, health, Mohd Suleman, appointed head of department a week back after the incumbent officer reported Covid-19 positive, said, “Our strategy has four components — Identification, Isolation, Test and Treatment (IITT).” He said any area visited by a foreigner or known for ILI (Influenza like illness) or respiratory problems, is declared a containment zone. Door to door survey is done to list people with different categories of diseases and they are marked as high or low risk. “The test is then either done of high risk persons eat home or at a testing centre,” he said, adding that fourth component is treating people tested positive.The state has 282 containment areas with about half of them in Indore. The affected 21 districts have curfew restrictions while borders of Bhopal, Indore and Ujjain have been sealed to prohibit entry or exit of any person. Indore, the worst affected city, has been divided into five sectors, with a senior officer in-charge of each sector.Bihar: With 65 cases in the state of 100 million people, the Bihar government has now opened its outpatient facilities for all, the first big state to do so, in an indication of the state’s confidence that the situation was under control. Experts however believe the state may not have tested aggressively enough. Less than 8000 tests have been carried out so far. State chief secretary Deepak Kumar, however, said the state tested all international passengers who came between March 18 and 23 and all symptomatic cases, who came between March 15 and 17, were also tested. It identified around 3,556 international travelers between March 15 and 23 and samples of 2,254 people, who were within the 14-day incubation period, were taken for tests.Bihar also followed the model of containment zones, where people have not been allowed to move out of their homes and essential supplies delivered to them at their doorstep, said Sanjay Kumar, Bihar’s principal secretary, health. For instance, Panjwar village of Siwan district, where 23 of the 29 cases in the district were reported, was declared ‘red zone’ and complete barricading of the village was done at 200 metres, 500 metres, 1km, 2km and 3km.Places visited by Tablighi Jamaat attendees were sanitised and mosques, where they were staying were sealed.West Bengal: The state, with 95 Covid positive cases and seven deaths, has been warned by the home ministry for not enforcing lockdown norms strictly. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, however, had said they had opted for “lockdown with humane face” and imposed complete clampdown in Covid-19 hotspots.“Some areas where people have tested positive for Covid-19, and there is a threat of the disease spreading, have been totally sealed,” said a health department official, on the condition of anonymity.The state has formed an advisory body roping in international experts (such as Nobel laureate economist Abhijit Banerjee) and has also formed three task forces and a few other committees to guide the state in tackle coronavirus.“We are prepared. The state now has seven testing laboratories, 64 hospitals are earmarked for Covid-19 patients and there are more than 580 quarantine centres,” said a second official of the health department.The state government has been criticized for opaque information system on Covid with the health bulletins providing information only on active cases. Officials, however, explained that the information was being provided only after vetting by experts, who had termed most deaths because of co-morbidity.(With inputs from state bureaus)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-5-most-populous-states-adopt-distinct-covid-strategies/story-fMNDYruaoWX41CFjZej1OK.html
14-04-2020||India||Punjab man, his mother say faith kept them strong during recovery||Harpal Singh’s worst fears came true when his mother, Pritam Kaur, 72, tested positive for Covid-19 four days after he was diagnosed with the disease on March 22. He was more worried about his mother since she is diabetic and more vulnerable. But luckily for them, the two were admitted to the same isolation ward at Civil Hospital in Punjab’s Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar. This helped them at least to keep each other’s morale high. Harpal Singh, 48, has since recovered but he continues to stay back at the hospital to look after his mother, who doctors say is stable and likely to be discharged after she is retested this week. He said it is their faith that helped them stay strong. They would listen to religious hymns on their phones and talk to their family over video calls. “Initially, I was worried because I had heard that people suffering from chronic diseases [like diabetes] and those aged may not survive [if infected by coronavirus],” Singh said. Harpal Singh, whose Pathlawa village was on March 22 declared Punjab’s first Covid-19 containment zone, was one of the 27 people infected by super-spreader preacher Baldev Singh. The preacher died on March 18 and was tested positive for the disease a day later. Baldev Singh, 70, had returned from Germany via Italy on March 7. He visited several places before his death that triggered a scramble for identifying all the people he had come in contact with. At least 14 members of his family were infected along with four in Jalandhar and five in Hoshiarpur. In Pathlawa, 19 people contracted the disease and 14 in nearby villages of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar district, which were sealed within days. Harpal Singh is among the 13 people from his village to have been recovered. At least 10 of them have been discharged. As of Monday, Punjab had 176 Covid-19 cases. The state has reported 12 deaths related to the pandemic while 23 patients have recovered.Harpal Singh said he is grateful to the doctors and medical staff at the civil hospital for providing them moral support and counselling as well as the best possible treatment. Singh said given his mother was in the isolation ward with him gave him much solace and would not leave the hospital without her. Dr Harwinder Singh, the Civil Hospital’s senior medical officer, said Harpal Singh has been asked to remain under home quarantine for two more weeks after his discharge. He added they are taking extra care of Kaur because of her age. “We focused on their counselling so that patients should be mentally strong.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-man-his-mother-say-faith-kept-them-strong-during-recovery/story-z4QUiquESWYGY2i86W4H5O.html
14-04-2020||India||Battling losses in lockdown, K’taka puts vacant govt sites on sale||Admitting that the state is in “financial trouble”, Karnataka chief minister B S Yediyurappa on Monday announced measures to help in resource mobilisation, including by authorising the auctioning of 12,000 corner sites in the state capital. The Bangalore Development Authority intends to raise Rs 14,000 to Rs 15,000 crore from the auctioning. Apart from this, corner and vacant sites in all urban development authorities across the state would be auctioned for additional resource mobilisation. Yediyurappa made it clear that the auction of government-owned sites would be done only if they fetch a “good price”.“The possible situation once the [Covid-19] lockdown is ended was widely discussed in the meeting. Discussion was also held about the financial situation of the state government and how to mobilise resources. Many suggestions were given and it was decided to implement those suggestions,” Yediyurappa said after a meeting with officials of various departments.According to officials aware of developments, the state government has lost nearly Rs 2,500 crore in revenue from just the stoppage of liquor sales since March 24 when the 21-day lockdown to halt the spread of Covid-19 was announced. The lockdown is expected to be extended on Tuesday.The officials said the government is likely to take a call on Tuesday whether liquor stores could be opened in the state. They added the state has also decided to use the Rs 1,000 crore available for upgrading medical college hospitals. To help dairy farmers as well as poor people, the state would continue to distribute free milk among the poor living in slums, the officials said.Yediyurappa also announced Rs 45 crore compensation for farmers of Raichur and Koppa, who have lost their paddy crop due to hailstorm. While appealing sugar factory owners to clear pending payments to the tune of Rs 2,834 crore due to farmers across 11 districts, the chief minister warned of strict action in case they failed to do so.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/battling-losses-in-lockdown-k-taka-puts-vacant-govt-sites-on-sale/story-pd5aWvOl3RJSwNdGVFkRQK.html
14-04-2020||India||Enough HCQ to meet domestic, export demand, says Centre||The Centre on Monday reiterated availability of all essential medicines, including hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) after department of pharmaceuticals secretary PD Vaghela held a video conference with representatives of the pharmaceutical industry, medical device manufacturers and chemists.“Indian pharma industry is producing enough stocks of essential medicines particularly HCQ to meet both domestic demand and to meet export obligations,” a government spokesperson said.The industry suggested to the government to declare courier services as an essential service in the delivery of important medicines for ailments like diabetes, cancer and other high value drugs and asked it to resolve the problem of congestion at ports and airports for efficient transportation of essential medicines. The secretary assured all measures for an uninterrupted supply of medicines and medical devices in all parts of the country, he said.The secretary said the government is in constant touch with the industry, states and the other departments through email, Whatsapp groups, control room set up in the department of pharmaceuticals and the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA) to address any issue expeditiously.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sufficient-medicines-medical-devices-including-hcq-available-in-india-centre/story-wHVOD8WeATwBNFxljBptPJ.html
14-04-2020||India||Dip in electricity usage a slowdown indicator: Experts||Economists and environmental experts at the Energy Policy Institute of the University of Chicago (Epic) have started documenting the initial signs of a massive economic slowdown resulting from the coronavirus disease pandemic -- closure of industries, shops and restaurants and a dip in power consumption, and an unintended benefit -- a decline in pollution Historically, electricity consumption has proven to be a “reliable, early indicator” of broader economic trends, the team at Epic said. This time, too, the institution’s data tracker shows a 3.37% dip in electricity consumption in the US, European Union, China and India combined on February 29 relative to the average electricity consumption in December 2019. On January 1, the dip was 7.99%. The data tracker updates both electricity consumption and PM levels every day from government and non-government sources and documents the number of Covid-19 deaths in these countries. The graphs on the dashboard are interactive.“The Covid-19 pandemic has forced governments around the world to impose tough restrictions on daily life to prevent the spread of the virus. With these restrictions, roads and airports are nearly empty, shops and restaurants are closed, and industrial activities are largely at a halt. In this environment, real-time information about economic activity is at a premium, but often hard to acquire,” Epic said in a statement on Monday.An unintended benefit of the dip in electricity consumption is a 6% dip in particulate matter (PM) pollution on April 1 compared to December 2019 in these countries, the data tracker launched on Monday indicated.“Declining and increasing consumption has historically preceded economic recessions and recovery. The Covid tracker is an indicator of the health of the economy at a higher temporal resolution (updated daily) than anything else that is available. Most other measures of economic health will only be available every quarter so tracking this information is critical,” Anant Sudarshan, South Asia director of the Energy Policy Institute at the University of Chicago, said by email.The dip in both electricity consumption and PM pollution is significant in India as per EPIC’s data analysis. India recorded a dip of 18.72% in electricity consumption on April 3 compared to December 2019 and a 6.8% in PM pollution on April 1. The PM pollution had dipped by 36.72% on January 18.The dashboard shows that PM levels started declining in India in January much before covid 19 cases increased and lockdown was imposed. “There is no robust evidence in India that PM level has gone down in pre-COVID era due to economic slowdown. Unless trends in source specific PM2.5 concentrations are estimated, it is not possible to conclude that way,” said Sagnik Dey, associate professor at the Centre for Atmospheric Sciences, IIT Delhi.The scientists have used daily electricity data for India from Power System Operation Corporation Limited’s daily reports and PM 2.5 data from OpenAQ, a website that aggregates particulate matter readings from monitoring stations around the world.In contrast, China has recorded no change in electricity consumption compared to December and a 10.17% dip in PM pollution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dip-in-electricity-usage-a-slowdown-indicator-experts/story-NX7FuCbybwsMary80A682M.html
14-04-2020||India||For now, doctors bank on HCQ, antibiotic||Indian doctors are depending on a combination of a tried and tested antimalarial drug and an antibiotic to treat people hospitalised in isolation wards and intensive care units in the absence of a specific treatment for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). “It is not a miracle therapy, but this is all we have. All patients in isolation wards are given a combination of hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) twice a day and azithromycin once a day for five days, and it has been tolerated well. No adverse reactions have been reported,” said Dr Yatin Mehta, chairman, Institute of Critical Care and Anaesthesiology, Medanta-the Medicity, where 15 Covid-19 patients are currently being treated, of whom three are in ICU.Medanta also treated 14 Italians infected with the disease; 13 were discharged last month, and one, a 78-year-old woman died. Hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine are oral prescription drugs that have been used for treatment of malaria and certain inflammatory conditions for over a century. Both drugs are undergoing clinical trials for pre-exposure or post-exposure prophylaxis of Sars-CoV-2 infection, the virus that causes Covid-19, and treatment of patients with mild, moderate, and severe symptoms of Covid-19.“Hydroxychloroquine is not mean to be taken by healthy people as a prophylaxis to prevent infection, only Covid-19 patients are being given a combination of this drug along with the antibiotic azithromycin for treatment. Antivirals have been withdrawn by ICMR as they didn’t show much benefit,” said Dr RR Gangakhedkar, chief, epidemiology, ICMR. The majority of Covid-19 patients have mild to moderate illness, with symptoms of cough, fever and tiredness, with around 5% developing severe pneumonia and acute respiratory stress syndrome (ARDS), which is marked by worsening respiratory symptoms within one week of known clinical infection.In India, around 2% of Covid-19 cases are in ICU, according to ICMR, with a little more than 100 being on ventilator support across India to treat ARDS, which makes it difficult for a patient to breathe without oxygenation. “All patients with ARDS are monitored closely for signs of clinical deterioration, such as rapidly progressive respiratory failure and sepsis, and apply supportive care interventions immediately,” said Dr Mehta.The signs of ARDS include worsening respiratory symptoms within one week of known clinical infection and chest imaging, including X-rays, CT scan or lung ultrasound, showing bilateral opacities, not fully explained by effusions, lung collapse, or nodules.Intensive management is needed if the patient is a smoker or has cardiovascular disease and lung diseases, like asthma and chronic obstructive respiratory disease, which puts them at a higher risk of severe disease and complications. “In patients with chronic diseases, prescription medication is continued,” said Dr Mehta.With some hospitals in the US and Italy reporting unusually high death rates of 65% to 80% of Covid-19 patients despite ventilator support, compared to 40-50% for other severe acute respiratory infections, there’s a global debate on whether ventilating patients could be doing certain patients more harm than good.“Covid-19 causes death by respiratory failure and cardiac arrest, just like other severe pneumonias, the difference is lack of immunity, greater severity of disease and relatively less lung damage. These are lungs not difficult to ventilate but there is relatively more hypoxia. A possibility is clots in blood supply to lung, but no one is fully sure,” said Dr Anurag Agrawal, director, CSIR Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, New Delhi.“If you see the published data of good quality - mostly Italian – you see two subtypes of patients. The first present with typical ARDS needing high PEEP (positive end-expiratory pressure is the pressure in the lung), and second with normal mechanics and increased dead space. The second group may have micro-thromboembolism (clots obstructing blood flow), but nobody is sure yet as there are not enough autopsies being done for obvious reasons,” added Dr Agrawal.Some clinicians are recommending oxygenating patients through nose tubes or other devices, while some are adding nitric oxide to improve oxygen and blood flow to the least damaged parts of the lungs. “What does one do? You have to oxygenate. Our experience in treating Covid-19 patients found non-invasive ventilation wasn’t very effective and HFNC (high-flow nasal cannula) didn’t work as well as mechanical ventilation,” said Dr Mehta.Some hope came from the Indian Council of Medical Research on Sunday announcing protocols for convalescent plasma therapy trials in the country. “Convalescent plasma is an experimental procedure for Covid-19 patients. Hospitals and institutions planning to provide this modality of treatment should do so in a clinical trial with protocols, which are cleared by the institutional ethics committee,” the ICMR said in a statement on Sunday.Convalescent therapy involves drawing blood packed with antibodies against Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, from people who have recovered. Platelets that carry antibodies are separated from other blood components like red blood cells, white blood cells and platelets, and given to Covid-19 patients to reinforce their immunity to fight infection.While studies from China have shown it raised lymphocyte counts, improved liver and lung function, and reduced inflammation, lung lesions and other severe symptoms within a week, clinical trials to study the safety and efficacy of convalescent plasma therapy on Indian patients is still needed before it’s approved for treatment.“The disease is four months old and till we have a vaccine or treatment specifically targeting the Sars-CoV2 virus, we have to use all the tools we have on hand to save lives,” said Dr Mehta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/for-now-doctors-bank-on-hcq-antibiotic/story-vWIgAbiKPt295qbytnrHyH.html
14-04-2020||India||Centre Covid relief: 323 mn poor get cash aid under scheme||The Union government has disbursed Rs 29,352 crore in the bank accounts of 323.2 million beneficiaries since the March 26 launch by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman of a Rs 1.7 lakh crore welfare scheme aimed at protecting the poor from the impact of national lockdown imposed to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), according to an official statement on Monday.The welfare package under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY) has already covered financial support to 198.6 million women under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY), the finance ministry statement said, adding that this covering 97% of PMJDY’s women account-holders and amounted to Rs 9,930 crore.PMJDY is a national mission for financial inclusion, launched in August 2014, to provide universal access to banking facilities to the poor. According to the PMJDY website, there were nearly 381 million accounts under the scheme with total deposits of Rs 1,19,707 crore as on April 1, 2020.The finance minister last month announced financial assistance of Rs 500 per month to 200 million women Jan Dhan account-holders for three months to help tide over household expenditure needs without disruption.The 21-day national lockdown, announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, came into effect on March 25.“The robust digital payment infrastructure has enabled the prompt transfer of cash payment under the PMGKY. About 93% of the 8 crore (80 million) farmers have already received Rs 14,846 crore cash assistance under the PM-KISAN,” a finance ministry spokesperson said, citing the latest figures.While launching the Rs 1.7 lakh crore package, Sitharaman announced that the Rs 2,000 installment of PM-KISAN would be “front-loaded” and given immediately. The Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) scheme, launched in December 2018, provides cash support of Rs 6,000 per year to all farmer families across the country in three equal instalments.The spokesperson said the government has transferred Rs 1,405 crore in the bank accounts of 28.2 million widows, senior citizens and persons with disability as on April 13, 2020. The welfare package had promised a Rs 1,000 ex-gratia amount to economically backward widows, citizens above the age of 60, and the physically challenged, under the National Social Assistance Programme (NSAP). The amount is to be given in two instalments. NSAP is centrally sponsored scheme that provides financial assistance to the elderly, widows and persons with disabilities in the form of social pensions.The government has so far disbursed financial support to 21.7 million building and other construction workers, amounting to Rs 3,071 crore, the spokesperson added.Sitharaman said last month that a Rs 31,000 crore fund for the welfare of construction and other workers already existed, and that 35 million workers were registered under it. “We have given directions to state governments to utilise the funds to provide assistance to construction workers to protect them,” she said.Vijay Kumar Gupta, former Central Council Member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) said, “Direct financial assistance to millions of poor people in this hour of crisis is appreciable and it could be possible because of the government’s financial inclusion [Jan-Dhan] mission, else middlemen would have siphoned off most of the money mid-way. But, this is not enough for a country of India’s size and the government must offer more such packages to ensure sustenance of all poor, particularly daily wagers and migrant workers who are jobless.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-covid-relief-323-mn-poor-get-cash-aid-under-scheme/story-F9uQG7DgpLPPuGCukts7uM.html
14-04-2020||India||Infections among frontline medical staff minuscule: Health ministry||Healthcare professionals who have tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India are mainly medical staffers with a recent travel history or had come in contact with people carrying the virus and they outnumber those infected in the line of duty, health ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal said on Monday.“There are two categories of infection largely seen among healthcare professionals: one is of those cases that had a travel history or contact history with a positive case and infected their colleagues through regular interaction. The number of this category of cases is higher as opposed to those healthcare workers who were infected in the line of duty,” he said.“The number of healthcare workers who got infected in the line of duty is a very miniscule percentage; even though our effort from day one has been that our healthcare professionals on the ground follow all infection control practices properly to avoid contracting the infection,” he added.Meanwhile, several research efforts are underway on Covid-19, and health, and science & technology minister Harsh Vardhan is looking at the work of Council of Scientific & Industrial Research labs that are working in close partnership with the private sector and other ministries.The research projects are divided into five verticals: digital and molecular surveillance, rapid and diagnostic, new drugs/ repurposing of drugs and associated production processes, hospital assistive devices and personal protection equipment, and supply chain and logistics support systems.“… using cutting edge technology at all levels for timely response at district administration level to Covid-19. Live case tracking, case management and implementation of containment plans are also being done through technology. GIS {geographic information system} mapping of positive confirmed cases, identification of active interventions areas, use of heat mapping and predictive data analysis are being used for monitoring implementation of containment plans,” said Agarwal.The implementation of the technology-based action plan has contributed to no more positive cases in 25 districts across 15 states for the past fortnight.“These districts have no case reported since the last 14 days and constant vigil is being maintained to ensure that no new cases may occur in future,” said Agarwal.These districts are Gondia (Maharashtra), Raj Nandgaon, Durg, Bilaspur (Chattisgarh), Davangiri, Kodagu, Tumkuru, Udupi (Karnataka), South Goa (Goa), Wayanad and Kottayam (Kerala) ,West Imphal (Manipur), Rajouri (J&K), Aizwal West (Mizoram), Mahe (Puducherry), SBS Nagar (Punjab), Patna, Nalanda and Munger (Bihar), Pratapgarh (Rajasthan), Panipat, Rohtak, Sirsa (Haryana), Pauri Garhwal (Uttrakhand), and Bhadradari Kothagudem (Telangana).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/infections-among-frontline-medical-staff-minuscule-health-ministry/story-A42GOH5Tm9Zc0xqyzmcgrL.html
14-04-2020||India||Covid spread, curbs delay procurement||Farmers of Punjab trooped to the mandis, or agricultural markets, to sell their produce on Baisakhi, the spring harvest festival, on Monday, holding invitations sent by the state government. The government of chief minister Capt. Amarinder Singh is trying to limit crowds at the mandis and maintain social distancing norms to avoid the spread of the coronavirus disease and has restricted the entry into markets to invitees. “To ensure smooth procurement and also follow the instructions in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak, no farmer can enter a mandi without the invitation of the Punjab Mandi Board through the {agricultural produce} market committee,” Punjab agriculture secretary KS Pannu said. Each day, a limited number of farmers will be sent coupons with holograms and more coupons will only be issued after the produce that is already in the market is lifted. The sale of wheat of up to 50 quintals of per farmer started on Monday.The procurement by invitation is an innovation adopted by the Punjab government n the backdrop of Covid-19 and the ensuing lockdown that have already delayed procurement of foodgrains by state agencies by a fortnight in the northern state, neighbouring Haryana and in Madhya Pradesh. The nationwide lockdown due to Covid-19 had pushed states like Punjab, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh to delay the procurement from farmers by a fortnight. Many states such as Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Telangana have already relaxed lockdown norms allowing work in agriculture fields for harvest.Punjab’s food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu said that to spread out the procurement, 1,897 rice shelling mills with large open spaces have been converted into procurement centres, in addition to 1,864 markets and procurement centres. Gloves, masks and sanitisers are being provided at all procurement centres, said additional chief secretary (development) Viswajeet Khanna.India is expecting a 7% increase in rabi, or winter-sown, crop production this year, the highest in a decade, because of a wetter-than-usual winter, which prompted farmers to increase acreage by 15-20%. The Centre has announced an increase in the minimum support price ranging from 4.5% to 7.5% for rabi crops this season.Punjab alone is expecting an output of 13.5 million tonnes of wheat worth Rs 26,000 crore. Haryana’s production is estimated at 12 million tonnes, Uttar Pradesh 10 million tonnes and Madhya Pradesh about 6 million tonnes.In Haryana, procurement will start at 140 purchase centres from Tuesday, April 14, of harvested mustard seeds. The real test will begin on April 20 when wheat will arrive in about 2,000 procurement centres.“Until last year most of the procurement operations used to be over in 25 days, now we will stagger the procurement operations up to two months. The procurement will continue till June 20,” Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said.The farmers will be allowed to visit Mandi in two time slots from 8am to 2pm and from 2:30 pm to 6pm and there will be one procurement center for three villages. Every possible covered space, like sheds owned by the Dera Sacha Sauda, empty grounds of rice millers and school premises will be used for procurement, Haryana officials said.In Uttar Pradesh, despite the lockdown, 34% of the wheat crop has been harvested. “Of the total wheat coverage 9.88 million hectares, 33.89 hectares was harvested by April 12 and this is 34% of the total wheat sown in UP,” said UP’s director (agriculture) Soraj Singh said.“The rabi harvesting is going as smoothly as earlier and the coronavirus lockdown has had no impact on agricultural activities although people are taking precaution against the disease,” said Ram Saran Verma of Barabanki, a Padam Shri awardee progressive farmer.Soraj Singh said inter-district movement of farm workers and equipment had not been restricted and farm equipment from other states too can come in, provided the local district magistrates issue passes. The government has also extended the period of payment of short-term farm loans. In Madhya Pradesh, the procurement of rabi crops including wheat, pulses and mustard will start on Tuesday except in the Covid-19 hotspots of Indore, Ujjain and Bhopal. Farmers would be given specific time slots to bring their produce to 1,241 markets and not more than 10 farmers will be invited in a particular time frame.Farmers have been advised to sell produce to traders through letter of sale, MP chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said. The MP government has told farmers to make that before bringing their crops to markets, the grains should are cleaned and dried. The biggest hurdle in the staggered procurement is a shortage of labour. “We plan to use workers under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme for procurement,” said Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala. States such as Punjab and Uttar Pradesh also intend to employ migrant workers for procurement, officials said.Another issue the states are facing is a shortage of jute bags to pack the wheat in because of the closure of mills in West Bengal, whose chief minister Mamata Banerjee has refused to allow the mills to function on grounds that it would violate lockdown norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-spread-curbs-delay-procurement/story-Nh43RMM8PLntYheqVzkPcN.html
14-04-2020||India||SC modifies order, says free private testing only for poor||Free testing for Covid-19 in private laboratories will be available only to people covered by the Ayushman Bharat health insurance scheme and to economically weaker sections of society notified by the government as eligible for such free tests, the Supreme Court ordered on Monday, modifying its April 8 order, which forced private laboratories to offer free tests to everyone.Private laboratories, the apex court said, can continue to charge people who can afford the testing fee as fixed by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) at Rs 4500.“Government of India, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare may issue necessary guidelines for reimbursement of cost of free testing of Covid-19 undertaken by private Labs”, the bench of justice Ashok Bhushan and S Ravindra Bhat clarified.The order was passed after the ICMR, private laboratories and a Delhi based doctor approached the top court seeking modification of its earlier order.The apex court also gave liberty to the central government to decide whether any other categories of the weaker sections of the society like workers belonging to low income groups in the informal sectors or beneficiaries of Direct Benefit Transfer should also be eligible for free testing.The Supreme Court, on April 8, ordered that tests for Covid-19 across government and private laboratories should be free of cost and no person should be deprived of Covid-19 tests because he was unable to afford it. Up until that order was passed, private laboratories were allowed to charge up to Rs. 4,500 for conducting Covid-19 tests.The petitioner, advocate Shashank Deo Sudhi, approached the top court, submitting that government hospitals are packed to capacity, making it difficult for people to get themselves tested in government labs.With no alternative in sight, people are forced to pay money to get the tests done at private labs, the petitioner said, adding that saddling ordinary citizens with such a financial burden effectively deprives them of their accessibility to medical facilities and is violative of right to life guaranteed under article 21 of the Constitution.He, therefore, prayed that Covid-19 tests should be free even in private laboratories.After the court allowed Sudhi’s plea on April 8, Dr. Mishra, who is a senior orthopedic surgeon, formerly at AIIMS, and currently at the super speciality Primus Hospital in Chanakyapuri, moved the top court submitting that several citizens have now been admitted and confined to hospitals and other facilities as potentially infected with Covid-19, but their test results remain pending for long periods, putting a strain on the system.It was his plea that in such a scenario, casting the additional burden of offering tests for free could lead to private labs stopping their functioning altogether.Further, private laboratories, through senior counsel Mukul Rohatgi, told the court on Monday that if they are not allowed to charge any fee for the tests, it will be impossible for them to carry on the tests due to financial constraint and other relevant factors. They also pointed out that the kits which are utilised in the test are imported kits, which involve substantial expenses.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, referring to the affidavit submitted by ICMR, argued that about 107 million poor and vulnerable families (500 million beneficiaries) are covered under the Ayushman Bharat scheme and they can avail of the benefit of free Covid-19 tests even in the private labs.“Free testing for Covid-19 shall be available to persons eligible under Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Aarogya Yojana as already implemented by the Government of India, and any other category of economically weaker sections of the society as notified by the government for free testing for Covid-19, hereinafter... Private labs can continue to charge the payment for testing of Covid-19 from persons who are able to make payment of testing fee as fixed by ICMR,” the court directed after hearing the plea for modification.The court also clarified that the order of April 8 was meant to help economically weak sections of society. “We further clarify that the order never intended to make testing free for those who can afford the payment of testing fee fixed by the ICMR for Covid-19,” the top court said. Private labs welcomed the modified SC order. Ameera Shah, the promoter and managing director of Metropolis Healthcare Ltd, which has been approved by ICMR for Covid-19 testing, said, “We stand by the decision of the honourable Supreme Court. The Government of India’s stand of allowing the free tests of the people covered under the Ayushman Bharat Scheme is a welcome move.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-modifies-order-says-free-private-testing-only-for-poor/story-VVQxyMbJZFPznboha8vOAO.html
14-04-2020||India||Shortage of workers, choked ports disrupt supply chains||At least 50,000 shipping containers have been lying orphaned at container freight stations and private container terminals at three large ports in Tamil Nadu with no trucks available to transport them. Most Indian ports have declared a so-called force majeure -- declared when unprecedented events overtake them and prevent them from doing their job . At ports across India, cargo terminals are operating at capacities less than 30%. On April 3, in a video conference with Union minister of shipping Mansukh Mandaviya, port operators, importers, and shipping companies raised some of these issues, including the unavailability of trucks (and drivers), the shortage of workers in ports and cargo terminals, and choked ports . The 21-day lockdown enforced by India on March 25 -- it ends midnight April 14; the Prime Minister is to address the nation on Tuesday morning on whether it will be extended and if so, fully or in part; several states have already extended it till the end of the month -- has hit the handling of cargo across Indian ports, choking shipping lines. There has been a shortage of workers to handle cargo and a dearth of truck drivers to ferry the cargo to factories leading to a huge inventory pile up at ports. The Centre’s move to waive demurrage charges during the lockdown is acting as a disincentive for importers to figure out ways to move cargo. The closure of factories has also left cargo grounded (or in ships in anchorage) . India’s 7,516.6 km long coastline caters to more than 90% of India’s trading by volume. The statistics are worrying because a snag in the supply chain could stoke distress.Cargo volumes at the Indian ports were already witnessing some slowdown in FY2020 on the back of various factors such as the US-China trade war and the ongoing economic slowdown, according to credit rating agency ICRA. Bottlenecks in the shipping and logistics part of the supply chain, which are critical for timely movement and evacuation from ports, could be an aggravating factor, the firm noted.Manufacturers whose companies aren’t producing anything “aren’t taking deliveries” of imports, said FIEO director general Ajay Sahai. The Federation of Indian Export Organisations is India’s apex export promotion body. “The ports are choking with imports. There is no place to put the containers. There is no unloading happening at factories. The entire import and export trade is a chain activity and even if link is missing, the entire chain gets disrupted,” he added. Sahai listed the problems: courier companies that are not working during the lockdown; factories that are unoperational; customs and ports that are working but a fraction of capacity . “You can’t force people to come to work. Supply chain disruption will continue once factories start even in a limited way,” Sahai said. In a letter written to the home ministry on Sunday, the commerce ministry proposed allowing companies operating large factories making textiles, automobiles, electronics, cement, and fertilisers to restart operations with proper sanitation and distancing norms in place. It suggested restricting their capacities to 20-25% in a single shift to start with. “Commerce ministry has sent the government recommendation on allowing certain industries. The Industry also does not have liquidity to pay for duties. There is a huge mismatch of imports and exports right now. Exports have gone down, there are no containers for exports and labour left for loading. The key is to allow some industrial activity, then also ease liquidity as well to the industry. At present there are no incentives to clear the consignment.” Sahai explained.Earlier this month, the ministry advised major ports to invoke force majeure. This means, for existing and operational projects, the Major Ports can permit waiver of all penal consequences on a case-to-case basis along with deferment of certain performance obligations under the relevant provisions of a concession agreement.The Centre has issued several orders to states asking them to allow movement of all transport vehicles. Centre on Sunday has again asked states to ensure smooth transportation of all inter-state and intra-state goods movement amid concerns of shortage of supply.Tens of thousands of trucks have been left stranded across state borders since the lockdown took effect on March 25. The government has issued several advisories to state chief secretaries that movement of both essential and non-essential goods be allowed, seeking to avoid shortages.To address the snag, ports are also encouraging transportation of goods by railways. The national carrier has been operating freight trains since the suspension of passenger trains during the lockdown.“ As of now we are operating at 70% of our capacity. On the shipping side cargo operations are running on the normal side, down by about 20% there are some challenges in movement to container and where to store the goods and organise labour. The issues is factories have also closed right now. We are hoping it will get better slowly as factories are allowed to open. There is substantial movement happening through rail right now ,” said Kolkata Port Trust (KoPT) chairman Vinit Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shortage-of-workers-choked-ports-disrupt-supply-chains/story-dNSpOr8UAXzXHKSSU8dqNK.html
14-04-2020||India||Govt plans pool testing in areas with no Covid-19 cases||As the number of cases of coronavirus disease in India crossed 10,000 , the health ministry is considering pooled testing of people with symptoms in areas from where no Sars-Cov-2 (the virus that causes Covid-19) infections have been reported, a health ministry official said on condition of anonymity. There are around 450 districts (out of a total of around 730) which have not reported any Covid-19 cases. The plan is to test people with symptoms (cough, fever) using both RT-PCR, or Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction, and rapid antibody testing.Pooling of samples involves testing them in batches. When a pooled sample tests positive, then individual samples are assessed. Research shows that this method can be used to do up to three times as many tests with the same number of kits — an important consideration given India’s population. The regions will be selected on the basis of data available through the integrated disease surveillance programme network, and also the new mobile application, Arogya Setu, which has started generating relevant data on the disease pattern, the health ministry official added.“Pooled testing is a good surveillance tool and can be used to test symptomatic people in non-Covid areas to confirm if the areas are actually Covid-19-free. It has not happened yet but is being considered as one of the options to get an idea on the disease spread. The idea is already there, testing will only confirm it,” this person said. India is yet to get the rapid test kits it ordered from China, so the plan will be put into effect with RT-PCR tests. Once the rapid test kits arrive -- these antibody test results are available in 30 minutes as opposed to the RT-PCR tests which take about five hours -- they will be used. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Monday said people should not worry about testing as India had enough stock of the kits.“We currently have enough stocks to do be able to do testing for at least six more weeks. There is no need to fear,” said Dr Raman Gangakhedkar, head of the division of epidemiology and communicable diseases, ICMR, . Experts in the field say the ICMR is already late. “They should have started at least a month ago; even if they didn’t have rapid test kits; they should have gone ahead with the RT-PCR tests. We had to test more to know better,” said a senior epidemiologist, who asked not to be identified.Meanwhile, ICMR is also working on increasing the number of laboratories that can test, and is in the process of upgrading laboratories of both private and government medical colleges so that these can also be utilised for Covid-19 testing. It is currently in the process of identifying college laboratories that can be upgraded with the help of some mentoring by advanced labs already doing Covid-19 testing.“ICMR has taken cognizance of the need to expeditiously expand Covid-19 testing facilities in all parts of the country… efforts are being made for proactive search of potential laboratories which could be enabled for Covid-19 testing…,” says an ICMR document seen by HT.ICMR has identified 14 institutes of national eminence, such as All India Institutes of Medical Sciences; Armed Forces Medical College, Pune; National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences, Bengaluru; the Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education & Research in Puducherry; King George Medical University, Lucknow; and Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences, Hyderabad to mentor colleges.The mentor labs will form teams to conduct a comprehensive review of the college laboratories. The mentors will see what facilities these laboratories have and what they need to be able to do Covid-19 testing. At least 400 such laboratories have been identified by the government for assessment. “It is a good idea as there are some states with good infrastructure, and their labs can be taken up almost immediately. For those states that don’t have good medical colleges, the government can help set up/upgrade lab based on Covid-19 testing requirement. The good thing is labs can be created or upgraded in a short span of time, so we can increase the capabilities of the testing labs,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, community medicine expert, Safdarjung Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-plans-pool-testing-in-areas-with-no-cases/story-7W9Yu1PmCtvLvjLAMZIUVO.html
14-04-2020||India||India issues 2 back-to-back demarche to Pak for violations. But first a phone call||India on Monday lodged protests with Pakistan for the killing of a woman and 2 minors in firing by Pakistani forces in Jammu and Kashmir in unprovoked cross-border firing and shelling by Pakistani forces on Sunday.A second demarche was issued soon after over Pakistani maritime security forces firing at Indian fishermen in two fishing vessels off the Gujarat coast. One fisherman was injured in this firing that New Delhi described as “a deliberate attack” at its nationals.The two demarches, or formal diplomatic representation, were sent electronically.The standard diplomatic practice has been to summon foreign envoys to the External Affairs Ministry, convey the government’s displeasure at the events concerned and hand over the demarche, or the formal diplomatic note. Since it was not possible to summon the Pakistan envoy to the foreign ministry due to the Covid-19 lockdown restrictions, a phone call from the external affairs ministry to Pakistan Deputy High Commissioner Syed Haider Shah preceded the demarche, a top government official told Hindustan Times.Also read: Imran Khan rushes back to UNSC over Kashmir, this time over domicile lawIn the demarche over the Jammu and Kashmir violation, India condemned in the strongest possible terms the deliberate targeting of innocent civilians that had led to the killing of Shamima Begum, 35, and Javid Ahmad Khan, 17, residents of Reddi Chokibal and 8-year-old Zeeshan Bashir of Kupwara’s Tumna village.The demarche, people familiar with the developments said, underlined that Pakistani forces continue to resort to unprovoked firing and ceasefire violations and asked Islamabad to probe such heinous crimes against civilians.In the second demarche, officials said, New Delhi lodged its strong protest at the deliberate attack and firing on Indian fishermen on board two Indian fishing boats ‘Omkar’ and ‘Mahasagar’ by Pakistan Maritime Security Agency vessel on 12 April. In this incident, one Indian fisherman was injured.Also read: Spike in ceasefire violations by Pakistan amid Covid outbreakIslamabad had, earlier in the day, summoned India’s charge d’affaires Gaurav Ahluwalia to the Foreign Office to register Pakistan’s protest over what it called were ceasefire violations along the Line of Control (LoC) in several sectors on Sunday.To be sure, both countries have blamed each other for violating the 2003 ceasefire pact. Pakistan accuses the Indian Army for 708 ceasefire violations in 2020. The Indian Army has counted 1,144 ceasefire violations by Pakistan Army between January and March, with the highest number of violations (411) being recorded in March.Terrorists often sneak into Jammu & Kashmir under cover fire from the Pakistani army. This task of coordinating the launch of terrorists is reported to be overseen by Pakistan Army Brigadier Faisal Qaadeer. Counter-terror operatives said there was information that he had died due to a heart attack on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-issues-2-back-to-back-demarche-to-pak-for-violations-but-first-a-phone-call/story-pND5bCl9C54VnIMdC9ufuK.html
14-04-2020||India||India’s ‘strong demarche’ to Pakistan over death of 3 civilians in shelling||India on Monday lodged a strong protest with Pakistan over the killing of three civilians  in unprovoked cross-border shelling by Pakistani troops and a “deliberate attack” on two fishing boats that injured a fisherman, people familiar with developments said.An eight-year-old boy and a woman were among the three people killed when Pakistani troops shelled several civilian areas in Kupwara district of Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday. The Indian Army said it responded to the ceasefire violations by targeting terror launch pads and ammunition dumps on the Pakistani side.The people cited above, speaking on condition of anonymity, said a fisherman was injured when Pakistan’s Maritime Maritime Security Agency (MSA) made a “deliberate attack” and fired on the fishing boats Omkar and Mahasagar on Sunday. The incident occurred in waters off the coast of Gujarat state, the people said.Strong “demarches” or formal diplomatic representations were made to the Pakistani side to protest the shelling in Kashmir and the attack on the fishing boats, the people said.“A strong demarche was made to the Pakistani side on the killing of three innocent Indian civilians in unprovoked ceasefire violations by Pakistan forces on April 12,” said one of the people, speaking on condition of anonymity.A second person said: “India strongly condemned the deplorable and unprofessional act by Pakistan’s Maritime Security Agency of firing at Indian fishing vessels and causing bodily harm to Indian fishermen. India called on the Pakistani authorities to instruct its forces to desist from such heinous acts.”The people said India had protested against the deliberate targeting of civilians in cross-border shelling by Pakistani forces in Kashmir. The killing of the civilians went against humanitarian norms and professional military conduct, they said.The Indian side also called on Pakistan to adhere to the 2003 ceasefire along the Line of Control (LoC) and international border in Kashmir.Earlier, India’s charge d’affaires in Islamabad, Gaurav Ahluwalia, was summoned to the Foreign Office to register Pakistan’s protest over what it said were ceasefire violations in several sectors along the LoC on Sunday that resulted in the death of a child and injuries to four civilians.New Delhi has already rejected Islamabad’s accusation, saying its troops only responded to shelling by Pakistani forces.Pakistan’s Foreign Office, in a statement, accused Indian troops of committing 749 ceasefire violations this year along the LoC and the international border.Both sides have accused each other of violating the 2003 ceasefire in recent years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-strong-demarche-to-pakistan-over-death-of-3-civilians-in-shelling/story-UdtTedOsXZOKqbuw4txbaO.html
14-04-2020||India||PM Modi meetings on Covid-19 lockdown in last lap, decision at 10 am||The Prime Minister’s Office, which has been in the middle of the decision-making process during the Covid-19 lockdown, is holding one of the last rounds of meetings to finalise the modalities for the second phase of the graded lockdown that will be announced by PM Narendra Modi at 10 am tomorrow.The 21-day national lockdown announced by PM Modi on March 24 evening ends on Tuesday midnight. PM Modi has told chief ministers that the focus of the second phase would be not only to save lives of people from the disease but also their livelihood.The PMO is working with top government officials to draw up the blueprint of how this plan would be implemented. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to sign off on the plan later in the day.A top government official told Hindustan Times that while Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation on the broad steps to follow, Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla will issue a detailed note on the mechanics. “A meeting on the next steps to be taken is currently on at Raisina Hill,” the official said. The Raisina Hill is the seat of power of the central government and comprises the PMO and ministries of finance, home and defence.Also Read: Ministries pitch plan to balance lives, livelihood in Covid-19 lockdown 2.0The broad focus of this blueprint would be to gradually resume economic activity in the 160-odd districts that do not have a single case of coronavirus safe but take all steps to ensure that the Sars-CoV-2 pathogen that causes Covid-19 does not reach there.The second set with limited economic activity will be districts with below 500 coronavirus positive cases along with revival of the self-contained public sector and private industrial units.Within these states too, the government is looking at the proposal of the Department of Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade to reopen industrial units that are able to accommodate workers at its premises or bring them in special vehicles from safe zones. The department had proposed a list 12 big industries that could be allowed in a graded manner.The third set will include states like Maharashtra, Delhi, Tamil Nadu and Kerala, where the number of corona positive cases are high even though those areas have been demarcated as containment zones.Even in these red zones, officials said organised activity will be allowed. Unorganised economic activity may be allowed within monitored areas. For instance, officials said, they were looking at the possibility of using, say a hall in a school, for selling vegetables for a few hours, say 6am to 11 am, fruits for another set of hours and if need be, other essentials later.The idea is to give unorganised trade a means for sustenance without risking spread of the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-meetings-on-covid-19-lockdown-in-last-lap-decision-at-10-am-tomorrow/story-gAC8ZHsWGSh6lmt4KJCRWL.html
14-04-2020||India||Fall in pollution, power consumption indicates major economic slump: Experts||New Delhi: Economists and environmental experts at the Energy Policy Institute of the University of Chicago (Epic) have started documenting the initial signs of a massive economic slowdown resulting from the coronavirus disease pandemic -- closure of industries, shops and restaurants and a dip in power consumption, and an unintended benefit -- a decline in pollution Historically, electricity consumption has proven to be a “reliable, early indicator” of broader economic trends, the team at Epic said. This time, too, the institution’s data tracker shows a 3.37% dip in electricity consumption in the US, European Union, China and India combined on February 29 relative to the average electricity consumption in December 2019. On January 1, the dip was 7.99%. The data tracker updates both electricity consumption and PM levels every day from government and non-government sources and documents the number of Covid-19 deaths in these countries. The graphs on the dashboard are interactive.“The Covid-19 pandemic has forced governments around the world to impose tough restrictions on daily life to prevent the spread of the virus. With these restrictions, roads and airports are nearly empty, shops and restaurants are closed, and industrial activities are largely at a halt. In this environment, real-time information about economic activity is at a premium, but often hard to acquire,” Epic said in a statement on Monday.An unintended benefit of the dip in electricity consumption is a 6% dip in particulate matter (PM) pollution on April 1 compared to December 2019 in these countries, the data tracker launched on Monday indicated.“Declining and increasing consumption has historically preceded economic recessions and recovery. The Covid tracker is an indicator of the health of the economy at a higher temporal resolution (updated daily) than anything else that is available. Most other measures of economic health will only be available every quarter so tracking this information is critical,” Anant Sudarshan, South Asia director of the Energy Policy Institute at the University of Chicago, said by email.The dip in both electricity consumption and PM pollution is significant in India as per EPIC’s data analysis. India recorded a dip of 18.72% in electricity consumption on April 3 compared to December 2019 and a 6.8% in PM pollution on April 1. The PM pollution had dipped by 36.72% on January 18.The dashboard shows that PM levels started declining in India in January much before covid 19 cases increased and lockdown was imposed. “There is no robust evidence in India that PM level has gone down in pre-COVID era due to economic slowdown. Unless trends in source specific PM2.5 concentrations are estimated, it is not possible to conclude that way,” said Sagnik Dey, associate professor at the Centre for Atmospheric Sciences, IIT Delhi.The scientists have used daily electricity data for India from Power System Operation Corporation Limited’s daily reports and PM 2.5 data from OpenAQ, a website that aggregates particulate matter readings from monitoring stations around the world.In contrast, China has recorded no change in electricity consumption compared to December and a 10.17% dip in PM pollution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fall-in-pollution-power-consumption-indicate-major-economic-slump-experts/story-Qax1u3ENTP4y7q2JErxXqI.html
14-04-2020||India||HT Salutes: ‘Didn’t go to his village, for the sake of the city’||Vegetable vendor Dhananjay Gupta has started noticing a new respect in the eyes of customers when he enters the lanes of the residential neighbourhood of Green Park in south Delhi these days to hawk his wares. People peep out their windows and greet him from the balconies when he arrives, loudly announcing what the has for sale.“Before the lockdown,most people here relied on home delivery services for their daily vegetables, but with those being shut, I have finally found some customers in this area,” Gupta, 36, says.As Gupta pushes his cart through the gated colonies of the upscale area, residents wait patiently for their turn. Because of a shortage of vehicles bringing in vegetables from wholesale markets, Gupta has to leave his house at 4am every day to collect his daily stock from the distributor. The vehicle carrying vegetables drives up to Chirag Dilli at 4.30 am. After pushing his cart full of fresh vegetables for nearly three kilometres, he reaches home to wash and sort them before setting out, wearing his face mask and gloves.“People like me generally have no relevance in this society, but this epidemic has given me a purpose. I feel like a soldier these days. My wife was insisting that we go back to our village, but I felt that I needed to stay back for the sake of this city.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-salutes-didn-t-go-to-his-village-for-the-sake-of-the-city/story-oV6rIWQdQplmr3zWpw1wDO.html
