15-04-2020||India||11 held for instigating migrant workers to gather at Bandra||Mumbai: Eleven people, including a journalist with a Marathi news channel, were on Wednesday arrested for allegedly spreading rumours that the state was running a special train for migrant workers, which led to around 1,000 of them gathering at the Bandra railway station on Tuesday, defying the nationwide lockdown.The large gathering eventually forced the Mumbai Police to resort to lathi-charge to disperse the migrants — most of them from Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal — who were demanding the state help them return home. This was hours after Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended the coronavirus-enforced nationwide lockdown to May 3. An FIR was registered on Tuesday against 700 people at Bandra police station, under which nine people were arrested, and another two FIRs were filed on Wenesday . Vijayalaxmi Hiremath, senior police inspector at Bandra police station, confirmed the arrests.On Wednesday, an FIR was filed against Vinay Dubey, a resident of Navi Mumbai, who uploaded a video on social media, telling migrant workers from north India to gather at Kurla Terminus on April 18 to demand that they be sent back to their homes. Dubey, booked under sections 117, 153(a), 188, 269, 270, 505(2) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act, was detained from Navi Mumbai late on Tuesday. Another FIR was against Rahul Kulkarni, a journalist with a Marathi news channel, for running a report, stating that a special train will run for migrant workers, said Bandra police officers. Kulkarni was arrested in the afternoon. “He will be produced in court tomorrow,” said Hiremath.Later in the day, nine people —Mohammad Amruddin, 35; Saif Hussein Shaikh, 36; Alam Mohammad Salim Shaikh, 28; Shamsher Ali Amir Ali Malik, 36; Helal Hakimuddin Ali, 32; Mohammad Shahid Ibrahim Shaikh, 29; Mohammad Arshad Mohammad Anvar Shaikh, 26; Altabash Chhotu Shaikh,28 and Firoz Sailchul Shaikh, 20 — were arrested from Shastri Nagar in Bandra (West). All the accused were arrested as per the FIR lodged on Tuesday.Kulkarni has been booked under sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) 505 (b) (with intent to cause, or which is likely to cause, fear or alarm to the public, or to any section of the public whereby any person may be induced to commit an offence against the state or against the public tranquillity), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) 117 (abetting commission of offence by the public or by more than ten persons) of the IPC, along with section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act.Bandra police officers also revealed that they have narrowed down a list of other suspects responsible for the gathering. The police are questioning at least seven people from Bandra (West).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/11-held-for-instigating-migrant-workers-to-gather-at-bandra/story-dx2aWbNjYVIyVbZurrhu5I.html
15-04-2020||India||Procurement gets off to a slow start in Punjab||CHANDIGARH: Wheat arrivals in the grain markets and purchase centres of Punjab were nearly negligible on the first day of procurement on Wednesday amid a sense of uncertainty and fear among farmers about the Covid-19 pandemic. Of the 8,213.5 tonnes of produce that arrived in the state’s 252 mandis, or grain markets, mostly in south-west Punjab, 3,645.5 tonnes were procured by government agencies, officials said.Gurjeet Singh, a farmer from Badesha village near Samrala town of Ludhiana district, went to the Khamano mandi on Wednesday morning to meet his commission agents and find out when he should bring his produce for sale.“The crop I have sown on 12 acres of land is ready for harvesting. But the government wants us to keep it as long as we can even as we want to dispose of it at the earliest. This is the dilemma every farmer is facing,” Gurjeet Singh said. “We don’t have adequate storage space at home. Also who would unload, load and then unload again. It will be a cumbersome task.”Raghbir Singh of the nearby Ramgarh village was asked to take back the 70 quintals of produce he unloaded outside the office of a commission agent. “I got a pass three days ago and was told to come today. Now, the market committee is forcing me to take back my produce as the moisture content in it is 12.4%, barely 0.4% more than the limit,” he said.Khamano market committee chairman Surinder Singh said the government had directed the committee to ensure social distancing is maintained at the market to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease.“Since there is no facility of drying grain in the mandis, the farmers have to keep the produce at home as long as the permissible moisture limit is achieved,” he said.“Those arhtiyas {commission agents} found defying government directions on maintain social distancing or helping farmers make out-of-turn sale would invite cancellation of their licences for the entire season,” Surinder Singh added.Not even a single farmer brought his produce to the grain markets in Majha region on Wednesday. Farmers and officials of the agriculture department and the Punjab mandi board said the delay in the arrival of the crop was due to the presence of moisture in the grains because of recent rains.Officials in the four border districts of the Majha region - Tarn Taran, Amritsar, Gurdaspur and Pathankot – said the produce was likely to start arriving in the mandis from April 20.“Most of the farmers have not started harvesting due to moisture in the crop. The pace of arrival of wheat will pick up after April 20,” said Sarwan Singh Pandher, secretary of the Kisan Sangharsh Committee, Punjab.Wheat procurement in south Malwa districts was negligible on Wednesday. In Bathinda, only one farmer arrived with his crop. Two two farmers arrived with their wheat in Mansa. Moga did not witness any wheat arrivals. In Faridkot, 75 farmers sold their wheat crop. In neighbouring Haryana, few farmers brought their crop to the mandis on the first day of mustard procurement in Bhiwani, Jind, Dadri and Mahendergarh districts on Wednesday.Farmers’ union leader Balbir Singh Takhan, who visited Bhiwani’s Behal Mandi, said, “Many farmers failed to turn up as they did not receive the government’s message asking them to bring their produce to the mandis.”A farmer, Ram Chander of Dadri’s Ranila village, said he had brought 40 quintals of mustard to the grain market but was still waiting to sell it. Amit Sangwan, a farmer from Bhiwani’s Mitthi village, fared better. He said he had brought 40 quintals of mustard to the mandi and a local sarpanch procured his produce at ₹4,425 per quintal.Hariyawas sarpanch and Sidhanwa procurement centre in-charge Sunil Sheoran said, “We bought mustard from 10 farmers in two shifts. We will put all our efforts to purchase farmers’ produce even with limited resources. The farmers covered their faces and maintained social distancing at the mandi.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/procurement-gets-off-to-a-slow-start-in-punjab/story-P2QAwJOUd2UitJUtKZs8nI.html
15-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Goa now has only one active case after another patient recovers||One more Covid-19 patient in Goa who tested negative for the infection was declared recovered, bringing down the number of active cases in the state from seven to one, the government said.“Happy to announce that Goa’s active #COVID19 case is down from 2 to 1, after following due protocols. As per the guideline, a repeat sample was being tested and reported negative,” Health Minister Vishwajit Rane announced on Twitter. A similar sentiment was echoed by Chief Minister Pramod Sawant. “I am pleased to inform you that the sixth corona patient from Goa has recovered. Only one active case remains in Goa and no new cases reported after 3rd April 2020,” Sawant said. Seven other people, however, remain at the isolation ward of the Goa Medical College and Hospital whose test results are awaited. Follow coronavirus latest updates here.Rane announced that Goa would now roll out rapid testing. “As the count of active cases goes down in the state, we will be increasing the scope of testing and also introduce antibody tests as per the protocol of @ICMRDELHI. Rapid testing protocols will be set in order. We will tie-up with Abbott to implement the same,” Rane tweeted.“The government of Goa will soon commission setting up Kiosks for either swab collection or antibody testing. A protocol will be outlined to ensure Goa sets an example,” he said in another tweet.A similar tie up was announced with Molbio Diagnostics to procure rapid testing kits that have been set up at three hospitals in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-goa-now-has-only-one-active-case-after-another-patient-recovers/story-HWYhV8dGksdnwGANeMRE6O.html
15-04-2020||India||From red zone to green: Why PM Modi waited for April 20 to ease Covid-19 lockdown 2.0||The first hint that Prime Minister Narendra Modi favoured early resumption of economic activity in the country had come a few days before his address to the nation. He had, while speaking with chief ministers over the weekend, told them that it is imperative to focus on lives and livelihoods for India’s bright future, a clear shift from his assertion three weeks earlier that health is wealth.In line with this sentiment, he extended the national lockdown till 3 May but provisioned for easing restrictions in areas that do not have Covid-19 cases from 20 April. These areas are being classified as green zones and would be the first to see resumption of economic activity.The 6-day gap, a top government official said, was designed to ensure that everyone is able to understand how to take the first steps out of the lockdown and prepare well for it. “Right from businesses and state governments to the district administration,” the official told Hindustan Times.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageIt gives everyone time to smooth off the rough edges in the plan, a second senior official, who heads one of the empowered committees on Covid-19 at the Centre, explained.The government, he said, didn’t have this luxury when PM Modi announced the lockdown on March 24 evening. Giving people advance notice when imposing the lockdown could have defeated its purpose. Movement of people, including those who could be symptomatic or asymptomatic, could have defeated the objective of a lockdown right at the beginning.Besides, it is easier to get people to stay indoors than to ensure that only some of them step out.Still there had been communication gaps, evidenced by the repeated instructions sent out by the Centre that asked police not to stop truckers from ferrying essential and non-essential goods.A plan where some people and industrial units outside containment zones could operate requires a more nuanced approach by the district administration, the second official said.It also gives private companies permitted to operate in the green zones to make logistical arrangements for resuming operations; workforce, raw materials etc. Or to seek clarifications from the government. Like the transporters who have asked the government to explain if their vehicles could pass through districts which have Covid-19 clusters or large outbreaks.“We also hope that the district administrations would also use this time to reinforce the message that communities in neighbourhoods that have had Covid-19 cases should play a greater role to enforce the lockdown in those areas,” a third official said.Because the only way the lockdown is going to be lifted is if there are no cases. This is the incentive for community participation that PM Modi had also alluded to in his address to the nation.That the lockdown could be back if there is a Covid-19 outbreak in a Covid-free zone. “We must make sure we don’t become careless, nor allow anyone else to be careless,” PM Modi had said.That it was in their interest to stay on the right side of the zoning plan, in which every area would be marked green, orange or red.“Hotspots (designated red zones) will be assumed to be undertaking effective containment activities, if no case is reported in the next 14 days (designated orange zones) and will be deemed successful in containment, if no case is reported for 28 days (designated green zones),” Union Health Secretary Preeti Sudan explained in her communication to the states on Wednesday.The top health ministry official identified 170 districts as Covid-19 hotspots and explained that such areas would be treated as green zones only if they do not report a single coronavirus case in 28 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-red-zone-to-green-why-pm-modi-waited-for-april-20-to-ease-covid-19-lockdown-2-0/story-sq6nJJWqANLzWDPSrF6jUO.html
15-04-2020||India||Srinagar mayor accuses cops of thrashing sanitation workers||Srinagar mayor Junaid Azim Mattu on Wednesday alleged that the Jammu and Kashmir Police thrashed sanitation workers for ‘entertainment’ and that he will write to the Prime Minister and seek his intervention in the matter.Mattu also posted a clip on social media where policemen could be seen thrashing employees of the Srinagar municipal corporation somewhere in the city.“After multiple instances of sanitation workers being brutally beaten by policemen in Srinagar, I again brought the matter into the notice of SSP Srinagar yesterday- along with this video - where SMC employees are being singled out, thrashed, abused as if for entertainment,” Mattu said in a tweet.“I also extend my full moral support to all SMC employees and especially the brave sanitation workers on the ground! They’ve been working tirelessly for three weeks! Going above and beyond their call of duty! They are heroes and I will not allow for them to be brutalized!” he added.After the SMC staff members threatened to go on strike, Mattu said that the members have called off the strike.“SMC field staff will continue to work - have called off their strike. Have appealed to them to continue their work. They have deferred to the gravity of the situation. They have also invested their faith in the assurance of corrective action from the administration,” the mayor said.He said he will write to the Prime Minister and also the J&K chief secretary seeking appropriate action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/srinagar-mayor-accuses-cops-of-thrashing-sanitation-workers/story-DmJlJAKh5auRULmwEIim1O.html
15-04-2020||India||Lockdown 2.0: Assam shuts wine shops following Centre’s revised rules||Barely two after they opened following a state government order, wine shops in Assam were shut again on Wednesday in compliance with Centre’s new guidelines on the extended lockdown.Wine shops in Assam, which were shut since March 25 had been opened on April 13 coinciding with the state’s biggest festival Bohag Bihu, which heralds the Assamese New Year.“In view of the consolidated revised guidelines and national directives issued by the central government for Covid-19 management…all IMFL OFF/CS OFF shops (liquor shops), wholesale warehouses, bottling plants, distilleries and breweries shall remain closed with immediate effect and until further orders,” said an order issued by SK Medhi, additional commissioner of excise.Earlier in the day, excise minister Parimal Suklabaidya told a local news channel that the department had collected nearly Rs 6 crore from Monday till Wednesday noon as revenue from sale of alcohol in the state.In its guidelines issued on Wednesday, the Union home ministry had stated that “there should be strict ban on sale of liquor, gutka, tobacco etc.”In an order issued on Sunday, the excise department had allowed liquor shops, wholesale warehouses, bottling plants, distilleries and breweries to open from Monday. Bars were ordered to remain closed.The order stated that liquor shops will remain open from 10 am to 5 pm on permitted days provided the licensees ensure maintenance of one metre distance between customers, cough etiquette and other guidelines issued by health department.The shops had been asked to operate with “bare minimum staff” and provide hand sanitizers to customers and staff while handling bottles and cash.Wholesale warehouses, bottling plants, breweries and distillers were allowed to operate with not more than 50% of their regular staff and workers. They were asked to arrange for staff to stay within the premises or a nearby place.“Since the lockdown started, manufacture and sale of illicit country liquor has increased manifold. There was possibility of people dying from drinking illicit liquor if authorized shops were not allowed to open,” said a senior official on condition of anonymity.On an average Assam earns nearly Rs 250 crore as revenue per month from sale of liquor in the state and in the past two weeks the state had lost over Rs 100 crore in earnings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-2-0-assam-shuts-wine-shops-following-centre-s-revised-rules/story-xFbm6i1rbMfrpSY6lDqm6K.html
15-04-2020||India||Covid-19: When does a hotspot turn into green zone? Govt explains||India on Wednesday identified 170 Covid-19 hotspot districts and 207 districts that are potential hotspots and need severe containment measures by the government to flatten the coronavirus curve and stop the deadly infection from spreading further.Scaling up its efforts to rein in the Covid-19 pandemic, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has advised all states to classify the country’s 718 districts into hotspots, non-hotspot districts and green zones. But the ministry has also warned that the 207 districts that are non-hotspots now have the potential to turn into hotspots so authorities should not allow any relaxation in lockdown norms in these districts.States have been asked to categorise districts reporting the highest number of cases as red zones, districts where some cases have been found as non-hotspots and those which have reported no new confirmed cases in the last 28 days as green zones.ALSO READ | Govt lockdown guidelines: What do they mean for Covid-19 hotspots, containment zonesHotspots or Red Zones are those districts which have been reporting the maximum number of cases or where the growth rate of Covid-19 cases is very high. Detailed directives have been issued to states indicating that consolidated efforts are required to use this extended lockdown to curb the spread of the virus.The criteria to include a particular district into a list of hotspots will be to check if the case load of the district contributes to more than 80% of cases in lndia or the case load contributes to more than 80% of cases for each state in lndia. Districts which display a doubling rate less than 4 days (calculated every Monday for last 7 days, to be determined by the state government) will also be called a Covid-19 hotspot or Red Zone. Any district where no new confirmed cases have emerged for the last 28 days will be dubbed a Green Zone. A district currently identified as a Covid-19 hotspot can eventually move into the ‘green’ category, if no fresh cases emerge in 28 days.ALSO READ | Covid-19: Why cramped Dharavi is a concern for expertsCurrently, hotspot districts with large outbreaks of coronavirus cases in the country are 123 and hotspots with a cluster of cases are 47. Non hotspot districts with a cluster of cases are 207. According to the ministry, the containment operation would be deemed over when no new case is reported in 28 days from an area and also after the last case tests negative. Designated Red Zones or Hotspots will need to carry out effective containment activities and, if no case is reported in the next 14 days they will turn into designated Orange Zones.If after that no case is reported for 28 days the erstwhile hotspot will turn into a green zone.States have also been briefed by the Centre about large outbreak containment strategies, cluster containment strategies, delineation of buffer and containment zones, parameter mapping, and definitions of entry and exit points to curb the spread of the virus.As part of the lockdown, movement of people will not be allowed in containment zones, except for those related to essential services, and special teams will continue to look for new cases in untapped areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-170-covid-19-red-zones-207-potential-ones-india-s-coronavirus-crisis-is-far-from-over/story-V9UvHzoGqypn3EfMQ8IwKO.html
15-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 PM: 170 districts Covid-19 hotspots, another 207 potential hotspots, says Centre and all the latest news at this hour||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion curated for you. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.170 districts Covid-19 hotspots, another 207 potential hotspots, says CentreTo step up the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic in the country, India’s districts will now be classified into three categories—hotspot districts which report a large number of positive cases, non-hotspot districts which record a few coronavirus cases and green zones which have not reported fresh cases for some time. Read more. Covid-19: India to facilitate return of 180 stranded Pakistani nationalsThe Indian government is facilitating the repatriation of 180 Pakistani citizens stranded in the country because of the Covid-19 lockdown, with 41 of them set to return via the Wagah-Attari border crossing on Thursday. Additional secretary Dammu Ravi issued a letter to authorities in several states on Tuesday to facilitate the return of 41 Pakistani nationals who are currently in different parts of Delhi, Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh. Read more. India to send 5 lakh HCQ tablets to Afghanistan from Saarc Covid-19 FundIndia has decided to send 5 lakh tablets of hydroxychloroquine to Afghanistan from the Saarc Covid-19 Emergency Fund set up at Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s suggestion last month. The fund was created with an initial corpus of $10 million from India; other Saarc members had also pitched in. Read more. Election on his mind, Donald Trump goes after WHO chief and ChinaUS President Donald Trump has halted funding to the World Health Organisation for its handling of the coronavirus pandemic, a decision attributed to his assessment that the Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus-led global health body had been biased towards China and given the world, and him, what he has described as “faulty recommendations”. Read more. CM Adityanath threatens action under NSA after doctors, cops attacked in UPThree people, including a doctor and a pharmacist, suffered injuries when stones were pelted at the ambulance carrying a team of health workers and police personnel in Uttar Pradesh’s Moradabad on Wednesday, Chief Medical Officer (CMO) Dr SP Garg said. Read more. Even Tulsi has refused visitors to her home: This message from BMC has Smriti Irani’s nodWho can forget the iconic Kyunki Saas Bhi Kabhi Bahu Thi title track. Even the slightest mention of it conjures an instant image in our minds of Tulsi opening the doors to her house and welcoming you in. However, now, that same title track has been used to share an important message and this one is Tulsi approved. Read more. ‘You’d pay to watch’: Michael Holding names 4 best fast bowlers across generationsFormer West Indies fast bowler Michael Holding was one of the best fast bowlers in his time. He was a part of the West Indies team that had a fast bowling unit second to none. With Malcolm Marshall, Joel Garner and Andy Roberts by his side, Holding was capable to give sleepless nights to even the best of batters during his playing days. Read more. The curious case of dreaming in the times of a global pandemic“I saw broken houses and I vividly remember the walls falling down one by one and crumbling into disappearances. I do not know what to figure out from this dream. Is the about the past, the present or the future, I cannot tell but I will keep figuring out”, said the 30-year-old writer as she was falling short of words explaining it further. Read more. Extraction interview: Chris Hemsworth, director Sam Hargrave rave about ‘genuinely great person’ Randeep HoodaNeither star Chris Hemsworth nor director Sam Hargrave were too familiar with Indian films and actors before they shot a significant chunk of their upcoming action movie, Extraction, in the subcontinent, but they’ve since made amends. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-170-districts-covid-19-hotspots-another-207-potential-hotspots-says-centre-and-all-the-latest-news/story-D4CrAKf6HfKay13YdK3QdI.html
15-04-2020||India||Coronavirus shows extended incubation period in Kerala||Kerala’s decision to set a 28-day incubation period for the virus although the World Health Organisation (WHO) had suggested a 14-day term, has paid off after the virus started showing a longer incubation period, say health experts.Initially many questioned this but the state’s health department maintained that extension was meant to make it doubly sure that asymptomatic person or concerned patient is disinfected completely. Some of the recent instances show the state was right - at least seven cases have come to light that show patients had contracted the virus 18 to 26 days after exposure.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.A person who had returned to Kannur from Dubai had tested positive after 26 days of his arrival. In Pathanamthitta, a student who travelled in a compartment in which some Tabligi Jammat members were also present, tested positive after 22 days of her trip. Under observation she remained asymptomatic throughout but turned positive when her observation period was about to end.The unusual behaviour of the virus has left the overworked health workers worried as they are running against time to flatten the curve. On Tuesday, eight people tested positive but the number of discharged was 13. One more person tested positive on Wednesday to take the total number of patients to 387 in the state out of which 211 have been discharged, 173 are undergoing treatment and three have died.“When first few cases were reported in the state we sought the advice of the experts and they said it was always safe to keep an extended incubation period. So we took a decision on 28 days. Even those discharged were also told to comply with 14-day quarantine in their homes. We don’t want to take any chance,” said State health minister K K Shailaja.Experts say in 90 per cent cases incubation period may be right but in 10 per cent there are chances of aberrations. Since most of them are under observation they also rule out chances of local transmission.“It is a new virus and its behaviour is yet to be ascertained fully. So we need more tests. People who are under observation will have to be checked. Since there is no vaccine, isolation and testing are the best ways to check its spread,” said Dr B Ramankutty, a public health expert.People who came from abroad and other states were advised to go on home quarantine and were told that if they show symptoms during this period they would be tested and transferred to hospital in case the test turned positive. In Pathanamitta girl’s case she turned asymptomatic even after she tested positive on April 6, said district medical officer Dr N Sheeja.“We can’t give a definite incubation period to a new virus like this. In Wuhan also some cases cropped up after 32 days of isolation. So we have to be careful. We are really lagging in tests. Our current testing rate is 19 per million population. Norway tops the list with a rate of 14,537 tests per million followed by South Korea at 7,353 and the US 1,647,” said another medical||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-shows-extended-incubation-period-in-kerala/story-HOYjBOhHvc8oigqvvbdABI.html
15-04-2020||India||Andhra HC quashes order making English compulsory in state govt schools||The Andhra Pradesh high court on Wednesday struck down the orders of the YSR Congress party government in the state introducing English medium compulsorily in all the state-run schools.A public interest litigation was filed by Bharatiya Janata Party leader Sudheesh Rambhotla and advocate Guntupalli Srinivas from Guntur in December challenging the government’s order. The court ruled that the government cannot force the students to study only in a particular medium. “The choice of selecting the medium should be left to the students and hence, the existing Telugu medium schools should continue,” the court said.Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy in November last mooted the proposal to introduce English medium in all the government schools compulsorily from 2020-21 academic year.Later, the government slightly modified the orders stating that in the first phase, Class 1 to 6 would be converted into English medium and each class would be upgraded to English medium from the subsequent year. By the end of the fourth year, all the classes up to Class 10 would be converted into English medium.A bill amending AP Education Act, 1982, introducing English medium in the government schools, was first passed by the state assembly during the winter session in December, but it was rejected by the legislative council, where the opposition Telugu Desam Party (TDP) has a majority.Several members in the legislative council opposed the Bill, suggesting amendments which included making English and Telugu medium available in all government schools, allowing students or parents to choose between the two. However, the bill was introduced in the assembly for a second time again on January 23 and was ratified.Jagan claimed in the assembly that introducing English medium at the primary level was a revolutionary step in moulding students for the future. “As a father, anyone would prefer to send his children to English-medium schools, and as head of the state I have done the same by introducing the language from classes 1 to 6 starting from the next academic year,” he said.He argued that he was only trying to raise the standards of the aspiring sections of society. He even accused the opponents of English medium of adopting double standards. “Which medium of instruction did TDP president N Chandrababu Naidu’s son study and is his grandson studying? Where are grandchildren of vice-president M Venkaiah Naidu studying?” he asked.The chief minister claimed that many parents’ associations had welcomed the decision of the government to introduce English medium in the government schools, saying it would do good for their children. They only wanted the government to create sufficient infrastructure to teach the children in English medium.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-hc-quashes-order-making-english-compulsory-in-state-govt-schools/story-AA8TaISvggSxZfSn4BXlEJ.html
15-04-2020||India||India uses Saarc Covid Fund for HCQ tablets to neighbours. Afghanistan next||India has decided to send 5 lakh tablets of hydroxychloroquine to Afghanistan from the Saarc Covid-19 Emergency Fund set up at Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s suggestion last month. The fund was created with an initial corpus of $10 million from India; other Saarc members had also pitched in.A top government official told Hindustan Times that the decision to send the tablets had been taken but New Delhi is yet to work out the logistics in view of relations with neighbouring Pakistan. “We are looking at various possibilities to reach the medicine to the people of Afghanistan at the earliest,” the official said.One of the options being explored is use of third-party planes, may be international cargo planes.A second official said India had already made deliveries of hydroxychloroquine to other Saarc countries such as Maldives, Sri Lanka, Nepal, Bangladesh and Bhutan. There has been no proposal to send the medicine to Pakistan in the absence of a request from Islamabad.“I think there have been public statements by leaders in Pakistan that they have sufficient supply of the medicine,” the official said.Global demand for the anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine had boosted over the last few weeks after some studies showed that it helped to reduce the viral load in Covid-19 patients.India initially had banned exports of the drug to ensure that there were sufficient supplies to cater to domestic requirements. These restrictions were later eased, mostly to enable pharmaceutical companies to honour their contractual obligations on a case-to-case basis.Otherwise too, pharma companies have been permitted exports to friendly countries such as the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia.The decision taken to supply the medicine and other medical assistance under the Saarc Covid-19 Emergency Fund demonstrates the utility of the fund that was created last month.PM Modi, speaking at the virtual conference of Saarc leaders, had underscored that the fund would be financed by voluntary contributions from all members. Pakistan was the last member state to pledge its share of the contribution, $ 3 million, but had demanded that the fund should be placed at the disposal of the secretary general of the South Asian grouping.The current secretary general of Saarc is veteran Sri Lankan diplomat Esala Ruwan Weerakoon, who recently succeeded Pakistan’s Amjad Hussain Sial.Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan was the only Saarc head of government who opted out of the conference and instead, sent Pakistan’s de facto health minister for the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-send-5-lakh-hcq-tablets-to-afghanistan-from-saarc-covid-19-fund/story-4SLfVrVI0QEsbWavZM6tqN.html
15-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Delhi HC, district courts to function with restrictions till May 3||The Delhi High Court in a communication on Wednesday said that along with district courts, its functioning will continue to remain suspended till May 3 on account of the lockdown in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic and only urgent matters will be heard through video conferencing (VC).However, it said that the number of benches of the judges, hearing matters through videoconferencing, would be increased further.The communication said that the Administrative and General Supervision Committee of Delhi High Court has ordered that all matters listed between April 16 and May 2 in the district courts be adjourned and information about this be uploaded on the website.“The District and Sessions judges concerned, as already directed, may permit the judges and other staff officials to work from home, wherever possible. All hearings should be done preferably through videoconferencing which would automatically result in decongestion in court complexes,” the communication said.After several complaints of unavailability of the infrastructure for the video conferencing of hearing, the court also resolved that all the judges should be given online training to hear the matters through VC.“All the district and sessions judges shall ensure that video conferencing is done through ‘Cisco WebEx’. Online training about the manner of use of said software be given to all the Judicial officers and court-staff through Centralized Computer Committee.“Such Centralized Computer Committee would, from time to time, seek necessary instructions from IT Committee of this Court on the aspect of VC hearing and would also ensure that there is complete uniformity amongst all districts in this regard,” it added.The high court also said that each district and sessions judge (DJ) would be at liberty to take appropriate steps to personally ensure that the mechanism of mentioning of urgent matters in each of the district court is quick and efficient. It also said that the district judge can also depute judicial officers for hearing the matters, related to bail and urgent civil/injunction cases, corresponding to the need and requirement of the concerned district court.Reacting to this, KC Mittal, chairman, Bar Council of Delhi (BCD), said that increasing the number of benches would bring improvement in the functioning and more cases will be heard.“In terms of the district courts, we would observe the situation for a couple of days and if there is any problem, then we can again approach for some changes,” Mittal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-delhi-hc-district-courts-to-function-with-restrictions-till-may-3/story-XKOz8rVA62DzD13s0J4vnM.html
15-04-2020||India||Highway dhabas, truck repair shops to be allowed from April 20: MHA||The Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Wednesday issued fresh guidelines easing the ongoing nationwide lockdown restrictions from April 20 by allowing some sectors such as the opening of shops for truck repairs and eateries along national highways to cater to stranded truckers across states.Many of these truckers have been stuck across state borders since March 24 – a day before the nationwide lockdown restrictions were enforced and has since been extended to May 3 to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.The MHA guidelines have specified that the movement of all trucks and other goods vehicles with two drivers and one helper will be allowed on condition that the driver is carrying a valid driving licence and empty truck/vehicle will be allowed to ply after the delivery or pick-up of goods.The All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC), an apex body of transporters, have reached out to the government, seeking an economic package for the sector in a bid to bring back migrant labourers, as most of them have gone back to their native places because of the lockdown woes, and resolve supply chain hurdles.They have also sought clarity from the government on the opening of booking offices and warehouses for loading and unloading of goods. “We welcome the fresh guidelines, as allowing the movement of all goods carriers will ease some pressure on the sector, especially for those whose vehicles loaded with non-essential goods are stranded. But there’re still many challenges. For example, there’s no clarity about the opening of booking offices, factories and warehouses and unless they are resolved, it’d be difficult to unload and book goods,” Kultaran Singh Atwal, president, AIMTC, said.“The non-availability of finance is another big challenge for the road transport sector, where more than 20 crore people are directly or indirectly involved. This sector is one of the worst affected because of the lockdown restrictions, as over 90% of the vehicles have been lying idle. The government needs to give immediate stimulus to this sector to drive up the economy,” he added.The transporters have urged the Centre to provide a security coverage of Rs 15,000 per month for workers engaged in the supply chain. They have also sought soft loans at a lower rate of interest, at par with the international level, in a bid to avoid scarcity of working capital finance.“The next two quarters will be critical amid the prevailing uncertainty, as poor consumption will lead to weak demand and leading to less transportation activity. It’ll take at least six months to revive production and consumption and get transportation activity to pick up. Social security for the people engaged in the supply chain has been a long-pending demand. The government must provide for drivers, helpers, loaders, unloaders, and others involved in the supply chain,” Singh said.The Centre is also considering providing a Rs 50 lakh insurance coverage for each of the people engaged in the supply chain. “A decision on the demand for insurance coverage will be taken soon,” a senior government official said, requesting anonymity.The fresh government order mentions strong containment measures in districts that have emerged as Covid-19 hotspots, which has caused fresh concern for the transporters. “For example, a Red Zone, which has reported over 15 Covid-19 positive cases, may lie between two Green Zones, where no cases have been reported so far. This will affect the mobility of goods and staff between the zones,” Singh said. Thousands of trucks are stranded across several states, since the nationwide lockdown announcement was made on March 24.The government has issued several advisories to state chief secretaries that movement of both essential and non-essential goods be allowed in a bid to avoid shortage of essential commodities.Data showed that weak economic activity has reduced the demand in the road transport sector, which has led to an inactive fleet of vehicles adding collateral pressure on the operatorsThe daily average movement of trucks and distance covered dropped to 20% amid the lockdown, according to LocoNav, a fleet management firm. “We’re hopeful of a marginal recovery, thanks to the MHA’s fresh guidelines on Wednesday. The supply movement is likely to pick up to 40% from April 20, depending on the availability of staff, drivers and labourers, as many have left for their native places,” said Shridhar Gupta , co-founder, LocoNav. “The MHA guidelines have given us the clarity that a regulatory framework is in place. But, getting the labourers back to work is the biggest worry for now. Production won’t start before May and we need to assess the risk factor in labourers’ minds. They thought that it was safer to go back home when the lockdown was announced. One doesn’t know for sure whether their risk perception has changed, as the government looks to partially ease lockdown restriction curbs,” said Anjani Mandal, chief executive officer, Fortigo Network Logistics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/highway-dhabas-truck-repair-shops-to-be-allowed-from-april-20-mha/story-ngHiBErD5VKWeTIbFEyBIM.html
15-04-2020||India||Delhi hospital will try plasma enrichment technique to treat Covid-19||Three days after All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS) Delhi director Randeep Guleria spoke about the possibility of using plasma therapy in treating Covid-19, the Delhi government said it plans to use plasma enrichment technique to treat severely-ill coronavirus patients on trial basis, PTI reported.The agency reported that clinical trial of the plasma enrichment technique will be conducted at Institute of Liver & Biliary Sciences (ILBS). Under the technique, transfusion of plasma from recovered patients to severely-ill Covid-19 patients is conducted.Follow coronavirus slatest updates here.There is currently no cure for Covid-19 and convalescent plasma is an experimental procedure for patients.Delhi currently has more than 1,500 cases of Covid-19 which is the second highest number after Maharashtra. Thirty Covid-19 patients have died so far in the national capital.Guleria had said that blood plasma can be taken from a Covid-19 patient who has recovered from the illness as it contains antibodies which, when transfused to a sick patient, can boost immunity and help in recovery.But he had cautioned that there are very few studies that indicate the effectiveness of plasma therapy as the treatment of Covid-19 although the therapy has previously been used in other illnesses such as Ebola.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hospital-will-try-plasma-enrichment-technique-to-treat-covid-19/story-vuEWjdMzXxVvX6keUiOIXL.html
15-04-2020||India||Covid-19: India to facilitate return of 180 stranded Pakistani nationals||The Indian government is facilitating the repatriation of 180 Pakistani citizens stranded in the country because of the Covid-19 lockdown, with 41 of them set to return via the Wagah-Attari border crossing on Thursday.People familiar with developments, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the Pakistan high commission in New Delhi had informed Indian authorities that 180 Pakistani nationals wanted to go back home.“We are coordinating with the concerned authorities to facilitate their departure,” one of the people cited above said.“The external affairs ministry is facilitating the return of foreign nationals presently in India to their countries. This include the nationals of Pakistan,” the person added.Additional secretary Dammu Ravi, the external affairs ministry’s point person for all Covid-19-related matters, issued a letter to authorities in several states on Tuesday to facilitate the return of 41 Pakistani nationals who are currently in different parts of Delhi, Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh.These 41 Pakistani nationals are set to return to their country via the Wagah-Attari border crossing at 10 am on April 16, the letter stated. The letter also directed the authorities of the concerned states to facilitate the movement of the vehicles that will take the Pakistani nationals to the land border.“It is requested that all returning Pakistani nationals may be screened as per the international norms and existing provisions of the Government of India and only asymptomatic individuals be allowed to return,” the letter stated.Like other all crossing points along India’s land borders, the Wagah-Attari crossing was closed as part of the nationwide lockdown.There are currently some 200 Indian citizens stranded in Pakistan, including many students, and they have been asked to “stay put” in line with the government’s policy till the end of the nationwide lockdown, the people cited above said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-facilitate-return-of-180-stranded-pakistani-nationals/story-hB3Hq9b4tU2B4rIRrFbVwK.html
15-04-2020||India||CM Adityanath threatens action under NSA after doctors, cops attacked in UP||Three people, including a doctor and a pharmacist, suffered injuries when stones were pelted at the ambulance carrying a team of health workers and police personnel in Uttar Pradesh’s Moradabad on Wednesday, Chief Medical Officer (CMO) Dr SP Garg said.A group of health workers had gone to check a suspected coronavirus positive patient, and was attacked while they were convincing the suspected patient to be quarantined. An unruly mob pelted stones at the medical team and police personnel accompanying them in Haji Neb Masjid area of Moradabad. A number of parked vehicles were also vandalised in the incident. “When our team boarded the ambulance with the Covid-19 patient, suddenly a crowd gathered and started pelting stones. Some doctors are still there in the area. We were injured in the attack,” the driver of the ambulance which had gone to the area said.As news of the attack on health workers spread in the area, both the District Magistrate and the SSP reached the site.A coronavirus patient had allegedly died in the area a few days ago after which the health workers had gone to check on the family members of the victim. They were heading to a quarantine center at the time of the incident.Dr HC Mishra and another member of the medical team have received injuries after stones were pelted at them by the mob.Taking note of the incident, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has said that the National Security Act (NSA) would be slapped against those responsible for such acts.“Doctors, health workers and officers and workers associated with sanitation work, police officers are working day and night at this time of crisis,” the Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister said in a statement.“Attacking these people is an unforgivable crime. Action will be taken against those guilty under the Disaster Management Act and the NSA. Moreover, the loss of state property will be strictly compensated from them,” reads the statement.Amit Pathak, Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP), Moradabad, has said that strict action will be taken after identifying those who were involved in the incident.“Some members of the medical team have been injured. This is a violation of Section 144 and the Epidemic Diseases Act and the Disaster Management Act. Action will be taken under the National Security Act,” Pathak said echoing Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stones-pelted-on-docs-ferrying-suspected-covid-19-patient-in-up-s-moradabad/story-LsoULfBWBwkVDpp09yqVnK.html
15-04-2020||India||90 Covid-19 red zones identified in J&K||A total of 90 Covid-19 red zones have been identified in Jammu and Kashmir, officials said on Wednesday. So far, 300 positive cases including four deaths have been reported in the Union territory.Of the 90 red zones, 14 are in Jammu and 76 in Kashmir, are distributed across 13 districts, including Jammu, Rajouri, Udhampur, Bandipora, Baramulla, Shopian and Srinagar among others.The scale of spread could be gauged from the fact that from April 4 when the UT administration had identified 24 red zones in Kashmir and 10 in Jammu, the number has now gone up to 90—76 in Kashmir and 14 in Jammu region.Srinagar district remains the largest with 15 such red zones followed by 14 in Baramulla, 12 in Bandipora, eight in Shopian, seven each in Kupwara, Pulwama and Budgam, five in Rajouri and four each in Jammu and Udhampur.The administration also ordered to increase the sampling process to 600-800 per day.“Standard operating procedures (SOP) for the red zones include 100% lockdown, survey to be done and linked with Aarogya app, home delivery of essentials, only sanitation and enforcement personnel to be allowed entry and arrangements to be made for non-Covid-19 patients,” said a senior official.The administration has issued SOPs to be followed in these areas.“The mapping of the red zone shall be done depending upon the size of habitation, the geographic distribution of positive cases, proximity to other habitations, accessibility, geographical barriers, mobility of positive persons, etc. Intelligent demarcation of boundaries of the red zone will be done using roads, natural barriers, etc,’’ officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/90-covid-19-red-zones-identified-in-j-k/story-DUie9ckgynx9Z6mZx4XHoL.html
15-04-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 cases near 12,000 mark, almost 400 casualties so far||India’s total number of coronavirus positive cases has risen to 11,933 Wednesday afternoon after 1,076 fresh cases in the last 24 hours, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said.The figure includes 10,197 active cases, 1,344 cured/discharged/migrated and 392 deaths, the MHFW said on its website.Maharashtra continues to be the state with the highest number of infections at 2,687. However, Maharashtra health department officials reported 117 more people contracting the coronavirus disease that effectively took the count to 2801. Follow coronavirus latest updates here.Delhi has the second highest number of infections at 1,561 followed by Tamil Nadu at 1,204 and Rajasthan at 1,005.Madhya Pradesh has 987 cases and looks to be the fourth state heading for 1,000 plus infections.Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan said the next two to three weeks are going to be “most crucial” in handling the Covid-19 pandemic. He said 400 districts in the country are still free of coronavirus, according to ANI.Also on Wednesday, Meghalaya’s first and only Covid-19 patient so far who tested positive, died while first person to be infected by the virus in Tripura was discharged from hospital barely a week after she was admitted.Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb tweeted that she was discharged after testing negative in consecutive tests and has been sent for quarantine under medical supervision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-cases-near-12-000-mark-almost-400-casualties-so-far/story-3u8HfoNBXZ53n0oSjaxtbK.html
15-04-2020||India||West Bengal: Controversy over Covid-19 toll, CPM claims 30 deaths, govt says 7||The opposition Communist Party of India-Marxist (CPI-M) alleged on Wednesday that 30 people who tested positive for Covid-19 had died West Bengal though the state government said the death toll was only seven.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which has emerged the principal opposition to the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) in the state, has also accused the Mamata Banerjee government of suppressing death figures and misleading the people.The daily Ganashakti, the CPI-M’s Bengali mouthpiece, cited “sources” in the health administration and reported on its front page that 30 people had died in the state after being infected by the coronavirus. It reported 25 people had died till April 13, and five more on Tuesday.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday issued a strong warning to those ‘spreading misinformation’ about the number of deaths. Without referring to Ganashakti, she said, “People are quoting numbers to make headlines. I warn everybody against doing so, as there is a Supreme Court order for preventing misinformation and we can take legal action. The number of deaths is being determined by an expert committee and not me.” TMC spokesperson Snehashis Chakraborty, too, accused the CPM and BJP of spreading misinformation to create panic among the public. “The role of CPM and BJP is uncalled for,” Chakraborty said. On Tuesday evening, BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya targeted the state government and alleged four bodies were lying at a state-run hospital but the administration was not saying whether the deaths were due to Covid-19.He tweeted that “4 dead bodies are kept in the isolation Ward of MR Bangur (covid) Hospital”, and gave details of the four people. In another tweet, he wrote: “Are these four bodies kept in MR Bangur hospital? Were they tested for corona? Had they got treatment properly? If these are not covid deaths then why aren’t bodies being handed over to the relatives of deceased? Why aren’t these deaths reflecting in covid bulletin of the state??”BJP IT cell’s national head Amit Malviya also criticised the West Bengal government, tweeting that the relatives of patients had complained that bodies were decomposing in the isolation ward of MR Bangur Hospital, while the state government’s bulletin said “no one died of Covid in last 48 hrs”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/west-bengal-controversy-over-covid-19-toll-cpm-claims-30-deaths-govt-says-7/story-rivoMXetkBca2rvR1oKAlO.html
15-04-2020||India||‘Chhattisgarh to adopt pool sample testing’: Health minister TS Singh Deo on Covid-19||To speed-up the testing process of the Covid-19 samples, Chhattisgarh will adopt pool sample testing used by Germany and Israel to contain the spread of virus.Chhattisgarh health minister TS Singh Deo, talking to Hindustan Times, said that in the next two days the state will start pool sample testing and preparations for the testing started on Wednesday.“In order to effectively use the extended lockdown period, I have initiated measures to start pool testing, in at least one of our labs, at the earliest…This would help us in increasing Covid-19 testing by manifold,” the minister said.“In Chhattisgarh, although the number of coronavirus cases is less, but the cases are increasing rapidly, due to which it is very important to increase the number of tests being conducted by the lab. Given the acute kit shortage, samples of suspected Covid-19 patients will be ‘pooled’ to reduce the number of kits tested,” said a note released by the health minister’s office.Pooling of samples involves testing them in batches and when pooled sample tests positive, then individual samples are assessed. This method reduces the number of test kits used, compared to testing individual samples.On Tuesday, two more people, including a woman, tested positive for coronavirus in Korba district of Chhattisgarh, taking the number of such cases in the state to 33.Both cases were reported from Katghora town, which has emerged as the top Covid-19 hotspot in the state. The town, located around 200 km from the state capital Raipur, accounts for 24 of the 33 infections detected so far in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-to-adopt-pool-sample-testing-health-minister-ts-singh-deo-on-covid-19/story-qUnbTE2WgfhAv72aqclkXN.html
15-04-2020||India||It’s an artiste’s responsibility to calm people through music, says Tulsi Kumar||Tulsi Kumar has been spending her days during the lockdown picking up a skill. While she’s making the most of this time with her two-year-old son Shivaay, she has been spending some time at her in-house recording studio. She shares, “I’m trying my hands at various recording equipment. I’ve a little studio in the house where I’ve been making music on my own since the past few days. I would rely on my sound engineer earlier but now I feel more independent than ever, technologically.”She’s happy to have not stopped working as she adds, “Work from home is going on in full swing. I just released a reprised version of one of my songs, Phir Na Milen Kabhi. Planning its released and getting the master sorted through the phone have happened from my home. I’m working more than ever.”The singer, however, says that she misses the high of being on a stage and being behind a microphone. “I’m missing my in-studio recordings and live gigs. A couple of my concerts got cancelled. I miss my audience and the vibe I get when they sing along with me. But my live sessions on my social media page and other portals are helping me stay connected with my fans. I’m happy to have figured out an alternative,” she says.Talking about her connecting with her audiences through the digital space, she says that she’s happy to be reaching out to them in several parts of the world. “Music has a very calming and soothing effect not just on the artistes but also on the people listening to it. Music creates positivity and good vibrations. It has a healing power and what better than to listen to some great music while you’re sitting at home. As artistes, it’s our responsibility to provide entertainment and calm people through our music,” she signs off.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/it-s-an-artiste-s-responsibility-to-calm-people-through-music-says-tulsi-kumar/story-GYbl8unpBCXv99aZ1HfOBL.html
15-04-2020||India||Election on his mind, Donald Trump goes after WHO chief and China||US President Donald Trump has halted funding to the World Health Organisation for its handling of the coronavirus pandemic, a decision attributed to his assessment that the Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus-led global health body had been biased towards China and given the world, and him, what he has described as “faulty recommendations”.Trump’s decision to hold back funding for the WHO at a time the world is still struggling to stop the virus that has infected close to 2 million and killed over 1.2 lakh has been criticised by several countries. Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison said he sympathised with Trump’s criticisms of the WHO and it wasn’t immune from criticism. But, he underlined, they weren’t going to throw the baby out of the bathwater here.People familiar with the developments in Washington and New Delhi suggest that Trump’s targeted attacks on the WHO chief could be also linked to the Ethopian microbiologist’s May 2017 election with China’s backing. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus had defeated the US-backed Dr David Nabarro, who was the candidate of the UK.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageTedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus’s term as WHO director general is due to end in 2022. “If the support that Dr Tedros has received after the attacks on him are anything to go by, it is clear that the WHO director general may be on his way to get a second term if he so chooses,” a person familiar with the development said.The 55-member African Union and 120 member Non-Aligned Movement (NAM) have already come out in support of Dr Tedros’ handling of the Covid-19 outbreak. He would just need a simple majority in the world health body that has 194 countries as members.This means that the United States - President Trump if he returns to power in the US presidential elections just months away - will have to do some serious heavy lifting to ensure the China-backed microbiologist is not re-elected.As the Trump administration did last month to ensure that the US-backed Singaporean candidate Daren Tang is elected as Director General of World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) defeating heavily-favoured Wang Binying, the candidate from China, which has been accused of having a shaky record on intellectual property protection and enforcement.President Trump’s suspension of funding to the WHO is a huge setback. The United States is the biggest overall donor to the Geneva-based WHO, contributing more than $400 million in 2019, roughly 15% of its budget.American taxpayers provide between $ 400 million and $ 500 million per year to the WHO, in contrast, China contributes roughly USD 40 million a year and even less, Trump said.Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian rushed to the WHO director general’s defence, and its own, according to news agency Press Trust of India.Both China and WHO faced serious criticism over lack of transparency especially about the discovery of the coronavirus in December last year and its silent spread in Wuhan until Beijing imposed lockdown in the city on January 23.India has steered clear of the debate over the WHO’ role, determined that it first wanted to fight off the virus outbreak before getting into any discussion over reforming the WHO.Rather than wait for WHO to declare Covid-19 outbreak as a pandemic as it did in March, India, followed by the US and later Europe, banned flights from China. This helped mostly block infected people coming to India from China. But the infection still came through Europe and the Gulf, hitting US hard and landing Europe in a health disaster.But PM Modi, however, made it clear in his G-20 address last month that the time had come to assess whether organizations of the past century were capable of handling the new age diseases.For the record, WHO sent 100,000 testing kits to India late February and another 100,000 kits at the end of March.International groups such as the African Union Commission have been more vocal. On April 8, Moussa Faki Mahamat of the AUC tweeted his ‘surprise’ to learn of the campaign against WHO’s global leadership. “The African Union fully supports WHO and DG Tedros. The focus should remain on collectively fighting Covid-19 as a united global community. The time for accountability will come,” he said.The New York-based NAM coordinating bureau, on the other hand, issued a statement the next day in support of the WHO and its DG. It said: “ The Coordinating bureau of the NAM extends its full support to the WHO and to the leadership of its DG, Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, while recognising the critical role and guidance it is currently playing on the frontlines.” The NAM also expressed confidence in the leadership of Dr Tedros and asked the global community to stop politicising the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/election-on-his-mind-donald-trump-goes-after-who-and-china/story-GJHlLBlWfSDENiKRoys6XP.html
15-04-2020||India||EU blasts Trump’s WHO funding cut, fears it worsens pandemic||Nations around the world reacted with alarm Wednesday after President Donald Trump announced a halt to the sizable funding the United States sends to the World Health Organization. Health experts warned the move could jeopardize global efforts to stop the coronavirus pandemic.At a briefing in Washington, Trump said he was instructing his administration to halt funding for WHO pending a review of its role “in severely mismanaging and covering up the spread of the coronavirus.” The United States is WHO’s largest single donor, contributing between $400 million and $500 million annually to the Geneva-based agency in recent years.Trump has repeatedly labelled COVID-19 the “Chinese virus” and criticized the U.N. health agency for being too lenient on China, where the novel virus first emerged late last year.Outside experts have questioned China’s reported infections and deaths from the virus, calling them way too low and unreliable. And an investigation by The Associated Press has found that s ix days of delays between when Chinese officials k new about the virus and when they warned the public allowed the pandemic to bloom into an enormous public health disaster.The European Union on Wednesday said Trump has “no reason” to freeze WHO funding at this critical stage and called for measures to promote unity instead of division. EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell said the 27-nation bloc “deeply” regrets the suspension of funds and added that the U.N. health agency is now “needed more than ever” to combat the pandemic.Borrell said “only by joining forces can we overcome this crisis that knows no borders.”Even though they have been traditional allies for decades, the EU has increasingly been critical of the Trump administration over the past years.Worldwide, the pandemic has infected nearly 2 million people and killed over 127,000, according to a tally by Johns Hopkins University. The virus is spread by microscopic droplets expelled into the air or left on surfaces when people sneeze or cough.Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison said he sympathized with some of Trump’s criticisms of WHO and China but that Australia would continue to fund the U.N. health agency.“We work closely with them so that we’re not going to throw the baby out with the bathwater here,” Morrison told Perth Radio 6PR. “But they’re also not immune from criticism.”Germany’s foreign minister, Heiko Maas, pushed back at Trump’s announcement.“Placing blame doesn’t help,” he wrote on Twitter. “The virus knows no borders. We must work closely against COVID-19. Strengthening the U.N., in particular the underfunded WHO, is a better investment, for example, to develop and distribute tests and vaccines.”Devi Sridhar, chair of global public health at the University of Edinburgh, called Trump’s decision “extremely problematic,” noting that the chronically-underfunded WHO is leading efforts to help developing countries fight the spread of COVID-19.“This is the agency that’s looking out for other countries and leading efforts to stop the pandemic,” Sridhar said. “This is exactly the time when they need more funding, not less.”Sridhar said Trump’s move was a short-sighted political decision that would likely have lasting consequences.“Trump is angry, but his anger is being directed in a way that is going to ultimately hurt U.S. interests,” she said.In Beijing, Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian says the country is “seriously concerned” about the U.S. government’s decision to suspend funding.“As the most authoritative and professional international institution in the field of global public health security, the WHO plays an irreplaceable role in responding to the global public health crisis,” he told reporters Wednesday.The WHO did not respond to repeated requests from The Associated Press for comment, but its Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus and other top WHO officials were expected to attend a news conference on the pandemic later Wednesday.Many analysts have praised the initial response to the pandemic by WHO, which is being challenged as national interests collide with the international cooperation that U.N. agencies must rely on.But recently, many governments have split with its advice on issues of public health policy, notably on travel restrictions and whether the public should wear masks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/election-on-his-mind-donald-trump-goes-after-who-chief-and-china/story-GRl4SBWXag1V37msiPJwYO.html
15-04-2020||India||Lockdown 2.0: FAQs on what will remain shut, what may open in Delhi after April 20||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday extended the nationwide lockdown to May 3 to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease. On Wednesday, the Ministry of Home Affairs released detailed guidelines clarifying what will be allowed and what won’t. To begin with, the lockdown is going to continue with stricter enforcement till April 20 at least. However, after April 20, some relaxations will be allowed which will also largely depend on how your state performs individually in bending the coronavirus curve. As of Tuesday night, Delhi had 1,561 coronavirus cases, including 30 fatalities and 30 recoveries. On Monday, the national capital had seen the highest spike of 356 infections on a single day.Here, we break down the Lockdown 2.0 for those living in Delhi: Q: What does the extension of lockdown mean?A: It means you are expected to stay at home till May 3.Q: Government has relaxed some curbs. Does it mean the lockdown will be partially lifted after April 20?A: No. Permitting some activities does not mean a partial lifting of the lockdown. You are expected to stay at home till May 3 to avoid the spread of the virus. Q: My home falls under a containment zone; will I see any relaxation in my neighbourhood after April 20? A: No relaxation will be allowed. Containment measures and rules will be strictly enforced in your area to ensure that the number of Covid-19 cases comes down to zero in your area. Q: What will not be allowed until May 3?•Delhi Metro •DTC, cluster or private buses •Taxis, services of cab aggregators, e-rickshaws, auto-rickshaws •Inter-state and even inter-district movement of individuals, except for medical reasons, will not be allowed •Trains •Domestic and international air travelQ: Will shops remain open during the lockdown period?A: No. Only those selling essential items will be allowed until May 3. Q: Will banks remain open?A: As of now bank operations are shut and ATMs are open. But after April 20, bank operations will re-start. The bank and the authorities will have to ensure social distancing. Q: Q. Will alcohol be available?A: No. There is a strict ban on the sale of liquor, gutka, tobacco, etc. till May 3. Spitting in public will also attract heavy fines.Q: Will schools and colleges be open after April 20?A: No. All educational institutes, including schools, colleges, coaching, and training institutes, will remain closed till at least May 3. Q: What about the academic calendar of educational establishments?A: All educational establishments, including schools and colleges, are expected to maintain academic schedule through online teaching. Q: What about those who don’t have internet?A: The government has also asked institutes to rope in Doordarshan and other educational channels to reach out to all students and use it for teaching purpose.Q: Will the remaining board exams and university annual exams be conducted during the lockdown?A: CBSE has said that they will wait for the lockdown restrictions to be lifted before conducting the exams. They will give at least 10 days of time before conducting the papers. For university exams, a UGC panel constituted to look into the matter will submit its report by Thursday. Universities are waiting for the report to issue further directions. They have been brainstorming ideas to conduct online exams and find alternative means for those who do not have access to the internet and devices. Q: Is construction activity allowed?A: No. However, after April 20, only those construction work will be allowed which are within the limits of municipal corporations and where workers are available on site and no workers are required to be brought in from outside. There are several government projects in Delhi such as the redevelopment of ITPO, DMRC’s phase-IV etc where labourers are available on site. Q: Will offices be open?A: No. The government expects companies to continue with their work from home policy. But, after April 20, DTH and cable services, print and electronic media will be allowed to operate. IT and IT-enabled services will also be allowed to operate, but with 50% of staff only. E-commerce and courier companies will be allowed after a week.Q: I am a self-employed person; will I be allowed to travel for work within the city after April 20?A: Only a self-employed person such as an electrician, a motor mechanic, a plumber, a carpenter will be allowed. But, if you are a businessman you cannot move around for work. Q: Will industrial activities be functional?A: No, except those manufacturing essential goods such as drugs, medical devices and so on. After April 20, manufacturing units of packaging material, IT hardware and production units which require continuous process will be allowed.Q: What about government offices?A: Delhi police, civil defence, home guards, MCDs and some departments of the Delhi government are already reporting to work as they are engaged in Covid-19 related activities. After April 20, however, all other departments of the Delhi government will be allowed to work with limited staff. Group A and B officers may attend as required. Group C and levels below that may attend up to 33% of strength, as per requirement to ensure social distancing. However, the delivery of public services will be allowed.Q: What precautions should be taken for offices once some are allowed to open after April 20?A: Temperature screening and offering sanitisers are mandatory. Workplaces to have staggered lunch times. Large meetings or gatherings of 10 or more people should be avoided. Lifts should have not more than 2-4 persons (depending on the size). Transport (non-public transport) should be made available to workers coming from outside and the vehicles should ply only with 30-40% passenger capacity. Q. Will goods movement be open?A: Only after April 20. All goods traffic will be allowed to ply. Movement of all trucks and other goods/ carrier vehicles with two drivers and one helper with a valid driving license is allowed. Q. How will truckers survive?A. Shops for truck repairs and dhabas (eating joints for drivers) on highways will be allowed after April 20. However, the distance between the shops and dhabas will be decided upon by the respective district magistrates. Q: Will any recreational centres be opened after April 20?A: No. All cinema halls, malls, entertainment parks, theatres, sports complexes, gyms, auditoriums and assembly halls will remain shut till May 3. Q: A family member has died; will I be able to perform his funeral?A: Funerals are allowed. But, the gathering should not be of more than 20 people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-2-0-faqs-on-what-will-remain-shut-what-may-open-in-delhi-after-april-20/story-NvHzzRBL4n23MHCSr5f6JK.html
15-04-2020||India||It’s time to make a move||The onset of Covid-19 has challenged our everyday convenience in more ways than one. While social distancing and isolation are currently the most effective ways of keeping the contagion at bay, they do not shield us from feeling hesitant and constantly in doubt. With our health, finances and futures at stake, we grapple for safe passages to the next day. Can movement be a portal to this “one day at a time” approach? As Frank Zappa had once said for music, can body action differently sculpt the air in performance? Cusp, a Kolkata-based commune for mindfulness and fitness enthusiasts, held a free movement session on Instagram to encourage holistic well-being in these trying times.“All of us are homebound now. The Internet enables us to reach out and devise methods that consider both body and mind positivity. We plan to organise bi-weekly workshops on Zoom,” says Agniva Ray, co-founder and executive head, CUSP.The Sunday session was addressed by Satakshi Nandy, a movement artiste, contemporary dancer and actor from Kolkata. With a Diploma from Attakkalari Center for Movement Arts and being trained in Kalaripayattu, Bharatnatyam, Mayurbhanj Chhau and Ballet she sheds light on how her craft shapes her life. “When young, I remember carrying a red tape recorder to school. I grew up on movies where kids would be hooked to the jukebox. So, the idea of creating performance-oriented content has always been part of my DNA,” she shares. She further admits this lockdown has not been an easy phase for many – “At times, it feels like my mind is on a loop even though I know how to use dance against it!”Body movement, undoubtedly, puts one in a constructive state of mind, says Satakshi. She, however, confesses if she were to claim a couple of movement workshops can fight off General Anxiety Disorder or Depression, it would be a stretch, as she has no specialisation in mental health and psychology. “It can motivate you to pull yourself out of bed and pull through the day.” On being asked about the necessity to shift performance arts to virtual media, especially when it is a field that requires one-on-one exchange, she adds, “I see this as a temporary settlement. I am not denying the significance and influence of digital platforms, but as and when normalcy prevails, I would like to take my craft back to its original surroundings. That is something I enjoy – the audience, the spontaneity, and the fact that people can come together over music or dance.” She further goes on to add how it takes years of practice to perfect a skill and only a few days of break can drain you of the same. Being online is also a potent mode of practice while guiding other co-participants. “Attendees often sign up for a class with low self-confidence and a compromised morale. In many instances, channelling their energy into performance makes then rediscover their worth. That’s what I wish to lend through web classes too,” Satakshi signs off.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/it-s-time-to-make-a-move/story-SkUSBwJ1lKOrhABIfnpkaM.html
15-04-2020||India||Lucknow reports first Covid-19 casualty, 30 fresh cases||A 55-year-old man who tested positive for coronavirus and was admitted to Lucknow’s King George’s Medical University (KGMU) three days ago, died Wednesday afternoon, said officials.The man, a resident of Nayagaon in Najirabad locality, had reached KGMU’s casualty department with breathlessness. “He died in the afternoon,” said Dr Sudhir Singh, spokesperson, KGMU. This is first death in Lucknow and ninth coronavirus casualty in the state.“He was a diabetic and had kidney ailments also. During treatment, it was found that he had infection in the lungs hence was kept on ventilator support in the isolation ward. Unfortunately, he died during treatment,” said Dr Singh.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.The brother of the deceased had also tested positive while 10 of his family members have been kept in medical quarantine facility. An area of 100 sq metres around the house of the deceased was sealed on Tuesday and the health department had started tracing of contacts.Samples of 160 residents of Nayagaon area had been taken for testing, said an official.Lucknow reported 30 fresh cases on Wednesday, taking the total number of cases in the state capital to 74.They are residents of Najirabad and Sadar areas and are contacts of people who tested coronavirus positive earlier.They include eight women and 22 men and have been shifted to Covid hospitals in Sadhamau and Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lucknow-reports-first-covid-19-casualty-30-fresh-cases/story-p5jSzDK98LbQZNJvkcG2vL.html
15-04-2020||India||Army tells soldiers to use Aarogya Setu app with caution||The army has reiterated its advice to personnel, veterans and families to download and install India’s coronavirus disease (Covid-19) contact-tracing app Aarogya Setu (health bridge) and stressed that the existing cyber security policies on usage of mobile phones be adhered to, two officials said on Wednesday.Service personnel have been advised not to use the app in offices, operational areas and sensitive locations, the first official said. He said personnel have been told not to disclose service identity including rank and appointment.The second official said soldiers have been told location services and Bluetooth have to be switched on only while visiting public places, managing isolation centres, when called for Covid -19 related assistance to civil authorities and moving out of cantonments and military stations for essential administrative duties. He said personnel have also been told to update mobile operating systems and install antivirus.As reported by Hindustan Times on Wednesday, Aarogya Setu became the world’s fastest growing mobile app on Tuesday night with 50 million users in 13 days. Of these, 11 million were in a single day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi urged people to download the application in his third televised address to the nation.Apart from reaching out and informing users about their potential risk of infection, this “privacy-first by design” app also shares safe behaviours and updated medical advisories about Covid-19 containment in 11 languages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-tells-soldiers-to-use-aarogya-setu-app-with-caution/story-ZN79eNnx8BoGbZg0Nwd91N.html
15-04-2020||India||Covid-19 Lockdown 2.0: Congress smells political conspiracy behind migrants’ rush at Bandra||Maharashtra’s public works department minister Ashok Chavan on Wednesday alleged a political conspiracy behind the Tuesday’s gathering of migrants at Mumbai’s Bandra railway station and a social media campaign which followed demanding ‘President’s rule’ in Maharashtra. Chavan also said the state government was investigating who was patronised the campaign on social media and who created the confusion that led migrant workers to flock the Bandra station.“We are investigating the entire episode of crowding by the migrant workers at the Bandra station on Tuesday evening. We are investigating who was patronising the social media campaign holding the state government responsible for it. It smells of a political conspiracy as the demands are being made for the imposition of the President’s Rule in Maharashtra. It needs to come to fore who was behind the messages and wrong information spread among the workers,” said Chavan at a video press conference.Maharashra Congress president and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat too participated in the press conference. Chavan who is also a former chief minister said that Tuesday’s incident was very serious and could have led to a stampede had it not been handled well by the police. He also alleged that a letter issued by South Central Railways about their plans to start special trains for the migrant workers created confusion among the migrants and led to the crowding at the Bandra station.“There was a letter issued from the office of the chief commercial manager’s office in Secunderabad that created confusion among the workers. The letter was making rounds on the social media and led the workers to believe that the Railways were making special arrangements for them. It was an irresponsible act of the Railways administration. I am not blaming anybody, but presenting the facts related to the crowding by the migrants,” he said.Thorat said that the Railways had taken online booking till Tuesday afternoon before announcing the cancellation of all the trains. “The confusion among the migrants led to the incident. It did not pertain to any specific community or the religion. The crowd included migrants from all communities,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-2-0-congress-smells-political-conspiracy-behind-migrants-rush-at-bandra/story-Fxyr9fM1556zIPzYxkdxVK.html
15-04-2020||India||170 districts Covid-19 hotspots, another 207 potential hotspots, says Centre||To step up the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic in the country, India’s districts will now be classified into three categories—hotspot districts which report a large number of positive cases, non-hotspot districts which record a few coronavirus cases and green zones which have not reported fresh cases for some time. On the first day of Lockdown 2.0, the Union government has issued guidelines to all states for dealing with Covid-19 hotspots nationwide to contain the spread of coronavirus, a health ministry official said.“There is no community transmission in the country so far. There are only local outbreaks and cluster cases in hotspots. To contain the spread of the virus and to break the chain, we need to engage the community. Our major challenge is to implement our containment strategy amid the lockdown and also ensure social distancing,” Lav Aggarwal, Joint Secretary, Health Ministry said at the daily news briefing.ALSO READ | These four cities together witness over 50% of coronavirus deaths in India“Covid-19 hotspots and green zones have been identified and door-to-door surveys are being conducted in hotspots. The ministry has identified 170 districts as hotspots, and 207 districts as potential hotspots. Curbs will gradually be eased in the districts which have been identified as green zones,” he said.Areas in which the doubling rate is growing rapidly have also been declared as hotspots in sevearl states across the country.India on Wednesday reported a total count of 11,439 Covid-19 cases, of which 9,756 are active ones, 1306 people have been cured, discharged or migrated and 377 have died nationwide, according to health ministry data.The spike in the number of cases came on the first day of the second phase of the lockdown announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi a day earlier on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-lockdown-2-0-india-s-districts-to-be-divided-into-covid-19-hotspots-green-zones/story-9rtnMnner7t0NxBVqpEaQJ.html
15-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: As Trump threatens to cut funding for WHO, India says focus should remain on Covid-19 pandemic and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion curated for you. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.As Trump threatens to cut funding for WHO, India says focus should remain on Covid-19 pandemicThe Indian government on Wednesday reacted cautiously to US President Donald Trump’s decision to cut funding to the World Health Organisation (WHO), with people familiar with developments saying the world community’s focus should remain on the Covid-19 pandemic. Read more. Bengal governor suggests central forces to enforce lockdown, triggers rowWest Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar triggered a fresh controversy on Wednesday by suggesting the state government should look at calling in Central paramilitary forces to enforce the Covid-19-related lockdown.His tweet came in the wake of Kolkata Police and West Bengal Police taking additional steps to prevent crowds as people venture out of their homes to buy essential supplies. Read more. These four cities together witness over 50% of coronavirus deaths in IndiaMaharashtra accounts for a massive chunk of the country’s coronavirus cases with over 3,000 cases followed by Delhi which has close 1,600 coronavirus cases. When it comes to Covid-19 fatalities, nearly half of the total 377 deaths in the country come from Maharashtra which has reported 178 Covid-19 deaths as per health ministry’s data.Read more. Kerala’s luxury houseboats to function as Covid-19 wardsKerala’s houseboats, a mascot of tourism in the state’s idyllic backwaters, are set to be converted into isolation wards to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic. Work is underway to create at least 2,000 isolation wards in houseboats, state public works department minister G Sudhakaran said on Wednesday. Read more. UPSC meets to review exam and CSE interview dates amid lockdown, check detailsWith PM Narendra Modi extending the nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus disease till May 3, the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) held a meeting to review the situation. A notice regarding this meeting has been uploaded on the PIB’s official website. Read more. IPL before T20 World Cup: VVS Laxman believes ‘it will set the tone’The BCCI has suspended this season of the Indian Premier League until further notice due to the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic and the subsequent extension of the national lockdown. As per reports, the franchises have been informed about the decision. Read more. Living in the times of social distancing: Why the hyper bored must revisit memories right nowThe global pandemic has devalued our present and definitely our future. The idea of freedom, touch, work, leisure, sharing, caring and mattering has changed across the globe and how. Every piece of information is causing anxiety and everyday has become a fight to finish. Read more. Gurugram: Not following social distancing is a cry for help in slumsIn Gurugram slums, not following social distancing norms is a cry for help. People sit in large gatherings to gain attention of passersby or agencies. Sikanderpur, Nathupur and Chakkarpur are mostly inhabited by daily wage workers & house help. “The situation is very bad here. There is no provision of food, water and electricity,” said a resident. Women queue for water outside a local resident’s house which receives supply. Daily wage earners have been the worst affected by the nationwide lockdown. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-as-trump-threatens-to-cut-funding-for-who-india-says-focus-should-remain-on-covid-19-pandemic-and-all-the-latest-news/story-tTPmZ1gUwLcJqd7PNGJxMN.html
15-04-2020||India||E-commerce firms welcome govt’s order, some seek more clarity||The e-commerce companies on Wednesday welcomed the government’s decision to ease the ongoing nationwide lockdown restrictions from April 20 by allowing some sectors such as farm activities, constructions of roads and buildings in rural areas, information technology and all interstate goods transport to function while maintaining a greater vigil in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) hotspots.Several e-commerce companies faced initial challenges in catering to their customers because of delivery snags after the nationwide lockdown was enforced on March 25 to contain the spread of Covid-19 outbreak and since further extended till May 3, despite the government’s exemptions to them.On March 24, the Union Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) asked states to exempt some key essential services, including e-commerce providers, and said that they be provided passage on the basis of evidence like a copy of orders, waybills, invoices, etc. The Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) also put out additional guidelines two days later, which specified that e-commerce companies delivering essential commodities would be allowed to operate during the lockdown.A company spokesperson of Walmart-owned Flipkart said that they have been collaborating with the retail ecosystem, including local kirana stores, to ensure the doorstep delivery of essential items. The company said that it would scale up its supply chain while taking all necessary precautions and making optimum utilisation of its resources.“In line with the guidelines announced by the government and also in collaboration with all state governments and local authorities, we’ll continue to serve consumers to promote social distancing through our sanitised supply chain, contactness deliveries and healthy and safe last-mile delivery process,” said the spokesperson. An Amazon India spokesperson said that they are evaluating the guidelines and have sought clarifications from the authorities on its implementation.“The resumption of economic activity from April 20 is a welcome step that will depend on unhindered availability of labour that is critical to deliver essential products to people across the country and ensure they can stay home safely,” Amazon said in a statement.The hyperlocal delivery start-up, FreshToHome, which was facing logistical issues over deliveries, as meat products were not exempt, said its operations have resumed across the country.“Chicken products and freshwater fish are available. But sourcing mutton and seafood is still an issue,” said Shan Kadavil, chief executive officer (CEO), FreshToHome.“We appreciate the government’s bid to prioritise the movement of food and other essential items and also the resumption of farming, fisheries, and livestock, which will ensure daily sustenance of the workforce involved in these sectors,” Kadavil said, adding that most of his company’s deliveries are done through a contactness mechanism.BigBasket, an online supermarket, said that though it faced initial delivery disruptions because of lockdown restrictions, the situation has vastly improved a spike in its orders. “We have a massive backlog of orders because of exceptionally high demand over the last few days. We have increased our server capacity by 50%, as we’re facing a high volume of queries to our customer service team,” said a BigBasket spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/e-commerce-firms-welcome-govt-s-decision-to-resume-services-some-seek-more-clarity/story-rW3hrK82B9YwaJpccQ5iVP.html
15-04-2020||India||As Trump threatens to cut WHO funding, India says Covid-19 should remain focus||The Centre on Wednesday reacted cautiously to US President Donald Trump’s decision to cut funding to the World Health Organisation (WHO), with people familiar with developments saying the world community’s focus should remain on the Covid-19 pandemic.During his daily briefing on the Covid-19 crisis, Trump announced the US would halt funding for the WHO for “severely mismanaging and covering up the spread of the Coronavirus”.The move was soon criticised by world leaders, and UN chief Antonio Guterres said this was “not the time to reduce the resources for the operations” of the WHO.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageThe Indian government was more circumspect in its response, with people familiar with developments insisting that the focus of global efforts should remain on overcoming the Covid-19 pandemic.“At present, our efforts and attention are fully focused on dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic. Once the world has addressed this crisis, we can revisit this question [of funding for the WHO],” one of the people cited above said on condition of anonymity.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, while participating in a virtual summit of G20 leaders last month, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, had called for the reform of the WHO, which was based on the “last century’s models” and hadn’t adapted to deal with new challenges.At his daily briefing, Trump, who has repeatedly criticised the WHO in recent weeks for its handling of the pandemic and for allegedly toeing China’s line, said: “Today I’m instructing my administration to halt funding of the World Health Organisation while a review is conducted to assess the World Health Organisation’s role in severely mismanaging and covering up the spread of the Coronavirus.”He noted that American taxpayers “provide between $400 million and $500 million” a year to the WHO, while China “contributes roughly $40 million a year and even less”. He added, “As the organisation’s leading sponsor, the US has a duty to insist on full accountability.”Trump further said: “One of the most dangerous and costly decisions from the WHO was its disastrous decision to oppose travel restrictions from China and other nations. They were very much opposed to what we did. Fortunately, I was not convinced and suspended travel from China, saving untold numbers of lives.”The US president is himself facing criticism for his handling of the Covid-19 crisis in his country, which has recorded more than 614,000 infections and more than 26,000 deaths.UN chief Antonio Guterres said in a statement that the need of the hour is unity in the global battle against Covid-19 and not cutting the funding for the WHO.“It is my belief that the WHO must be supported, as it is absolutely critical to the world’s efforts to win the war against Covid-19,” Guterres said.While acknowledging the need to review the actions of different entities in responding to the Coronavirus, Guterres said: “Once we have finally turned the page on this epidemic, there must be a time to look back fully to understand how such a disease emerged and spread its devastation so quickly across the globe, and how all those involved reacted to the crisis.”He added, “The lessons learned will be essential to effectively address similar challenges, as they may arise in the future. But now is not that time.”German foreign minister Heiko Maas tweeted: “Blaming does not help. The virus knows no borders…One of the best investments is the @UN, especially the underfunded @WHO, to strengthen…the development and distribution of tests and vaccines.”Microsoft founder Bill Gates tweeted: “Halting funding for the World Health Organization during a world health crisis is as dangerous as it sounds.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-trump-threatens-to-cut-funding-for-who-india-says-focus-should-remain-on-covid-19-pandemic/story-xJXdfupz7I3TCN4tg8QtOL.html
15-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Uttarakhand forms panel to prepare post-lockdown economic roadmap||The Uttarakhand government on Wednesday formed a high-level committee to evaluate the economic loss in the current lockdown to check the spread of Covid-19 and suggest ways to improve the state’s economy after the containment period ends, officials said. The high-level committee formed by chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat will be led by retired IAS officer Indu Kumar Pandey. The other members of the committee are principal secretary (industries) Manisha Panwar, secretary (finance) Sowjanya (uses first name only), additional secretary (finance) Bhupesh Tripathi and additional secretary (planning) Yogendra Yadav.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.An official in the chief minister’s office (CMO) who did not wish to be named said, “The committee will evaluate the losses incurred by the state during this lockdown and then contemplate moves to improve the state of economy before making a report with suggestions on the same which will be given soon to the CM.”He said, “The committee will also, focus on the sectors which will provide employment to the people after the lockdown.”Earlier on Tuesday, chief minister Rawat held a meeting with his Cabinet to analyse the present situation in the state. In the meeting which was attended by all the seven ministers of his Cabinet, Rawat emphasised on how to turn the “pandemic into an opportunity.”He said, “The biggest challenge before the government would be to make sure the economy remained strong amid these changed conditions.”Citing the return of many labourers to state, Rawat directed the Migration and Rural Development Commission to prepare a report on how to turn the phenomenon into “reverse migration by providing them a better livelihood in the state itself.”The chief minister also directed all his ministers to check black marketing and hoarding of ration and take strict action against anyone found doing so. Uttarakhand reported 37 cases of Covid-19 cases till Wednesday afternoon out of which seven have been treated and discharged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-uttarakhand-forms-panel-to-prepare-post-lockdown-economic-roadmap/story-bUMyVnTOMJyYTOvBnAVfEK.html
15-04-2020||India||Military’s innovations to help combat Covid-19||From modifying quadcopters to spray disinfectants over large areas to ultra-violet light sanitisers and assisted respiratory systems to 3-D printed masks, the armed forces have come up with a raft of innovations to combat the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), three officers familiar with the details said on Wednesday.A quadcopter can disinfect an area of the size of a football field in less than five minutes and each unit is likely to cost around Rs 7.5 lakh, said one of the officials cited above. It can be used up to a surface elevation of 6,000 feet, with an effective spray height of 10 metre. The quadcopters are currently under validation at an army base workshop.Different wings of the defence ministry including the armed forces, the Defence Research and Development Organisation and the Ordnance Factory Board, have designed and developed a wide range of products to support the country’s effort to contain the spread of the pandemic.The UV light sanitiser designed by the army can kill 99.9% surface bacteria and viruses without the use of chemicals, and it would help prevent hospital acquired infections, said the second officer cited above. He said the device, likely to cost Rs 800, had been validated by Military Hospital, Agra.The Naval Dockyard, Mumbai, has developed an assisted respiratory system (ARS) that is likely to reduce the requirement of invasive ventilation of Covid-19 patients, said the third officer cited above. “This could reduce the requirement of intensive care and loading of the hospitals. The ARS can be used as a personal respiratory aid device,” he added. The unit cost of an ARS unit is expected to be around Rs 7,500.An army base workshop has developed reusable 3-D printed masks to help tackle the shortage of face masks.The navy has already developed equipment for safe air evacuation of Covid-19 patients from warships and remote islands. The air evacuation pod (AEP), developed by the Naval Aircraft Yard Kochi under the Southern Naval Command, will allow patient transfer without the risk of pilots or the rescue teams getting infected.Earlier, the Naval Dockyard, Mumbai, designed and developed a hand-held infrared temperature sensor and said it had the capacity to scale up production if agencies require these instruments in large numbers to screen people for fever amid the Covid-19 outbreak.The navy said the instrument had been developed to overcome the scarcity of temperature guns in the market where these were being sold at a very high price.As the country prepares to handle a rising number of cases and meet its need for ventilators, which about 5% of the Covid-19 patients may require, the navy has also pitched in with an innovative ventilator design that can cater to six patients simultaneously.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/military-s-innovations-to-help-combat-covid-19/story-TMO4zfKFpft2WIXE3Ps8KM.html
15-04-2020||India||India enters day 1 of lockdown 2.0, UK thanks for help with Covid-19: 10 points||The 21-day nationwide lockdown which was announced by the Prime Minister on March 25 has been extended. On Tuesday, the Prime Minister announced the same stating that the lockdown will remain in place till May 3. The Ministry of Home Affairs, earlier on Wednesday, released a revised list of guidelines that is to be followed during the extended phase of the lockdown. The move comes as coronavirus cases in the country continue to rise unabated. On Wednesday the national tally rose to 11,439 with 9,756 active cases, 1,306 cured or discharged patients and 377 fatalities.Here are the key developments:1. The UK government thanked India for approving the export of nearly 3 million packets of paracetamol to ease shortage and supply gaps of the drug in the United Kingdom.2. Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani self-quarantined himself on Wednesday after a Congress legislator he met tested positive for coronavirus disease on Tuesday.3. As per the guidelines, all domestic and international air travel of passengers (except for security purposes), passenger movement by trains (except for security purposes), buses for public transport, metro rail services will remain prohibited.4. As per the revised lockdown guidelines issued by the government, some manufacturing units and industries functioning from special economic zones (SEZs) will resume operations from April 20. 5. All educational, training, coaching institutions etc. shall remain closed during the extended phase of the lockdown. 6. Inter-district and inter-state movement of individuals except for medical reasons or for activities permitted under guidelines shall remain prohibited. Taxis (including auto-rickshaws and cycle rickshaws) and services of cab aggregators to remain prohibited until May 3.7. Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Wednesday urged people to not be scared as coronavirus cases spiked in the industrial hub of Indore. Till late Tuesday night, the city reported 427 cases with more than 30 deaths. 8. An analysis of the data shows that till Wednesday morning, the death rate of Covid-19 patients in Madhya Pradesh’s Indore city was around 6.8 per cent, higher than the national average.9. West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar triggered a fresh row on Wednesday by suggesting the state government should look at calling in Central paramilitary forces to enforce the Covid-19-related lockdown.10. Kerala’s houseboats, a mascot of tourism in the state’s idyllic backwaters, are set to be converted into isolation wards to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-thanks-new-delhi-for-help-amid-covid-19-crisis-india-enters-day-1-of-lockdown-2-0-10-points/story-1LnNJXK3kf9Vf9EubLTk7O.html
15-04-2020||India||All 5 Covid-19 patients who died in Bhopal are gas tragedy victims, say organizations||All five Covid-19 patients who have died of the disease in Bhopal so far were also victims of the Bhopal Gas Tragedy, certain organisations representing the gas tragedy survivors have claimed. The city currently, has 158 coronavirus positive patients. One of the organisations has moved the high court for a direction to the state government to denotify the Bhopal Memorial Hospital and Research Centre (BMHRC) as a non-Covid-19 hospital so that it can treat the Bhopal Gas Tragedy victims. The hospital was notified as a Covid-19 hospital by an order of the district administration in the third week of March. The Covid-19 patients who have died are between 49 years to 80 years and lived in different localities affected by the gas tragedy. The first Covid-19 patient among the Bhopal Gas Tragedy victims died on April 6, second and third on April 12, fourth on April 13 and the fifth Covid-19 patient died on April 14. One of them was suffering from oral cancer. Another was suffering from tuberculosis but he had recovered from the disease. The three others too were suffering from ailments. One of the five happened to be a journalist, as per associations and officials from the district administration.Bhopal Group for Information and Action convener Rachna Dhingra accused the government of neglecting the victims and said, “Bhopal Gas Tragedy victims are dying of Covid-19 as they are more vulnerable to the virus and they have been deprived of treatment at BMHRC which is meant for them as the hospital has been notified as a Covid-19 hospital.”Rachna Dhingra said, “The Bhopal Group for Information and Action filed an application in the high court on Tuesday for an urgent hearing through video conferencing on the organisation’s petition already filed after the state government notified the hospital for Covid-19 patients. This is regarding denial of all medical facilities at BMHRC to gas tragedy victims.” Member of the Supreme Court’s monitoring committee for gas victims, Purnendu Shukla said, “After BMHRC was notified as a Covid-19 hospital the OPD service was discontinued at the hospital for gas victims. As many as 65 patients were discharged from the hospital. Only a few patients were allowed to remain at the hospital as they could not be shifted from there given their serious condition. As many as 31 patients on dialysis were shifted to another hospital, where there was only one technician for dialysis.”“The government’s decision to not allow the gas victims to be treated at BMHRC was beyond comprehension as the gas victims are more prone to contracting the virus given their co-morbidity. And now the results are there for all to see. All the five Covid-19 patients who have died are gas tragedy victims,” Shukla said.District collector, Bhopal Tarun Kumar Pithode could not be reached for comments. He didn’t respond to phone calls and text messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-5-covid-19-patients-who-died-in-bhopal-are-gas-tragedy-victims-say-organizations/story-r6HCcoZV0QtEnx4n1or1CJ.html
15-04-2020||India||Vistara to send senior employees on compulsory leave without pay for 3 days||Vistara airlines will be sending its employees on compulsory leave without pay for three days between April 15 and April 30 as a measure to preserve jobs and conserve cash flow, announced its CEO Leslie Thng. Extending the nationwide lockdown till May 3 to combat the coronavirus disease, Prime Minister Modi urged companies to be sensitive towards people and not sack them during this difficult period. “As part of a number of steps we are taking to conserve cash and save costs, we had to make the difficult decision of further reducing our staff costs with the objective of preserving jobs. For the period between 15- 30 April 2020, about 30% of Vistara’s workforce will take compulsory no-pay leave of one to three days, depending on employment grades (three days for senior-most employees). This decision does not impact the remainder 70% of Vistara staff,” said Vistara spokesperson.The exercise will be carried out at three levels. The first grade will take 3 days’ leave without pay, the next grade level will take two days’ leave without pay and then the third grade will have to take a day off with no pay.On March 27, the airline had also introduced compulsory leave without pay for up to three days between April 1 and April 14 for the same set of senior employees.The compulsory no pay leave will affect around 1,200 employees in senior grades. The remaining 2,800 employees of the airline such as members of cabin crew and ground handling services will be unaffected. “With the announcement by the government of India on extending the lockdown, we continue to suspend all our domestic and international operations till 3rd May 2020 and this further impacted significantly on our cash flow with no revenue being generated over an extended period of time,” Thng said in an email to employees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vistara-to-send-senior-employees-on-compulsory-leave-without-pay-for-3-days/story-ArbuH76Iil0vlEtRWrFcJM.html
15-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Odisha district imposes Rs 500 fine for spitting in public places||Authorities in Odisha’s coastal district of Ganjam have banned spitting in public places to check the spread of coronavirus and warned that those violating the ban will be fined Rs 500.Warning people against spitting outside, Ganjam district collector Vijay Amruta Kulange in a tweet said if caught in the act, violators will have to pay a fine of Rs 500. In Odisha, 60 positive cases of Covid-19 have been reported so far. The disease has claimed one life in the state.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.A month ago, chief minister Naveen Patnaik too had appealed to the people to stop chewing paan and spitting in the open to stop the virus from spreading. The ban on spitting came in the wake of the Union health ministry asking all states to prohibit the use of smokeless tobacco and spitting in public places to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus. “Chewing smokeless tobacco products, paan masala and areca nut increases the production of saliva followed by a very strong urge to spit. Spitting in public places could enhance the spread of the Covid-19 virus,” the ministry said in a letter to chief secretaries of all states and union territories a few days ago. States and Union Territory governments have necessary authority to ban spitting under the Epidemic Diseases Act, the Disaster Management Act and under various provisions of the Indian Penal Code 1860 and the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPc).The Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) had also appealed to people to refrain from consuming smokeless tobacco products and spitting in public places. Earlier this month, the Ganjam district administration had made it compulsory for anyone coming out on the street to wear masks and said those violating would be penalized with Rs 1000 in urban areas and Rs 500 in rural areas. India now has over 11,000 cases of Covid-19 and almost 400 people have died of it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-odisha-district-imposes-rs-500-fine-for-spitting-in-public-places/story-DQQOTZqP3sd0hCKHDiHvhO.html
15-04-2020||India||Maharashtra minister tweets negative Covid-19 test report, slams rumours||Maharashtra minister Jitendra Awhad has posted the laboratory report of his negative test result to quell what he said were rumours that he had contracted the coronavirus disease.The state housing minister had gone into home quarantine on Monday after he had come in contact with a senior police officer, who tested positive for Covid-19 two days ago.Awhad has tested negative in the first report.“I m fit and fine Working on streets But some channels using me for #TRPInteresting to know that they think people watch this also (sic),” the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader said.“Plz c the report Undoubtebly i was over exposed for over a month God is kind who are kind to others (sic),” he added.Awhad had lashed out at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Kirit Somaiya on Tuesday for questioning the test results of his Covid-19 test. Somaiya had urged state health minister Rajesh Tope to clarify about Awhad’s status and that of 14 of his contacts, saying there were contradictory reports in the media on whether they had tested positive for the novel coronavirus.On Wednesday, he sought his arrest.“How can he gossip spread rumours and create panic This is heinous crime He should b booked and arrested This tweet should b taken as a complain against @KiritSomaiya (sic),” the minister tweeted.Awhad represents Mumbra-Kalwa, which is under a complete lockdown due to the increasing number of coronavirus disease cases.“As a precautionary measure and protocol, I have home quarantined myself. Only if all my reports are negative will I be able to step out and help others,” Awhad had said in an audio message posted on social media.He said that he got tests done for 80 people, including his employees and party workers. Eleven of them tested positive. He said that unlike some news reports, his cook has not tested positive.A statement released by Awhad said, “It is important that the testing should increase. The poor cannot afford the cost of testing in private labs so people who can afford should pay for them. I would also like to clarify that my cook has not tested positive.”Awhad said that eight of those tested are asymptomatic.“I had been meeting people of my constituency and distributing food. I will be back in my constituency in a few days. Eight of my staffers are asymptomatic. The state has to take decision if asymptomatic persons can be listed as positive cases,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-minister-tweets-negative-covid-19-test-report-slams-rumours/story-HWE96RBxYZVSMYWKcyuxrL.html
15-04-2020||India||India to get normal monsoon this year, says IMD||In what could bring relief to farmers across the country, monsoon rains are likely to be normal this year at 100% of long period average, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD)’s forecast released on Wednesday.For the first time in IMD’s monsoon forecast history, the agency also released new monsoon onset and withdrawal dates, considering factors that have led to a change in the way monsoon progresses. IMD’s new onset and withdrawal dates are based on analysis of monsoon data from 1961 to 2013 by scientists in IMD Pune.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicIMD said the agency is expecting a normal monsoon at 100% of LPA, with an error margin of +/-5% this year, because prevailing neutral El Nino and Indian Ocean Dipole (IOD) conditions. El Nino is a climate pattern characterised by high sea surface temperatures in the tropical Pacific Ocean. El Nino years in India are linked to below normal monsoon rains and higher than normal frequency of heat waves. Last monsoon, El Nino conditions led to a delayed onset of monsoon, according to scientists. IOD is characterized by warmer sea surface temperature in the equatorial Indian Ocean; positive IOD conditions are associated with normal monsoon.Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreakIMD, in its statement, also said a few global climate models are indicating the possibility of development of weak La Nina conditions (climate pattern that describes the cooling of surface ocean waters along the tropical west coast of South America) over the Pacific Ocean during the second half of the season. La Nina is associated with a strong monsoon and above-average rains in India. “As sea surface temperature (SST) conditions over the Pacific and Indian Oceans are known to have strong influence on Indian monsoon, IMD is carefully monitoring the evolution of sea surface conditions over the Pacific and the Indian oceans,” the weather department said.On new monsoon dates, M Rajeevan, secretary, ministry of earth sciences, said while the onset date over Kerala continues to be June 1, there are lots of changes when monsoon advances over Maharashtra, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal, Bihar etc. The withdrawal of monsoon is delayed by 7-14 days from northwest India. For instance, the onset in Chennai will be on June 4 against June1; June 21 in Ahmedabad against June 14; July 1 in Jaipur against June 23; June 27 in Delhi against June 23.“The withdrawal from northwest India and central India is nearly 10 days late,” Rajeevan said. The zone-wise monsoon forecast will also be released by IMD in the last week of May or first week of June, IMD officials said.India receives about 70% of its annual rainfall during the monsoon season that generally begins in June before starting to retreat by September. The monsoon rainfall is crucial to rice, wheat, sugarcane and oilseeds cultivation in the country, where farming accounts for about 15% of the economy and employs over half of its people.Roxy Mathew Koll, a climate scientist at Pune’s Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, said global agencies are unanimously indicating normal monsoon rains for June to September. “This is largely based on the favourable conditions in the Pacific as there is no coherent sign of an El Niño developing during the early stage of the monsoon. El Niño, if present, can weaken the moisture carrying monsoon winds and reduce the rainfall received,” Koll said.The rain in the pre-monsoon period has also been above average, which experts say will help improve and retain soil moisture and help with sowing in some parts of the country. From March 1 to April 12, central India received 165% and northwest India 52% excess rain even as east and northeast India are 44% deficient, according to IMD.Ocean temperatures in the equatorial Indian Ocean are forecast to be warmer than normal, which has the potential to reduce monsoon rains. “Our analysis has shown that such conditions can have an adverse impact on monsoon rains over central-north India. The significance of the Indian Ocean is increasing year by year as it is warming rapidly due to increasing carbon emissions. Forecast models do not generally pick this link between the warm Indian Ocean and the monsoon rains,” Koll added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-get-normal-monsoon-this-year-says-imd/story-cgNvWSHZEo5wg6ke0M6oPM.html
15-04-2020||India||These four cities together witness over 50% of coronavirus deaths in India||The number of coronavirus cases in the country breached the 11,000-mark on Wednesday. The Ministry of Health updated India’s Covid-19 tally to 11,439. The figure includes 9,756 active cases, 1,306 cured or discharged patients and 377 fatalities.Maharashtra accounts for a massive chunk of the country’s coronavirus cases with over 3,000 cases followed by Delhi which has close 1,600 coronavirus cases. When it comes to Covid-19 fatalities, nearly half of the total 377 deaths in the country come from Maharashtra which has reported 178 Covid-19 deaths as per health ministry’s data. Of Maharashtra’s 178 deaths, 112 come from Mumbai alone and 35 from Pune, as mentioned on state Covid-19 monitoring dashboard. Madhya Pradesh has the second-highest coronavirus death toll in the country with 50 fatalities. As per the state health department bulletin released on Tuesday night, Indore has witnessed the maximum Covid-19 fatalities in the state with 37 people who have succumbed to death. With as many as 30 coronavirus fatalities, the national capital has the third-highest number of Covid-19 deaths in the country.Together these four Indian cities, Mumbai (112), Pune (35), Delhi (30) and Indore (37), account for more than 50% - 57% to be precise - of the country’s coronavirus death toll with nearly 214 Covid-19 fatalities. The 21-day nationwide coronavirus lockdown was further extended on Tuesday by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The lockdown will now come to an end of May 3.The government on Wednesday issued revised guidelines that are to be followed in the extended phase of the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/these-four-cities-together-witness-over-50-of-coronavirus-deaths-in-india/story-ifNi9RC2waFVHiHH53RbOM.html
15-04-2020||India||Kerala’s luxury houseboats to function as Covid-19 wards||Kerala’s houseboats, a mascot of tourism in the state’s idyllic backwaters, are set to be converted into isolation wards to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic.Work is underway to create at least 2,000 isolation wards in houseboats, state public works department minister G Sudhakaran said on Wednesday.“Boat owners have agreed to the proposal of the district administration and these wards will be ready by April-end,” said Sudhakaran, who hails from Alappuzha district, which has 700 licenced houseboats.Some of the double-decker boats have more than six bedrooms. Many film stars and business houses own houseboats in Kuttanad, often called the rice bowl of Kerala.Kerala is expecting an influx of expatiates following reports that some West Asian countries plan to impose severe restrictions on countries that refuse to take back their citizens amid the Covid-19 crisis. The United Arab Emirates (UAE) has issued a warning in this regard.Almost one-third of the nearly three million Indians in the UAE are from Kerala, and the state is racing to prepare 200,000 hospital beds by the first week of May.Kevin Rozario, general secretary of All Kerala Houseboat Owners and Operators Association, said: “We are happy to hand over our boats. Most of the boats are idle as there were no tourism activities in the last two months and we don’t see any revival in the coming months.“By handing over our boats, we are joining the global fight against the virus. We see it as our duty and we will provide all help.” Rozario said it will be easy to convert the houseboats as they have facilities similar to a full-fledged resort on land. In case of an emergency, boats can be taken to secluded spots just like the railway coaches that have been converted into makeshift hospitals, health experts said.Watch: Houseboats in Kerala to be converted into COVID-19 isolation wards During the 2018 floods, houseboats and fishermen played a stellar role by saving many marooned people. Alappuzha district collector M Anjana said work was on in full swing and all the boats will be anchored at the finishing point of the Nehru trophy boat race. The Nehru trophy boat race, held every August, is a major tourist attraction of the Kerala. The state tourism department is helping the district administration in converting the houseboats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-s-luxury-houseboats-to-function-as-covid-19-wards/story-mJdoX63VhaZmMF99bXwjZM.html
15-04-2020||India||Beautiful at home||While the lockdown period is a necessity given the current pandemic-ridden state we are in, and it has provided us all with ample of me time - to do stuff like catch up on reading, cooking, painting, and other hobbies – let’s accept that we do miss our routine trips to the salon for our regular dose of cleansing, facials and waxing. Plus, the onset of an early summer, which isn’t much to our surrise in a city like Mumbai – makes it much worse for our skin and hair. Although we don’t have to face the onslaught of dirt, grime and pollution that we otherwise encounter on a daily basis, staying at home has its cons too. It’s a psychological thing - we feel that because we aren’t going out, we’re all good. But the humidity does play its part, and quite well at that.So, in an attempt to end those beauty woes, we speak to beauty experts and hair stylists to dish out some easy ways to groom at home.Hair: While we aptly maintain hair and scalp hygiene by shampooing and conditioning our hair, here are a few home remedies, with ingredients that are easily available in your pantry, that one can try:1.Make a paste of egg, honey, olive or coconut oil, apply it to your hair and wash it after 15 to 20 minutes. This will reduce hair fall and improve hair growth2.Ally coffee powder on scalp after shampooing, and massage along the length of your hair. Let it settle for 20min and then rinse with lukewarm water. This will stimulate hair growth. Skin: Cleansing, toning and moisturising once in 15 days is quite effective but here are a few remedies to get that radiant glow on your face and keep your body supple:1. Mash a ripe banana and massage the skin with the pulp. Banana contains moisture, potassium and vitamins E and C, which are responsible for promoting clear ski.2. Mix oatmeal, honey and raw milk and apply to your face. Gently massage and leave it on for about 10 minutes. Oatmeal has both antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties that removes dead skin cells and coupled with antibacterial honey, it’s a true skin-soothing treat.3. Make a quick and easy face mask using aloe vera gel and grated cucumber. Rinse after 15 minutes.4. When it comes to body care, target each area individually as the skin varies. For thicker skin on your elbows and knees, apply lemon juice and sugar scrub to reduce pigmentation and to make them softer. For the rest of your body, whip up a scrub with honey and sugar. Apply it evenly by cutting a tomato in half and using it as a loofah.Feet:With no hopes for a pedicure at a salon, try this DIY feet care mask to hydrate your feet. After your shower, massage your feet with petroleum jelly for five minutes. Apply a bit of cuticle oil on your toenails. Top it off with some more petroleum jelly and wrap your feet with cling film. Leave it on for three hours so that the jelly gets absorbed well into your skin.(With inputs from Jay Kishan Pawar, master barber and trainer, Truefitt and Hill; Megha Asher, founder, Juicy Chemistry; Sana Dhanani, founder and managing director, The White Door India and Nandeeta Manchandaa, founder, Enns Closet)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/beautiful-at-home/story-E52chyTGu3lLlQO2LoTdbP.html
15-04-2020||India||68th Raising Day of Para Regiment: All you need to know||The Parachute Regiment of the Indian Army is celebrating its 68th Raising Day today (April 15).The regiment has a long history and many successful missions in its kitty. It traces its history to the British era when the earliest airborne regiment was formed in 1941. It fought alongside British troops at several locations across the world.The Indian Army’s Parachute Regiment was officially formed in March, 1945, and took part in a military operation in Burma (present day Myanmar).This regiment also worked to provide medical assistance during the 1950 war when North Korea invaded South Korea. India had sent a para unit on the call of the United Nations; it earned the title of “Maroon Angels” from the locals who widely appreciated the help being provided by the para unit.The present day para regiment came into existence on April 15, 1952, when three existing parachute battalions - 1st battalion of Punjab Para Regiment, 3rd Battalion of Maratha Light Infantry and 1st Battalion of Kumaon Regiment - were absorbed.The re-raised regiment was also given a new formation sign, the Shatrujeet, which signified the operations rediness of the brigade.The regiment was augmented by the Sino-India war of 1962.The regiment has been historically known for feats in mountaineering. Captain Avtar Singh Cheema of 7 Para was the first Indian atop Mount Everest. He belnged to Sriganganagar district in Rajasthan.The troops of the Para Regiment are given training at its centre in Bengaluru.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/68th-raising-day-of-para-regiment-all-you-need-to-know/story-eNjnawnYlEM8TG8ym84MHM.html
15-04-2020||India||SpiceJet operates first freighter flight to China to bring medical supplies||SpiceJet on Wednesday said it has sent its freighter flight to China to bring medical supplies from Shanghai to Hyderabad amid the nationwide lockdown to combat the coronavirus threat. The flight left from Kolkata airport at 8.25 am Wednesday and landed at 3.30 pm (local time) at Shanghai, it said. It would then depart from Shanghai at 5 pm (local time) and arrive at Kolkata airport at 8.10 pm. After leaving Kolkata at 9 pm, the flight would land at 11.10 pm in Hyderabad on Wednesday, SpiceJet said. The is for the first time that SpiceJet is operating a freighter to China, the airline said. “SpiceJet is also operating a freighter flight to Colombo carrying farm produce from West Bengal and another cargo flight to Singapore today,” the airline said in a press release. The budget carrier said it has till date transported over 2,700 tons of cargo on more than 300 flights since the country-wide lockdown began on March 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spicejet-operates-first-freighter-flight-to-china-to-bring-medical-supplies/story-zggaKMW33ePhHDlAgq3e0N.html
15-04-2020||India||Bengal governor suggests central forces to enforce lockdown, triggers row||West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar triggered a fresh controversy on Wednesday by suggesting the state government should look at calling in Central paramilitary forces to enforce the Covid-19-related lockdown.“Lockdown protocol has to be thoroughly implemented to ward off #coronavirus. Police and administration @MamataOfficial failing to effect 100% #SocialDistancing or curbing religious congregations be shown door. Lockdown must succeed-examine central para forces requisitioning!” he tweeted.His tweet came in the wake of Kolkata Police and West Bengal Police taking additional steps to prevent crowds as people venture out of their homes to buy essential supplies.Drones are being used across the state to trace crowds and identify people violating the nationwide lockdown that has been extended till May 3. Police are also using loudspeakers to urge people to stay indoors.A senior official of West Bengal Police, who didn’t wish to be named, said: “Over the past few days, as many as 1,174 markets have been relocated to spacious areas nearby so that social distancing is maintained in markets, while the area of 963 markets has been expanded.“There still are 256 markets that remain crowded. The administration is looking for suitable alternative places nearby.”Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who has often clashed with the governor, has repeatedly said she wants “a strict lockdown with a humane face”.The state’s ruling Trinamool Congress party criticised the governor but said it would rather ignore him.“The governor has no other work but to try and disturb the state government. The Mamata Banerjee administration is completely preoccupied with responding to the unprecedented situation over the novel Coronavirus and has no time to respond to someone behaving like a Bharatiya Janata Party worker,” said Trinamool spokesperson Snehasish Chakraborty.In a separate development, the BJP MP from Alipurduar, John Barla, has written to Union home minister Amit Shah, alleging the state administration has put him under “house arrest”.“I was out to supervise relief work and supply essentials to the needy but the police seized all items and told me I was supposed to stay home because the lockdown also applied to me,” Barla said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/west-bengal-governor-triggers-controversy-by-seeking-central-paramilitary-forces/story-PAh2C419amuONItg9h6bZN.html
15-04-2020||India||Seafarers stranded abroad desperate as India refuses repatriation||April 14 marks the 30th day since Rahul Shanbhag has been holed up in his tiny cruise cabin onboard the MSC Grandiosa anchored off the coast of Italy. With the global cruise tourism industry having dropped anchor, Shanbhag along with around 200 other Indians of which 70 are from Goa, remains on board the ship bobbing as it does on the waves waiting for some sign that the Indian government will allow the repatriation of seafarers home. While the crew of other countries have already returned home, the 30 days of waiting has taken a toll both mental and physical on the wellbeing of the crew. “There were 12 cases (of Covid-19) onboard the ship including four who needed to be taken to the ICU. But they have all been discharged. But another of my colleagues collapsed out of weakness and needed to be revived,” Shanbhag said while speaking with HT.Hailing from Fatorda, Shanbhag is one of around 7000 people from Goa who makes his living sailing the seas. According to documents submitted to the Prime Minister’s Office, there are around 22,500 Indian seafarers who are stranded abroad around one-third of whom are from Goa.The global shipping industry has not come to a halt but the cruise tourism industry, which employs more people, has. Other countries, especially the Philippines, which contributes a large part to the global shipping workforce, have already repatriated their workforce, it is only the Indians who remain on board the ships. “Everyone is frustrated here and we cannot even visit each other’s cabins. Two among us also needed to be hospitalised because they became sick with worry,” Shanbhag, who worked in the dining section of the cruise liner, said. Also read: What Covid-19 lockdown guidelines mean for hotspots, containment zonesFor the past month, Shanbhag and his colleagues have written to the ministry of external affairs, Goa government and local representative for help in getting back home. “People here are scared. We understand these are difficult situations but we quarantined here on board the ship and are willing to quarantine even upon arrival. But there needs to be some action. The situation should not be allowed to deteriorate,” Shanbhag said. The Centre has refused to repatriate those Indians stranded abroad, be it students or tourists. It told the Supreme Court, which was hearing a petition to repatriate Indian students, that evacuation of Indian expatriates amid the lockdown to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease could pose a risk to India’s domestic population. The top court, while posting the matter after four weeks, asked those abroad to ‘Stay where you are’. For some, like Pizarro Andrade, that means staying put within the transit zone of the Dubai international airport. He is one among 23 Indians who were on their way to India when the government announced a cessation of International flights. “The situation is that neither the Indian government nor the Indian embassy in Dubai is helping us. Thanks to the Dubai government and Emirates (the airline) who are taking care of us here,” Andrade said while speaking HT.“There are few Goans working in Dubai try to get in touch with me asking about me and see if they can try to help me any possible way they can,” he said.While those working abroad are usually taken care of by their employers, in the case of the cruise tourism industry, their stay is on board the ship and with the industry shut down, they are out of work and with nowhere to go. Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant admitted that the seafarers’ situation was different than those others stuck abroad and has assured that he was ‘seriously’ pursuing the issue with the ministry of external affairs.He also stressed that there was little he could do beyond waiting for a change in stance from the central government. “Within two to three days we will place the complete data before the Prime Minister’s Office. We are seriously pursuing the issue. The seafarers’ issue is different from others stranded abroad. We will request them to reconsider the issue,” Sawant said. Sawant is under increasing pressure both from the opposition as well as within his party as legislators have regularly been meeting him to begin repatriation. Several legislators have also written directly to the Prime Minister’s Office. “The Indian seafarers have contributed immensely to the economic growth and foreign exchange earnings of the country and particularly Goa. I humbly request your immediate intervention and request you to kindly give necessary instructions to all concerned to take steps to bring back these stranded Indian seafarers,” Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat said in a letter to the Prime Minister. The Goa government has also set up quarantine centres with space for around 20,000 people awaiting the return of their sons, but the central government is yet to relent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/seafarers-stranded-abroad-desperate-as-india-refuses-repatriation/story-N96nY87PbCPmtWmObu73sI.html
15-04-2020||India||Covid-19 update: UK thanks India for supply of 3 million packets of paracetamol||The Boris Johnson government on Wednesday thanked India for approving the export of nearly 3 million packets of paracetamol to ease shortage and supply gaps of the drug in the United Kingdom.The drug is prescribed to deal with fever, which is one of the key symptoms of coronavirus. The UK has 93,873 cases of people who tested positive, besides 12,107 deaths, according to figures released on Tuesday evening.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Officials said the drug’s supply from India will now be distributed to leading supermarkets and retailers in the UK, which is one of the worst affected countries in the pandemic.International trade secretary Liz Truss said: “Coronavirus is the largest threat we have all faced in decades, so it’s imperative that we work together to continue global trade and keep supply chains open”.“This will mean nearly 3 million more packets of paracetamol on British supermarket shelves. I’d like to extend a big thank you to officials both in the UK and India who worked hard on this agreement and I look forward to working with India and other countries soon to ensure we beat COVID-19”, she added.The Johnson government is expected to announce an extension of the current lockdown on Thursday. Johnson, who was stricken by the virus, is recuperating in the prime minister’s country residence of Chequers in Buckinghamshire.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-uk-thanks-india-for-supply-of-3-million-packets-of-paracetamol/story-QoG4klRe81mevsUkWuzF7L.html
15-04-2020||India||Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani isolates himself after meeting Covid-19 positive MLA||Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani has self-quarantined himself after a Congress legislator he met tested positive for coronavirus disease on Tuesday, news agency PTI quoted his office as saying on Wednesday.Vijay Rupani will not to meet anyone for a week as Congress MLA Imran Khedawala tested positive, the chief minister’s office said.“Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani is fit and fine. Medical experts Dr Atul Patel and Dr RK Patel tested him today and have confirmed that CM has no symptoms for now. But as per safety measures, no outsider is allowed at his residence,” Ashwani Kumar, the CM’s secretary, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Rupani will run the state administration through video conferences and by making phone calls, Kumar said.Imran Khedawala, who represents Khadia-Jamalpur seat of Ahmedabad, had attended a meeting called by Vijay Rupani on Tuesday morning and tested positive for the highly contagious disease in the evening.The meeting was also attended by deputy chief minister Nitin Patel and minister of state for home Pradeepsinh Jadeja.Two more people succumbed to Covid-19 in Gujarat, taking the death toll in the state to 30, the state health department said on Wednesday.The victims included a 14-year-old girl from Vadodara and a 45-year-old woman from Surat, it said..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-cm-vijay-rupani-isolates-himself-after-meeting-covid-19-positive-mla/story-MdlKiQeirrP7UuedqOB8PI.html
15-04-2020||India||In Covid-19 lockdown 2.0 rules, only one passenger in car and no riding pillion||The government on Wednesday issued an updated set of guidelines in the view of coronavirus lockdown extension in the country till May 3. As per the directives released by the Ministry of Home Affairs, those who are permitted to move during the lockdown for providing essential services must have just one person in the private vehicle, seated in the backseat, apart from the driver in the case of a four-wheeler.Those riding a two-wheeler are not supposed to carry a pillion with them, the MHA stated in its release. “Private vehicles for emergency services, including medical and veterinary care, and for procuring essential commodities are allowed for movement during the lockdown. In such cases, one passenger besides the private vehicle driver can be permitted in the backseat in case of four-wheelers; however, in case of two-wheelers, only the driver of the vehicle is to be permitted,” the MHA noted in its release issued on Wednesday.  “All personnel travelling to work and back in the exempted categories as per the instructions of the State/UT local authority,” the MHA release read. The MHA also issued a directive on workplace rules during the coronavirus lockdown. Besides the directive to conduct mandatory temperature screening, regular sanitising and disinfecting of workplace premises and providing hand santisers at convenient spots across the work floor, the Ministry of Home Affairs said that should people come to work, they must be put into shifts that have an hour in between and stagger their lunch breaks to ensure social distancing.Large meetings, more than 10 people, will continue to be discouraged.  People must be seated at least 6 feet away from each other. Not more than 2-4 people are to be allowed in elevators.  These apply only to those workplaces that are functional under the guidelines issued by the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-new-covid-19-lockdown-2-0-rules-only-one-passenger-in-car-no-riding-pillion/story-4e7wHvyoE0rK9g4qbDFFGK.html
15-04-2020||India||‘Numbers will rise’: CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Indore Covid-19 cases||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Wednesday urged people to not be scared as coronavirus cases spiked in the industrial hub of Indore. Till late Tuesday night, the city reported 427 cases.The chief minister said the numbers will likely see an increase as the administration has started testing extensively.“People in Indore shouldn’t be scared, numbers will increase. If someone doesn’t know that they’re positive, they’ll not only risk their own lives but that of others too. So we decided to conduct testing extensively. This will help control corona,” said Chouhan.An analysis of the data shows that till Wednesday morning, the death rate of Covid-19 patients in the city was around 6.8 per cent, higher than the national average.“There was no testing infrastructure earlier, tests were not even being done till March 23. Now we have nine functional labs. We are also sending samples to Delhi for tests. That is why the number of cases is rising,” the CM added.Elaborating on details of the cases, Chief Medical and Health Officer (CMHO) Praveen Jadia said most of the new patients from Indore are either relatives or close acquaintances of people who earlier tested positive for coronavirus. All those, he added, who came in contact with these patients have already been isolated as a precaution.So far, 37 people have been discharged after recovery, he said. The local administration has imposed curfew in urban limits since March 25 after the first coronavirus patients were found in the city. The chief minister also assured migrant workers from the state stuck in other places that money will be transferred to their accounts and arrangements are being made for them. Yesterday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that the nationwide lockdown will be in place till May 3. Soon after, rail and train services were also shut till the end of extended lockdown. “Many workers of MP are stuck in other states.They couldn’t return when lockdown was extended.We talked to other CMs to make arrangements for their food and shelter. We’ve decided to transfer Rs 1,000 in accounts of such workers. They’ll be able to withdraw it wherever they are,” said Chouhan, who took oath as CM on March 23.The chief minister underlined that his government is standing with the workers in this critical time. “Don’t worry we’ll send you more money if needed. We’re standing with you. I request people’s representatives to make a list of all such people and send it to the Chief Minister’s Office or District collector’s office. We will send money as and when the list is sent to us,” said Chouhan.Of the total 377 coronavirus deaths, Maharashtra tops the tally with 178 deaths, followed by Madhya Pradesh at 50, Delhi at 30, Gujarat at 28 and Telangana at 17. Punjab and Tamil Nadu have reported 12 deaths each. Karnataka has reported 10 fatalities while Andhra Pradesh reported nine deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/numbers-will-spike-cm-shivraj-singh-chouhan-on-indore-covid-19-cases/story-eUkGS8AcNgTHf37nf4C16I.html
15-04-2020||India||Nurseries in Sikkim, Darjeeling wilt as lockdown hits king of orchids||The Cymbidium is known as the king of orchids, the most elegant, expensive and sought-after among all variants of the exotic plant. For the nurseries of Sikkim and the Darjeeling hills, the plant is a lucrative source of revenue, much in demand as an adornment in corporate lounges and luxury hotel foyers, at weddings and other galas. A single stem of the Cymbidium retails for as much as Rs 700 in Indian metros.In recent weeks, in the aftermath of the lockdown for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) that started on March 25, nurseries in the Himalayan region throwing the flowers away. The emergency measure went underway when production of the Cymbidium was at its peak.March and April are the peak season for Cymbidium cultivation and also the end of its harvesting season. Almost half the annual production is harvested in these two months. Flower farmers stopped harvesting the flowering plant when the lockdown began.“The only option for us is to cut the flowering stems and throw them away,” said Prakash Chettri, marketing manager of Mainaam Garden at Namchi in Sikkim. “The plants have to be maintained and for this we have to cut the stems. But neither can we transport these nor can we take so many flowers home. We have dumped thousands of flowers.”The flower farm is owned by Tika Maya Chamling, wife of former chief minister Pawan Chamling. It is the largest orchid farm in Asia with around 100 employees and an annual turnover of Rs 5 crore, said Chhetri.The farm, spread across 20 acres, had been hoping to sell around 150,000 Cymbidium stems this year. It sold around 100,000 stems in 2019.“Cymbidium orchids are the most sought after at star hotels, at big parties, weddings and government programmes around the world,” said Chamling. “Though tropical and temperate varieties of orchids are comparatively cheaper and grown in a lot of places, Sikkim and Darjeeling hills, which have cold and humid climatic conditions, account for more than 90% of the best varieties in the country. Cymbidium is the most expensive among these,” she said.Many nursery owners in the Darjeeling hills started growing the Cymbidium because of potentially huge demand for the flower both at home and overseas. The lockdown has dashed their hopes.Chamling said, “Russia recently placed orders with Mainaam Gardens for 300,000 Cymbidium stems every month. Although we have 500,000 of 300 varieties, it was impossible for us to meet this demand. There is an annual demand for 5 million Cymbidium stems in India against which only 150,000 to 200,000 can be produced.”With an eye on the market, many nursery owners in the hills of Sikkim and Darjeeling started growing the Cymbidium.Bhaskar Mukhia, owner of Mukhia Nursery at Pokhriabong in Darjeeling, said, “The lockdown has shattered us. Sikkim and Darjeeling hills have the natural conditions required for {growing} these orchids. However, the lockdown has forced many farmers to throw away the flowers.” Sunil Agarwal, chief executive officer of Darjeeling Gardens Pvt Ltd, which has its nursery in Mirik and is the largest producer of the Cymbidium in Darjeeling, said, “Fifty percent of the flowers is already wasted and we dumped another 15,000 stems.”Prasant Choudhary, managing director of the company, said, “We sell Rs 40 to 50 lakh worth of Cymbidiums a year. The virus attack has devastated us.”Hundreds of independent growers sell their produce through Mainaam Garden and Darjeeling Gardens Pvt Ltd.Their plight is worse.Sikkim’s agriculture and horticulture minister LN Nepal said “We have taken the matter seriously and are trying to find ways to compensate the orchid growers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nurseries-in-sikkim-darjeeling-wilt-as-lockdown-hits-king-of-orchids/story-f4blBScCP1rh3ScJJKdVFP.html
15-04-2020||India||Tripura requests BSF to install full-body sanitiser machine at Covid-19 care facility||Tripura has requested the Border Security Force (BSF) to install a full body sanitiser machine at the state-run Agartala Government Medical College (AGMC) and Gobinda Ballabh Pant (GBP) Hospital, which is a dedicated Covid-19 care facility.Dr Debasish Basu, Tripura’s health secretary, in his letter to BSF’s Tripura Frontier inspector general Solomon Kumar Minz said the machine will be useful to sanitise people, who visit the hospital.“ ....RUMSHA Hydro-Pneumatic Surface Disinfectant Machine & RUMSHA 2 Sec-360° Full Body Sanitizer… maybe quite useful for sanitizing persons accessing hospital complexes, vulnerable areas/ zones of hospitals & for sanitizing ambulances transporting suspected COVID-19 patients as well,” Basu wrote on April 13. It was fabricated by BSF, Udaipur headquarters, in Gomati district of the state.Also read: Status report highlights logistical issues faced by N-E region related to Covid-19“ ...the BSF may kindly take the initiative for installation of the disinfectant machines initially at the AGMC & GBP Hospital, Agt, the leading Covid-19 Care facility in the State as would immensely help the hospital administration to cope up with the challenges confronting it for keeping its premises & facilities sanitized,” Basu said. The state has two Covid-19 patients and one of whom has recovered. Also read: A rickshaw cart driver used his savings to feed poor in lockdown-hit TripuraA senior state police officer had devised a 360-degree full-body sanitisation unit with the help of YouTube to prevent the spread of Covid-19. The unit has one motor, few pipings and agricultural sprayers, a solution of diluted sodium hypochlorite.Kiran Kumar, superintendent of police of Khowai district, said a similar unit was installed at AIIMS and other states including Tamil Nadu’s Tirupur, Chandigarh and Rajasthan.Kumar said it took only 11 hours to prepare the unit with the help of some plumbers at a cost of Rs 15,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-requests-bsf-to-install-full-body-sanitiser-machine-at-covid-19-care-facility/story-cU3XETmhnlYbV5wnZ19iMJ.html
15-04-2020||India||West Bengal: Medical services hit after patients in general wards test positive of Covid-19||The Bengal government has finally formulated a standard operating procedure (SOP) to stop mixing of Covid-19 suspects with non-Covid patients in state-run hospitals. This came after a few state-run and private hospitals got hit when some patients were detected with coronavirus while they were being treated in general wards along with other patients.Various wards in state-run and private hospitals had to be closed down for sanitization, dozens of doctors and nurses had to be sent in quarantine and samples of many non-Covid patients had to be tested because they had all come in close contact with Covid-19 suspects. The suspects ultimately turned out to be coronavirus patients.“The SOP was formulated to stop mixing of Covid suspects with others. The SOP contains detailed guidelines on how Covid-19 suspects should be handled at the emergency sections and in other wards of hospitals. It also includes guidelines on how to handle relatives of such patients and suspects,” said a top official of the state health department. The SOP was issued on Tuesday.On April 12, a woman was detected with Covid-19 soon after giving birth at the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital. The woman and her newborn had to be separated, the labour and surgery room had to be closed down for two days for sanitization and other patients in adjacent beds also had to be tested. Doctors’ samples had to be tested and they were asked to go in quarantine. Earlier, other state-run hospitals such as RG Kar Medical College and Hospital and NRS Medical College and Hospital were also hit for similar reasons – general patients, being treated in general wards, were subsequently detected with the virus. A private hospital had to be temporarily closed down for sanitization and at least 40 medical staff of the hospital had to be quarantined after a patient died and was posthumously detected with the disease.  A few days ago, the superintendent of the Howrah state general hospital tested positive after handling Covid patients. More than 60 medical staff and some top officials of the district administration had to be quarantined.“The SOP says that the hospital ward where low-key Covid-19 suspects are being kept will now be treated as potential confirmed Covid-19 patient ward. There will be separate elevators and trolleys for such patients. Security guards wearing PPE will screen all patients and relatives entering the emergency department with a thermal scanner,” said a top official of the health department.Neither any patient nor any relative will henceforth be allowed to enter the hospital premises without wearing masks. Relatives won’t be allowed to enter isolation wards where suspected Covid patients are admitted. Healthcare staff, including ward boys, have been asked to wear PPE while approaching suspects.  “This SOP was absolutely important given the fact that pressure is mounting on hospitals and more suspects are coming in. The test results are taking at least 48 hours to reach us. This intervening period is very crucial. In north-Bengal, a Covid-19 suspect, who was treated alongside a Covid patient, later tested positive. We don’t know whether the second person contracted the disease during his stay at the hospital,” said Dr Sumon Poddar, associate professor, Institute of Child Health.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/west-bengal-medical-services-hit-after-patients-in-hospitals-general-wards-test-positive-of-covid-19/story-0Itebb5VKcrJcByzbfKmsI.html
15-04-2020||India||India likely to have a normal monsoon this year, predicts IMD||India is likely to have a normal monsoon this year, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Wednesday, in news that will cheer up farmers suffering amid the Covid-19 lockdown.“We will have a normal monsoon this year. Quantitatively the monsoon rainfall during the monsoon season 2020 is expected to be 100% of its long period average with an error of +5 or -5% due to model error,” Madhavan Rajeevan, the secretary with the ministry of earth sciences (MoES), said during a press briefing.“This is a really a good news for all of us. This should really help our agricultural sector, for a better crop year and will definitely help our economy,” he addedIn its first stage Long Range Forecast (LRF) for south-west monsoon season (June-September) rainfall, the weather bureau also gave the dates of onset in several places.The date for the onset of monsoon in Kerala remains the same and will arrive on June 1, the official said. The date for Chennai will be June 4, Panjim June 7, Hyderabad June 8, Pune 10 and Mumbai 11. The monsoon will reach the national capital on June 27.LRF is the operational monsoon season forecast issued by the weather department from June to September for the entire country. It does not include regional level rainfall or specify quantum rainfall for the forecast periodThe MeT department issues LRF in two stages—first stage forecast in April and the second one is issued in June.These forecasts are issued using Statistical Ensemble Forecasting System (SEFS) and dynamical coupled ocean-atmospheric models.India receives about 70% of its annual rainfall during the monsoon that generally begins in June before starting to retreat by September. The monsoon rainfall is crucial to rice, wheat, sugarcane and oilseeds cultivation in the country, where farming accounts for about 15% of the economy and employs over half of its people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-likely-to-have-a-normal-monsoon-this-year-predicts-imd/story-GxpqUKnG4k7ERftizG1IMK.html
15-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: 2 more FIRs over gathering of migrant workers in Bandra, 1 arrested and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion curated for you. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.2 more FIRs over gathering of migrant workers in Bandra, 1 arrestedMumbai Police registered two more FIRs in a case related to spreading of rumours which led to migrant workers gathering outside Bandra railway station on Tuesday. One person has been arrested in connection with the case. Read moreLockdown 2.0: E-commerce, plumbers, electricians allowed after April 20The Union home ministry on Wednesday issued extensive guidelines on permitted commercial and industrial activities as the country entered the first day of the extended nationwide lockdown till May 3. Read more Covid-19 lockdown guidelines by MHA: These industries can operateThe government on Wednesday issued detailed guidelines for states, Union territories and people to follow during the extended lockdown till May 3. Read more Coronavirus update: China didn’t warn public of likely pandemic for 6 key daysThe Chinese government has repeatedly denied suppressing information in the early days, saying it immediately reported the outbreak to the World Health Organization. Read more Don’t win matches by sledging, Clarke’s statements were ridiculous: Former India openerFormer Australia captain Michael Clarke had claimed that the Australian players went soft on the Indian team and on captain Virat Kohli during the recent India vs Australia matches as they wanted to bag IPL contracts. Read moreLockdown 2.0: IT, IT enabled services allowed to operate at 50% of strengthThe Ministry of Home Affairs has released revised consolidated guidelines for the lockdown measures. The government has allowed all IT and IT enabled services to operate but with 50% of strength. Read more This dog and cat friendship is representative of introvert and extrovert mates. WatchWho hasn’t heard that phrase that introverts make friends when an extrovert adopts them. This may or may not be true in most mix-trovert relationships but is definitely true in the case of this doggo and feline. Read more Triple threat: Models are styling, set designing and photographing their own shoots during Coronavirus lockdownWith most of the world under lockdown on account of the coronavirus pandemic that affected over 180 countries in the world, movement has been limited and people have been advised to only venture out if they work for an essential business or service, to stock up on essential products, medical purposes and so on. Read more Watch: Man who allegedly incited migrants’ protest at Bandra station arrested||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-2-more-firs-over-gathering-of-migrant-workers-in-bandra-1-arrested-all-the-latest-news/story-TIc2ISBNLa86ZQrhvyJg3L.html
15-04-2020||India||56 new Covid-19 cases in Gujarat; state tally jumps to 695||The total number of coronavirus cases in Gujarat rose to 695 as 56 more people were found infected with the disease on Wednesday, the health department said.Of the new cases, 42 were reported from Ahmedabad, six from Surat, three each from Vadodara and Panchmahal, and each from Botad and Kheda, it said.With this, the total number of coronavirus cases in Ahmedabad has gone up to 404, followed by Vadodara-116, the health department said.Botad and Kheda districts reported first coronavirus cases on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/56-new-covid-19-cases-in-gujarat-state-tally-jumps-to-695/story-ZH0nk1l7yHDaspsnPIuSZM.html
15-04-2020||India||Lockdown 2.0: E-commerce, plumbers, electricians allowed after April 20||You cannot go to a multiplex to watch a movie or dine out at a restaurant, but if your house needs some repairs, you can call a plumber or an electrician.The Union home ministry on Wednesday issued extensive guidelines on permitted commercial and industrial activities as the country entered the first day of the extended nationwide lockdown till May 3.The guidelines say all “kirana” shops and carts dealing in food and groceries, hygiene items, fruits and vegetables, poultry, meat and fish, and animal feed will be allowed to operate after April 20. In fact, all relaxations, wherever applicable, will come into place after that day. The government has also allowed e-commerce companies to function. The guidelines state that e-commerce companies and “vehicles used by e-commerce operators will be allowed to ply with necessary permissions”.Print and electronic media, including broadcasting, DTH and cable services, will continue to operate.Similarly, services provided by electricians, IT repair personnel, plumbers, motor mechanics and carpenters have been allowed.But most of these services will only be permitted outside containment areas notified by local administrations.So, while recreational facilities will be closed, there will also not be any domestic or international air travel, except for evacuating foreign nationals stranded in India or for security purposes.Buses, metro rail services and inter-state or intra-state movement of ordinary passengers, except doctors, nurses, midwives and security personnel, is prohibited.All educational, training and coaching institutions will also remain closed. However, these establishments are expected to maintain their academic schedule through online teaching.Cab services, including Ola and Uber, auto-rickshaw and cycle-rickshaws will not be able to ply, according to the guidelines.But all medical facilities, including veterinary hospitals, will be open to the public. The detailed guidelines state that hospitals, nursing homes, clinics and tele-medicine facilities will be operational.The Centre’s pet Jan Aushadi Kendras, along with medical equipment stores, medical laboratories and collection centres, pharmaceutical and medical research laboratories and pathology clinics will be functional.In a major relief for senior citizens, home care providers have been allowed to function along with diagnostics and medical supply chain firms.The fisheries and dairy sector will remain fully functional as several concerns were raised over the initial lockdown’s impact on this sector dealing in highly perishable products. The home ministry’s guidelines state that “operation of the fishing, aquaculture, feeding and maintenance, harvesting, processing, packaging and marketing” will be allowed.Movement of fish, shrimps, fish products, fish seeds and all related activities too have been allowed.Similarly, a maximum of 50% of the workforce will be allowed in the operations of tea, coffee and rubber plantations. The government has also allowed the sale and marketing of tea, coffee, rubber and cashew nuts with a maximum of 50% of the workforce.While collection, distribution, processing and sale of milk and milk products have been allowed, the government has allowed the resumption of animal feed manufacturing and operations at animal shelter homes, including “gaushalas”.Homes for children, mentally challenged people, destitute and women will be allowed just as after-care homes and places of safety for juveniles too have been allowed. The government has also allowed postal services, including post offices and movement of all goods traffic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-2-0-e-commerce-plumbers-electricians-allowed-after-april-20/story-2feH2X0PWcR9Fna3vN8VcN.html
15-04-2020||India||Lockdown 2.0: Hospitals, nursing homes, facilities for AYUSH services will be open||All health care facilities, including hospitals, nursing homes, clinics, and even facilities providing AYUSH services, will be operational during the extended lockdown till May 3, according to guidelines from the home ministry.All pharmacies, including government-run Jan Aushadhi Kendras, and laboratories will also be open during the lockdown to support treatment.Veterinary hospitals, clinics, dispensaries and pathology laboratories too remain open.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here On Tuesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that the lockdown would be extended by 19 days till May 3.Authorised private institutions providing home care services and diagnostics, and those involved in the supply chains of hospitals will be allowed to operate even inside containment areas, according to the guidelines.All institutions and laboratories conducting Covid-19 related research will also remain open.For personnel working in hospitals and laboratories, the government has allowed the free movement of all medical and veterinary staff, hospital support staff and scientists within and outside their home state, including by air travel, the guidelines state.Also read: Govt issues revised guidelines for Covid-19 lockdown: What’s mandatory, what’s prohibitedThe government has also decided to keep health-related manufacturing units open. This will include facilities manufacturing drugs, pharmaceuticals, medical devices and oxygen, packaging material needed for these items, and those involved in the supply chain.Construction of health infrastructure, including ambulances, too will be allowed during the lockdown.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-2-0-hospitals-nursing-homes-facilities-for-ayush-services-will-be-open/story-WvuzS4d6pYETHfAO6jSsSP.html
15-04-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown guidelines by MHA: These industries can operate||The government on Wednesday issued detailed guidelines for states, Union territories and people to follow during the extended lockdown till May 3.Among the Union home ministry’s 15-page guideline after Prime Minister Modi announced the extension of the nationwide lockdown till May 3, was some relief to the industrial sector. Also read: What Covid-19 lockdown guidelines mean for hotspots, containment zonesMHA has allowed some manufacturing units and industries functioning from special economic zones (SEZs) to resume operations from April 20.Here is a list of such industries and manufacturing units* Industries operating in rural areas, ie outside the limits of municipal corporations and municipalities* Manufacturing and other industrial establishments with access controls in special economic zones (SEZs), and Export Oriented Units, industrial estates and industrial townships. These establishments * Manufacturing units of essential goods, including drugs, pharmaceuticals, medical devices, their raw material and intermediaries* Food processing industries in rural areas, ie, outside the limits of municipal corporations and municipalities* Production units which require continuous process and their supply chain* Manufacturing of IT hardware* Coal production, mines and mineral production, their transportation, supply of explosives and activities incidental to mining operations* Manufacturing units of packaging materials* Jute industries with staggered shifts and social distancing* Oil and gas exploration industry* Brick kilns in rural areas, ie outside the limits of municipal corporations and municipalities||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-guidelines-by-mha-these-industries-can-operate/story-JX4RX5my0fuXtF8QypEGaN.html
15-04-2020||India||Coronavirus: Meghalaya reports 6 new cases, all linked to 1st patient||Meghalaya reported six new Covid-19 positive cases on Wednesday morning with all of them having links to the first patient, a doctor who expired in the wee hours of the day.Chief Minister Conrad Sangma took to Twitter to inform that of the total tests conducted, 6 have come positive and all had connections to the doctor who was the state’s first Covid-19 patient and was also the managing director of Shillong-based Bethany Hospitals group .“Of the 68 tested so far, 6 have come out positive who are all family members and helpers of the first Covid-19 positive case. 6 other cases are being retested. All the rest of the cases are negative,” Sangma tweeted.The deceased patient had tested positive on Monday and the state government had traced nearly 2,000 primary and secondary contacts. Tests had been conducted on 90 samples, nearly half of the primary contacts of the patient.“I am deeply saddened to inform that the first Covid-19 positive patient in Meghalaya passed away this morning (Wednesday) at 2:45 am. My heartfelt condolences to his family and loved ones,” Sangma tweeted.The first patient, a popular doctor in Shillong, passed away in Bethany Hospital. It is suspected that he got infected from his son-in-law, a pilot with Air India who had returned from New York to Delhi on March 16 and came to Shillong on March 24.Though the pilot was under quarantine till April 7, he was asymptomatic and wasn’t tested for Covid-19 earlier.“Preliminary investigations suggest that one of the relatives of the concerned person had a travel history to one of the infected countries and he was back in Shillong before the 14-day quarantine period was over,” Sangma said on Tuesday.“Though the person took all precautions but sometimes we see asymptomatic cases as well, who don’t show any signs but could be a carrier. Therefore there is a high chance that it could have been passed on from there. We are looking at all possibilities of how this could have happened,” he added. Meghalaya now has a total of seven Covid-19 cases and one fatality. The total number of cases in Northeast stands at 46 with Assam recording 32 cases, 7 cases in Meghalaya, 2 each in Manipur and Tripura and one each in Mizoram, Nagaland and Arunachal Pradesh.While one patient each has recovered in Manipur and Tripura, two deaths have been recorded, one each in Assam and Meghalaya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-meghalaya-reports-6-new-cases-all-linked-to-1st-patient/story-yFK9LddAUjEmm70eRBLg0O.html
15-04-2020||India||Fresh guidelines issued for lockdown 2.0, govt bars all public activities||Fresh guidelines were issued by the government on Wednesday for enforcing the second phase of the coronavirus lockdown, with the Union home ministry barring all kinds of public transport and prohibiting opening of public places till May 3. Spitting in public has been made a punishable offence and a strict ban enforced on sale of liquor, gutka, tobacco etc. under the new Ministry of Home Affairs guidelines that come a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the extension of the nationwide lockdown till May 3.While inter-state, inter-district movement of people, metro, bus services will be prohibited till May 3, the government allowed function of industrial units located in rural areas from April 20 by observing strict social distancing norms.Educational institutions, coaching centres, domestic, international air travel, train services will also remain suspended till this time, it said.Public places like cinema halls, malls, shopping complexes, gymnasiums, sports complexes, swimming pools, bars will also be shut till May 3. All social, political, sports, religious functions, religious places, places of worship shall be closed for public till May 3, it said.Highway ‘dhaba’, truck repairing shops, call centres for govt activities to remain open from April 20:  Shops of agriculture machinery, its spare parts, its supply chain, repairs, ‘Custom Hiring Centres, related to farm machinery to remain open from April 20.From April 20 activities permitted include agricultural, horticultural activities, farmers and farm workers in field, procurement of agri products, ‘Mandis’.Manufacturing units of drugs, pharmaceuticals, medical devices, construction of medical infrastructure including manufacture of ambulances to remain open from April 20.The central government has made wearing of mask compulsory in public places across the country.Grocery stores, fruits, vegetables shops/ carts, milk booths, poultry, meat and fish shop to remain open during lockdown.Services provided by self-employed electrician, IT repairs, plumbers, motor mechanics, carpenters to allowed from April 20.However, the exemptions given from April 20 will not be applicable in COVID-19 hotspots/ containment zones and the State/ UT governments shall not dilute guidelines in any manner but may impose stricter measures as per local requirements.Industries operating in rural areas to be permitted to run from April 20 with strict social distancing norms.Manufacturing, industrial units with access control in SEZs, Export Oriented Units, industrial estates, industrial townships to be allowed to function from April 20.The home ministry said permitted industries must make arrangements for stay of workers within their premises or adjacent buildings by observing social distancing norms.The home ministry said defence, paramilitary, health and family welfare, disaster management, NIC, FCI, NCC, Nehru Yuva Kendra and Customs offices will function without any restriction.Other ministries and departments are to function with “100 per cent attendance” with deputy secretary and above rank officers.“Remaining officers and staff to attend up to 33 per cent as per requirement,” it said.The guidelines said in order to mitigate hardship to the public, select additional activities will be allowed, which will come into effect from April 20.“However, these additional activities will be operationalised by states and UTs and district administrators based on strict compliance to the existing guidelines on lockdown measures,” it said.The nation-wide lockdown is aimed to contain the spread of the pandemic that has killed over 370 people and infected over 11,000 in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fresh-guidelines-issued-for-lockdown-2-0-govt-bars-all-public-activities/story-zSpys1Y4vwnRghTHhUB5wN.html
15-04-2020||India||PM Modi to host his Mann Ki Baat programme on April 26||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation on April 26 through his monthly Mann Ki Baat radio programme, All India Radio said in a tweet on Wednesday.“Prime Minister Shri @narendramodi will share his #MannKiBaat with the people of India & abroad on 26th April 2020 on all channels of @AkashvaniAIR,” The national public radio broadcaster tweeted.“Share your ideas & suggestions by dialing the toll-free number 1800-11-7800 or by posting on the @mygovindia open forum,” AIR added.The Prime Minister’s last episode of Mann ki Baat had focussed on the coronavirus pandemic, during which he had sought forgiveness for putting people in trouble by ordering a complete lockdown in the country but said the fight against coronavirus is one of life and death.Modi has already addressed the nation on the issue of coronavirus outbreak at least four times in the last few days. In his address on March 24, he had announced a 21-day nationwide lockdown as part of the government’s stringent efforts to tackle the Covid-19.Also read: ‘Increase social distancing, reduce emotional distancing,’ says PM ModiBefore that, he had called for a Janta Curfew on March 22, which was in place for 14 hours as people stayed off the roads and public places during this period.And, on Tuesday he extended the three-week lockdown till May 3 as he addressed the nation.India reported 11,439 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday morning, out of which 9756 are active, 1306 people have been cured, discharged or migrated and 377 have died, according to the Union health ministry.The Prime Minister’s Mann ki Baat programme is aired on the last Sunday of every month.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-host-his-mann-ki-baat-programme-on-april-26/story-ww0dYEZopmv4EN4Q0AIwEJ.html
15-04-2020||India||India fast-tracks HCQ supplies to UAE, leverages drug to get test kits elsewhere||After supplying to most affected countries such as the US, Spain and the UK, India is all set to bulk supply hydroxychloroquine and paracetamol to close allies Russia, United Arab Emirates, Jordan and key partners in Latin America and Africa. A shipment of HCQ is also being sent to Dominican Republic, the current President of the UN Security Council, as well as Uganda and Ecuador, people familiar with the development said.An official said India is also committed to supplying the two drugs to its special strategic partner Russia; Russian President Vladimir Putin had spoken to PM Modi on March 25. But the special focus of the government at this point are the Gulf countries, particularly the UAE. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla are in constant touch with their Gulf counterparts. India has already sent a 15-member army medical team with supplies to Kuwait and supplied HCQ to Bahrain.Global demand for hydroxychloroquine manufactured by India boosted after some studies indicated that the drug, when paired with azithromycin, helped clear patients of the virus at a much faster rate than seen usually.The decision to quickly send the drugs to Abu Dhabi and Dubai was taken after UAE sent a request for 3.25 crore HCQ 200 mg tablets and 10 metric tonnes of active pharmaceutical ingredients. These commercial supplies will go through six Dubai-based consignees having contracts with Indian pharma majors in Mumbai, Chennai and Bengaluru.Also Watch | ‘No shortage of hydroxychloroquine in India, will be available in future’: Govt According to South Block officials, India has put the drug supplies to UAE and Jordan on a fast track as PrIme Minister Narendra Modi has a personal rapport with both UAE Crown Prince Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan and King Abdullah of Jordan. India has also offered to send more medical teams to the Gulf if required.While India has been on the front foot in its fight against coronavirus by supplying drugs to other countries, it is also leveraging the drug to get supplies of rapid testing kits, N 95 masks, ventilators and PPE suits from a host of countries. Apart from China, whose first consignment of rapid testing kits has landed, India is getting supplies from the US, UK, Ireland, Korea, Japan, Singapore, Germany and Malaysia.“All the heads of missions have been instructed to help procure key medical supplies that could include aluminium, ventilators and cylinders. Singapore is a hub for procurement with some friends such as Vietnam sending limited amounts of medical supplies as gifts,” said a senior official. PM Modi had spoken to his Vietnamese counterpart Nguyen Xuan Phuc on Monday.According to South Block officials, all drug supplies are being sent after reconciling the domestic demands, the requirements assessed by the Health Ministry and the capacity of Indian pharma industry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-fast-tracks-hcq-supplies-to-uae-leverages-drug-to-get-test-kits-elsewhere/story-Gf8gejy10etjxMjuxkA2OO.html
15-04-2020||India||Iran expects India, world community to stand up against US sanctions: Iranian envoy||Iran expects India and the rest of the world community will stand against stand against the “unjust” US sanctions that are hurting millions of Iranians amid the Covid-19 crisis, Iranian ambassador Ali Chegeni has said.In an interview with Hindustan Times, he also talked about India-Iran cooperation to tackle the pandemic and the steps being taken to help the 255 Indians who tested positive for Covid-19 in the holy city of Qom and the 5,000-odd Indians stranded in different parts of Iran.Q. What is the current situation with regard to Covid-19 in Iran? Has the number of cases peaked?A. Despite the brutal and inhumane US sanctions, our situation is relatively good in fighting the pandemic in comparison with some other countries. Keep in your mind, we could not take advantage of the experiences of others while Iran was among the countries hardest hit by the highly contagious virus in the first phase of spreading of Covid-19 across the globe. Now, hopefully the curve shows that the pandemic is falling [from] the peak as the number of new infection cases have dropped from 3,200 to 1,600 on a daily basis. Besides, there are around 48,000 recovery cases out of a total of 74,000 as of now.Q. What steps are the authorities taking to control and prevent the spread of Covid-19?A. From the very beginning of the outbreak, a National Committee for Fighting Coronavirus (NCFC) was set up, headed by the President, to make detailed and practical decisions against the spread of Coronavirus. In this regard, all internal powers from the military and law enforcement forces to the NGOs etc were mobilised. All political and economic events, cultural activities, sports contests, and religious congregations were postponed at the order of the committee. After some strict lockdown measures, the NCFC announced the Smart Social Distancing scheme with the aim of reopening low-risk businesses for provinces other than Tehran. For this purpose, the ministry of health has been coordinating with business unions to register in a system and if eligible, they will receive a certificate for doing their business on the basis of health protocols.Most importantly, an Iranian biomedicine company has started mass production of serological test kits which are very much needed to detect the rate of infection among various groups of the population.Moreover, considering the holy fasting month of Ramadan, the religious gatherings will be cancelled, in case it is considered unsafe for public health and the NCFC would decide on the details of this issue in its upcoming meeting.Q. In what ways can India and Iran cooperate to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic? Are there any medical supplies and equipment or any other assistance that Iran has sought from India?A. Given the capabilities of both countries, we can deploy the full strength of relations to effectively combat Covid-19. As you know, for many years we have been importing pharmaceutical products from India and we are confident that our cooperation will continue.The close consultations of both countries’ health ministers and sharing experiences and the lessons learned in fighting the Coronavirus pandemic is very important and it could be more effective in a regional initiative. We could also cooperate on the development of medicines and vaccines as we do share great scientific and technological capacities together with research and development centres in our countries.Considering the unpredictability of the situation, it is important to look at possible options to continue exchanges of goods and commodities according to uniform health protocols. Moreover, this ongoing pandemic could be a way forward to boost mutual economic cooperation and partnership.Q. There are still some 5,000 Indian nationals, including pilgrims and students, who are still in Iran. What is their status? What are the two countries doing to look after their needs?A. Since the citizens of both countries have been engaging in a deep-rooted people-to-people contacts for different purposes, I am happy to say that Indians have always been respected and warmly welcomed by Iranian people and the government. It was expected that many would be stranded as result of the epidemic.Both countries, in a close and warm contact, have worked together to evacuate their stranded nationals and until now, eight batches of Indian nationals were transferred to India by seven Iranian airliners and one aircraft of the Indian Air Force, and the local authorities and Indian missions in Iran are providing all possible humanitarian assistance to the remaining Indians, including pilgrims, students and fisherman.Q. What is the status of the Indians who tested positive and were being treated in Qom and Tehran?A. From the very beginning, the government of Iran along with some local NGOs rushed to meet their accommodation, food and treatment. Recently they have been accommodated in some good hotels and guesthouse advised by Qom governorate under supervision and credit of Indian embassy in Tehran. Those who have tested positive, have been immediately hospitalised and offered the necessary medical treatment free of charge by Iran’s government. Indian embassy is following their situation closely.Q. What is the status of the Iranians who were stranded in India?A. Every year, especially during Nowruz festival, many Iranian tourists travel to India. However, this year coincided with the Coronavirus pandemic and consequently limits on international flights. Thanks to cooperation of the Indian authorities, we have been able to evacuate a majority of them. Still there are around 200 Iranian tourists and students who, at this stage, requested the embassy for their immediate return to Iran. We expect to send them back home by an Iran Air flight from Mumbai in the coming days.Q. What is Iran’s position on the US sanctions that have affected the fight against Covid-19? Does Iran look to India and other countries to help in overcoming these sanctions?A. The Iranian health sector, although among the most resilient in the region and the world, has been affected directly and indirectly by these unjust, illegal and inhumane sanctions. In a hypocritical way, the US administration has claimed that humanitarian supplies, including food and medicine, are exempted from anti-Iran sanctions, but freezing Iran’s financial assets in various countries, banning Iranian banks and denying Iran’s access to SWIFT for funds transfer and clear threats against several foreign banks have deterred them from doing any such humanitarian businesses with Tehran.More important for the stay at home order, we needed to support the people by relief packages but as I mentioned, Iran’s assets have been blocked by the US administration.So far, many prestigious foreign officials and international figures have called for the lifting of sanctions. We expect that the international community, including India, [will] stand against the unjust and extraterritorially imposed sanctions that are hurting millions of Iranians as well as other nations who have been paying a high price in this time of pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iran-expects-india-world-community-to-stand-against-us-sanctions-iranian-envoy/story-TkkjKZ6H8806sVh52HPLzI.html
15-04-2020||India||Flights, trains remain suspended, educational institutions closed: Govt guidelines for lockdown 2.0||A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the extension of Covid-19 lockdown till May 3, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Wednesday issued consolidated revised guidelines on measures to be taken by Ministries and Departments of Government of India, state and Union Territory governments and authorities for the containment of Covid-19.As per the guidelines, all domestic and international air travel of passengers (except for security purposes), passenger movement by trains (except for security purposes), buses for public transport, metro rail services will remain prohibited.It stated that all educational, training, coaching institutions etc. shall remain closed. Inter-district and inter-state movement of individuals except for medical reasons or for activities permitted under guidelines shall remain prohibited.Taxis (including auto-rickshaws and cycle rickshaws) and services of cab aggregators to remain prohibited until May 3.Also, all cinema halls, malls, shopping complexes, gymnasiums, sports complexes, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars and auditoriums, assembly halls and similar places shall remain closed.All social/political/sports/entertainment/academic/cultural/religious functions/other gatherings will also not be allowed.“All religious places or places of worship shall be closed for public. Religious congregations are strictly prohibited. In the case of funerals, a congregation of more than 20 persons will not be permitted,” the guidelines stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/flights-trains-remain-suspended-educational-institutions-closed-govt-guidelines-for-lockdown-2-0/story-DAO5jZZQP3IR76J5yu10aO.html
15-04-2020||India||Staggered breaks, no large meetings: New office rules during Covid-19 lockdown 2.0||The revised government guidelines on coronavirus lockdown carried an updated section for workplaces across the country. These are applicable only to those workplaces that are functional under the guidelines issued by the government. Besides the directive to conduct mandatory temperature screening, regular sanitising and disinfecting of workplace premises and providing hand santisers at convenient spots across the work floor, the Ministry of Home Affairs said that should people come to work, they must be put into shifts that have an hour in between and stagger their lunch breaks to ensure social distancing.Large meetings, more than 10 people, will continue to be discouraged.  People must be seated at least 6 feet away from each other. Not more than 2-4 people are to be allowed in elevators.  The MHA in its directive noted that those who are above 65-years of age and/or have co-morbidities must opt to work from home. Parents of children below the age of 5 years should also be encouraged to work from home during the lockdown which has been extended till May 3. “Use of Arogya Setu app will be encouraged for all employees both private and public,” the MHA release read. The government has directed all those reporting to work to be provided with a transport facility. Such vehicles should be sanitised and disinfected regularly and must carry only 30-40% of passenger capacity. This comes a day after the coronavirus lockdown was extended till May 3 by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday.On Wednesday, the total number of Covid-19 cases in the country rose to 11,439. The figure includes 9,756 active cases, 1306 cured or discharged cases and 377 fatalities, the Ministry of Health stated. India has witnessed 38 deaths and 1076 new cases of coronavirus reported in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/staggered-breaks-no-large-meetings-new-office-rules-during-covid-19-lockdown-2-0/story-GlljOBRzL8tnMDJ65tI3hJ.html
15-04-2020||India||Mutation in coronavirus from India random, no cause for alarm||A mutation in the coronavirus strain isolated in India has the potential to jeopardise global efforts to develop a vaccine against coronavirus disease (Covid-19), which has infected 2 million people and killed at least 26,000 in four months, according to a preliminary analysis of 106 Sars-CoV-2 and 39 SARS genome sequences.Leading scientists, however, warn against reliance on a single sample with a variation and say further confirmation is needed at sequence and protein level for conclusive evidence.The new study found a mutation in the mechanism Sars-CoV-2 the virus that causes Covid-19, uses to enter the human cells in the strains isolated from one of the first three cases of Covid-19 in Kerala on January 27, which was the first case of the disease in India. The findings were published in the preprint server bioRxiv, which puts scientific papers in the public domain before peer-review.Sars-CoV-2 consists of a strand of RNA enclosed in shell covered with crown-like spikes (explaining its name; ‘corona’ is the Latin word for crown). Most vaccine and drug development efforts are focusing on stopping the action of the viral spike (S) protein that it uses to enter human cells, where it replicates to cause infection.The study found changes in a part of the spike protein that allows the virus to bind to and penetrate human cells. This spike protein targets cells containing ACE-2 (angiotensin converting enzyme-2), a protein found on lung, kidney, heart, and gut cells in humans. ACE-2 has several roles, including modulating blood pressure and immune response.“We identified a mutation that leads to weaker receptor binding capability, which concerns a Sars-CoV-2 sample collected on 27th January 2020 from India. This represents the first report of a significant Sars-CoV-2 mutant, and raises the alarm that the ongoing vaccine development may become futile in future epidemic if more mutations were identified,” write study authors from Australia and Taiwan. “The observation of this study raised the alarm that Sars-CoV-2 mutation with varied epitope (that antibodies bind to) profile could arise at any time,” said the study, which also provided direct genetic evidence that Sars-CoV-2 has a much lower mutation rate than Sars-CoV, the virus that causes severe acute respiratory syndrome.Monitoring the mutation dynamics of Sars-CoV-2 is critical for the development of effective approaches to develop drugs and vaccines to contain the pathogen. “The lower receptor fit may make virus less efficient in transmission, but then we need to watch out for a change in virulence also. As of now this paper, it is ‘curiosity’ information. We have to wait and watch,” said Dr T Jacob John, professor emeritus and former head of virology at Christian Medical College, Vellore, Tamil Nadu.The mutation appears to be random and not the result of natural selection by the immune system because there were no more variants in that part of the spike than elsewhere in the genome, say scientists.“The study is too preliminary and lays too much reliance on a single sample with a variation that has been previously discussed. Unless one sees this confirmed further at sequence and protein level studies, at the minimum, no conclusion can be reached. Definitive conclusion will require proper virological studies,” said Dr Anurag Agarwal, director, CSIR-Institute of Genomics & Integrative Biology, Delhi.Most work on vaccines, drugs and therapies is targeting the spike (S) protein to prevent from binding to the ACE-2 that it sues as a receptor to enter cells. Five Covid-19 vaccine candidates are in phase 1 clinical trials to establish safety for humans and 73 in exploratory or preclinical stages, a vaccine is likely to be ready in early 2021, according to an analysis of the global Covid-19 vaccine database of Coalition of Epidemic Preparedness (Cepi), one of the world’s biggest public funders of vaccine development. The analysis was published in the journal Nature Reviews Drug Discovery on April 11, just three months of China sharing the first genetic sequence of the virus on January 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mutation-in-coronavirus-from-india-random-no-cause-for-alarm/story-h1tVOps6zDjXDVNtSosn2I.html
15-04-2020||India||Govt must organise flights to bring back stranded workers in Middle East: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday urged the government to organise flights to bring back Indian workers stuck in the Middle East and desperate to return.He said the workers are in deep distress there due to shutting of businesses in the Middle East due to the Covid-19 pandemic.“The Covid-19 crisis and shutting of businesses in the Middle East have left thousands of Indian workers in deep distress and desperate to return home.  “The Government must organise flights to bring home our brothers and sisters most in need of assistance, with quarantine plans in place,” he said on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-must-organise-flights-to-bring-back-stranded-workers-in-middle-east-rahul-gandhi/story-HAld52rRPNmuQHK6SYGRjN.html
15-04-2020||India||New lockdown guideline issued: What it means for you||The government on Wednesday issued revised guideline to be followed during the extended lockdown period till May 3. While several things have been kept suspended to prevent the spread of coronavirus disease Covid-19, the government has allowed others which have a direct impact on the lives of the common people.As per the revised guideline, all self-employed people like electricians, those involved in IT repairs, plumbers, motor mechanics and carpenters have been allowed.The courier services and vehicles used by e-commerce operators have also been permitted by the government.Apart from these, shops (including kirana and single shops selling essential goods) and carts, dealing with food and groceries, hygiene items, fruits and vegetables, dairy and milk booths, poultry, meat and fish, animal feed a fodder etc have bene allowed to operate without any restriction on timing of opening and closure.However, these establishments have been asked to strictly follow social distancing.All medical establishments, including ayush centres, labs, vet centres have also been allowed to open in non-containment zones.Dhabas (eateries) on the highways to have been allowed, but with instructions to follow social distancing norms.Relaxing the movement of people, the guideline says that private vehicles for emergency services, including medical and veterinary care and for procuring essential commodities, will be allowed. In such cases, one passenger besides the private vehicle driver can be permitted in the backseat in a four-wheeler; in case of two-wheelers, however, only the driver of the vehicle is permitted.The important components of the financial sector, like RBI, banks, ATMs, capital and debt markets as notified by Sebi and insurance companies will also remain functional, with a view to provide enough liquidity and credit support to the industrial sectors.The revised guideline was issued after an announcement by Prime Minister Narendra Modi that the lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus disease Covid-19 has been extended till May 3. The lockdown was scheduled to end on April 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-lockdown-guidelines-issued-what-it-means-for-you/story-sEv7Lc5JOsrxt6OaN2DJjI.html
15-04-2020||India||Govt permits resumption of some industries in rural areas after April 20||The Narendra Modi government will allow a series of economic activities including food processing industries, construction of roads and industrial projects in rural areas to create job opportunities and give a fresh boost to Indian economy after several industries came to a grinding halt when a federal lockdown was imposed to contain the Covid-19 pandemic.Even as the country enters into a longer lockdown till May 3, a union home ministry notification on Wednesday underlined opening of industries in rural India after April 20.“To provide an impetus to the rural economy, industries operating in rural areas, including food processing industries; construction of roads, irrigation projects, buildings and industrial projects in rural areas; works under MNREGA, with priority to irrigation and water conservation works; and operation of rural Common Service Centres (CSCs) have all been allowed,” said the notification.These activities will create job opportunities for rural labour, including the migrant labour force. In his speech on April 14, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has expressed concerns about the livelihood of the daily wage earners.While the government had already exempted agricultural workers from the lockdown apart from those in containment zones, the home ministry notification declared that “procurement of agricultural products” and “agriculture marketing through notified mandis and direct and decentralised marketing” will be allowed.“The manufacture, distribution and retail of fertilisers, pesticides and seeds; activities of marine and inland fisheries; animal husbandry activities, including the supply chain of milk, milk products, poultry and livestock farming; and tea, coffee and rubber plantations are allowed to be functional,” said the notification.While the permitted activities from April 20 are aimed to ensure that agricultural and related activities remain fully functional and provide maximum efficiency to the rural economy the government also wants to create employment opportunities, especially for daily wage earners and other members of the labour force.Transportation of goods is also permitted without any distinction of essential or non-essential goods.However, no industrial activities will be allowed in areas demarcated as containment zones by local administration as these areas will remain under heavy curbs on movement of people.“The objective of the revised guidelines is to consolidate the gains achieved during the 1st phase of lockdown and further slow down the spread of Covid-19 and at the same time provide relief to farmers and labour and daily wage earners,” a press release issued by the information and broadcasting ministry said.Travel by air, rail and road; operation of educational and training institutions; industrial and commercial activities, hospitality services, all cinema halls, shopping complexes and theatres will remain closed. All social, political and other events, religious places or places of worship for members of public, including religious congregations have been stopped.The government has also said that some national guidelines, such as mandatory home-made face covers at work places and in public places, strong hygiene and healthcare measures like provision of sanitisers, staggered shifts, access control and thermal screening will remain in place. Fines will have to paid for spitting.The government has also come with very strong containment measures in the hotspot districts accounting for large number of Covid-19 cases or with fast growth of cases. Only essential services are to be permitted in these zones and strict perimeter control and strict restrictions on movement enforced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-permits-resumption-of-some-industries-in-rural-areas/story-XGyaKl5w0VS1jux6Fdjp2I.html
15-04-2020||India||Govt lockdown guidelines: What do they mean for Covid-19 hotspots, containment zones||The Ministry of Home Affairs on Wednesday issued the updated guidelines on coronavirus lockdown. This came a day after the lockdown was extended till May 3 by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The revised set of guidelines have a section on the management of coronavirus hotspots and containment zones across the country. Coronavirus hotspots are areas that are affected by the disease. Maharashtra and Delhi are a couple of top coronavirus hotspots in the country. Containment zones are determined within a city by the administration keeping in mind the number of Covid-19 cases emerging from a particular location. For example, Delhi has determined more than 50 containment zones in the city where coronavirus cases have been identified. These areas have been sealed and restriction of movement has been placed on residents to keep the disease from spreading any further. “’Hotspots’, i.e., areas of large Covid-19 outbreaks or clusters with significant spread of Covid-19, will be determined as per the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW), Government of India (GoI),” the release read. In these hotspots, containment zones will be demarcated by States/UTs/District administrations as per the guidelines. In Covid-19 containment zones, activities otherwise allowed by the MHA during the lockdown, will not be permitted. “There shall be strict perimeter control in the area of the containment zones,” the MHA stated in its guidelines. No unchecked inward/outward movement of the population in the containment zones will be allowed except for maintaining essential services and in the case of medical emergencies and law and order related duties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-lockdown-guidelines-what-do-they-mean-for-covid-19-hotspots-containment-zones/story-4QSjT2PjuzDO3vZWzMllcK.html
15-04-2020||India||Govt issues lockdown guidelines: Here is what is allowed||The government on Wednesday issued detailed guidelines for industries and several sectors to follow during the second phase of the nationwide lockdown till May 3.The guidelines came after Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in his address to the nation on April 14, said the lockdown will have to be extended till May 3 to arrest the spread of Covid-19 in the country. “… consolidated revised guidelines have been issued, delineating the prohibited activities across the country, activities allowed in containment zones, and select permitted activities allowed from April 20, 2020, in the rest of the country,” a government release said.“The objective of the revised guidelines is to consolidate the gains achieved during the 1st phase of lockdown and further slow down the spread of Covid 19 and at the same time provide relief to farmers and labour and daily wage earners,” it added.Here is what the government has allowed:* Goods can be transported without any distinction of essential or non-essential.* Farming operations, including procurement of agricultural products, agriculture marketing through notified mandis and direct and decentralised marketing, manufacture, distribution and retail of fertilisers, pesticides and seeds.* Activities of marine and inland fisheries; animal husbandry activities, including the supply chain of milk, milk products, poultry and livestock farming; and tea, coffee and rubber plantations.* Industries operating in rural areas, including food processing industries; construction of roads, irrigation projects, buildings and industrial projects in rural areas; works under MNREGA, with priority to irrigation and water conservation works; and operation of rural Common Service Centres (CSCs) have been allowed* Manufacturing and other industrial establishments with access control have been permitted in the special economic zones (SEZs), export oriented units (EoUs), industrial estates and industrial townships after implementation of SOP for social distancing. * The manufacture of information technology (IT) hardware and of essential goods and packaging are also allowed. * Coal, mineral and oil production are permitted activities. * The Reserve Bank of India (RBI), banks, ATMs, capital and debt markets as notified by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) and insurance companies will also remain functional.* E-commerce operations, operations of IT and IT-enabled services, data and call centres for Government activities, and online teaching and distance learning have been permitted.* All health services and social sector will remain functional and public utilities will function without any hindrance. The supply chain of essential goods will operate. * Important offices of the central and state governments and local bodies will remain open with the required strength.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-issues-lockdown-guidelines-here-is-what-is-allowed/story-kLofeZVBLJWubuve7QqcUJ.html
15-04-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: 13 activities that will remain suspended till May 3||The government on Wednesday issued a revised set of guidelines for citizens and state governments to follow during the course of Covid-19 lockdown which has been extended till May 3.The announcement for extending the lockdown was made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his address to the nation - the fifth since the Covid-19 crisis began. In his address, he highlighted the progress India made in checking the spread of the infection and asked the people of the country to follow seven rules in this time of crisis.The guidelines issued have permitted a few things, mostly keeping in view the benefit of the poor and vulnerable section of the society. But there is a list of those things which will remain suspended till the lockdown is in place.Here is a list of those 13 things:• All domestic and air travel of passengers, except for security purposes• All passenger movement by trains, except for security purposes• Buses for public transport• Metro rail services• Inter-district and inter-state movement of individuals except for medical reasons• All educations, coaching, training institutions shall remain closed• All industrial and commercial activities other than those specifically permitted under these guidelines• Hospitality services other than those specifically permitted under these guidelines• Taxis (including autorickshaws and cyclerickshaws) and services of cab aggregators• All cinema halls, malls, shopping complexes, gymnasiums, sports complexes, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars and auditoriums, assembly halls and similar places• All social/political/sports/entertainment/academic/cultural/religious functions/other gatherings• All religious places/places or worship shall be closed for public. Religious congregations are strictly prohibited• In case of funerals, congregation of more than 20 people will not be permitted||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-13-activities-that-will-remain-suspended-till-may-3/story-yLzQdShaMGgmd12Iqa5N3K.html
15-04-2020||India||Attacks to appeals: What was Aaditya Thackeray’s take on Bandra incident||Maharashtra tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray had led the charge on Twitter after nearly 1000 migrant workers gathered in Mumbai’s Bandra, demanding trains back home after the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown was extended.Aaditya Thackeray, son of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, continued tweeting throughout the latter half of the day and night on the Bandra incident as his posts led to a political blame game.The state unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) called the incident a failure of the state after Aaditya Thackeray’s outburst.Then there was a phone call from Union home minister Amit Shah to his father. The Union minister said the incidents like that in Bandra could weaken India’s fight against Covid-19 and that the administration needs to stay vigilant to avoid such incidents. He also offered his full support to the Maharashtra government and Uddhav Thackeray called for peace and assured all help to migrant workers in the state.But before logging out for the day, the young Shiv Sena leader had a word of caution and praise.“I appeal to all twitter armies who tweeted, and to those who responded to bandra incident in a polarised, political or communal way, let’s not do that. This is a time for focus. Join hands, we’re all in this together (sic),” he wrote.Also read: Coronavirus cases in India climb to 11,439, death toll at 377“While I was pointing out certain gaps in the process, I see 2 clear political divides as a response. That isn’t what I stand for. We need unity over division, faith over fear, resolve over panic and purity of intent over politics,” he said.This stand was different from what he had to say earlier in the day.Aaditya Thackeray had taken to Twitter soon after the police were able to disperse the crowds from the Bandra railway station. Also read: What happened in Mumbai’s BandraThe Shiv Sena leader had blamed Centre responsible for the situation and said the railways should have run special trains to take the migrant workers to their hometown as demanded by Uddhav Thackeray.“The current situation in Bandra, now dispersed or even the rioting in Surat is a result of the union government not being able to take a call on arranging a way back home migrant labour. They don’t want food or shelter, they want to go back home,” Thackeray had tweeted in one of his first reactions.Also read: What you need to know todayMaharashtra, he said, had raised the issue of enabling the workers to return home.“A mutual road map set by Union Govt will largely help migrant labour to reach home from one state to another safely and efficiently. Time and again this issue has been raised with the centre,” he said in another tweet.Later, he toned down the tweets and said the Centre and states are facing a Catch-22 situation.“The centre has taken immediate cognizance of the issue and is assisting the State actively. We understand the catch 22 situation centre and states face. I’m thankful to PM & HM for understanding the situation, while trying to ensure the safety of home states of migrants,” he tweeted.“The migrant labour issue persists everywhere. Even as we house more than 6 lakh migrant labour, with breakfast lunch and dinner, the Union and State Govts are coordinating on further relief for the same. We will continue to ensure the comfort of all migrant labour in our camps,” he said in another tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/attacks-to-appeals-what-was-aaditya-thackeray-s-take-on-bandra-incident/story-GqtkroAfnZFnsWGfyjoGAJ.html
15-04-2020||India||Maharashtra cases cross 3,000, Delhi death toll jumps to 30: Covid-19 state tally||India has witnessed 38 deaths and 1076 new cases of coronavirus reported in the last 24 hours. On Wednesday, India’s total number of coronavirus positive cases rose to 11,439. The figure includes 9,756 active cases, 1306 cured or discharged cases and 377 fatalities, the Ministry of Health stated. In Maharashtra, the total number of coronavirus cases reached 3,124 while the national capital crossed the 1,500-mark to report a total of 1,621 Covid-19 cases.Here’s a look at the statewise tally of coronavirus active cases, fatalities and recovered patients.MaharashtraWith 2,687 Covid-19 active cases, Maharashtra has registered the highest number of coronavirus cases in the country. The state has recorded 178 deaths so far while 259 patients have recovered.DelhiDelhi has the second-highest number of coronavirus cases in the country. As many as 1,510 people have tested positive of coronavirus in the national capital. 30 people have died from the infection while 30 people have made a recovery, as per the health ministry’s data.Tamil NaduThe southern state has the third-highest number of Covid-19 cases in the country which now stand at 1204. Tamil Nadu has seen 81 recoveries and 12 Covid-19 deaths.RajasthanCoronavirus cases in Rajasthan touched 969 on Wednesday. The state has reported three fatalities, and 147 patients have recovered from the infection.Madhya PradeshThe state has reported 730 positive cases of coronavirus. 50 people have died from Covid-19 here while 51 have recovered.Uttar Pradesh660 people have been infected from Covid-19 in the state. While 50 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, five have died from the infection here.GujaratPrime Minister Narendra Modi’s home state has registered 650 coronavirus cases and 59 recoveries so far. 28 people have died from the infection in the state.Telangana624 positive cases of coronavirus have been reported from the state so far. Hundred people have made a recovery from the virus while 17 people have died from Covid-19.Andhra PradeshThe state has witnessed 483 positive Covid-19 patients and 16 cases of recovery. 9 people have died.KeralaAs per the health ministry, Kerala reported 387 coronavirus cases on Wednesday. Kerala has witnessed three deaths due to Covid-19 while 211 people have successfully recovered.KarnatakaThe state has recorded 260 Covid-19 cases and 10 deaths. 71 people have been cured and discharged.Jammu and KashmirThe union territory of Jammu and Kashmir has seen the number of Covid-19 patients rising to 278. Four people have died from the infection while 30 were cured.Haryana and PunjabThe neighbouring states have 199 and 176 Covid-19 cases respectively. While 12 people have died in Punjab, Haryana has seen three deaths. 34 people have recovered from Covid-19 in Haryana, 14 in Punjab.213 people have been affected by the Sars-CoV-2 virus in West Bengal. There have been seven deaths and 37 recoveries in the state. Odisha has 60 Covid-19 positive patients, 18 have recovered while one person has died. In Bihar, 66 people have tested positive for coronavirus, one has died while 29 patients have recovered.Assam has reported 32 Covid-19 cases, one person has died. Uttarakhand has 37 coronavirus patients, 9 patients have recovered from the infection. In Chandigarh, 21 people have contracted the Covid-19 disease and seven have recovered. Andaman has recorded 11 coronavirus cases, 10 have recovered. Chhattisgarh has recorded 33 cases of coronavirus and 13 people have recovered.Ladakh has 17 patients, 10 people have recovered. Goa has reported seven cases of Covid-19 disease, five patients have recovered. Himachal Pradesh has 33 cases, one patient has died and 13 have recovered. Pondicherry has reported seven cases, one has recovered. Jharkhand has 27 Covid-19 cases, two patients have died.Two coronavirus cases have been reported in Manipur, one has recovered. Tripura also has two Covid-19 patients.States and Union territories with just one positive Covid-19 case include Arunachal Pradesh, Meghalaya and MizoramSikkim has not reported any Covid-19 case yet.On Tuesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended the nationwide lockdown till May 3. The Prime Minister said that though India took timely steps to control the spread of novel coronavirus, there is an urgent need to scale up efforts to ensure no new hotspots emerge.Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-cases-cross-3-000-delhi-death-toll-jumps-to-30-covid-19-state-tally/story-yhYfS41CgEYMdQkOFHKqfJ.html
15-04-2020||India||Coronavirus cases in India climb to 11,439, death toll at 377||There were more than 1000 cases of the coronavirus infection and 38 deaths in India in the last 24 hours, the Union health ministry said on Wednesday morning.Out of the 11,439 Covid-19 cases, 9756 are active, 1306 people have been cured, discharged or migrated and 377 have died, according to the health ministry website at 8am.The jump in numbers come on the first day of the second phase of the lockdown as announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday. Prime Minister Modi announced in an address to the nation on Monday that the ongoing 21-day national lockdown will now be extended for another 19 days until May 3.Experts said the extension would flatten as well as delay the cycle of infections even as both the opposition and industry criticised his speech for its silence on a much-needed economic relief package.The government will announce the detailed modalities of the lockdown’s second phase on Wednesday as it looks to get a grip on the ballooning Covid-19 cases.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has said that it is critical to increase testing for the coronavirus disease as the number of cases in India is “rising exponentially”, a development that comes even as the government awaits the arrival of rapid testing kits from China.The rapid testing kits, which search for antibodies in blood samples, were first supposed to arrive on April 5. The expected date of delivery was later revised to April 10, and then to April 15. There was, however, no clarity if all kits ordered by India would arrive by Wednesday.Maharashtra continued to report more cases of Covid-19 with more than 3000 infections. Out of the 3124 coronavirus infections, 279 people have been cured or discharged and 178 people have died to date, according to the Union health ministry.The slum cluster of Dharavi continued to a worry spot for authorities.In Delhi, where the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government has increased the number of containment zones to more than 50, there were 1621 Covid-19 cases. The national capital has witnessed 30 fatalities due to the coronavirus disease.Tamil Nadu inched towards 1300 cases with 1204 Covid-19 patients, 81 discharges and 12 deaths.The coronavirus infections across the world topped 1,980,003 and there were 126,557 deaths, according to the Johns Hopkins University’s coronavirus tracker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-cases-in-india-climb-to-11-439-death-toll-at-377/story-sv8J6Z35bSYrPCPZA46vrL.html
15-04-2020||India||IMD to issue Long Range Forecast for south-west monsoon season rainfall today||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) will issue the first stage Long Range Forecast (LRF) for south-west Monsoon season (June-September) rainfall on Wednesday.The Ministry of Earth Sciences is set to release the forecast through online video conferencing and live streaming from the national capital as part of social distancing measures put in place in response to the Covid-19 outbreak.The Ministry of Earth Sciences Secretary will brief the press through online video conferencing and live streaming from the national capital.The LRF is the operational monsoon season forecast issued by the weather department from June to September for the entire country. This forecast, however, does not include regional level rainfall or specify quantum rainfall for the forecast periodEach year, the MeT department issues LRF in two stages. The first stage forecast is issued in the month of April and the second one is issued in June.These forecasts are issued using Statistical Ensemble Forecasting System (SEFS) and dynamical coupled Ocean-Atmospheric models.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-to-issue-long-range-forecast-for-south-west-monsoon-season-rainfall-today/story-KTTXgkxGMx52dHphzlMlyK.html
15-04-2020||India||Covid-19: WhatsApp misused the most, say Maharashtra Police; 55 ‘take down’ notices issued||The cyber wing of the police in Maharashtra, worst hit by the coronavirus pandemic, has issued 55 “Take Down” notices to various social media platforms like Facebook, WhatsApp etc to check the spread of rumours.Thirty two objectionable posts have been removed and 114 others identified, reported news agency PTI quoting police officials. It also said that 37 people have been arrested.The news agency further reported that WhatsApp was misused the most (in 93 cases), followed by Facebook (61 cases), TikTok (three cases) and Twitter (two cases) in spreading of hateful messages and rumours.The total number of people infected by Covid-19 in Maharashtra rose to 2,684 on Tuesday after 350 new cases were reported, the state health department said.Eighteen Covid-19 patients died during the day to take the toll of casualties to 178, the highest in the country.A total of 259 people have recovered from the infection.The Cyber Wing of the Maharashtra Police has registered 196 cases related to spreading of fake news, rumours and hateful messages as well as for circulation of misinformation till April 14, reported PTI.Amid the lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus, there was a major scare on Tuesday after hundreds of migrant workers gathered at the Bandra West railway station demanding transport to go to their homes in different states. This came after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the extension of lockdown till May 3.Hours after the incident, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray went on Facebook to tell workers that they are safe and that there is no need to worry. He said the Centre will make arrangements for their return as soon as the lockdown is lifted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-whatsapp-misused-the-most-say-maharashtra-police-55-take-down-notices-issued/story-YY4CGnnk3u1R4RWPKi1FWI.html
15-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Covid-19 cases rising exponentially, critical to test more, says ICMR & all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion curated for you. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19 cases rising exponentially, it’s critical to test more: ICMRThe Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has said that it is critical to increase testing for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as the number of cases in India is “rising exponentially”, a development that comes even as the government awaits the arrival of rapid testing kits from China. Read more‘My nephew and I never had any symptoms’: Bengal Covid-19 patient in hospital since April 1A 49-year-old Covid-19 patient, who is in hospital since testing positive on April 1, said he and his nephew never had any symptoms of getting infected by coronavirus. Read moreNaveen Patnaik says Covid-19 levelling off in Odisha, but officials sound cautionExpressing his happiness over Covid-19 cases levelling off in Odisha, Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik on Tuesday asked the police to ensure that movement of agriculture products is not stopped and those indulging in domestic violence during lockdown are punished. Read more Coronavirus update- From lathicharge to probe: What happened in Mumbai’s BandraNearly 1000 jobless migrant workers gathered outside a railway station in Mumbai’s Bandra on Tuesday, hours after Prime Minister extended the lockdown to May 3 to check the spread of the coronavirus infections, demanding for trains to take them home. Read more Stranded Canadians returning home to face strict action on not following self-isolationThe Canadian Government had put in place those mandatory self-isolation rules on March 25 but they have now been strengthened under the Quarantine Act. Read more IPL in suspension till further noticeThe 2020 Indian Premier League (IPL)—which was earlier put on hold due to the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic and the subsequent national lockdown—is set to remain suspended until further notice. Read moreFacing sleep issues during lockdown? Try these easy tips to sleep betterIn the absence of a regular routine, late dinners, snacking and greater calorie intakes are also affecting sleep cycles, doctors say. So here are three easy ways you can help your body revert to its normal sleep cycle. Read more Google’s ‘Whitechapel’ processor is being made by Samsung and may power 2021 Pixel phones, ChromebooksA new report suggests that search giant Google, which is usually known for its Android software in the smartphone market, has made some strides in the processor front as well. The company is said to be working on its own processor with some help from Samsung. Read more Watch| Mumbai: Wave of migrant workers swamp bus stand after lockdown extension||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-covid-19-cases-rising-exponentially-critical-to-test-more-says-icmr-all-the-latest-news/story-qzn7NhKdp0ikKyyPwmpi5L.html
15-04-2020||India||Man dies outside Indore hospital; family alleges he was denied treatment||The family of a 65-year-old man alleged he died at MY Hospital in Madhya Pradesh’s Indore on Tuesday after its staff refused to treat him, prompting the opposition Congress to launch an attack on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government.Pandurao, a resident of Kamala Nehru Nagar complained of chest pain on Tuesday. As his family members couldn’t get any ambulance they took him to MY Hospital, the teaching hospital of MGM Medical College, on a two-wheeler in the afternoon.His relative Rahul alleged the staff at the hospital denied treatment to Pandurao and he collapsed after some time on the two-wheeler itself. Family members said an ambulance service operator had earlier demanded Rs 300 to take the patient to the hospital. They were ready to pay the amount but the ambulance service operator refused, forcing them to take the patient to the hospital on the two-wheeler.A video of the man lying on the two-wheeler outside MY Hospital and his family alleging denial of treatment by the hospital soon went viral on social media.State Congress president Kamal Nath’s media coordinator Narendra Saluja sought to know from chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan if this was the state of affairs on health services in Madhya Pradesh and how many people would die like this in the state.The government should take action against the responsible persons, he demanded. “The man died as he didn’t get treatment in the hospital and also he didn’t get an ambulance. The kin had to take him to the hospital on a two-wheeler. This didn’t happen in any remote part of the state but in Indore known as the commercial capital of Madhya Pradesh,” senior Congress leader KK Mishra who belongs to Indore said.“The situation in other parts of the state can easily be gauged but the chief minister is not tired of making lofty claims about the health services,” Mishra added.Public health expert Amulya Nidhi said such a death should be a matter of serious concern for the state government. “It should immediately institute an inquiry to look into the man’s demise and his kin’s allegations. At the same time, the government should have a plan to ensure that amid the Covid-19 situation people with other ailments too get immediate and effective treatment,” Nidhi said.State BJP spokesperson Rajneesh Agrawal said the Congress was being hasty in its statements.“Congress is in habit of jumping the gun before getting details. Any death taking place is unfortunate. The government will certainly look into this,” Agrawal said.Dr Pravin Jadia, Indore’s chief medical and health officer (CMHO), denied the family’s allegations.“The man had gone to the hospital on Monday and later returned home. On Tuesday, he was first taken to a private hospital from where he was referred to MY hospital but when he reached the hospital he was declared brought dead. There was no question of denial of treatment,” Jadia said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-dies-outside-indore-hospital-family-alleges-he-was-denied-treatment/story-mgQIhaJY7ivzkA9wFtmWzL.html
15-04-2020||India||Meghalaya’s first Covid-19 patient dies, could have got infected from asymptomatic son-in-law||A 69-year-old doctor from Shillong, the first Covid-19 positive patient of Meghalaya, passed away early on Wednesday.John L Sailo Ryntathiang, the managing director of Bethany Hospitals, died at around 3:00 am on Wednesday, sources in Shilliong confirmed. He had tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday.This is the second Covid-19 fatality in the Northeast after the death of a 65-year-old patient at Assam’s Silchar Medical College and Hospital last week. There are a total of 40 Covid-19 positive patients in the region - 32 in Assam, two in Manipur and Tripura and one each in Nagaland, Mizoram, Meghalaya and Arunachal Pradesh.Though Ryntathiang didn’t have any recent travel history, he reportedly got infected from his son-in-law, a pilot with Air India who had returned from New York to Delhi on March 16 and reached Shillong on March 24.“Preliminary investigations suggest that one of the relatives of the concerned person had a travel history to one of the infected countries and he was back in Shillong before the 14-day quarantine period was over,” Meghalaya Chief Minister Conrad Sangma said on Tuesday.“Though the person took all precautions, but sometimes we see asymptomatic cases as well, who don’t show any signs but could be a carrier. Therefore, there is a high chance that it could have been passed on from there. We are looking at all possibilities of how this could have happened,” he added. Meghalaya had traced nearly 2,000 primary and secondary contacts of the patient and done tests on 90 of them (nearly half of the primary contacts). The government had asked its Assam counterpart to support with testing of the 2,000 contacts. The Shillong-based Northeastern Indira Gandhi Regional Institute of Health and Medical Sciences (NEIGRIHMS) is the lone Covid-19 testing lab in Meghalaya.“Our basic strategy would be to identify, isolate and test all contact for the first few days till we are able to zero down and close the loop of transmission,” Sangma said in Shillong after a cabinet meet on Tuesday.Both branches of the private hospital, where the doctor worked, have been shut and the staff placed under quarantine. The government has asked everyone who may have visited Bethany Hospital on or after March 22 to register themselves by calling 108 or getting in touch with the health department.Meghalaya’s capital Shillong has been placed under curfew for 48 hours beginning 6:00 am on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meghalaya-s-first-covid-19-patient-dies-could-have-got-infected-from-asymptomatic-son-in-law/story-suEPDjH7TuxJNC7tpLVmdM.html
15-04-2020||India||Naveen Patnaik says Covid-19 levelling off in Odisha, but officials sound caution||Expressing his happiness over Covid-19 cases levelling off in Odisha, Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik on Tuesday asked the police to ensure that movement of agriculture products is not stopped and those indulging in domestic violence during lockdown are punished.Chairing a review meeting, Patnaik said that coronavirus statistics are levelling off in the state and going down. Of the 60 confirmed cases of Covid-19, 18 have recovered while one person died. “That’s a very good sign,” said Patnaik, referring to Odisha’s low ratio of positive cases to sample tested among all the states. With only 60 positive cases from 4,734 samples tested till Monday night, Odisha’s ratio of positive cases to samples tested stood at 1.26 while Delhi with 1,510 cases from the 15,000 samples tested had the highest ratio of 10.Maharashtra with 2,334 cases had a ratio of 6.55 followed by Tamil Nadu with 6.25. Among other major states, Rajasthan and Kerala have lower infection-to-test conducted ratios, at 2.7 and 2.6, respectively.“In India, the total number of confirmed cases stood at 10,363,” Lav Agarwal, Joint Secretary, Health Ministry said on Tuesday. Of these 8,988 are now being treated at various hospitals across the country, he added.Odisha health officials said Odisha’s low ratio of positive cases to samples tested showed there was no community transmission, yet sounded alarm that the state needed to test more to know the exact picture of sperad of infection. “Among the 60 cases, more than 90 per cent are asymptomatic cases. So we can’t celebrate as yet,” said a state health department official, requesting anonymity.Enthused by low number of positive cases, Odisha has already made several relaxations including allowing NREGS work and farmers to resume agricultural activities, including harvesting, selling Rabi crops and other activities to prepare their fields for the coming Kharif season. The government order said shops and establishments selling agricultural implements, cattle feed and fish feed and food processing and packaging units will be allowed to remain open. The panchayati raj department will also facilitate construction and repair of drinking water facilities. Farmers can also dig farm ponds and purchase agricultural implements.During Tuesday’s meeting, Patnaik told the police to ensure that movement of essential and non-essential commodities should not be stopped and movement of agricultural products continue. He also highlighted domestic violence as a major cause of concern during lockdown and asked Odisha Police to begin the process of identifying habitual offenders.Though the state government has so far established 20 dedicated Covid-19 hospitals in 18 districts, Patnaik directed officials to ensure that such arrangement is extended in all the 30 districts of the state within next week. The state government has already chalked out a plan to set up Covid-19 hospitals in 36 places having a total capacity of 6,000 beds by the end of this month.Meanwhile, the Odisha Joint Entrance Examination 2020, which was to be held in the first week of May, has been postponed due to extension of lockdown. The annual entrance examination for admission to undergraduate courses in Engineering & Technology, Pharmacy, Postgraduate course like MBA, MCA, MTech, MPharm and Integrated was to be held from May 2-5.Similarly, evaluation of answer sheets of the annual matriculation examinations conducted by the Odisha Board of Secondary Education will be done after conclusion of the lockdown period on May 3, said school and mass education minister Samir Ranjan Dash. Dash said textbooks for students from Class I to Class VIII will be delivered to them at their doorstep by school teachers by April 25.Meanwhile, eminent citizens, civil society organisations and advocacy groups from Odisha have demanded setting up of a National Task Force to address the hardship and difficulties of millions of migrant workers who are stranded in different parts of the country amidst a nationwide lockdown. The need for a task force has become urgent in view of the imminent extension of the lockdown till May 3, said Citizens’ Action Group on Corona, Odisha.The Citizens’s Action Group said the recent violence involving migrant workers in Gujarat’s Surat city and Mumbai showed the need and urgency for better inter-state coordination. “There are more than 2.4 million migrant workers who are currently stranded in some 50,000 camps scattered across the country. Most of them were looking to return home with the hope that the lockdown would end Monday. But now with lockdown getting extended by a fortnight, we are not sure how impatience and anxiety will shape the behavior of the stranded workers,” said CAG co-convenor Umi Daniel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/naveen-patnaik-says-covid-19-levelling-off-in-odisha-but-officials-sound-caution/story-sYVFXfzJnnUXILYrYXNRHO.html
15-04-2020||India||India locked down till May 3, IMF makes a grim projection: Covid-19 news today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced on Monday that the 21-day nationwide lockdown will be extended for another 19 days until May 3, a move that experts said would flatten as well as delay the cycle of infections, although both the opposition and industry criticised his speech for its silence on an economic relief package. Industry bodies redoubled calls for a financial package of Rs 14 lakh crore to Rs 16 lakh crore to revive the economy that appears to have suffered a massive blow due to the pandemic. The International Monetary Fund slashed its FY21 growth projection for India to 1.9% from 5.8% projected in January, holding that the ‘Great Lockdown’ to combat Covid-19 will throw the world economy into the worst recession since the Great Depression in 1930s.India to stay locked down till May 3Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced in an address to the nation on Monday that the ongoing 21-day national lockdown will now be extended for another 19 days until May 3, a move that experts said would flatten as well as delay the cycle of infections, although both the opposition and industry criticised his speech for its silence on a much-needed economic relief package. Read more Industry bodies call on govt for stimulus of up to Rs 16 lakh croreIndustry bodies redoubled calls for a financial package of Rs 14 lakh crore to Rs 16 lakh crore to revive the economy even as they supported Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s decision to extend the 21-day lockdown that ended on Tuesday by 19 days to May 3. Read more Migrant woes spill on streets again as workers throng in Mumbai, SuratHundreds of migrant workers gathered at Bandra station in Mumbai on Tuesday, demanding they be taken back to their hometowns in an incident that dealt a major setback to social distancing efforts and highlighting the anxiety among some of the most vulnerable socio-economic classes. Read more Covid-19: What you need to know todayThe nationwide lockdown in India will continue till May 3 although the government will release on Wednesday guidelines for a phased exit in certain parts of the country. The extension of the lockdown, announced on Tuesday by the Prime Minister, means that by May 3, India would have been in quarantine for 40 days. Read more Pool testing to tightening of curbs, states draw plans for lockdown 2.0Uttar Pradesh, India’s most populous state, will start pool testing of people for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Wednesday, strictly enforce the lockdown and will not allow any inter-district travel. Bihar will start door-to-door screening of residents. Read moreCovid-19 cases rising exponentially, it’s critical to test more: ICMRThe Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has said that it is critical to increase testing for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as the number of cases in India is “rising exponentially”, a development that comes even as the government awaits the arrival of rapid testing kits from China. Read more India asks China to ease export of medical equipmentFacilitating India’s imports of Covid-19-related critical medical equipment and keeping the drug production supply chain open by China is the “best” signal for bilateral ties, Indian ambassador Vikram Misri said on Tuesday. Read moreAarogya Setu has 50 million users in 13 days, beats ‘Pokémon GO’ recordIndia’s coronavirus disease (Covid-19) contact-tracing app Aarogya Setu (health bridge) became the world’s fastest growing mobile app on Tuesday night with 50 million users in 13 days. Read more India’s Covid fight so far is marked by hits and missesPrime Minister, Narendra Modi, on Tuesday, announced the lockdown that was to end at Tuesday midnight would be extended till May 3. The 21-day lockdown that was to end Tuesday, saw a 20-fold increase in Covid-19 cases, pushing the Centre and the states to move to a strategy of containment , even as people showed exemplary resolve to stay indoors. Read more CBSE awaits guidelines for clarity on examsThe Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) is hoping guidelines the union government will release on Wednesday will provide some clarity on conducting the remaining Class 12 board examinations and on evaluating Class 12 and Class 10 papers, even as it prepares for the worst case scenario of not being able to hold the exams at all. Read more IMF says India to grow at 1.9% in 2020; world -3%The International Monetary Fund (IMF) on Tuesday slashed its FY21 growth projection for India to 1.9% from 5.8% projected in January, holding that the ‘Great Lockdown’ to combat the Covid-19 outbreak will throw the world economy into the worst recession since the Great Depression in 1930s. Read moreTour de France called off amid pandemic, no fresh dates setAfter weeks of holding out hope the Tour de France would be able to go ahead as planned despite the coronavirus pandemic, the world’s most famous cycling race was finally added to the list of sporting events called off. Read more IPL in suspension till further noticeThe 2020 Indian Premier League (IPL)—which was earlier put on hold due to the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic and the subsequent national lockdown—is set to remain suspended until further notice. Read more Could Ebola trial drug be answer to Covid-19? A new study has shown that the antiviral remdesivir, an experimental Ebola drug, may stop Sars-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19, from replicating, thereby rendering the virus harmless. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-locked-down-till-may-3-imf-makes-a-grim-projection-covid-19-news-today/story-kqcZCd0JNOgLcGtIqdPajK.html
15-04-2020||India||Meghalaya’s first Covid-19 patient could have got infected from asymptomatic son-in-law||Caught by surprise with the detection of the first Covid-19 positive case in the state on Monday, Meghalaya has launched an intensive drive to locate the ‘silent carrier’ who infected the patient.Nearly 2,000 primary and secondary contacts of the patient, a senior doctor with Bethany Hospital, a private hospital in Shillong, have been traced and samples have been collected from 90 of them for testing, almost half of the primary contacts. Results are expected later.Initial investigations suggest the doctor, who doesn’t have travel history outside the state, could have got infected from one of his relatives, more specifically, his son-in-law, who is a pilot with Air India and had returned from New York last month. The son-in-law was asymptomatic for Covid-19.“Preliminary investigation suggest that one of the relatives of the concerned person had a travel history to one of the infected countries and he was back in Shillong before the 14-day quarantine period was over,” Meghalaya Chief Minister Conrad Sangma said on Tuesday in a video shared on Facebook by his office.According to a letter written by the Meghalaya health department to the Union health ministry, the patient’s son-in-law travelled from New York to Delhi on March 16. He travelled from Delhi to Imphal on March 17 and returned to Delhi on March 20.On March 24 he travelled from Delhi to Shillong and was placed under home quarantine from March 24 to April 7 after registering with the state government. The letter adds that a surveillance team of the health department had visited him during the quarantine period.“Though the person took all precautions, sometimes we see asymptomatic cases as well, who don’t show any signs but could be a carrier. Therefore there is a high chance that it could have been passed on from there. We are looking at all possibilities of how this could have happened,” Sangma said.Meghalaya government has asked its Assam counterpart to support with the testing of the 2,000 contacts. The Shillong-based North Eastern Indira Gandhi Regional Institute of Health and Medical Sciences (NEIGRIHMS) is the lone Covid-19 testing lab in Meghalaya.“Our basic strategy would be to identify, isolate and test all contacts for the first few days till we are able to zero down and close the loop of transmission,” Sangma said in Shillong after a cabinet meeting.Both branches of the private hospital where the doctor worked have been shut and the staff placed under quarantine. The government has asked everyone who may have visited Bethany Hospital on or after March 22 to register themselves by calling 108 or getting in touch with the health department.Meghalaya’s capital Shillong has been placed under curfew for 48 hours beginning 6:00 am on Tuesday.Patient commits suicide at Bethany HospitalMeanwhile, a patient who was admitted to Bethany Hospital, the hospital where Meghalaya’s first Covid-19 patient works, committed suicide by jumping out of his room early on Tuesday—a day after the institution was sealed.“This case has nothing to do with coronavirus. This individual who committed suicide was a substance user (drug addict) and he was admitted for rehabilitation. He also had some psychiatric problems and in all likelihood, the suicide may be the result of withdrawal symptoms and psychiatric problems,” Meghalaya Chief Minister Conrad Sangma told journalists in Shillong.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meghalaya-s-first-covid-19-patient-could-have-got-infected-from-asymptomatic-son-in-law-an-air-india-pilot-who-returned-from-us/story-k4lSAEn8VGWIwt2JoeGozN.html
15-04-2020||India||MEA announces Covid-19 training programme for SAARC countries||The External Affairs Ministry on Tuesday announced rolling out of a training programme on management of coronavirus pandemic for healthcare professionals from SAARC countries from April 17.The training will be imparted by the ministry under its prestigious Indian Technical and Economic Cooperation (ITEC) programme.“Taking forward @PMOIndia’s vision on #PrepareNotPanic for #SAARCfightsCoronoa, @MEAIndia announces e-@ITECnetwork training programmes on #COVID19 for healthcare professionals for @SAARCsec countries starting April 17, 2020,” a tweet by ITEC network said.At an India-initiated video conference of SAARC leaders on March 15, Prime Minister Narendra Modi suggested that healthcare professionals of the SAARC nations could come together to jointly fight the coronavirus pandemic.India has already proposed setting up of a common electronic platform for all SAARC nations to share expertise and best practices to jointly combat the pandemic.India is initiating a series of measures to help the countries of the grouping to contain the pandemic in the region.The South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) is a grouping comprising Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, the Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka.All the SAARC member nations are reeling under adverse social and economic impact of the coronavirus pandemic. The trade officials of the SAARC countries last week broadly agreed to identify new ways to “sustain and expand” the intra-regional trade to offset the huge economic cost of the coronavirus pandemic.The meeting took place at India’s initiative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mea-announces-covid-19-training-programme-for-saarc-countries/story-eBFdtVLN5geSqyGi2Aw0EJ.html
15-04-2020||India||2 people who attended Jamaat event test positive in Haridwar||Two people who attended the event organised by Tablighi Jamaat tested positive for Covid-19 from Haridwar district in Uttarakhand on Tuesday evening, taking the toll of total cases to 37 in the state. Out of the 37 positive cases, 28 are Jamaat attendees.These two cases are being reported after five days of zero cases in Uttarakhand. This also takes the tally of postive cases in Haridwar to five, out of which four are Jamaat attendees and one who had come into contact with them.JC Pandey, public relations officer for Uttarakhand health department said, “Two Jamaat attendees tested positive for Covid-19 from Haridwar district, it is not known yet whether they attended the religious congregation in Delhi or some other place. We are trying to find out more information.”Meanwhile, two more people successfully recovered and were discharged from the hospital on Tuesday. So far, a total of nine people have been treated and discharged in the state.Since April 2, all Covid-19 positive cases reported from Uttarakhand have been related to Jamaat attendees who returned to the state after attending religious congregations in different parts of the country.On April 8, four people, including two Jamaat attendees and two closed contacts of them had tested positive for the disease from Haridwar and Nainital districts. On April 6, four Jamaat attendees from Dehradun and Almora had tested positive. The case from Almora was the first Covid-19 positive patient from the remote hilly regions of the state.On April 5, four Jamaat attendees had tested positive from Dehradun and Nainital. On April 4, six Jamaat attendees from Nainital and Haridwar had tested positive, while on April 3 also six Jamaat attendees from Dehradun and US Nagar had tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-people-who-attended-jamaat-event-test-positive-in-haridwar/story-0MlNnkTq8OYCM94rMm13rK.html
15-04-2020||India||As Covid-19 lockdown extends, airlines offer to reschedule tickets, no refund on cancelling||With the central government extending the lockdown to May 3 and the subsequent suspension of all commercial passenger services till then, domestic airlines have again decided not to refund customers in cash for their cancelled flights and instead offer them rescheduling of tickets for a later date without any additional fee.India had imposed a 21-day lockdown from March 25 to curb the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. Consequently, all domestic and international commercial passenger flights were suspended for this time period.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here However, most of the airlines had been taking bookings except national carrier Air India for domestic flights for the period beyond April 14.Aviation consultancy Centre for Asia Pacific Aviation (CAPA) India said the civil aviation ministry should instruct airlines to “halt unfair practice of taking advance bookings until resumption is certain and an interim transition schedule has been established”.After Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the extension of lockdown till May 3, aviation regulator DGCA issued a circular stating all international as well as domestic flights will remain suspended during the lockdown.“Following orders from the Ministry of Civil Aviation issued to all airlines, we have extended the suspension of our operations until May 3, 2020.Also read| ‘Need to review WHO’s role in mismanaging Covid-19 spread’: Trump halts funding“We are in the process of cancelling the affected bookings and we will offer customers free of charge rescheduling to another date until December 31, 2020,” a Vistara spokesperson said in a statement.The customer, however, will have to pay the fare difference, if any, at the time of rebooking, the airline said.A GoAir spokesperson said that it has already “factored in” these type of scenario and that the airline will review its earlier scheme of providing rescheduling free of cost at a later date while protecting their existing bookings for one year.“In accordance with the Prime Minister’s instructions and the DGCA’s circular, GoAir has suspended all its flights till May 3,” GoAir said in a statement on Tuesday. The airline also said it is extending its ‘Protect Your PNR’ scheme till May 3, 2020 wherein customers are eligible to reschedule their flight by May 3, 2021.The airline had on Monday announced that it was extending the “Protect Your PNR” scheme till April 30, 2020.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage The civil aviation ministry should instruct airlines to “halt unfair practice of taking advance bookings until resumption is certain and an interim transition schedule has been established”, the CAPA said in a series of tweets. With the lockdown extended till May 3, passengers who have purchased tickets for the April 15 to May 3 would “once again only be offered credit for future travel, rather than a refund,” it said.In case of train travel, the railway ministry has said there will be no advance bookings on trains until further notice. According to the consultancy, this continues to be unfair on consumers who have purchased a service that the airlines cannot deliver, albeit through no fault of their own. Some passengers may not have a need to travel in future during the validity of the credit and will lose their money, it noted.“Some carriers have opened full schedule for sale from 04-May. Even if flights resume from that date, which is not certain, it is highly unlikely that full operations will resume from day 1.Also read| Covid-19 cases rising exponentially, it’s critical to test more: ICMR“Further flight cancellations almost inevitable, resulting in more pax funds in credit,” it said in another tweet said. It may be mentioned here that the then customers of the erstwhile Kingfisher Airlines and Jet Airways could not recover their money which the two airlines had amassed on account of advance bookings only after their going belly up.CAPA in its March 18 report had stated that amid Covid-19 and in the absence of government support “several Indian airlines may shut down operations by May or June due to a lack of cash.” Within hours of the government extending lockdown to May 3, budget carrier IndiGo announced resumption of flight services though in a phased manner from May 4. Announcing that all its flights are cancelled till May 3, IndiGo said, it is in the process of cancelling the reservations.”Your ticket amount is protected in the form of credit shell in the PNR, which can be utilised within one year of the issued date.” “In its endeavour to reconnect critical air corridors post the lockdown, IndiGo, India’s leading airline, will resume flight operations from May 4, 2020,” IndiGo said in the statement.Gurugram-based spiceJet also said the amount from the cancelled ticket will be maintained in a credit shell.“We are cancelling the reservation of those who booked tickets for travel till May 3, 2020. Upon cancellation your entire amount will be maintained in credit shell and the same may be used for fresh bookings and travel till February 28, 2021, for the same passenger,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-covid-19-lockdown-extends-airlines-offer-to-reschedule-tickets-no-refund-on-cancelling/story-2lnmKYLeWsWyuNWXVQlIuJ.html
15-04-2020||India||Priest kills self after learning about lockdown extension||A 35-year-old man, who worked as a priest in suburban Kandivali, allegedly committed suicide on Tuesday afternoon, hours after learning that lockdown to contain coronavirus has been extended.The deceased was identified as Krishna Pujari, native of Udupi in Karnataka, who was attached to Durga Mata temple in Iraniwadi area of Sanjay Nagar.Pujari, who lived with three other priests, was waiting for the lockdown to end as he wanted to go back to his hometown, a police official said.When he learnt that the lockdown has been extended till May 3, he was terribly depressed and allegedly hanged himself in kitchen, the official added.No suicide note has been found, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priest-kills-self-after-learning-about-lockdown-extension/story-QMOzSoH3wQD4Q4qlSm26mL.html
15-04-2020||India||Covid-19 outbreak: NSA against lockdown violators||Police in Dehradun on Tuesday said they would book deliberate violaters of the lockdown imposed to check the spread of Covid-19 under the stringent National Security Act, which allows detention without trial for up to a year.Deputy inspector general (Dehradun) Arun Mohan Joshi said the decision to invoke the NSA was taken after police received reports that “some people are deliberately not following the precautionary measures”. He added there are some areas in the city, where people were still coming out of their homes without any reason despite several appeals. “Police will now take strict action against them by booking them under the NSA.”The Dehradun police said they will also book those under the NSA who are “deliberately not taking precautions like wearing masks and spitting to spread the infection and misbehaving with health workers” in the district. Dehradun has reported the highest number of Covid-19 cases —18 — in Uttarakhand. The state overall has 35 cases.Legal experts said the proposed move will amount to the misuse of the NSA as violaters can be booked under the Disaster Management Act and the Epidemic Diseases Act, which are in force to implement the lockdown.Kartikeya Hari Gupta, a senior Uttarakhand high court advocate, said, “If the police have decided to do so then they are clearly unaware of the law. When there are provisions in both the Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Diseases Act for the offenders, then what is the need to impose the stringent NSA?”He added the police can even book the offenders for culpable homicide or murder. “The police should understand that though this is a serious pandemic, they have to work as per the law.”Joshi said the police have decided to invoke the NSA as it is a stricter law than the Epidemic Diseases Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-outbreak-nsa-against-lockdown-violators/story-t7f4r5EwZhk8MHY8D59U2O.html
15-04-2020||India||Rajasthan bans all movement in 13 clusters as cases cross 1,000||Rajasthan reported 108 new Covid-19 disease cases on Tuesday, taking the state tally to 1,005. Of these, 67 were from Jaipur’s Ramganj — a densely populated locality in Japiur, which has emerged as a hot spot for the infectious disease. Ajitabh Sharma, the nodal officer for Ramganj, decided to further tighten restrictions by announcing zero-mobility in13 of the clusters.“We found that most of the cases are from 13 clusters with a population of about 70,000. We are locking these clusters down completely. We will take everything that they need to their doorstep,” said Sharma, who is principal secretary of the energy department. Out of the 969 total cases reported from Rajasthan till Tuesday, at least 346 are from Jaipur’s Ramganj, which has a  population of 260,000. According to Sharma, more than 20 medical teams have been constituted to collect samples from slum areas and colonies, which have reported cases. Earlier, the district  administration had divided the area into 30 clusters, where aggressive testing was carried out.State health minister Raghu Sharma said: “Our target was to test at least 2,000 people in 3 days to understand the situation in Ramganj. Now that we have the results, our strategy is to completely forbid movement.”Asked about the rising number of cases in Jaipur, he said: “Rise in number of cases in Jaipur is not a worry. We are testing more people so more people are testing positive. We decided to increase testing at least 5 times to see if the Ramganj containment zone had slipped into the community transmission stage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-bans-all-movement-in-13-clusters-as-cases-cross-1-000/story-Nrryv8DWYsSRHjlsUrSN9N.html
15-04-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||The nationwide lockdown in India will continue till May 3 although the government will release on Wednesday guidelines for a phased exit in certain parts of the country. The extension of the lockdown, announced on Tuesday by the Prime Minister, means that by May 3, India would have been in quarantine for 40 days.That’s long by any measure; it is longer for a country of 1.3 billion people and with a GDP of $2.5 trillion. Assuming that the economy’s productivity has fallen by 50% in this period, that means a loss of $137 billion in GDP. And assuming that it has fallen by 60% (a more plausible number), the loss works out to $164 billion. Some people think even a 60% calculation is far too conservative.Also read: New Covid-19 count hints Delhi close to turning a corner on Tablighi Jamaat casesThe losses won’t stop at that though, and will continue even after the lockdown, which will have a lingering effect on supply chains and productivity — and the real number is likely to be higher.Even as the Prime Minister announced the extension of the lockdown, Barclays put out a report predicting that the Indian economy will not grow in 2020 (calendar year). That’s actually a more optimistic prediction than the one put out by Nomura some time back which predicted that the economy could shrink by 0.5% this year (again, calendar year 2020). The most optimistic projection thus far is by the International Monetary Fund (IMF), which said, also on Tuesday, that India would grow at 1.9% in 2020 (faster than most countries, including China, which is expected to grow at 1.2%). IMF also expects India to grow by 7.4% in 2021.The IMF number seems implausible in the current context with India in recession territory. The only question that needs answering concerns the extent of recession, and how soon India can exit it. Which is why it is important that India announces a comprehensive fiscal package — for individuals and businesses.Also Read: Could Ebola trial drug be answer to Covid-19?Which is also why businesses, especially, will be watching the guidelines that the Prime Minister said would be issued tomorrow on a phased exit (this writer’s term, not the PM’s) from the lockdown in parts of the country. An analysis of Covid-19 infections by district showed that 50% of the infections were concentrated in just 20 of India’s 736 districts, with 382 districts not reporting any case at all till April 11. There’s been talk in government circles of dividing the country into zones based on infections, and allowing the resumption of business activity, conditionally, and with adequate precautions (mandatory social distancing, for instance) in areas where there are no infections. The Prime Minister did seem to suggest that this could happen from April 20 in some parts of the country, but only the guidelines will make this clear.The 40-day number is interesting for another reason.On April 1, HT reported a model by researchers at Cambridge University looking at various possible lockdown combinations. It found that the most effective was a straight 49-day lockdown, or a 21-five-28-five-18-day combination (a five-day break each time between a 21-day, a 28-day and an 18-day lockdown). In both cases, the rate of infection decreased. This, also called flattening the curve, is the aim of all lockdowns.This buys time for countries to strengthen their health infrastructure, and for scientists and researchers to work on possible cures. A paper published on Monday by scientists at the University of Alberta, Canada, highlights one such candidate — remdesivir. This is a drug that was developed in 2014 to fight Ebola (it failed). In February, the scientists at the same university showed that it worked on the virus that causes Middle East Respiratory Syndrome, or Mers. The paper published on Monday claims it also works on Sars-CoV-2, the virus which causes Covid-19. According to the paper, remdesivir prevents the virus from replicating. This is the process by which the viral DNA or RNA mixes with the host cell’s own genetic material and pushes it to replicate the viral genome. Preventing a virus from replicating pretty much stops it in its tracks. The drug remdesivir, made by Gilead Sciences, is an experimental drug and has not been cleared for use anywhere in the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-CrJ9Pdab49Lfl4d7lmnCyH.html
15-04-2020||India||Delhi govt gears up for second act||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Tuesday that his government will implement the extended Covid-19 lockdown in full and officials in his administration ruled out any restrictions being eased before May 3 unless the Centre specifically wants them to be relaxed.Welcoming Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s decision to extend the lockdown until May 3, Kejriwal asked residents of Delhi to strictly follow the restrictions in the city where the Sars-CoV-2 virus has infected 1,561 people and claimed 30 lives, until the battle against the disease goes on. Thirty people have so far been cured of the disease “Delhi will fully implement PM’s lockdown measures,” Kejriwal wrote on the microblogging site Twitter. Modi said in a televised address on Tuesday that the nationwide three-week lockdown, which was to end on Tuesday, would remain in force until May 3. He said the Centre may relax restrictions in some geographies after April 20 depending on the effectiveness with which the lockdown is enforced and new Covid-19 cases are stanched. Guidelines on the possible relaxations will be released on Wednesday.Senior officials in the Delhi government said the ongoing restrictions will continue, and no relaxation will be allowed on the movement of people and private vehicles, except for those engaged in the essential services.“We are waiting for the detailed guidelines to come from the central government. If they ask us to relax certain sectors, we would. But, on our own, we have no plans as of now because of the increasing Covid-19 cases in the city,” said an official, who did not want to be named.On Monday, the national capital had seen the highest spike (356 cases) in infections on a single day. The number of containment zones in Delhi on Tuesday increased from 47 to 55, the district administration said it had been instructed to follow containment and lockdown measures stringently, and consider lifting the restrictions gradually only if the number of positive Covid-29 cases in an area comes down to zero. “Relaxations in a containment zone or a hotspot and the areas surrounding it (buffer zones) will be allowed only if there is no new case reported in there for at least 14 consecutive days,” said a senior official in the health department on condition of anonymity. According to the Prime Minister, the authorities will keep a close watch on how strictly the lockdown guidelines are followed over the days running up to April 20. Areas that score satisfactorily in the assessment are expected to get a breather, with limited activities being allowed to benefit daily-wage workers.But a breather from the restrictions will be offered only if officials are satisfied that an area has eliminated the threat of Covid-19 to a large extent. If a case surfaces or resurfaces, the relaxations will be rolled back.An official in the chief minister’s office said some relaxations could be given to offices, industries, factories and stores after April 20, but that too will depend on Delhi’s Covid-19 curve..“One proposal is that offices and factories of some sectors, as specified by the Central government, will be allowed to operate but only with about 50% workforce or so. For factories which require daily wage workers and labourers, it is being considered that the owners be asked to arrange for their overnight stay within the premises or somewhere else. Staggered workforce and work times will be the key,” the official said. “If it continues to spike like it did yesterday (Monday), the restrictions will be stricter. This means the lockdown will be enforced very strictly. Not just the containment zones, but also in the neighbouring areas of these zones,” the official said, requesting anonymity.To curb the spread of the coronavirus in neighbourhoods, district magistrates across the city on Tuesday began forming “Corona Foot Warriors Containment and Surveillance Teams” in the areas under their jurisdiction. A total of 13,742 teams will be deployed across the city and each team will be led by a Booth Level Officer (BLO). “By tomorrow, all districts are expected to be ready with their teams,” said an official in the chief secretary’s office. These teams will have to do field inspections to ensure compliance with the lockdown rules, conduct foot patrols to cover every household to identify suspected Coivid-19 cases, ensure their secure transport to hospitals,and keep health workers in the loop.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-govt-gears-up-for-second-act/story-k6YJ5FB7mFTqLCdOhkWbPI.html
15-04-2020||India||Migrant woes spill on streets again as workers throng in Mumbai, Surat||Hundreds of migrant workers gathered at Bandra station in Mumbai on Tuesday, demanding they be taken back to their hometowns in an incident that dealt a major setback to social distancing efforts and highlighting the anxiety among some of the most vulnerable socio-economic classes.The protest took place hours after the Prime Minister announced that the countrywide lockdown in place to contain the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) will be extended to May 3, a virtual repeat of scenes that took place in several parts of the country late last month when the shutdown was first announced.A similar protest was held in Gujarat’s Surat on Tuesday, when hundreds of migrant workers sat on a street protest demanding to be allowed to go back home.In Delhi, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal appealed to migrant workers not to believe rumours that arrangements were being made to ferry them to their home locations, assuring them in a video message that arrangements for their food and shelter were being made. “Don’t fall prey to rumours about bus arrangements,” he said. Police and the district administration officials stepped up vigil to avoid a Mumbai-like situation.The lockdown halted economic activity, with factories and construction work stopped across the country and migrant workers – including many who work as daily wage earners – not being paid despite appeals by ministers to employers to not withhold salaries.Mumbai has the highest number of Covid-19 infections in the state, with 1,756 confirmed casestill Tuesday. The state, with 2,684, has the highest numbers in the country.“It is the result of the manner in which the lockdown has been extended. People who were stuck in Mumbai were expecting that lockdown will end and they will be allowed to go home but they were disappointed with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address today. Their anger burst out on streets of Bandra,” said Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh.Some of the workers at the train station in Mumbai on Tuesday were lathi-charged by police, who were caught by surprise at the sudden gathering. State tourism minister and senior leader of the ruling Shiv Sena, Aaditya Thackeray, blamed the Union government for the protest by the migrant workers and sought a road map to facilitate their journey back to their native places. “They don’t want food or shelter, they want to go back home,” Thackeray said, adding that the feedback from all migrant labour camps is similar — “that these workers want to go back”.The railways ministry tweeted late on Tuesday: It is clarified that all Passenger train services are fully cancelled, across the nation, till 3rd May 2020 and there is no plan to run any special train to clear the passenger rush.”Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray in a live webcast later in the day said that he will not let the migrant problem “go out of control” and warned that his government will not allow anybody to play with the sentiments of the poor. Thackeray said he also spoke to Union home minister Amit Shah on Tuesday and that all political leaders, including coalition partners Nationalist Congress Party and Congress were on the same page over the need to tackle the Covid-19 outbreak. The state unit of the BJP called the incident the consequence of an intelligence failure.According to a police official, the number of migrants who gathered was at least 1,000 and they were dispersed after two hours. Many of these people come from states such as West Bengal, Bihar, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh. Farooq Shaikh, a daily wage worker who stays at Behrampada in Bandra (East), said, “I am from Malda in West Bengal. We heard that government was running a special train from Mumbai. So we packed our luggage to leave the city as we have lost our jobs.” Zahid Mistri, also from Malda and who lives in Bandra, said, “We are out of food and now the lockdown has been extended. How will we survive here in Mumbai? We came to know about a special train running for migrants, so we gathered.” Trade representatives said the migrant workers were under pressure for their livelihood. Trade Unions Joint Action Committee Maharashtra convener Vishwas Utagi said there are over two million migrants stuck in Mumbai since the March 25 lockdown, besides 3,000 fishermen stranded at Gholvad in south Gujarat, according to news agency IANS. “They have no food, no work, no homes, no transport to go home. How can they survive?” the report quoted Utagi as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrant-woes-spill-on-streets-again-as-workers-throng-in-mumbai-surat/story-yTHKwt44Qi08gduECutITK.html
15-04-2020||India||India to stay locked down till May 3||Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced in an address to the nation on Monday that the ongoing 21-day national lockdown will now be extended for another 19 days until May 3, a move that experts said would flatten as well as delay the cycle of infections, although both the opposition and industry criticised his speech for its silence on a much-needed economic relief package. Modi emphasised that while India had done better than most other countries in the battle against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), it still needs citizens to make more sacrifices to win the fight against the pandemic.Acknowledging that this entailed economic costs, the PM said the priority was to save lives of Indian citizens. He did offer some hope of a phased exit, at least in some areas. If states, districts, even local sub-regions down to the police station level, till April 20, were able to enforce the lockdown strictly, and prevent the emergence of new hot spots, based on a careful review, relaxations will be introduced to resume a set of “necessary activities” in these specific geographies, Modi said. Government officials have spoke of a plan to categorise India into zones depending on the intensity and the spread of infections, and opening up unaffected areas. Addressing the nation — in his fifth speech on the coronavirus pandemic in less than a month — the PM underlined that India‘s quick and strong response to the crisis helped it cope better and defended the lockdown, for the situation would otherwise have been “unimaginable”. He offered a review of India’s efforts so far and claimed that the health infrastructure was being ramped up and measures undertaken to minimise inconvenience to citizens;said that relief to the poor and daily wage workers was topmost in his list of priorities; and made seven specific appeals to citizens. The Opposition, while broadly supportive of the extension of the lockdown, was critical of what it saw as the PM’s silence on economic relief to both industry and labour, and measures to address hunger and distress. Experts too underlined that while the lockdown will give India more time to deal with the disease, the government should have offered more specific measures to different sectors. And industry bodies expressed their disappointment at the lack of any specific relief measures for business, or even hints of those in the offing. Ramanan Laxminarayan, director at the Center for Disease Dynamics, Economics & Policy, and a senior research scholar at Princeton University, said that the government had clearly prioritised health. “This additional lockdown will push the epidemic curve out quite far. Our options in terms of treatment options may be quite different then. Our understanding of the disease is improving each day and our ability to respond would be better if we have more time to prepare.”But others were concerned about the absence of specifics in the PM’s speech. Yamini Aiyar, president and chief executive of the Centre for Policy Research, said that apart from mentioning that the guidelines (for possible relaxations after April 20) would be announced on Wednesday, the speech did not offer clarity on what the next 19 days will be used for — in terms of enhancing health service preparedness, testing strategy and crucially, hunger and starvation.“For the next 19 days we need greater transparency on government action, including on testing, clear communication (especially for graded opening up), better centre-state coordination and crucially an economic package that instils confidence.”“It is expected that close to 40 million jobs are at risk during the period April-September 2020. Hence, an urgent relief package is also critical,” Sangita Reddy, president of the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (Ficci), said on Tuesday on the impact of the lockdown. The PM began his speech by first hailing the discipline and restraint shown by citizens during the lockdown, despite facing problems — from food to mobility to being away from families. This, he said, was an example of the collective power of “we the people of India”, enshrined in the Constitution. He then outlined how the world, including resourceful, developed countries was struggling with the pandemic and while comparisons were not appropriate, many countries which were at the same level as India sometime back, have seen a spike of cases, with 25 to 30 times more than the cases in India. “Long before we had even a single case of Corona, India started screening travellers coming in from corona-affected countries at airports. Before the number of patients reached 100, India made 14-day isolation mandatory for all those coming in from abroad. Malls, clubs and gyms were shut down in many places. When we had only 550 Corona cases, then itself, India had taken the big step of a 21-day complete lockdown,” the PM said.India, he said, did not wait for the problem to aggravate but decided to tackle it early. If these decisions had not been taken, and lockdown and social distancing not been enforced, then, the PM said, he shuddered to think what the situation would have been.His remarks on India’s preparations and decisions come in the wake of criticism of the government that it responded late to the crisis.The PM then spoke of the role of states and local self-government units — which had all been exercising utmost responsibility in this battle. He said he had been in continuous touch with the states; they had all recommended the extension of the lockdown; and some had already done so. “Keeping all the suggestions in mind, it has been decided that the lockdown in India will have to be extended till May 3. During this time, we must continue to maintain discipline in the way we have been doing till now.”Outlining the next challenge, the PM said it was crucial that the virus did not spread to new areas — and a single new case, or a single death, should be of highest concern. To do so, the PM said it was important to be vigilant about existing hot spots (a reference to zones which has seen as clusters of cases), ensure strict monitoring and lockdown in areas which could potentially become hot spots, and prevent the emergence of any new hot spots. This would be done for a week, till April 20.“Until April 20, every town, every police station, every district, every state will be evaluated on how much the lockdown is being followed. The extent to which the region has protected itself from coronavirus will be noted. Areas that will succeed in this litmus test, which will not be in the hot spot category, and are likely not to turn into a hot spot may be allowed to open up select necessary activities.” But this relaxation, the PM emphasised, was strictly conditional. The rules to go out would remain strict; permission would be withdrawn immediately if lockdown rules were violated or cases spread. A detailed guideline on these possible relaxations, in these specific areas, after April 20, will be put out by the government on Wednesday.The PM underlined these exemptions were being prepared with an eye on the poor and daily wage workers, who had suffered through major difficulties. He also acknowledged the concerns of farmers and said that with the rabi harvest around the corner, the Centre and states were working together to minimise the inconvenience for them. He assured citizens that there were adequate supplies of essentials — in perhaps an effort to ensure that there was no panic buying. While the government has faced criticism for the failure to ramp up the health infrastructure, the PM underlined that this had indeed been done — and offered statistics. From one lab to test Covid-19 patients in January, the country now had 220 testing labs; while global experience showed that for every 10,000 patients, about 1,500-1,600 beds were required, India already had 100,000 beds; there are also 600 hospitals dedicated to Covid-19 patients. Towards the end of the speech, the PM turned back to citizens with seven specific appeals. This included first, taking care of the elderly, especially those with co-morbidities; second, adhering to the lockdown and wearing home-made masks; third, enhancing immunity by following guidelines put forth by the Ayush ministry; fourth, downloading the Aarogya Setu app (which helps track health details of individuals and their possible contact with positive cases); fifth, taking care of poor families; sixth, remaining compassionate towards those who worked in one’s industry and not terminating their services in these times (at a time when companies have been reported to laying off staff), and finally, respecting frontline workers. The Opposition’s response was mixed.Senior Congress leader and former finance minister P Chidambaram said the party understood the compulsions of extending the lockdown and supported it. “But beyond the lockdown, what was ‘new’ in PM’s new year message? It is obvious that livelihood for the poor — their survival — is not among the priorities of the government. CMs’ demand for money elicited no response. Not a rupee has been added to the miserly package of March 25, 2020.” He claimed that the poor had been left to fend for themselves for 21+19 days, including practically soliciting food. “There is money, there is food, but the government will not release either money or food.”Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati said the party supports the extension of the lockdown “but the government must keep in mind the interests of the poor, labourers, farmers and other working class, and provide aid to them during the lockdown period.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-stay-locked-down-till-may-3/story-2Xgk1mxQDSopZTQrpzt1SM.html
15-04-2020||India||Congress MLA who met Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani tests coronavirus positive||A local Congress MLA, who attended a meeting called by Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani on Tuesday morning, tested positive for coronavirus in the evening, said a civic official.Congress MLA Imran Khedawala tested positive for coronavirus on Tuesday evening, said Deputy Municipal Commissioner Om Prakash Machra.The MLA from the Khadia-Jamalpur seat of Ahmedabad will be admitted to a designated Covid-19 hospital soon, he said.Khedawala, along with some other Congress MLAs, was present in the meeting with Rupani held at the CM’s official residence in Gandhinagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-mla-who-met-gujarat-cm-vijay-rupani-tests-coronavirus-positive/story-oSbHMUku0s2VAeAGOfpeJI.html
15-04-2020||India||Aarogya Setu has 50 million users in 13 days, beats ‘Pokémon GO’ record||India’s coronavirus disease (Covid-19) contact-tracing app Aarogya Setu (health bridge) became the world’s fastest growing mobile app on Tuesday night with 50 million users in 13 days. Of these, 11 million were in a single day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi urged people to download the application in his third televised address to the nation, according to the Niti Aayog team lead.With 99% downloads on Android, Aarogya Setu overtook Nintendo’s popular augmented reality game ‘Pokémon GO’s’ record of 50 million downloads on Google Play in 19 days in 2016.The downloads surged from 39 million to a peak of 100,000 per minute on Tuesday morning following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s 10 am address.By midnight, 50 million people had downloaded the mobile app launched on April 2 to alert users who are at risk of exposure to Covid-19 infection over the past two weeks.“We expected to touch 50 million users by April 15, but reached it a day before. There were 11 million downloads on Tuesday, which is the sharpest single-day surge in installations since the app was launched. PM Modi’s announcement led to a spike that peaked at 100,000 registrations per minute in the afternoon, at around 20,000 downloads per minute on average over the rest of the day,” said Arnab Kumar, programme director of frontier technologies, Niti Aayog. He is part of the team that developed the app.Apart from reaching out and informing users about their potential risk of infection, this “privacy-first by design” app also shares safe behaviours and updated medical advisories about Covid-19 containment in 11 languages.Singapore has a similar mobile app called TraceTogether for contact tracing. It was launched three weeks ago, and Google and Apple are collaborating to launch a similar contact-tracing initiative.All these apps convert personal and location data into a random anonymous device identification that is saved for two weeks in your phone and the phones of other users within bluetooth range. That usually comes to around 10 metres for most smartphones.The data is uploaded on the server and shared with health authorities only when either the user tests positive or is at high risk of infection. It then alerts all other users in the contact chain.How it works is fairly simple.“Imagine someone, say Person A, leaves by train to work and then comes back home again. All is well. The next day this person reports symptoms and requires a test, which turns out to be positive, then there is an instant signal which goes to all those people who were close to that person during commuting, at work or at home. And the people who were a little far away are warned,” said Dr K VijayRaghavan, principal scientific adviser to the central government.This is important because one should not only consider those who are showing symptoms.“If we do nothing, then this is what happens. A person who is asymptomatic but positive becomes symptomatic, infects other people who also later on become symptomatic and the epidemic spreads. Now if you quarantine everyone who has symptoms and nothing else, then you will be quarantining only some of the suspects. There will always be the asymptomatic people who will still be spreading the disease. You don’t know who they are and it’s not possible to test the entire population,” he said.“You need to have a way of focusing as this asymptomatic person travels over various distances, over time. We need to find out who all were close to that person and warn the others after the person is identified as positive. This is what Aarogya Setu also does. It will find the symptomatic person and also identify all the asymptomatic people around them in the past few days and advise them too,” said Dr VijayRaghavan.“Aarogya Setu gives each user a unique anonymous device identification on registration. The linking of the device identification to a mobile number is a one-time process and is then encrypted and secured in a server,” said Kumar.All future interactions from device to server are done through encrypted device identification detail and no personal information is exchanged after the one-time registration.When a user comes in proximity of another registered mobile, the app stores an encrypted signature of this interaction on both phones. This information is not pushed on to the server unless the user is a suspect case and considered at risk, either from having come in contact with someone who was later diagnosed as a Covid-19 case, or if the user’s self-assessment categorises him or her at risk of infection.Kumar insisted that the personal and location data is only used for providing the Covid-19-related information and medical services necessary to stop further spread of the infection.“Protecting personal information is a priority and the app never reveals the personal identity of anyone, including the identity of the Covid-19 patients. Your data is not going to be used for any other purpose. All security and vulnerability aspects were reviewed by teams from IIT-Madras and a global tech-audit firm,” said Kumar.The information of all unique interactions is stored only for 30 days on the device, after which all data is deleted. The data for non-risk users is deleted from the server in 45 days, and for at-risk patients, it is wiped in 60 days.If a user tests positive for Covid-19, the location data is used only to map the places he or she visited over the past 14 days to identify potential hotspots where infection outbreaks are likely to occur and quickly sanitise them and ramp up contact-tracing and testing.Several countries are using location data for contract tracing.China used QR codes and GPS from mobiles and the social network app Baidu to track movement, while Korea have used security camera footage, credit card records, and GPS data from cars and cellphones for contact tracing. Israel has tracked mobile phones of confirmed or suspected cases, while Austria and Belgium are using anonymised data from telecom operators for contact-tracing and monitoring those quarantined.The mobile app is designed for scalability and has the architecture to support e-pass, suraksha stores and telemedicine. “It’s a building block model for a holistic health stack that can integrate all health data and healthcare delivery services in one app,” said Kumar.The Aarogya Setu app is available for both Android and iOS users, and will be available on KaiOS soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aarogya-setu-has-50-million-users-in-13-days-beats-pokemon-go-record/story-4Q25vLRuezSuzPA8jboLEL.html
15-04-2020||India||Coronavirus lockdown phase-1 ends, phase-2 begins: Summary of India’s fight against Covid-19||The last day of the first phase of 21-day-long national lockdown proved to be a significant landmark for India’s coronavirus containment efforts with the single largest growth in positive cases registered within a day amid a glimmer of hope from states like Goa and Kerala where active Covid-19 cases remained less than the number of recoveries. Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday also reported more recoveries than positive cases.The contrasting nature of the developments was aptly summed up in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address to the nation which, while recognising the important role played by the three-week-long national lockdown in preventing the contagious disease from exploding in India-- like it has done in the west—also underlined its insufficiency in ensuring a decisive victory against the pandemic, making the prime minister order the second phase of 19-day-long national lockdown.In nutshell, the day was marked with assessments that the gains made so far by making hard choices could easily be frittered away by any complacent view favouring relaxation for an immediate resumption in economic activities, when the world was being served a grim reminder with nearly two million infections and almost 125,000 fatalities.The total number of infections in India stood at 10,815 and the death toll was at 353, as per the latest health ministry data. Prime Minister Modi made it clear that India was not out of the woods yet for anyone to hope for business as usual, which he said could only be allowed to resume post April 20, that too in a graded manner after establishing beyond doubt that it did not pose the threat of a rise in Covid-19 infections.The prime minister acknowledged the huge economic cost and suffering to people due to the lockdown but reminded all that it was still the right path if the country hoped to avoid the horror seen unfolding in many countries.Soon after PM’s address, a crisis built up in Mumbai when about a thousand-strong crowd of migrant labourers gathered at a bus stop near Bandra railway station demanding the resumption of transport services to take them to their respective home states. It was controlled with police action and political assurances to take care of their immediate needs till May 3.A similar build-up of migrant workers eager to return home was also seen in Thane district and in Surat in Gujarat in a grim reminder of the dangers of letting the situation slip out of the hand.Prime Minister said that an extensive guideline governing the rules in the second phase of lockdown will be released tomorrow. It was followed by an official release by the home ministry announcing the continuation of the regulations that were enforced during the first phase.The extension of suspension of passenger train services and international and domestic commercial passenger flights till May 3 has already been announced.In his nearly 30-minute-long address, PM Modi asked people to follow the seven steps including taking care of the elderly, maintaining social distancing and helping the poor.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19PTI reported that Agriculture, fishing activities and pharma industries are likely to get relaxation from April 20 if there is no dramatic increase in the number of cases till then, while curbs in 370 districts affected by coronavirus out of the 725 districts will continue.Congress termed PM’s address as rhetoric and alleged that it was hollow on specifics. The party said there was no mention of a financial package or concrete steps to revive the economy.DMK President M K Stalin and Kerala finance minister and CPI-M leader Thomas Isaac seemed to echo the sentiment by asking the prime minister to offer concrete financial help to the states instead of just praise. For Coronavirus Live Updates||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-lockdown-phase-1-ends-phase-2-begins-summary-of-india-s-fight-against-covid-19/story-8T4ImD243kl3SmCSnWFliJ.html
15-04-2020||India||Industry bodies call on govt for stimulus of up to Rs 16 lakh crore||Industry bodies redoubled calls for a financial package of Rs 14 lakh crore to Rs 16 lakh crore to revive the economy even as they supported Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s decision to extend the 21-day lockdown that ended on Tuesday by 19 days to May 3. The Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (Ficci) on Tuesday estimated the magnitude of daily losses arising from the national slowdown at Rs 40,000 crore . “It is also expected that close to 40 million jobs are at risk during the period April-September 2020. Hence, an urgent relief package is also critical,” Ficci president Sangita Reddy said.In his speech on Tuesday morning announcing the extension, Modi also asked companies not to retrench people. “Show empathy to people working in your business,” he said. But roiled by the lockdown, which has bought economic activity to a standstill, Indian industry is looking for an economic package from the government -- akin to the one announced by the US, around 10% of that country’s gross domestic product (GDP), in the form of assistance to individuals, companies, and states. “The economy needs a stimulus package of at least about Rs 14 lakh crore , including around Rs 2.20 lakh crore fertiliser dues, payments from public sector companies, and tax and other refunds,” Niranjan Hiranandani, president, Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India (Assocham), said. DK Aggarwal, president of the PHD Chambers of Commerce and Industry, demanded “an increased stimulus relief package of Rs 16 lakh crore”.The other element of the package should be focused on creating demand, which is going to be a major challenge for the industry when the economy reopens, Hiranandani said. “Cut GST [Goods and Services Tax] rates by 50% for six months to boost demand. This will cost (the government) Rs 3 lakh crore.” Demand can also be created by paying another Rs 80,000 crore through a direct cash transfer to farmers. “Pay them each about Rs 5,000 additional cash,” he said. Micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) are on the verge of closure due to liquidity crunch and other issues, he added. “They need about Rs 2.80 lakh crore in terms of low cost credit and other incentives.”Other sectors are also hurting. Exporters, particularly small units, are on the verge of closure, said Sharad Kumar Saraf, president, the Federation of Indian Export Organisations (FIEO). They have no money to pay wages this month, he added, disappointed at the extension of the lockdown.“The shifting of the goalpost will not help in avoiding the stark realities which we have to face whenever we open,” Saraf said, listing issues such as unavailability of labour and raw material and poor logistics. Industry is also keen that at least some sectors are opened up for business. “Of course, there is an impact on the economy. It will take longer to get the wheels turning. But I feel more comfortable to put this behind us rather than face a shutdown again later. I think that the farm sector should open as soon as possible,” Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) president Vikram Kirloskar said.Ahead of Tuesday’s address by the Prime Minister, the expectation was that the lockdown would be lifted in phases -- in parts of the country where no infections were being seen -- and with some companies being allowed to operate factories with a fraction of their staff. Modi did hint at a staggered exit, but details on this are awaited. Ficci’s Reddy said that supplies of some essentials have started getting impacted. “The Prime Minister’s directions on graded opening will help start some production activity to ensure that as soon as lockdown opens, there are no shortages faced,” she said.CII director general Chandrajit Banerjee seconded her and said Modi’s guidance on a calibrated exit from April 20 will give crucial time for the industry to plan better. He, however, hoped that “support measures will be announced for industry, especially MSMEs, to tide over this crisis”.The deferment of the selective opening of industry, particularly exports, is “disappointing”, FIEO’s Saraf said. “Non-adherence to the delivery schedule for exports will result in cancellation, penalties and market loss, besides the business loss to enterprises.” Industry, however, endorsed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s cautious approach, giving preference to saving lives. “The incubation period of the virus is 15-20 days. A 40-day lockdown is safeguarding us for two cycles of the virus and gives us a chance to consolidate the considerable gains of the first lockdown,” Reddy said.Two persons in the government with direct knowledge of the thinking on an economic package described the situation as evolving. The government is conscious of the condition of the economy and wants to revive it expeditiously, but the first priority is saving lives, one of them said on condition of anonymity. “The government has already given a Rs 1.7 lakh crore package on March 26. The next is expected sooner than later. But, priority is direct protection of vulnerable section of society, informal sector and MSME,” this person added. “It is not an easy task. How do you decide a right package? The size of the package will be understood only after exact requirement is assessed. It is a work in progress,” the second official said, asking not to be identified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/industry-bodies-call-on-govt-for-stimulus-of-up-to-16l-cr/story-mutDjrtsslcYkmMCeNc6BO.html
15-04-2020||India||Passenger trains and flights to remain suspended till May 3||New Delhi: Passenger trains, and domestic and international flights will not operate in India till May 3, following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement that the three-week long national lockdown that ended Tuesday midnight will be extended by another 19 days. The government has allowed the movement of both cargo flights and freight trains during the lockdown period in a bid to keep supplies of essential commodities running. “There were good reasons for the lockdown to be extended till May 3. We can consider lifting restrictions on both domestic and international flights thereafter. I understand the problems being faced by people who need to travel and request them to bear with us,” union civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri said. Metro rail services too will remain suspended till May 3, the government announced. “In continuation of the measures taken in the wake of Covid-19 lockdown, it has been decided that all passenger train services on Indian Railways including premium trains, mail/express trains, passenger trains, suburban trains, Kolkata Metro Rail, Konkan Railway etc shall continue to remain cancelled till the 2400hrs of May 3, 2020. To ensure the essential supplies in various parts of the country, movement of goods and parcel trains will remain continue,” the ministry of railways said Tuesday. Air cargo services will also continue. With Indian Railways taking bookings from April 15, it is now staring at the prospect of refunding 3.9 million tickets booked for journeys during this period. It wasn’t immediately clear why it did so. Perhaps in an attempt to avoid a repeat, Indian Railways has now also cancelled advance ticket bookings. “No booking of any type of tickets, including E tickets shall be done till further advice. However, facility of online cancellation will remain functional for ticket bookings. Full refund will be given for tickets for the bookings made for the trains cancelled. Full refund will also be there for those cancelling the advance bookings of tickets for trains not yet cancelled,” the ministry added. HT reported on April 11 that the suspension of commercial flights and railway travel may be extended till the end of the month. “All domestic and international scheduled airlines’ operations shall remain suspended till 11.59pm of 3rd May 2020,” the civil aviation ministry said. India is also not allowing flights to rescue stranded Indian citizens abroad.While both the civil aviation ministry and the railway ministry have prepared plans on enabling movement once the travel restrictions are lifted, officials aware of the developments had said the government is likely to resume transport only after reviewing the number of cases after 15 days. Speaking at an industry seminar, former chairman of the railway board and Air India Ashwani Lohani said, “Airlines will have to relook at their ticket pricing model as social distancing will make it harder to generate revenue.” Once restrictions are lifted, the national carrier is planning to ensure strict social distancing norms in trains, which includes mandatory thermal screening and no allotment of the middle berth in the sleeper class. Airlines have also prepared a plan for probable opening of commercial flight operations once the lockdown is lifted. Reporting time for passengers to the airport should be increased up to 120 minutes, so that passengers may smoothly pass through all the channels like access control, random screening, check-in, immigration (in case of international passengers) by maintaining appropriate distance, according to the plan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/passenger-trainsand-flights-to-remain-suspended-till-may-3/story-AxU7clwvLWPdfiZrvR9bTN.html
15-04-2020||India||Convert crisis into opportunity, accelerate infra projects during lockdown: Gadkari||India should convert the Covid-19 crisis into an opportunity, accelerate infrastructure projects and win the war against the Coronavirus to achieve economic growth, union minister for road transport and MSMEs Nitin Gadkari said on Tuesday. “Indian industry should look at the current situation as a blessing in disguise and aim towards improving its export potential,” Gadkari said in a discussion with members of FICCI via video conference.The micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) minister also told industry officials to clear pending dues owed by them to units to ease distress in the sector and inject liquidity into the market.Ensuring liquidity in the market is key during the crisis and to ensure this, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has started settling all pending claims and arbitration, he said.The ministry has a definitive plan to clear all legitimate claims within three months, he said. “Time taken in reaching decisions should be kept at the minimum possible to avoid delays. For this purpose, I have requested all chairmen of such bodies to work till 7pm everyday instead of 5pm at present,” he added. Referring to the importance of liquidity in markets, he said his ministry is striving to increase credit guarantee for MSMEs to ₹5 lakh crore from ₹1 lakh crore at present, wherein 75% of advances granted by financial institutions are under the government’s credit guarantee scheme. MSMEs contribute 29% of the country’s GDP, Gadkari noted. “The government’s endeavour was to protect MSMEs from the coronavirus-induced crisis. We have decided to raise (turnover) limits for MSMEs. I would like to request you, major industries also have huge outstanding dues of MSMEs,” he said.“We were earlier considering framing a law entailing stringent rules regarding such payments. However, now is not the right time for this. We do not wish to go down that road. An order to this effect should hopefully be out in eight to 10 days, which will naturally enhance their coverage,” he added. Gadkari informed the industry that RBI has allowed rescheduling of term loans and working capital facilities. He called on the industry sector to work in tandem with the government and banking sector. Construction of highways, which witnessed record growth during 2019-20, should increase pace by two to three times in the coming years to meet growing needs for infrastructure, Gadkari said. The ministry plans to go ahead with critical projects during the lockdown.“We have spoken to the Uttarakhand government for starting work on the Char Dham Expressway National Highway project. Necessary precautions of social distancing etc will be taken for the construction,” he said. To kick-start recovery for the road sector, the ministry is open to re-starting projects at different locations on the condition that adequate measures are put in place to prevent the spread of the Coronavirus, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/convert-crisis-into-opportunity-accelerate-infra-projects-during-lockdown-gadkari/story-8RTu6RlgVpxIB5AuhqsMJJ.html
15-04-2020||India||Longer lockdown period may help curb spread||India extended its ongoing 21-day lockdown to May 3 on Tuesday, and indicated that if the spread of Covid-19 was contained in the next week, relaxations could be in the offing.India first clamped the curbs on March 25, and the lockdown will now be 41-days long by the time the government is ready to lift it. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said the country needed more time to contain the disease.A similar prediction was made in a modelling study by two researchers at the University of Cambridge two weeks ago. The paper, based on mathematical modelling of disease and demographic data, suggested that one 21-day lockdown period was inadequate to reverse the rise in Covid-19 cases.The researchers found that while the 21-day lockdown led to an immediate decrease in the number of cases, the number rose after the curbs were lifted. A second scenario where a 28-day lockdown was imposed after five days of relaxations also showed that the number of infected people increased once the second set of restrictions were lifted.The researchers found that in two scenarios, the rate of new infections could be contained. The first was three consecutive lockdowns of 21 days, 28 days and 18 days with a difference of five days between them. The other was a single lockdown of 49 days.“The study highlighted the need to think of long-term containment strategies because our study showed that the rate of infection was steeper than the rate of recovery,” said Ronojoy Adhikari, one of the authors of the paper.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/longer-lockdown-period-may-help-curb-spread/story-QNYgUFDoU8CevRWumB4Z2L.html
15-04-2020||India||Pool testing to tightening of curbs, states draw plans for lockdown 2.0||Uttar Pradesh, India’s most populous state, will start pool testing of people for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Wednesday, strictly enforce the lockdown and will not allow any inter-district travel. Bihar will start door-to-door screening of residents. Telangana will begin doorstep delivery of essentials in Hyderabad, the state capital, to make sure residents stay indoors. Tamil Nadu intends to tighten restrictions on public movement. Those are the plans some state governments intend to implement over the next few days until April 20 when the Centre will assess the effectiveness with which the states have implemented the lockdown to decide on the resumption of “necessary activities” in some geographies.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi held out the hoper of a staggered exit in some areas in an address to the nation in which he announced an extension of the three-week lockdown, which was to end on Tuesday, until May 3. The relaxation in lockdown restrictions will be determined partly by the states’ effectiveness in preventing the emergence of new coronavirus hotpsots.Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled states such as Uttar Pradesh, Uttarkhand and Madhya Pradesh, and others such as Maharashtra said they will prepare their strategies after the Centre on Wednesday releases guidelines for the possible relaxation in restrictions after April 20.States across the country plan to divide their regions into red, yellow and green zones based on high, limited and no cases of Covid-19. Here are some state-specific strategies for the second phase of the lockdown.Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand In Uttar Pradesh, district administration officers and superintendents of police will strictly enforce the lockdown; no inter-district travel will be allowed until April 20. Pool testing of samples, which entails testing for the coronavirus in batches -- a method that can be used to do up to three times as many tests with the same number of kits -- will start from Wednesday. All migrant workers in quarantine will be screened for Covid-19 before they are allowed to leave. Harvesting of the rabi crop and transportation of foodgrains to the farm markets will continue.Uttarkhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat formed a task force to study the impact of Covid-19 on the state’s economy. He announced a waiver of late payment surcharge on farmers and relaxation in payment of power and water bills. Chhattisgarh and JharkhandChhattisgarh has formed a task force to suggest measures to manage the second phase of lockdown; it will announce its plans after the Centre makes public the guidelines for relaxation of lockdown measure. Of the 28 districts, the only active Covid-19 patients are in Korba district. The Jharkhand government announced immediate release of additional rations for all the needy in the state and resumption of works under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme.Maharashtra and GoaMaharashtra plans to deploy additional police forces around containment areas for controlling crowds, especially in crowded areas such as Dharavi and Worli Koliwada. The state government formed a task force of specialist doctors to suggest measures to reduce the death rate and for management of Covid-19 patients in Mumbai.A decision on allowing industrial activity and easing of lockdown norms will be made only after the Centre announces its guidelines, officials said.Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant vowed that the entire coastal state will be declared a green zone by April 17. Haryana and PunjabHaryana’s four Covid hotspots--- Nuh, Palwal, Gurugram and Faridabad -- fall in the National Capital Region (NCR). Eighty percent of the state’s active Covid-19 cases (114 out of total 143) have been reported from the four districts which are all in the red zone. The remaining districts fall in the green and yellow zones. Chief minister ML Khattar said industrial and economic activity will be started in a phased manner after April 14. Punjab will continue with a strict containment strategy and will come out with detailed guidelines after the Centre’s notification on Wednesday. Bihar: The Janata Dal (United)-BJP government will start door-to-door screening on Wednesday with plans to cover all villages where migrant workers have returned. Three villages — Panjwar, which accounts for 23 of the 29 cases, and Kadirabad and Murgiachak , have been declared red zones. Bihar will do block-wise mapping of the state with primary health care centres as nodal offices, said Sanjay Kumar Bihar’s principal secretary, health. Out of 38 districts, only 11 have Covid patients. Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir:Himachal has one red zone, four orange and one green zone and only five of the 12 districts have reported Covid-19 cases. There will be no relaxation of curfew until May 3, wearing of face masks will be mandatory and essential goods will be provided by the police and local administrations. Jammu and Kashmir’s administration will ease lockdown restrictions in line with the Centre’s directive while maintaining a strict vigil in the hotspots.Also read: India’s Covid fight so far is marked by hits and missesMadhya PradeshState authorities will completely seal 564 localities in 278 containment areas in 22 districts from where most Covid-19 cases have been reported. Those violating lockdown norms will be booked, said commissioner, health services, Faiz Ahmad Kidwai. Testing of migrant labourers will be expanded.Manual work under the rural job guarantee scheme has been allowed in districts not affected by the coronavirus disease, and workers given homemade face masks. A detailed plan will be decided after the Centre’s notification.Andhra Pradesh and TelanganaAndhra Pradesh CM YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, who has batted for an easing of the lockdown, said the state government will follow Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s decision. Minister for municipal administration Botsa Satyanarayana said directions have been issued to collectors and health department officials to ensure that the Covid-19 does not spread to new areas. The CM directed officials to identify all people who have been taken ill, for whatever the reason and irrespective of whether they had any symptoms of Covid-19 or not, during an ongoing family survey and shift suspected coronavirus patients to hospital. The Telagana government has decided to keep only one route open in containment zones and start home delivery of household supplies in Hyderabad. Any person suspected of carrying the virus will be hospitalised immediately, said KT Rama Rao, minister for municipal administration. Tamil Nadu: Tamil Nadu’s government has appointed 12 senior Indian Administrative Service and Indian Police Service officers at the zonal level to monitor and coordinate the management of containment zones across the state. The state has started to impose a fine of Rs 500 on those venturing out without face masks. TN has allowed the opening of bakeries for a few hours a day and eased restrictions on the movement of seafood. Government officials say restrictions on public movement will become tighter in the coming days. Northeast: Assam will wait till Centre’s guidelines on lockdown relaxations on Wednesday. Meghalaya has decided to track 2,000 contacts of the state’s first Covid patient. Tripura announced additional benefits for the poor. The northeast now has a total of 38 positive cases with Assam recording 30 of them; Manipur and Tripura have two cases each and Mizoram, Nagaland, Meghalaya and Arunachal Pradesh one each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pool-testing-to-tightening-of-curbs-states-draw-plans-for-lockdown-2-0/story-3IJRyhQ4PqZrAViE0Osf4O.html
15-04-2020||India||Stigma more traumatic than Covid-19: Telangana patient zero||It has been a month since Hyderabad-based software engineer Ram, Telangana’s first Covid-19 patient, was discharged from a hospital in Secunderabad after recovering from the disease, but his days in isolation continue to haunt him. He was alone in the hospital’s isolation ward located in a corner of the facility and did not see a single human face during his treatment. “Doctors who examined me twice daily were in protective gear and other paramedical staff, too, had their faces covered completely. I felt like I was in a different world,” said Ram on condition of withholding his surname. “It is not easy...especially when you are alone in the hospital room and nobody– neither your parents nor friends – can meet you for two weeks.”Ram, who tested positive on March 2, had just one visitor, Telangana health minister Etela Rajender, who came to meet him briefly on March 6. “He was very encouraging,” Ram said.Ram had high fever and pneumonia but he was more worried about his family. “My main worry was what if my family members had contracted the virus? I was especially concerned about my father, who is diabetic. But luckily they all tested negative. And the doctors gave me the confidence that since I am young and physically strong, I can easily get cured,” he said.Ram was given heavy doses of antibiotics as doctors advised him not to read too much about the disease. “Luckily for me, there was no television in my room nor were any newspapers. I was completely cut off from the rest of the world without knowing what is happening outside,” he said.Ram mostly slept for the first few days at the hospital because of heavy medication. “I had my mobile phone and an iPad. I spent most of the time reading books on Kindle. Twice a day, I used to make video calls to my parents and that gave me a lot of peace,” he said. Ram’s mother would also sent him home-cooked food.Ram was discharged on March 14 but advised home quarantine for another 14 days before his locality was declared a containment zone on April 10. “During this period, I realised how society can stigmatise you for no fault of yours. Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation had declared my colony as a containment zone though there were no other positive cases there. They told me it was because I had suffered from Covid-19, though I got cured a month ago. This social stigma is more traumatic than the disease.” Telangana has 246 containment zones, out of which 126 are in Greater Hyderabad. The city also has nearly half of the 472 Covid-19 cases in the state. There are over 25,000 people under home quarantined in the state as well.Ram also featured in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Mann Ki Baat radio address last month and the latter asked him how he contracted the virus. “I would like you to make an audio of your experience and share it on social media. It will remove fear from the people’s minds and at the same time make them aware of the necessary precautions to protect themselves,” Modi told him.Ram said he wanted the society not to stigmatise Covid-19 patients. “I felt relaxed [after talking to Modi] and have learnt to deal with such crisis situations,” he said.Ram is back to his routine now and working from home. “I went out to buy provisions from the supermarket nearby recently. Of course, nobody could recognise me, as I had a face mask on.”Ram is back to his routine now and working from home. “I went out to buy provisions from the supermarket nearby recently. Of course, nobody could recognise me, as I had a face mask on.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stigma-more-traumatic-than-covid-t-gana-patient-zero/story-6qy7oZjn1VHftAKMsa9ddL.html
15-04-2020||India||India’s Covid fight so far is marked by hits and misses||Prime Minister, Narendra Modi, on Tuesday, announced the lockdown that was to end at Tuesday midnight would be extended till May 3. The 21-day lockdown that was to end Tuesday, saw a 20-fold increase in Covid-19 cases, pushing the Centre and the states to move to a strategy of containment , even as people showed exemplary resolve to stay indoors. During this period, the virus spread from 85 districts to 368 of the total 718 districts in India; 1,300 containment zones with a large number of Covid cases were demarcated and completely sealed. No one is allowed to enter or exit the containment areas; essentials are home delivered; and every family in the region is screened; and municipal workers santise the zones twice a day. In some of these containment zones in Mumbai, Delhi, Rajasthan and Kerala, people have not moved out of their homes for more than 10 days,state government officials said. Some containment zones worked. Others did not. For instance, the attempt to replicate the Bhilwara model in Covid-19 hotspot of Jaipur did not work. State government officials say this is because the Ramganj are in Jaipur is much more congested than Bhilwara. The Mumbai containment zone plan was replicated in Pune and Nagpur but the authorities had to take a different approach in smaller and rural Sangli. And the much talked about Kerala model of massive testing and effective isolating those with Covid-19 like symptoms was replicated in a modified form, and with mixed success in Maharashtra.Most states ramped up Covid-19 testing, although not to the extent they should. The most aggressive tester is Delhi, which has tested 601 people per million. The worst is West Bengal, which has tested 24.2 people per misslion. The Indian average is 131.4 as on Monday. The US has tested 6693.1 per million population. Most governments have maintained that it is not possible to test all asymptomatic persons for Covid-19 and the first priority is testing those showing symptoms. And, that is the reason for around 80% of the tests being conducted in and around containment zones. Maharashtra has set up special fever clinics to test all symptomatic people within three kms of a containment zone, a reason for the state having conducted highest number of tests in India. One reason for the poor testing statistic in India is that there were few laboratories doing the testing when the lockdown started (53). That’s increased to 220 laboratories including the private ones. The rapid tests that give results within 45 minutes are expected to start later this week, provided the kits arrive from China. At the forefront of the Covid fight are millions of health workers, who started working in absence of adequate personal protective equipment in some states including Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh, although most states announced special insurance cover for them. If that was not enough, health workers have faced discrimination from people on roads and from neighbours, forcing the Home Ministry to issue a direction threatening strict action against the offenders. The biggest challenge that emerged during the 21-day period was the huge interstate migration of people, with hundreds of thousands of workers rushing back to their villages after business actvity came to a standstill. The rush started from March 26 . After two days of chaos (when all norms of social distancing were flouted) things were finally brought under some level of control; around 1.5 million workers are in 1.3 lakh government and NGO run shelter homes across India, where they have been provided food and also screened for Covid-19 symptoms. States such as Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, which witnessed high inflow of migrant workers, have converted the schools into quarantine homes for them.For some states, including Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu Haryana, Bihar, Rajasthan, and Jammu and Kashmir, the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin in mid-March turned out to be a big source of infections. Close to 25,000 people who attended the Jamaat were tracked within five days of sealing of the Jamaat office in Nizamuddin on April ; by then they had spread across India. Around 50% of the positive cases in UP have a Tablighi link, said UP additional chief secretary (Home) Awanish Awasthi. A senior officer in Bihar said the Jamaat contributed about 60% of the cases, while most of the other cases were of the migrant labourers. In Tamil Nadu, the officials said the spurt in cases happened after the testing of Jamaat attendees started. States have also taken action against 281 foreigners, who attended the Jamaat in violation of the visa rules, and 960 foreign attendees have been blacklisted by the home ministry.There were individuals also who contributed to the spread of Covid-19 too. A young man in Uttar Pradesh’s Basti district with no travel history died of Covid-19. He tested positive after death and turned out to be super spreader infecting 13 persons. A religious preacher in Punjab, who died, was another super spreading infecting 27 persons including his grandchild. A doctor of a private hospital in Bhilwara, who survived the disease, infected around 15 persons working in his nursing home. In Uttar Pradesh, Bollywood singer Kanika Kapoor tested Covid-19 positive and sent UP health and police departments into a tizzy. Political leaders of three states, who either attended parties where Kapoor was present or those who came in contact with attendees, went into quarantine. A Jamaat attendee and Kashmir based religious preacher infected as many as 12 persons before his death in Srinagar on March 26Except Sikkim, all states in India have Covid-19 cases. In Ladakh, 12 of the 17 infected persons and in Andaman and Nicobar Islands, 10 of 11 infected persons have recovered, according to state government health bulletins. Among the bigger states, Kerala has best recovery rate followed by Bihar, Odisha and Haryana. Only one person of the 66 infected in Bihar has died, which is lowest death rate among the densely populated states. However, the second phase of the lockdown will be important for states such as Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Delhi, Jammu and Kashmir, Karnataka, Telangana and Tamil Nadu, which have witnessed big spurt in new Covid-19 cases in the past one week or so. Cities such as Delhi, Mumbai, Bangalore, Pune, Jaipur, Bhopal and Indore are at a critical point of their fight against Covid-19 with most new cases coming from them. (With inputs from state bureaus)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-fight-so-far-is-marked-by-hits-and-misses/story-u8WfwlykYDT88hFTZimdyJ.html
15-04-2020||India||New Covid-19 count hints Delhi close to turning a corner on Tablighi Jamaat cases||The Tablighi Jamaat-linked cases that powered the spike in Delhi’s Covid-19 count may taper off over the next few days, a top government official told Hindustan Times after a modest increase of 51 cases in the city’s total Covid-19 count on Tuesday. Tablighi Jamaat-linked cases accounted for just 9 of these 51 cases.This is the first time in days that the increase of the Jamaat-linked cases has been in single digit, a sharp contrast from just Monday when a whopping 325 people linked to the religious congregation in central Delhi had tested positive.A senior official said Tuesday’s case count is being interpreted to imply that Delhi was close to turning the corner vis-a-vis cases linked to the Tablighi Jamaat. “Test results of only 200 more people from the Jamaat are yet to come in,” he told Hindustan Times.The congregation at the Jamaat headquarters has been the single-largest source of the infection in Delhi, responsible for two-third of the 1,561 people being treated for the coronavirus disease. That is a total of 1,080.In all, 2,346 people were evacuated from the Tablighi Jamaat headquarters, the Markaz, last month-end. The Markaz leadership had been reluctant to move out but complied with government instructions after National Security Adviser Ajit Doval drove down to the Markaz past midnight. A nationwide search was launched soon after to trace the thousands who had been the Markaz, and their contacts.In Delhi, a similar search had led the authorities to over 850 more people. Like the rest of the country, they were all sent to state-run quarantine centres in the national capital.Of all the people found in the Markaz, 536 Jamaat workers who showed symptoms of the disease had already been admitted to hospitals. As their test results started coming in, Delhi’s Covid-19 count kept rising. By 3 April, 259 of the 386 (67 percent) positive cases in Delhi were linked to the Jamaat congregation.That trend continued for the next 10-odd days. The sharpest spike came on Monday when 325 of the 351 fresh cases were linked to the Jamaat. By then, the Nizamuddin congregation had been linked to 1,071 of the 1,510 Covid-19 cases in the capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-covid-19-count-hints-delhi-close-to-turning-a-corner-on-tablighi-jamaat-cases/story-US0120IjphEDRiGxwJOa9H.html
15-04-2020||India||Health experts slam Bengal testing model||West Bengal government’s response to Covid-19 is earning it a lot of criticism from health professionals for allegedly providing misleading data, testing “abysmally low” numbers of swab samples, playing down the extent of the spread of the disease in the state.The state recorded its first Covid-19 positive case on March 17, but it was only last week that the administration started ‘sealing’ some localities after identifying them as ‘high-risk spots’. Experts allege that Bengal may have woken up late. According to senior cardiologist Kunal Sarkar, identification of such ‘micro-spots’ would be of no use, if the frequency of testing does not increase.“...sample testing in India is quite low. And in West Bengal, it is exceptionally low. We need to understand that it is not a competition of low numbers. If we suppress numbers in a state, then our hot spots would amount to nothing but fallacies...,” said Sarkar.Over the past week, the state has been testing about 200 samples per day on an average.Shanta Dutta, director of National Institute of Cholera and Enteric Diseases (NICED)– ICMR, said that the state government was not sending enough samples for testing. NICED – ICMR, Kolkata, is a laboratory under the Virus Research Diagnostic Laboratory network of the Union health ministry. “...Earlier we used to get enough samples, around 80 – 90 samples every day, but over the last few days we have been receiving 10 – 30 samples. We have around 27,500 testing kits...,” Dutta said, adding that there is no shortage of testing kits.A senior health official of the state government who requested to remain anonymous, however, said, “NICED is not the only testing lab in West Bengal...we have six other laboratories. Samples are also being sent there.”The state recorded 10 positive cases on Tuesday taking the tally to 120.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-experts-slam-bengal-testing-model/story-AhieMrsEGPa8CyryjETJCN.html
15-04-2020||India||Could Ebola trial drug be answer to Covid-19?||A new study has shown that the antiviral remdesivir, an experimental Ebola drug, may stop Sars-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19, from replicating, thereby rendering the virus harmless. It is developed by US-based biotechnology company Gilead Sciences Inc., which has a patent on the drug in India. Remdesivir is among four treatments being assessed under the World Health Organization’s (WHO’s) solidarity trial to find an effective treatment for Covid 19. India is participating in the trial. Gilead has also started two Phase 3 clinical trials on the safety and efficacy of the drug . Phase 3 trials are required by the US Food and Drug Administration and other regulators to approve the drug. According to a research paper in the Journal of Biological Chemistry on Monday, remdesivir can inhibit coronavirus polymrerases -- enzymes that bring about the formation of polymers, particularly DNA and RNA -- in cell culture.The polymerase of Sars-CoV-2 is like the engine of the virus, said Matthias Götte, chair of medical microbiology and immunology at the faculty of medicine and dentistry at the University of Alberta, Canada, who conducted the study. Remdesivir tricks the virus by mimicking its building blocks. “These coronavirus polymerases are sloppy and they get fooled, so the inhibitor gets incorporated many times and the virus can no longer replicate,” Götte explained in a statement.A 35-year-old man who returned to the US after a family visit to the Chinese city of Wuhan, the original epicentre of the virus, with a four-day cough and subjective fever, was found to have improved after receiving remdesivir, the New England Journal of Medicine wrote in an article on the first case of Covid 19 in the US.The man developed pneumonia and recorded an oxygen saturation of 90%. Treatment with intravenous remdesivir started on the evening of day 7. On day 8, his condition is said to have improved and his oxygen saturation values improved to 94-96%. In another paper published on April 10, the journal chronicled the case of 53 patients with severe symptoms of Covid-19 who were treated with remdesivir; clinical improvement was seen in 36 of them. However, only placebo-controlled trials can provide an accurate picture.Remdesivir has been previously tested for treatment of Ebola. It has generated promising results in animal studies for Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (Mers-CoV) and severe acute respiratory syndrome (Sars), which are also caused by coronaviruses, suggesting it may have some effect in patients with COVID-19, according to WHO.“Two Phase 3 studies are being run by Gilead in areas with a high prevalence of Covid-19 in the United States, Asia and Europe. One of these is for patients with severe disease and the other studies remdesivir in patients with more moderate symptoms. One of the many questions that these studies aim to answer is whether treatment duration can be shortened from 10 days to 5 days,” Gilead’s chairman and CEO Daniel O’Day said in a statement on the company’s website.But Gilead’s patent on the drug could mean it may take long to reach patients on a large scale. “Remdesivir was used in Ebola. And in a Covid-19 observational study it was found to benefit 2 in 3 patients in terms of critical patients going off ventilator and not needing oxygen support. It’s Gilead’s product. It’s not available in India yet but since we are a participant in WHO’s solidarity trial, which is a five-arm global trial, and remdesivir is one of the arms, it is being tried on our patents as well as part of the study,” said Dr Raman R Gangakhedkar, chief of the epidemiology and communicable disease division at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).“The Indian government has policy options. The government should ask US government or Gilead for some dosages of remdesivir and it should be immediately administered to say 500 patients to see if it’s truly effective. At the same time the government should put in place financial and technological measures to manufacture the drug generically. Thirdly the government can issue an order under section 100 of the Patents Act to use the drug for emergency requirement by the government,” said KM Gopakumar, an intellectual property rights expert. In this case, the section would allow the federal government to authorise generics makers here to use the patent “for the purpose of government”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/could-ebola-trial-drug-be-answer-to-covid-19/story-MNtg3H0PCoHSqjLG9I6ckJ.html
15-04-2020||India||India asks China to ease export of medical equipment||Facilitating India’s imports of Covid-19-related critical medical equipment and keeping the drug production supply chain open by China is the “best” signal for bilateral ties, Indian ambassador Vikram Misri said on Tuesday.Chinese companies have been contracted for nearly 15 million Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits comprising gowns, gloves, masks and goggles, and 1.5 million rapid testing kits for Covid-19 by the Indian government and private companies. Some of this equipment has already reached India, he said.India has now asked China to speed up the export of a large quantity of quality-checked medical equipment such as protective clothing, ventilators and testing kits from Chinese companies, Misri told a virtual news conference with Beijing-based Indian journalists and representatives of China’s official media.New Delhi is also in communication with Beijing on keeping the supply line of active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) open for manufacturing generic drugs.“And at this time, I think facilitation of our needs and our requirements in a timely manner, in a smooth manner, on a predictable timeline at prices that are stable and orderly would be the best signal possible to send for the India-China relationship,” Misri said.“So, I think, this…may have started out as a crisis but it is definitely an opportunity for us to send out a very good message, generally a good signal about India-China cooperation.”Misri said both countries trade in medicine ingredients such as APIs. “We import…a considerable amount of APIs from China to manufacture pharmaceuticals that we export to the rest of the world. And in certain cases, Chinese companies import APIs from India to manufacture certain pharmaceuticals that they need for domestic consumption as well as export,” he said.“So, it’s important at this time when not just the two countries but the rest of the world needs medicines and pharmaceuticals, for us to keep this product line open.”The figure for medical equipment and other materials being supplied by China to India is “enormously dynamic” because there are flights “taking off on almost a daily basis from Shanghai, Guangzhou, Shenzhen for India”, Misri said. “The numbers are significant…We are in the process of, or have already completed, contracting for nearly 15 million PPE kits, for instance, consisting of gowns, masks, gloves, goggles,” he said.Misri added: “Given our size, our position, I think there is considerable space for India and China to cooperate in controlling the spread of this pandemic and there are immediate short-term as well as medium- and long-term aspects to our cooperation.”The immediate aspect is cooperating in procuring “much-needed medical equipment and products in India, as our healthcare community and our healthcare fraternity, which is at the frontlines of facing this challenge, battles this outbreak”, he said.Misri noted that when China was dealing with the peak of the Covid-19 outbreak, India had provided medical assistance.“Now, we are in the process of commercially procuring a large number of these supplies. China happens to be one of the largest producers, has a number of these products. So, this offers us an opportunity of cooperating in a smooth manner by facilitating the procurement of medical assistance and medical equipment and products from China,” he said.Some of the orders were placed before China imposed regulations limiting and restricting the number of Chinese companies that can export to India, he noted. “Given [these] products are licensed for import to India, it will be a welcome step for Chinese authorities to expedite the registration of these products,” he said.The pandemic first emerged as a local outbreak in Wuhan city in central China late last year, before spreading across the country and beyond over the next three-and-half months. The pandemic has so far killed nearly 120,000 people and infected more than 1.8 million.In India, the confirmed cases have doubled in about a week to 10,000.China itself suffered from a serious shortage of medical equipment in the first stages of the outbreak in Wuhan. The peak has since passed in China and local manufacturers have ramped up production of medical equipment as demand surged across the world.“The two governments have been in touch to ensure stable and orderly purchase and procurement of these items, [focusing] on issues such as identifying bona fide suppliers of these products and entering into agreements with them,” Misri said.It is important to ensure the quality of products and make purchases at reasonable prices, he said.A number of European governments had rejected Chinese-made medical equipment designed for use to prevent and control the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Thousands of testing kits and medical masks were found to be below standard or defective, according to authorities in Spain, Turkey and the Netherlands.Beijing has since tightened monitoring and inspection of medical equipment that is exported.India and China are currently observing the 70th anniversary of diplomatic ties though various commemorative events have been put off because of the Covid-19 outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-asks-china-to-ease-export-of-medical-equipment/story-akREgC5ehzUXpVBWcQuYDJ.html
15-04-2020||India||Status report highlights logistical issues faced by N-E region related to Covid-19||A status report of the Centre has highlighted logistical hurdles related to Covid-19, including a lack of testing centres, which some northeastern states like Assam and Sikkim were facing even as the region has reported fewer cases of the disease. Experts have repeatedly called ramping up testing the best way to slow the advance of the pandemic.The report, a copy of which HT has seen, has highlighted that road blockades were leading to interruptions in supplies of food and other essential items. There is a requirement for more masks and Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) for doctors, the report said while underlining the challenges the northeastern states face.The report prepared with development of north eastern region ministry’s help was submitted to the Centre’s empowered panels on Covid-19. The eight northeastern states--Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Sikkim, Tripura--are home to 45 million people as per 2011 census and have reported 36 Covid-19 cases as of Tuesday.An official, who did not wish to be named, said that state and region-wise reports were being collected to tackle all logistical issues amid the lockdown, which was on Tuesday extended until May 3. A second official called the status report from the northeast important since communication between other parts of India and the region were minimal due to the lockdown. “But in the integrated approach to tackle the pandemic, we cannot afford to overlook the problems of the region,” the official added on condition of anonymity.Assam, which has reported 30 Covid-19 cases and 1 death, has requested expeditious medical supplies and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)’s approval for setting up Covid-19 testing labs at Tezpur and Dibrugarh medical colleges, according to the report. The state has said there was no testing facility for the region along the Brahmaputra’s northern banks covering a part of Assam and Arunachal Pradesh, it added. The Assam government has argued that such a testing lab there can be very useful for Arunachal Pradesh too. Assam has five testing labs.An Assam official said testing for Covid-19 is now being carried out at the medical colleges in Dibrugarh, Guwahati, Tezpur, Silchar and Barpeta. “As for the PPEs, we are managing with our own funds and some private donors,” said the official who spoke on condition of anonymity. Sikkim, which has reported no cases, has requested the Centre to test at least 250 samples and to designate a testing lab for the state. The Sikkim government has highlighted it has been unable to send any samples for testing to West Bengal since April 12 as it was asked not to do so until April 14.The samples from Sikkim were being tested at North Bengal Medical College and Hospital but it has exhausted all its testing kits.The status report said the Arunachal Pradesh government has reported that due to road blockades and construction works, the Food Corporation of India and Food Supplies Department were facing problems in replenishing stocks in Upper Subansiri, Tawang, Dibang Valley and Upper Siang districts. These districts are some of India’s remotest with limited communication links.An official from Arunachal Pradesh health department said they have asked for PPEs, too. “We have enough masks, but we will need more than 15,000 PPE suits to last us the next few months,” said the official.The remaining states, Meghalaya, Manipur, Tripura and Mizoram, have not reported any shortage of supplies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/status-report-highlights-logistical-issues-faced-by-n-e-region-related-to-covid-19/story-SiwFnNPtaysJ5txblgkHrI.html
15-04-2020||India||Centre to launch supply helpline amid worries during key farm season||The Centre is set to launch a 24x7 countrywide call centre on Wednesday to manage intersectoral movement of goods, from farming and agro-processing products to household necessities, to remove supply bottlenecks during the extended coronavirus lockdown, by far a key challenge, an agriculture ministry official said.Restoring supply chains emanating from the agriculture sector is urgent as farmers are poised to wind up winter harvests during April-May and prepare for summer sowing. The government has also activated 20 region-wise call centres for the organised sector and informal sector workers requiring help with permits, accessible through phone numbers, WhatsApp and emails, the official named above said, requesting anonymity. These control rooms are being managed by labour enforcement officers and assistant labour commissioners,.The farm sector isn’t just a supplier of food, it serves as a provider of primary and intermediate raw materials for a wide range of industrial goods, from textiles to pharmaceuticals. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday announced that the current lockdown will be extended until May 3. Movement of primary articles, such as foodgrains and vegetables, as well as other essential goods have continued to stumble. The Union government is still grappling with lack of compliance with its advisories in a country where ground-level decisions are taken by local administrators. In a letter to all states, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla on April 12 reiterated federal guidelines on freeing restrictions in the agriculture and transport sectors, which are not being implemented in “letter and spirit.” Trucks carrying essential and non-essential goods “are being detained”, workers are “not getting authorizations” and operations of “cold storages and warehouses are not being allowed”, Bhalla’s letter stated.“The home ministry’s orders have not percolated to the ground level even though operators want their vehicles to move. Trucks are still being stopped at various state borders,” Kultaran Singh Atwal, president of the lobby group All-India Motor Transport Congress said.And without access to warehouses and cold chains, farm goods can rot. Farmers are already dumping produce for want of buyers. “The lockdown and limited movement of goods because of absence of labour, trucks and activity in wholesale markets have led to a sharp decline in supplies of commodities such as foodgrains, horticulture and sugar,” said Madan Sabnavis, chief economist at CARE Ratings.The Centre hopes to smoothen bottlenecks through realtime updates in its call centre, an official said, requesting anonymity. Truck drivers, traders, retailers, transporters or any other stakeholders who are facing problems in inter-state movement of essential commodities can seek help by calling at the call centre and executives will forward the vehicle ,consignment and help-needed details to state officials for resolution, the official said.The troubleshooting hub, to be anchored in the farm ministry, will be called the all-India agri-transport call centre. It will help to coordinate supplies between states for inter-state movement of perishables, inputs like seeds, pesticides and fertilizer. The call centre number, 18001804200 and 14488 (not yet functional), can be accessed from any mobile or landline. As the country heads into the summer-sown kharif farm season, the Centre will provide subsidized seeds to states under the National Food Security Mission, the official said. The subsidy under the scheme shall be for varieties less than 10 years, which means farmers can access higher-yielding varieties cheaply. Retail inflation eased to a four-month low of 5.91% in March, according to official data released on Monday. However, food prices have gone up sharply in April, Sabnavis said. There appear to be three main supply-side constraints that have driven up food prices not yet captured officially. One, arrivals (of farm commodities) in agricultural markets have plunged sharply. Two, land transportation costs have risen sharply and, three, restrictions and quarantine measures have resulted in crippling labour shortages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-to-launch-supply-helpline-amid-worries-during-key-farm-season/story-mcKgiMbBzXMFwlcmnbdtqO.html
15-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Quarantined man’s father attacks Hyderabad doctors after inmate tests positive||A man whose son has been quarantined on suspicion of having Covid-19 symptoms assaulted a junior resident doctor at state-run Osmania General Hospital (OGH) in Hyderabad on Tuesday, the hospital said.The assault once again raised questions about the security of medical professionals battling the coronavirus pandemic.People with symptoms of Covid-19 are currently being kept at OGH and if any of them test positive for the virus, they are shifted immediately to Gandhi Hospital, the designated facility for treatment of the positive cases.On Tuesday, two of those quarantined at OGH tested positive for Covid-19 and they were taken to Gandhi Hospital immediately. Follow coronavirus latest updates here.On coming to know about it, the father of a young man who has been under quarantine in the adjacent bed of one of the patients who tested positive, became furious. He rushed to the hospital and started abusing the doctors ask why his son was kept close to a Covid-19 patient.He demanded that his son be discharged from the hospital and sent home as it was risky for him to be there in the ward.“We tried to convince him and tell him that the ward comprises only quarantined persons and as soon as anyone of them tested positive, he would be shifted to Gandhi Hospital. But he did not listen and assaulted me,” Dr Nikhil, one of the junior doctors attending on the quarantined people, told reporters.The junior doctors complained that more than one attendant was entering the isolation wards despite restrictions and behaving aggressively with doctors and nurses. They appealed to the government to provide sufficient protection to doctors and paramedics.Following a complaint from OGH superintendent Dr B Nagender, the police reached the hospital and pacified the father, who later apologised to the doctors for his aggressive behaviour.Health minister Eatala Rajender condemned the incident and asked the hospital authorities to ensure that such incidents do not recur. He assured of adequate police protection to the doctors at the hospital.Last week, the Federation of Resident Doctors Association (FORDA) in a letter to Union home minister Amit Shah demanded that assaults on doctors be treated as non-bailable offences and that the Centre brings in a law for the medical fraternity amid rising incident s of violence at a time when they are in the frontline of the fight against Covid-19.On April 1, a Covid-19 positive patient at Gandhi Hospital in Secunderabad attacked doctors after his brother was declared dead due to coronavirus. Telangana Junior Doctors’ Association had protested against the incident and threatened to boycott their duties if such attacks continue. They demanded that the government deploy Central Reserve Police Force on each floor of the hospital.Following their protests, the Hyderabad police booked a case against the assaulters under various sections of the IPC. A team of special police guards was deployed at the hospital later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-quarantined-man-s-father-attacks-hyderabad-doctors-after-inmate-tests-positive/story-4f3Wx4kSFmkE7NgAOwVUoM.html
15-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Railways set to cancel 39 lakh tickets due to lockdown extension||Railways is set to cancel around 39 lakh tickets booked for travel between April 15 and May 3 due to extension of the nationwide lockdown and suspension of passenger trains till then in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, sources told PTI.With the national transporter allowing tickets to be booked during the 21-day lockdown for journeys after April 14, around 39 lakh bookings were made by passengers hoping that trains will be in operation post-lockdown.However, with the announcement of the extension of the lockdown period, the railways on Tuesday not only cancelled all its passenger services till May 3 but also stopped all advance bookings.Even as the announcement stalled over 15,000 passenger trains of the railways, thousands of migrant workers converged near the Bandra railway station in Mumbai hoping to catch trains back to their home states. While they were dispersed later, questions were raised as to why railways kept bookings open despite the uncertainty over the extension of the lockdown period. Railways, however, said all passengers will get full refund for tickets booked for the cancelled trains as well as for those booked in advance.Railways has also said full refunds would be automatically provided by the national transporter for its online customers, while those who have booked at the counters can take the refunds up to July 31. Customers will also get full refund of their tickets if they are cancelling their advance bookings of tickets for trains that are not yet cancelled, it said.It also said that no advance reservation of train tickets, including e-tickets will be allowed till further orders though the facility of online cancellation will remain functional. “As far as trains cancelled up to May 3 is concerned, the refunds would be made automatically by the railways online to the customers while those who have booked at the counters, refund can be taken up to 31st July. Full refund will be given for tickets for the bookings made for the trains cancelled. “Full refund will also be there for those cancelling the advance bookings of tickets for trains not yet cancelled,” Railways said. Before the pandemic, on an average, around 8.5 lakh tickets were booked daily on the IRCTC website.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday announced that the lockdown across the country will be extended till May 3 to fight the coronavirus pandemic, saying the measure has produced a significant outcome in containing the infection. After Modi’s March 22 announcement of a 21-day lockdown across the country, the railways on March 24 had announced that its suspension of all passenger services will continue till April 14 in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak.Around 15,523 trains run by the railways have been affected including 9,000 passenger trains and 3,000 mail express services which are run daily under normal circumstances. The death toll in the country due to novel coronavirus rose to 353 with 29 fatalities reported since Monday evening, while the number of cases saw a record jump of 1,463 to go up to 10,815 cases on Tuesday, according to the Union Health Ministry.The number of active COVID-19 cases in the country stands at 9,272, As many as 1,189 people have been cured and discharged, and one has migrated to another country, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-railways-set-to-cancel-39-lakh-tickets-due-to-lockdown-extension/story-8MP31g6j1xdlF0qVTagq8K.html
15-04-2020||India||Covid-19 cases rising exponentially, it’s critical to test more: ICMR||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has said that it is critical to increase testing for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as the number of cases in India is “rising exponentially”, a development that comes even as the government awaits the arrival of rapid testing kits from China.The rapid testing kits, which search for antibodies in blood samples, were first supposed to arrive on April 5. The expected date of delivery was later revised to April 10, and then to April 15. There was, however, no clarity if all kits ordered by India would arrive by Wednesday.Rapid testing kits show if a person is or has previously been infected by the virus. Apart from being a fast way to identify the extent of infections in clusters, countries around the world are looking to use these tests to determine who has immunity to the Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19. Unlike the RT-PCR tests currently in use, which take at least five hours for a result, RTKs can give diagnoses in 25-30 minutes.“Number of Covid-19 cases in India is rising exponentially… it is critical to increase the numbers of tests conducted by laboratories,” said an ICMR document released on Monday, based on a study the premier medical research institution recently commissioned to check the feasibility of conducting pool testing in the country that can cover large sample sizes with limited resources.Public health experts have raised concerns over the disease possibly entering the “community transmission” phase, when the infections spread indiscriminately and the origin of an individual’s disease can’t be traced. The government has, however, maintained that the country is not yet in the phase of community spread, and there is some “limited community transmission” in certain clusters.The ICMR document, however, suggests that the government is aware of the possibility of a surge in Covid-19 cases in India in the coming weeks and that preparations were being made for that likely scenario.The World Health Organization (WHO) has defined four transmission scenarios for Covid-19 — no confirmed cases, sporadic cases, clusters of cases, and community transmission. Community transmission refers to a larger, uncontrolled outbreak of local transmission.The number of Covid-19 cases in the country stood at 11,479 on Tuesday night, doubling over six days, with 1,035 fresh infections in the last 24 hours. At least 390 people have died of the disease in the country so far, with the global death toll crossing 120,000.A government official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said: “Exponential growth is worrying when numbers double in three days or less, as is happening in several countries. If we manage to keep the numbers from doubling in five or more days, as the lockdown has and will help us do, we will be on a good wicket.”Lav Agarwal, joint secretary in the Union health ministry, said in his daily health briefing on Monday: “There is no community transmission in India yet. There is nothing to hide if there was; in fact, it makes more sense to declare it so that people take extra precautions to prevent getting infected.”Experts in virology say that an outright denial of community transmission doesn’t make sense.“This seems like a schizophrenic approach to the truth where you speak only what is pleasing to the listener, and don’t say what you really believe in. Of course, people are not transmitting, perhaps aliens are,” said Dr T Jacob John, former head of virology at the Christian Medical College, Vellore. India ordered 500,000 kits from Chinese suppliers on March 30 and later raised a tender for 4.5 million more to be acquired in batches. In anticipation of the arrival of the kits first on April 5, India issued an advisory on starting rapid antibody testing on April 4, and revised the testing guidelines on April 9 to include rapid testing of all symptomatic individuals in hot spot areas with symptoms at least a week old.The King George’s Medical University, Lucknow, on Monday began testing of samples in pools from low-risk areas in the state as a surveillance mechanism. “The samples that we are getting to pool are all those lifted for the purpose of surveillance. It is not for diagnosing the disease as pooling samples for diagnoses is not advisable,” said Dr Amita Jain, head of ICMR’s virus research and diagnostic laboratory (VRDL) based in KGMU.Due to shortage of kits, the Union Territory of Andaman & Nicobar has already begun performing tests in pools.ICMR, however, says there is no shortage of kits, and current stock can perform tests for at least six weeks. “We have received a supply of RT-PCR kits (on Monday), and an order for 3.3 million more RT-PCR kits has been placed that will also arrive soon. Additionally, there is a consignment of 3.7 million rapid testing kits that is expected any time now,” said Dr Raman R Gangakhedkar, ICMR’s chief of epidemiology and communicable disease, at a news briefing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-cases-rising-exponentially-it-s-critical-to-test-more-icmr/story-o7fxdysyT50u73tSuyf6QK.html
